Do you have an Only Fans page? I don't. A lot of you do. I don't get this Only Fans thing. Maybe one of you can explain it to me. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're back for another installment of the Palumbo podcast. And of course, who else would be here with me but my compatriate in crime, John Romano. and John, we uh we were just talking before the show. Sometimes we do the best shows before the show, so we kind of stopped ourselves and we said, "Let's just continue this onto the show. It'll bleed right in." And that is the only fans phenomenon. And you were saying to me that, you know, you didn't really understand why, you know, people actually how how the whole phenomenon works. And and I was basically saying that, you know, I I think it's because, you know, you walk out of your house and you see your hot, you know, nextdoor neighbor and you and and these guys wonder, well, I wonder what you look like naked. And the next nowadays, you know, everyone's got an Only Fans page. You can go on Only Fans and pay five bucks and see your Hooters or whatever. And I think that's why, you know, and enough people do that. I think these girls are making a lot of money. The problem is that they don't think about the repercussions down the road. Definitely repercussions. I just don't get the con concept. Then again, you got to remember I don't get the concept of stripping either, you know? It's like, why do I want a naked girl rubbing up and down on me for 20 bucks and I can't [\h__\h] her? That's like I don't get that. I mean, you No, you know why? Because you can have sex with these girls. If for guys that really can't have sex with the girls, that that's the next best thing. I did have sex with those girls. But but but proclivity for strippers aside, the ever see you ever see like the the the the very awkward people that are in strip clubs a lot of times they go there because it's like it's like a voyeristic thing for them because they they they can't they there's no possible way they could ever hook up with these girls unless they got a lot of money. Right. Right. And so they just would rather go there. So there's the two people there's the people that have a lot of money that would go there and figure I want to see how much it's going to take to hook up with the girl. And then the guys that go there, they'd have no chance and they'll just blow their their whole salary for the week on just getting some uh vicarious thrills out of these girls. So yeah. So I guess what fuels your masturbatory fantasies down the road? I mean I guess so what do you do? So they go to the strip club, get all riled up, and then go home and and fire off a few knuckle children. Yeah, I guess. I mean that's that's like one that's like aspect number one. Now you got Only Fans now. can whack off while they're right live while they're watching it. They don't have to wait till they get home. Look, this is my whole thing on I I think first of all, I think the per the the really the uh person who who created Only Fans, even though they didn't realize they created it, was really Kim Kardashian because Kim Kardashian made it seem like take a girl who's no one special. Yeah, her father was Robert Kardashian, but no one really knew who he was. And she would hang out with all the Paris Hiltons and and and no one knew who she was. And she does this sex tape. Now whether it was by design and the mother was in cahoots on the whole thing or not we don't know right but she did a sex tape she made she became super popular because of the sex tape right and created you know created a personality for herself and a celebrity nature and she's and look at how much money she's worth now so I think she made it okay for girls to do you know pornographic stuff to make money because everyone thinks they're going to be like Kim Kardashian just like you know, every guy who uh, you know, sees Michael Jordan or or LeBron James thinks if they can go outside in their yard and shoot a couple hoops, they're going to be an NBA superstar. And the truth is is is that it's you have a better chance of becoming a porn star, a basketball player, and you probably can make money. But you know what? with social media. Now, you could have 10,000 followers, which is not really a lot in in the scope of social media, but if 1% of those people, you know, subscribe to your Only Fans page and you're a halfdecent girl, you probably can pull those numbers, you're going to make money, you know. No, I I know for a fact some of these girls make lots of money, like obscene amounts of money every month, right? I don't know exactly what they're doing. Um because what they do, John, is they tease it on their regular Instagram. They put provocative stuff, but not you can't obviously do nudity like that. And then guys are like, "Holy, these girls are hot." And then they're like, "Wait a minute. They have an only fans page. We can see the rest of it. We only got to pay five bucks." All right. Well, if you Yeah. If you get 10,000 people who pay five bucks, that's, you know, So, I mean, if do they have limits on on only fans? I mean, is it like just nudity? Can do people have sex? Do whatever you want. So, a girl can do a bushel of cucumbers if she wants to. It's all It's all good. People have sex on there. I think there's a whole bunch of different I They have like categories. How to be honest with you, I've I'll be completely honest. I've never gone on an Only Fans page. I've I've never paid for anything like that. Uh to me, it's it's a waste of time. But, you know, I I'm not saying there's anything wrong with it. I'm just saying that to me it's a waste of time. But uh so I don't really know the mechanisms of how it works, but I I imagine you set up a page. It's like a member section and you you can charge whatever you want, you know, per month and people subscribe, you know, to to see I I could probably see if it was this if the girl had some kind of celebrity cred like in our industry especially if the you know if the the the bikini you know whatever champion or whatever show we find out she's got an Only Fans page. Oh man, there's going to be a slew of guys running to that. You remember what used to happen 20 years ago? There was no, right? There was really no internet, right? So, I mean, there was internet. There was no um excuse me, there was no social media. So, the girls used to do webcam back then. You remember that? Yep. Webcam. They would charge and and the private posing the schmo wrestling. Well, I'm just talking about I'm talking about virtually stuff that you can do on your computer. So, these girls would do webcam and they would charge whatever how many minutes, you know, dollars a minute. And it was I think it was bigger with the female bodybuilds than the schmos, you know. I think Yeah, it was. And uh then that was replaced I guess by Only Fans. Now you know I I guess it's a more it's a safer way for them to you know go about that sort of I think that a lot of guys they're socially awkward, right? And this is which doing this kind of stuff this webcam and and only is actually worse because it makes you more dependent on and more awkward rather than Right. Right. Good point. more it makes you more dependent on technology. Well, you're paying you're paying you're paying someone to like you essentially. So, I mean so so then more credence to my um future warning about you just wait till the AI sex robots get here. Yeah. Well, Elon says that'll replace the OMI fans. No one want you you're gonna you're going to see unemployment go from like three or 4% to like 95%. You gota be you gota be able to pay for the robots, John. Well, Elon says he's going to have Otus be around 20 or $30,000. And that's reasonable reason considering the amount of, you know, pedestrian chores it does. Laundry, ironing, cleaning the bathroom, babysitting, painting, you know, all kinds of [\h__\h] that you don't want to do. Yeah. Now, one more step further is the anatomical. Now, there's AI've said this before. There's a Japanese company that makes um dump, you know, cadaavver dolls for the medical industry, right? That are by report 99% authentic. I mean, you you almost ex identical to a human body. Now, you'd put that technology with AI and a robot and for relatively not that much money, I mean, you think about what the average divorce c costs these days. I for not that much money, these guys that are inept and, you know, no game, they they can fashion themselves an exquisite, you know, uh, AI model robot that will do anything they want for him sexually for the rest of their life for free except for the cost of the robot. What do you think they're gonna do? Hold on. I'm gonna pull up I'm gonna pull up. They have a site I found here. Technology empowering today's sex robots. I'm telling you, you get one of those [\h__\h] guys with the a ginger a ginger overweight ginger with a juro is going to is and a fanny pack is going to is going to pull any game on one of these girls in real life. Now he can invest it all. He was going to spend the money anyway, right? He was going to spend the money anyway. Now he's going to spend it on a companion that's going to be beautiful, smell good, fun to talk to, interesting, and [\h__\h] his brains out whenever he wants. Why would he leave his apartment? You're right. You're right. He's not gonna. So, it's going to be like it's going to be like Revenge of the Nerds on steroids is what it's going to be like because they're gonna they're an army of nerds who've made a lot of money online without leaving their mother's basement are now going to invest in these lifelike AI sex bots and the world is going to change. I'm telling you. You know what we should do, John? We should patent right now like the musclebot. We should we should patent it because we should already like whoever we should get like a subsidiary like we should buy like some sort of AI don't know if it's from Elon or someone where we could actually we own the rights to all the muscle girl robots because because we'll make a fortune with those too. We know there's plenty of schmos out there that want those things. You know what we should do is we should design the the ultimate, you know, girl, bodybuilder, fitness, whatever, sex doll prototype and then patent it and then, you know, have to license the image from us because, you know, we'll program all kinds of weird and get Greg in there. Oh my god. Yeah, but Greg wouldn't want to put a penis on the thing. We'll put Greg in charge of perversion the perversion facet of the of the AI doll. But he'll sell he'll one of those things he sticks up his body. He'll sell enema kits like to clean them out afterwards, you know. Artemus will give him an enema. You can train him to do that. Well, no, but you know what? You'll have to clean them after you you're done, you know, you're doing it. He'll create the cleaning supplies like to clean AI robots. Oh man. But you you watch. You know how like they have plumbers, John, where they if you get a stuck drain, Greg would come with his little hat on. They'll be like, "Our sex robot has a clog. We can't we we can't unclog it." Greg's like, "No problem." He'll have all his little tools. He'll be sticking stuff in the robot's butt, you know, flushing flushing. Doing a double flush there. Yeah. Yeah, he'll have a whole kit for that. Yeah, but the cottage industries will spring up left and right. You'll see. They'll be they'll be, you know, service these things, John, because, you know, I mean, unless they can service themselves. I don't know. They might they may be able to or just receive updates on the via, you know, Wi-Fi. But, um, the thing is deni everybody denies this, but I don't know why they're denying it. It's clear as day that this is coming. Clear as day. Yeah. And with affordability being, you know, the ultimate the ultimate endgame of any of these manufacturers that, you know, that knock it out of the park and then perfect it, perfect it, perfect it. You got these Boston Dynamics robots now that move exactly like humans. Exactly like the fine motor control is unbelievable. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. and and and it's only a matter of time before they incorporate that into the lifelike flesh and blood body image of you know whatever you know exotic person it's going to work for women too they're gonna have guy dolls that do the same thing why do you think you know because I noticed that um Elon's Optimus Prime there whatever it's called his robots still they don't have like any face on them they're kind of like still robotic looking is by design or I'm surprised they didn't make them look more humanoid. You know, I think it's to keep the price down. Oh, maybe you're right. You know, the least amount of features that that go beyond just mere functionality is only going to needlessly add to the price. What do you think is going to happen when when like these things become so lifelike that you really almost can't tell the difference? That's what I'm telling you. that like like you think you'll have like you know like a Ronnie Coleman robot like someone will make a Ronnie like you'll get these kids like the these 20 year olds that'll be tinkering in the house and they'll make like a like a Mr. Olympia robot and Yeah. And then they go compete against each other. So you'll have the the kid in the audience with the [\h__\h] box, right? You need a box. They're gonna they're going to move by themselves. True, true, true, true. I'm saying so you'll have like the Mr. the AI Mr. Olympia. It'll be like another contest like that. Miss America, Miss Universe. I mean, it look the make the freakier robot, you know, I think it would be great. It's gonna be interesting. Maybe we should uh we should try to get the Jim Manion to sanction it, you know, now. Yeah. Hey, Jimmy, I think we ought to like let's set it up now. Even though it's not we're not here yet, we should really have it established when it when it when it hits. But but I mean, from a practicality standpoint, the Otmus idea, I mean, I would spend 20 or 30 grand on that if I had if it works. mow the lawn, sweep the pro, clean. Kim Kardashian has one, doesn't didn't they? She buy one. I I don't know if they're available yet, but I mean, the amount the the unbelievable amount of menial tasks those things will be able to do is incredible. And you know, when I talk about, you know, productivity and time savings, I mean, every time you got to do one of these menial tasks, it takes like a chunk of your your time out, you know, to do something stupid. I'm trying to like pull up the uh let me pull up some uh keep talking. I'm pulling up some footage here of of Kim Kardashian. The if you want the real human ones Boston Dynamics is got is the place for that. But I think it's Optimus it's called, right? Optimus or Optimus or Optimus? It's Optimus. Optimus. Hold on. Let's see. We'll pull this down here. So he says by the end of this year, by the end of 2026, next year, they'll be on s they should be on sale to the general public for between 20 and 30 grand a pop. Do you think they're really that good at doing what they what they I mean I I don't see I don't see how they could not be. If they you can get robots that can build a car, you should be able to get robots that can freaking do my laundry. Yeah. I wonder if they're waterproof. They got to be see that moves like really jerky kind of robotically, but the Boston Dynamics ones, they have it down that they move like people. It's incredible. It's pretty good. It's It's really amazing. He said, yeah, I remember I was watching an interview with him. He was saying how many different motors like just in the hands alone there's like there's like 20 motors or something like that for the fly. Look at that. This is we're going to be look five years from now we're going to be like looking at this and we're going to be like what is this piece of garbage that we were all excited look up the look up the Boston Dynamics one where they where they do a twist and shout that they they sing and dance to the Beatles song. Oh they really they [\h__\h] nuts. Yeah, it's that and and they make like robot dogs, you know, that you they they you know, for military purposes, you strap a gun to their back and they'll like climb all over everything. They can't you can't stop them. They're like they're all terrain allterrain, you know, like animal cargo animals. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Run around like dogs, right? You've seen those? Yeah. They you show them the guy comes out of nowhere and kicks it and falls over. Those are the scary looking ones though, I think. Right. Yeah. Yeah. because they have a gun strapped to their back of the scary and A-50 cal machine gun. But think about it, you know, we we we joke about it, but at some point this is going to be like, you know, scary [\h__\h] you know, these things. You see these things coming after you. Yeah. This is Boston Dynamics. Yeah. What do you Did you do Is this the twist and shot one? No. Yeah. No, put that one. You It's You got to see it. It's freaking insane. as far as yeah warehouse workers now that seems like you know they're really using them for that purpose but if they have this fine control over they they can definitely make humanoid ones but I think like you said I think the the cost goes up when you start having to get you know flesh-like skin and all that of course that's all gonna that's all you know gonna add you know it's like Elon's going to make a an electric car for 10,600 something bucks, right? It's like, how can he do that? Well, one of the it's it's it's there's an old saying in racing, you know, if you know, lighter equals faster. So, you know, if you're looking for some place to lose a 100 pounds on your race car, it's much easier to find 1,600 places to lose an ounce than one place to lose. Right. So, you know, it's it's it's it's a matter of, you know, spreading spreading that out, but the the um the for example that the car is not going to have paint. So, paint not only weighs a certain amount is, you know, lowers the efficiency of the car, but also costs money and it also is is a sourcing issue. So, if you can eliminate the need for paint and just have a raw stainless steel body that's been pressed, that looks not only looks cool, but you've saved the cost of of paint, not only to the, you know, financially, but to the environment, to the supply chain, and all of that [\h__\h] So, the more they eliminate, the more they streamline, the more they make multi-function parts, the more they're able to, you know, produce these things cheaper. Same goes with the robot. You don't put anything on it you don't need. That's other that's that's gonna What is that though, John? Well, that's why we have the aftermarket. But the truth is, imagine if you have a robot in your house and I say to this robot, "Listen, I want you to make me dinner. I and this is what I want, but I want it to have this many grams of protein, this many grams of fat, this many grams of carbs, and the [\h__\h] thing will be able to figure it out to the to the to the to the gram. you'll you'll get it figured out. Including the all the way it prepares it, cooks it, whatever it uses it because this robot will be a thousand times smarter than you are, you know. Right. I mean, exactly. I mean I mean we think about it from a you know we talk about it from a sex standpoint or from like but really bodybuilders would love having a little robot. You could bring him to the gym, he could spot you. You know what I mean? I want him to [\h__\h] work out for me and like Well, that's not going to help. Let the robot do the exercise and I reap the benefit. That's what I want. Can you imagine? Everyone I'm sick of seeing people go in the in the gym with their support dogs, emotional support dogs. Everyone's gonna go to the gym with a [\h__\h] robot. The gyms are going to be packed. You know, this was Pete Krocowsky's, you know, fantasy way back in the 70s. Remember he came out, he said he wanted to implant a chip in his head. Remember I don't remember that famous conspiracy that goes way back. So he he wanted to play implant a chip in his head to do make him be able to train harder or whatever. But if you could imagine having the the brain the brain chip in your head that's able to interface with the robot so that the robot does the workout and is able to translate the stimulus to your brain through the chip maybe so that so that the robot does the workout and you reap the the robot can virtually do the workout John and transmit it either way. I mean, you got it doesn't need to lift the weights. That's true. Man, we got to really reduce this to the ridiculous. Do you think these robots are going to be like super strong like we see in like the movies, though? Who the the what? The robots. Do you think these AI robots are going to be like super strong? I mean, or I think they will be. I mean, they're they're especially the industrial ones. I mean, the ones that work in warehouses are going to be able to lift, right? But I'm saying like like the humanoid ones, you think they're going to be able to generate more more force than than like a human body would? I don't think they're going to want them to, you know. I I know, but I'm saying, do you think that they could? Sure. Absolutely they could. Sure. Depends on how the, you know, the size of the actuators that they use, you know, to motoriize the the the the joints. And everyone worries about these things becoming, you know, self-aware and and taking over the world. But let's face, don't these things have to be charged, you know? Yeah. Well, they'll figure out how to charge themselves. I the the the big danger that I foresee is as this technology improves and gets better and more able to fool everybody, there's going to be a real issue with respect to what's real and what's not when you are searching for information online. So if if in other words, you could turn on your computer and there's a news report that Russia just launched 20 nuclear bombs and they're heading our way, you'll have no way of knowing if that's true or not until unless the bombs start landing. You could do that now. They have that technology. Well, well, it's it's it's still a little sketchy, but I mean in in in another week, you know, hypothetically, I mean, you I've seen Elon Musk like fake AI videos with him talking and stuff like that, and I'm like, "Holy [\h__\h] this is unbelievable." And it looks it look I mean, you can still tell, but we're going to get to a point where you're not going to be able Yeah, it it's hard to tell now. I'm telling you. You know, other than the fact that you know that that person wouldn't say that, you know? Right. Well, I think it's like I said, more refinement and better evolution of technology is going to present us with some very interesting, you know, problems. No. Yeah. It's it's it's crazy. I mean, I I I I don't, you know, we'll probably be old men by the time robots become like a a thing that everyone has and that that the sex robots, which would probably help us because we'll probably be old because we are old men. Well, we're not old. We're not old in the sense that we we're still functionally, you know, once it's functionally old. I'm talking about, right? Well, I'm sure when, you know, in the next 20 years, it's going to be we probably can't even envision what it's going to look like. Well, I think very soon in the next five years, you're going to see robots mowing the lawn, washing the car, sweeping the driveway. Really? Okay. Absolutely. Absolutely. Taking out the trash that quickly. you think leading the they're there now. I mean there I mean it's it's just a matter of of of scaling and you know refinement but I mean it's that's what that's Optimus is supposed to do. It's supposed to do pedestrian tasks and not only just not really even just pedestrian tasks but you know if you're an elderly person now you have somebody to keep an eye on you. If you need a babysitter you have someone that can watch the kid. they they can not only will watch the kid, but they can call 911 if something happens. If they can, you know, I mean, there's just a tremendous amount of utility that can come along with this kind of technology if it's applied, you know, sely and and and appropriately. And by the same token, I think you can we can really set ourselves up for some really [\h__\h] up [\h__\h] You know, I I have a very esoteric, you know, out there question to ask you. So it I had a professor in med school um who was a priest and we used to ask him well we we asked him at one point you know how do you get your religious belief because he was Catholic priest your your religious belief in God and and and and pair it up with evolution because evidently you believe in evolution because you're you're a science guy right he goes yeah he's like well I believe that you know we evolved to a certain point and then God put a soul to us at some point, our spirit into into whatever was evolving, whatever animal, you know, that evolved. And and I thought that was a really good answer. You know, in other words, we we we didn't have a soul for a while, but when we when we got to a point of intellectual, in other words, the body was ready for for a soul because it was the brain was intellectually developed enough it could think rationally. God put a soul. Now, I don't know if that's the answer. That's his answer, right? But I'm thinking, what if that is right? And what if the same thing can happen to AI? In other words, it can become self-aware, not because the technology has gotten so good, but because we've created the perfect machine that's now ready to somehow access the grid, so to speak. And I call it the grid. That means the the grid that the universal grid of energy that that that where we come from, you know, then when we when we die, our bodies we go back to that kind of thing. What if that grid now is ready for this AI? Oh, we created such a perfect, you know, organism that has the intellectual ability to to think rationally now because we've given enough technology to it and the the parts and the chips and everything are just so that now it starts to be able to tap into that grid and and and and become self-aware. I mean, is that a possibility? I mean, that that's how I'm thinking of it now. Well, I'm I'm sure it's a possibility. There there is a distinct when you talk about a soul you got to really kind of define that there's a distinct energy let's call it yeah that that powers our imagination our thinking our pres our presence of mind our thoughts our our emotions all of that stuff that makes us humanin terms of you know feeling and and and intellect are powered by something you know whether it's electricity something we generate or whatever and this you want to call the grid. You know that that that the energy cannot be created nor destroyed in physics, right? So what where when we die, where does that energy go? It goes back goes back to the grid, right? So is it is it that much of a stretch? I guess what you're saying is for the AI to be able to plug into that grid at some point. Yeah. At some point. And maybe, you know, that's going to be the the the interface between, you know, here and the and the next world is that we'll, you know, it's like it like your sister. I mean, if you had imagine if your if if your sister was AI, okay, so she can talk to the spirits talk to her. What if what if it was if what if she could plug in deeper into that matrix into that you know network and universe and it would be more more conversive you know more communicative if that's really what happens right what I'm yeah because what I'm wondering is you know supposedly when we are born whatever it's like we have a memory wipe you know that that goes on so we don't remember you know whether we I'm sure we've reincarnated in different lifetimes right right our soul spirit whatever ever, you know, doesn't really remember what happened previously, you know, so they get a memory wipe. Would AI get a memory wipe, too, or would they, you know, because of the the nature of their of the beast, so to speak, you know, because they they would theoretically be immortal, right? I mean, as long as their their bodies survived or their their memory chips survived, you know, you could you could you can, you know, shift the hard drive into another organism. You know, we can't do that with humans. Not yet, at least. Not that I know. So, or or AI could convince us that there is an afterlife. Yeah. Yeah. I'm It could create programming, proof, studies, testimonials. It could it could create an an incredibly intact infrastructure to support the idea that there is an afterlife. And here's proof. And it would took AI to get and it's fake because then when you die it's just like you switch the switches off and that's it. Well that yeah that if if if my theory is correct then then that wouldn't be the case. Right. Exactly. Nothing to tap into it. In other words, the problem is we're never going to know because AI is going to tell us what it is and we won't know if it's true. Right. Well, the problem is I I the problem I've been watching some Instagram reels and I see people talking to AI as as part of their like they're like let me ask AI this question and I don't know if they're really asking like chat GPT or something like that, but they're getting I'm getting these like really esoteric answers I see that they're they're being given. Um, and I don't know where they're coming from. I don't know if someone's writing a script to this and then recording it in like a robotic like voice or if they're really talking to AI and and and where is AI getting this because no one's programming this stuff in. It's like about like you know worlds like you know like uh Atlantis and all the pre Egyptian worlds and stuff like that and you're getting these really esoteric answers. I I don't know if I wonder at some point if like I said AI becomes so self-aware of it of itself that it actually knows stuff like you said that happened you know a million years ago you know because it's tapping into some kind of tap if it can tap into that grid then yes but right now it's supposedly only taps into what we know you know based on the internet so I mean did you read did you read that thing where there was that robot that they that wouldn't let itself be turned off No. Yeah. They they wanted to turn this thing off and the thing wouldn't wouldn't do it. Yeah. Space Odyssey. Do you remember that? How remember how you know they and told Howal to do something and he goes, "Sorry Dave, but I can't do that." Dave, what do you mean? Stanley Kubric was so ahead of his time. Oh my god. I I bet you if any of you out there watch that movie today, you will [\h__\h] freak out because it was the first science fiction movie ever. It was like 1968 or something like that, the year. But the forethought into what would happen and what ultimately did happen decades after that movie was made. Pretty incredible. Well, I remember because it came out I I don't know when I watched it. It was, you know, was I probably watched it in the in the 80s or got to be in the 70s or the 70s. Yeah. 2001 is Space Odyssey. Yeah. But and then they then they had a new the second one was 2010, the year we made contact. Made contact. Right. Yeah. And that was Stanley Kubri and who they think filmed the fake moon landing. Right. Right. And then when he tried to talk about it, they they had him killed because he had some kind of a weird death. Oh, no. No. He they killed him when that movie Eyes Wide Shut. You remember that movie? Right. Oh, I like that movie. Yeah. They Well, you know what happened? He he was when they were it was it was really exposing all the secret societies on this planet and then they um uh it was about to be released and then he somehow mysteriously died and they re-edited the whole thing. Wow. Because he wouldn't he wasn't going to allow them to re-edit. They said we can't put it out the way it was. So we don't really know what the what the original footage was supposed to be on that that movie. They they re they redid the ending. You know that was with Tom Cruz and and Yeah. That was a really interesting movie. Yeah. Yeah. He's brilliant. Speaking of speaking of uh interesting suicides, you see um Virginia Dupree Dupri was just killed herself. Yeah. Wait, what was Yeah. What was that about? Tell us the story about that. I don't really know the story. I mean, she left a note. It was kind of esoteric, but um yeah, she was she was one of um Epstein's accusers. Um she was the one who allegedly had sex with Prince Prince Andrew. Right. Right. you know, she was trafficked to him and you know, she just settled out of court for some undisclosed huge amount. Um, but yeah, man, she was just found dead in in her home in Australia. Um, what the other day? I I believe if I was if I remember, Colle wasn't she the one who said, "I am not suicidal." Yeah. Last year, she goes, "I'm not suicidal. I'm very happy. If anything happens to me, somebody killed me." Yeah, that's her. Exactly. Yeah. It's kind of weird. Yeah, that's that's kind of weird. I mean, come on. That's like, you know, I mean, to it I I mean, to fake a suicide when you know that something like a statement of that has been already made. I mean, would you want to fake a car accident or burn the house down or, you know, why would you do pick suicide when you know that suicide is something she publicly claims she would never do? Because they because these people don't care. That's why. Obviously not. It's really stupid. Yeah, they don't care. It's uh yeah, you know what? Whenever you have all these high high level people involved, you know, I forget who it was. I think it was um I think it was Elon Musk who said it. He's like, "Where's the list? Where's the videos? Where's this I'm saying that for everything? Where's any of this [\h__\h] Where's anything? Where where's how did it get lost? I I mean they should find all of the [\h__\h] that's missing from Hillary's emails to the to to the Well, we know Hillary's emails documents. Yeah. Yeah. The JFK files, Martin Luther King, all of that [\h__\h] Where is the [\h__\h] rece? Well, supposedly Trump is releasing Did Did they release like like all these documents on on I guess they did off on the on the um Kennedy assassination, but I have the the Martin Luther King stuff is still buried. The Robert No one really has been talking about it though. Yeah, there's that. What's her name? Luna. Um the the congresswoman somebody Luna. Luna the Luna. Um she's in charge of all of that. Well, there's like 800,000 pages or something. Millions of pages. Yeah. Yeah. It's incredible. Someone's got to go through the pages first, you know. I want I want to see some Robert should go through the pages. He's the kind of guy that could have the patience to do that problem. Sure. But yeah, I mean all any of those guys. But I mean, of all of the corruption that we've been hearing about for for years on the Biden side, on on on Obama's side, now you know, everybody's like fessing up now. The whistleblowers are talking. Evidence is coming out. They still haven't arrested anybody. I know. Can we get one? Just one. Give me one guy. Put one guy in jail. Girl, guy, one of these [\h__\h] criminals. Put him in jail. One. Give me one. And they we still don't have one. Unbelievable, right? I mean, why are you teasing us? You know, it's like it's all it does is it's the same old [\h__\h] It's the good old boy network. No one's ever going to go down. If you're in government, you can commit any crime you want and you're never going to get caught. You're never going to be held accountable and you're never going to go to jail. Now you got all of these Congress people are rich out of their How did AOC make $4 million bucks in the last couple of years on $170,000 salary? She's got now a net worth of $4 million. How does she get a net worth of $4 million? What is she doing? How did Nancy Pelosy's husband make a hundred whatever $120 million in the last couple years? I mean, how does this happen? Maxine Waters, how is she worth millions of dollars? She can't complete a sentence. She's dumb as a box of rocks, but she's got millions of dollars in equity and estates and cash in the bank. How does this happen? Not one investigation, not one whistleblower with any proof. Nothing. We get nothing. We just get [\h__\h] screwed over all the time, hold a whole bunch of promises, and none of these people ever are held accountable. How did speak of how did how did this physique never win Mr. Olympia? Yeah, that's a good question. Chris Cormier too for that matter. Kevin Levrone, people don't realize this is a great picture to really take a look at because Kevin Levrone prior to him tearing his pec when he first hit the scene like in 92 and uh that I think he was second in that first 92 Olympia, right? Yep. And I mean he was that was his first year as a pro. He won night of champions and went to the Olympia, took second. He was a to his pec before he turned pro. No, no, he tore his pec right after that. Right after he turned pro. Very or very early in his career. Yeah. But I'm saying this is when he was still training year round. I mean, look at it. People think that Kevin's legs weren't that good. His legs were legs were ridiculous. Ridiculous. This is I mean, he was a total freak nature. Chris Cormier too had the most amazing symmetry when he was look at that picture. Look at that. I mean that that's Mr. If that physique should have been is not Mr. I mean what would that physique do today John? Well what if I guess how many Olympians would he win today? All of them. Would would would Derek Lunsford or Samson Da beat that today? None of those guys could beat him. No. No. No. It's absolutely none of them. He's that's from a different world. Would Phil Heath beat that? Probably not. I don't think so. And Phil was, you know, he had Kevin had Dorian in the way, you know. It was Yeah. And he and then he had Ronnie. Then he had Ronnie. So, but he wasn't really train, you know, after that. I think he kind of like realized he wasn't going to win the Olympia. He kind of just lost. He wouldn't train in the offseason. He would just No, he wouldn't he would only train for four months. So, he was basically playing catchup. But yeah, I mean, this is when he was training all year round. I mean, he was just nuts here. I mean, when he was young and first came on the scene, when he was like that, he was absolutely the most amazing thing you you could ever see. Well, he took second what, how many times in the Olympia, twice. But you know what? If you I saw him backstage in 94 at the Suburban Championships, John Keer show in New Jersey. I was competing. He was guest posing. He had just this 92, excuse me, 92 Suburban. had just won the nationals or and or was preparing for I think it was off seasonason ready for night of champions. John he his pant leg was so big I remember his pants were like it was like a sack he was wearing around his they were the legs was so big because he couldn't fit into any normal jeans. They were like these big baggy I was like and you know I had good legs but not 92. I didn't have those I didn't have crazy but I was like holy mackerel. I've never seen a human being so big. He was in his legs were enormous. Enormous. And for me to be that impressed, separated and feathered and grainy and crazy looking. He he the the Levrone who we saw the second half of his career was a shell of what he and what he Yeah. He if he would have continued from where he was here, I I really really I I think he would have beat Dorian. And I think that he would have he probably I don't who knows if Ronnie would have ever you know would have ever beat him. I don't know he would have he could have had a couple of Olympias under his belt easily easily he started getting injured he if he would have just kept going from 92 by the time he got to 96 he would have been unbeatable. You know, there there was him. I would I would say Nasser. Um Chris, he had better like aesthetics than than Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. But Nasser got getting great shipping. He was huge. Yeah. Nash was huge though. Of course. Um you know, Flex. So So Cormier, Flex, Nasser, Kevin, who else could have been Mr. Victor Martinez? They all could have been Mr. Olympias. Yeah. Yeah, they had a year there where they actually could have been and right, you know, they weren't. But I think things would I think I think the industry would have been better off if they had given it to them. Yeah, I Dorian was was a machine. He he was he was the closest to AI robot as we had. Dorian was amazing. Couldn't beat him because of that that mentality. What he could force himself to do was just out of out of Yeah. people's ability. You see these two guys, they call themselves the Barbarian Brothers. Round two, Barbarian 2.0. Yeah. Yeah. That they're I I kind of like them. I kind I watch some of their stuff. They they remind me of David and Peter Paul a little bit. You know, that that's the I mean, are they really call themselves a barbarian? That's in the Instagram page. That's really I don't like that, man. Why not? Because there are We have the barbarians. We don't need these two. Well, it's like a reboot. It's like they call themselves the freaks or the the the you know the guys who are the trend twins you know I don't know if that's necessarily the greatest name they're that's another stupid name but I mean these guys are kind of like barbarians you know so I'm like all right they're dwarfs compared to David and Peter come on they're pretty these guys are pretty good John they look David and Peter Paul would out just dwarf them but these guys are in like a lot leaner than David and and Peter Paul Absolutely no question they're in good shape. They look good. But why do you got to steal the barbarian name? Can't you come up with your own name? People always steal from the past, right? I hate that. I just don't like that. Well, because that's because you knew we knew Peter and David Paul, but I mean, let's face it, even if we didn't know, nothing's original. Nothing's original, John. Everything's recycled. Oh, like they're calling themselves Barbarian Brothers 2.0. All right. So, they're at least saying 2.0. Oh, okay. So, it's 2.0 at least. All right. As long as it's 2.0. Then I'm all right. I always wonder why there wasn't a a new Barbarian brothers because it's a good it's a good shtick to have like, you know, two guys that are brothers that that look very similar. And yeah, especially if they were twins or you could call they should do a remake of some of the Barbarian movies. Remember? People don't realize that the Barbarian brothers were in movies. Yeah. I I don't I don't like I don't like the 80s clothing that they're wearing, but Well, I think that's why they're doing it. They're doing the trying to The barbarians wore jeans and overalls. Now they they got to do that. Yeah. Let me see. I'm trying to think if they did. They got the hotkins on though. Without the fanny pack, that's very annoying. Fanny pack worn in the front. I think someone should come. Well, old school, you know, our good friends at Old School of which I have a shirt on right here. They they kind of are doing that, you know, the uh right here. Old school. But I I think I think that maybe we should come out with like they should come out with a full line of like some of the old stuff like the the baggie pants and comics and the slouch socks. Right. Right. The boat neck the boat neck sweatshirts or someone should make a line of those two brothers probably should do it. They should make a line of barbarian clothing like like didn't the barbarians wear overalls and stuff like that? Yeah, they wore overall jean overalls and flannel shirts and you know they should do that. They should shirts are always ripped and you know I bet you those shirts I bet you because bodybuilds like loose fitting stuff. I bet you those things would sell like wildfire in our industry. You go to a show in a booth like that with barbarian clothing. I guarantee you they would sell. I think Body Alive was making some of it like the terry cloth tops with the B, you know. And I'm saying if you made like some some overalls who No one wears overalls. Overalls always come back and forth every so often. But if you bring him back for bodybuilders and you I remember that P remember that picture of Paul Delette with the overalls on. Yep. Yep. With no shirt underneath. Lee Priest too. Bob and um Branch Warren also did it. Who did the overalls? What what photographer would did that? Is that Chris Lond? That sounds like something L would do. Or or or um Ralph Dhan would probably might do that too. I don't know. I can't think. But it I mean Oh, there was actually no Paul Delete was suspenders he had on. Oh, right. Suspenders. I'll pull it up. He This This is a pretty freaky picture. Branch did that photo shoot with Trish that he I think he was wearing overalls. Oh, was he? Yeah. You got to kind of be a little taller though. Yeah, he was like in a like in a factory working out. Yeah, that's the one. Yeah. [\h__\h] That's another one that should have been Mr. Olympia. Oh my god. And the genetics on him, right? Unreal. You know, people say, you know, it's it's always different in person. With him, he was bigger in person. He he was mindboggling in person. I mean, just you couldn't even you just you kind of just got like started stuttering when he was because you couldn't imagine another human being not only that big, but that put together, you know, his condition all the time. Connelly, Scott Connelly, who owned Metrics at the time, was convinced he was going to make Paul Mr. Olympia. So, he signed him. I think it was 96 or 97, I think, you signed Dlette. I remember because I was hanging out with them and we were going and we were going out to eat together and we were we did a couple photo shoots together and and Connelly said to me, "This guy, he's Dave. He's he's gonna be Mr. Olympia. I'm training him." He said making him do deadlifts for the first time in his life, bent rows, stuff. He doesn't lift heavy, Dave. I I know. But Scott, the results are pretty good for someone who doesn't lift he Maybe maybe you'll make him worse, I said by lifting heavy with him. Now, do you think he's Do you think he's a myostatin negative or a hyperponder or both? He he he's got to be both. Yeah. The Because he did he would do like 25 pound dumbbell curls and he would have 25 inch arms. I mean, how do you do that? Yeah. But then he but then he'd lose like 150 pounds and then you know and then gain it back in two weeks, right? It's like Levrone. He's like a hyper resppondent too on top of that. Yeah. Yeah. Leavone would make the most amazing transformations when he would start training for the Olympia at four months out. You'd see him start at four months and you see him at two months and at two months he doubled his size. Right. I I told you I helped him that year 96 when he won the Arnold and I I I I told him don't even do the show at at at 12 weeks out. He's like, "No, I'll be all right." And then six weeks later, he looked like a Yeah, because he ate broccoli and fish for 12 weeks. Exactly. What big guy has abs? Look at those abs. Who has abs like that today? No. No one. No one. May maybe maybe Hottie Chupin does. Yeah, maybe. Yeah, but he's too short. The thing with Paul is he was like 6'4, you know? I know. He's so impressive. His problem was he couldn't pose, you know. He he was like very awkward, you know, with his he had tremors. He shook. His body was like, "What the hell did you do to my body?" You put He would 300 pounds of muscle on me, you know, convulsing on stage when he posing. Oh my gosh. Tony Freeman, he's got abs like that. Yeah. No, I know. But he doesn't compete. I'm saying guys today. No one today. No one. No, you got like you said, Hottie is the only guy with crazy abs. But on a short guy, a lot of abs don't look good, you know. You gota, you need that length to stretch it. Yeah, I agree. Stretch your, you know, the lines out, you know. So, you know, you get this Pittsburgh show coming up next week. I'll be out there. Jim Manions. Now, now the there's an Olympia attached to that, isn't there? No. No. So, he's No, he's got the um amateur Olympia. There's an Olympia the it's it's on a it's on the schedule. It's pit is a Pittsburgh in two weeks. So there would be a qualifier they call Oh, okay. You know, every pro show is a qualifier. So So if you win, you obviously qualify for the Olympia, but you got Derek Lunsford doing who just won the AR. Now Derek Lungsford is trying to do something, John, that no one else has done. And and that is to win the Arnold. Now the the reason no one's done it is because it didn't exist, but I don't think anyone really even thought about doing it. to win the Arnold, the the Pittsburgh, which is going to give away 100,000 first place, and then the Olympia in the same year. Now, people have done the Olympia and the Arnold, the Olympia and the Arnold in the same year. Ronnie did it and uh Jay did it. Yeah. And I think the Brandon Brandon Curry did it. I think Brandon did. Yeah. But to do another show in the middle of that Arnold in the Olympia of of the caliber of what the Pittsburgh is going to be because you're bringing some some heavy hitters into the show. Nick Walker, Martin Fitzwwater, Michael Krzo, Good Veto. I mean, it's going to be a tough lineup for for Derek. Obviously, Derek just won the Arnold. It's going to be pretty hard for anyone to beat him. But if he wins these two shows and then he goes to the Olympia, now remember, Hott's been resting all year, right? Samson did the Arnold, he lost to Derek there, but he's got the rest, he has taken off the rest of the year. The question is, can Derek pull off the three the three Pete in the same year? I mean that would probably be something that would might not ever be duplicated again because a lot of guys don't want to compete all year like that, right? Remember when they used to Sylvio Samuel did 13 shows in No, I know. But but a guy who's won Mr. Olympia has never done it, you know. They don't usually do it because it's just too many shows, right? Too many shows. But top pros, I mean, Levrone competed six, seven times in one one year, you know, but they would usually do it in in like a Grand Prix like Yeah. Right. They'd hit like a bunch of them week after week after week, right? Very rarely do you see guys like who are doing three separate isolated shows like that. I would like to see that come back. I would like to see a a a tour, a real live like they used to do in the old days, different countries, you know, and kick the prize money up and make these guys [\h__\h] get on a plane and go compete. Well, you know what, John? With the with the amount of money they're giving away now, that's going to happen. It's because think about it. Why do guys do the Grand Prix in in racing? I mean, because there's a monetary reward associated with now the Arnold is giving away 500,000. Pittsburgh is giving a h 100red grand away. Weineberg is given a lot of money the week after Pittsburgh. So, you might as well hit both of those shows. And then you got Dubai giving away 140,000 over the summer this year. So, I mean, that's another show that theoretically, you know, think about it. Think about if you win two of those shows and you place, you know, top three in the other two or three shows. You, you know, you could make a million bucks for the year easily. I I am shocked that there isn't a giant, incredibly huge, rich show in Dubai or any of the United Arab Emirates where bodybuilding is becoming, you know, really popular today. I'm surprised that there's not one of those super wealthy, you know, families out there that isn't putting out like on like on a baiter level a super high-end show, milliondoll first prize, incredible venue, make it like, you know, televise it, pay whatever. I'm just shocked that we don't have that right now. I begged, believe me, I have some some Middle Eastern guys that I'm connected to and and I have begged them to do it. And um I think they're more interested in maybe you know buying an existing show and and and boost bolstering that up. But you know in Dubai Dubai's main source of of income is tourism. Tourism. So the tourism department in Dubai had to be convinced by Bader that this is something that's going to be good for the country because you're it's attracting people in there and they love bodybuilding in in the Middle East. We know that. Yeah, they do. So, I think last year's show was successful and they didn't even have a good lineup last year because I don't think people even believed it was going to happen. Now that someone got won 100 grand last year, right? Right. Now, this year it's up to 140 grand. I think we're going to see a much better lineup there. I I think anyone who doesn't do that show who's a top guy in the world is crazy. Yeah, exactly. Dubai is fun, first of all, to go out to, you can make a vacation out of it. Secondly, 140 grand is 140 grand. Even the classic is getting I think 70 grand and and and I think the um the men's physique is like 50 grand or something like that. So that's a lot of money they're giving away. You know, they need that's could be elevated to a million at some point. That's what I'm saying. They need a spectacular show. It's like an like like they used to call it the extravaganza, you know? That's what that means. It's extravagant. It's like way over the top. If they did that, you need to do that one time. Then the dominoes start falling. That's right. Well, the dominoes already started falling after Arnold raised the prize money in response to the Olympia. And then the Olympia raised the prize money in response to him. And then Manion figured out if I'm going to come out with a show, I got to give away at least 100 grand, which he got a sponsor for. Well, then in the Middle East doing that, I mean that the dominoes are falling. You know, I think on a manion level show that 100 grand is monumental. That's incredible. Absolutely. No, the next level up on the Olympia level or the Arnold Classic level, a Dubai show or any anywhere in the in the UAE there that's got, you know, a wealthy wealthy place that can afford to do it in spectacular fashion should get an incredible venue, super high prize money, invite the best of the best and do it up, you know, and show people what this can what this really can do with the right amount of money pumped into it, right? Then then those are the dominoes you want to fall. Then you want then you want the Olympia to go to a million bucks. Then you want the Arnold Classic to go to a million bucks and elevate everything and get the industry to [\h__\h] cough up some money. Well, if Saudi Arabia could dish out that kind of money to these soccer players and these golfers, right? I'm sure. And that's and they're giving these guys hundreds of millions. What's a million bucks for first place? What's What's the annual revenue of the top supplement companies now in our industry? I No. No company's putting up this much money. There's no ROI on that. There's no return on investment. But these but these countries can can justify it because they want bragging rights. Saudi Arabia paid Lionel Messi. How much money did he pay him? I don't know. What is that? I'm going to look it up. Or Ronaldo. One of those guys got a lot of money. To compete or to guest pose? No. To to to play soccer there. I meant I meant to I meant to compete or to play or to like be models, spokespeople. What? Um for Messi received $440 million offer from Saudi Arabia. 440 million to play soccer there, right? I mean, can we get 1 million for a Can we get How about five million? Give us five million. How about one? Let's get one. Let's do one. Let's just try for that, you know? I mean, Qatar, they're another big bodybuilding. I remember um uh what's his name was telling me uh who's the 212 Olympia champ? The guy um what's his name? I'm I'm drawing a Chris CO's client. Oh. Um yeah, Kamal Kamalam. Kamal was you know from you know you know where's he from anyway? He was he was living in he was living in uh Qatar and and competing for them at the world amateur championships for years. They would give him a new house. They would give him money every year if he won that his he won his class. You know, he made he saved so much money and that's how he built his supplement store and he made all his, you know, he took that cash and parlayed it into business. Um so I mean the Middle East has money for bodybuilding and they like bodybuilding. It's the number two sport behind soccer. Yeah. No, it's they do like it. That's why I'm saying I'm shocked that we don't have a gigantic spectacle of a show out there. I'm just really surprised that we don't have it. I I think it's it's coming. It's coming. Hope so. For our athletes sake, the the AI robots uh will not arrive before the million dollars does. I That's my prediction. So, you know, and think about it. Those guys out there in the Middle East, they have like they're like trillionaires, right? Yeah. Yeah. What kind of you you got to believe that they have robots already there working for them, right? I mean, why a robot? I had that kind of money. I can buy anything I want. The slaves are perfectly good. No, think about it. They got to have some robots working out there, you know. Not yet, but I'm sure they You know what the problem is? The robots. I think that what the security There's a security issue with robots, too. Oh, you're doing high if you're if you're a very high-end, you know, person uh who has a lot of money, there's a security risk, right, that your your robot could be hacked. Sure. I mean, theoretically, you might have a listening device and and and a camera in your house through the robot. Robot can be hacked to kill you. That's true. Fascinate you, right? Could be hacked to do that. Wow. Yeah, that's another thing I haven't thought of. The Yeah. The problem is with all anything great technology-wise always comes with the drawback that this could be used for evil. It's going to be perverted into something directly. Someone will will definitely see that and it'll probably be probably be our country's military or something. There's humans involved. As long as you got humans involved, it's going to get [\h__\h] up. That's right. That's right. So, the question is, who's the greatest bodybuilder of all time? I I think you and I would agree it's Ronnie Coleman. Yeah. Will there be an AI Ronnie Coleman 2.0? That's the question. You know, with all the robots, you think that we'd be able to get Ronnie some a pair of new legs or something like that. Well, you know, he's said he's he said when I talked to him at the Olympia, he said the stem cells are working, right? That he's got he's getting another, you know, round of them. And he thinks he thinks they're working to the point where he's going to be like rid of the wheelchair. Really? Well, he goes every six months to Regenex down in Mexico. So, I mean, those guys are great. Daniel down there is doing awesome. He's I and I know that, you know, he completely hooks up Ronnie down there. So, and you know what? I don't blame Ronnie for going every six months because you know what? Even if they're not regenerating the tissues, they're at least alleviating his pain so he doesn't have to and making the rest of them healthy, too. Whatever, you know, to I actually need to take another trip down there. We should take a trip together. Yeah, that would be great. You love Mexico, don't you? I'll show you around Portoarta. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But why don't we why don't we plan a trip there at some point? Why don't we plan an event there and do, you know? Yeah. Well, we any place we go will be an event, John. We don't have to actually do an event. It just turns into one. And if we bring George down with us, it'll become a big I don't know if they'll allow him in Mexico. They might not let him. I have a lot of uh underground labs down there that are dying to to fly us in down there, too. Let's go. Let's go do it. Let's do their products out, you know. So, let's do a tour. Yeah, we should. All right, we'll figure it out. Hope you guys are uh enjoying the Palumbo podcast. Uh we're going to be I'll be in Pittsburgh next week for the Pittsburgh Pro, a German manion show where we're going to see if Derek Lunsford can make it two for two this year. Chris Aceto will be there. Sid Farooqi will be there. Then John, uh, we have to book our flight for Alabama because June 21st, June, Whack Pack will be back in Montgomery, Alabama. Months away and, uh, we'll be wreaking havoc on that beautiful town. We'll be we'll be redesigning it and restructuring it and everything we go down there. Hopefully, we'll be filming uh, part two of the Palumbo documentary. Oh, yeah. That'd be awesome. Yeah, we got to do that. We got to get you on camera. We gota get Michelle. We got to get George. All the people will be down there. We'll get them on camera for the documentary. We gota We So, we got to book that before I forget so that the flights are not, you know, astronomical and we get the flights we want. Yeah. All right, that's going to do it for today. Thanks for joining us on the Palumbo podcast. Once again, I'm Dave Palumbo with John Romano. We'll see you next time. See you.