New breed nutrition. We don't train to lose. Welcome back to Halloween 2014 here at the RX Muscle Studios in Westbury, New York. Joining the panel now is my very good and old friend Oscar Ardan. Welcome. You're the angel of death tonight. I like it. Even Oscar Arden got in in character here and uh is joining the energy of the Halloween spirit season here. Uh congratulations on the win with Teracita and uh it's it's good seeing you. We haven't we haven't seen each other in a nonbodybuilding I guess world since in a long time. Thank you Dave. It's great to be here and uh I'm happy to be here with Teracita after winning that. Great actually her second show. She would have won the first one in um Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh Masters. Oh that's right. The Masters. Yeah. But this this is an open show. This this is way more important. Count. Well, you know because you can't you don't you don't qualify for the Olympia for that one. So uh this one's better because now she's official officially qualifi. I think you're the first athlete to qualify for the Olympia, aren't you? um in the season. Was there a show before? Talk to the microphone. Was there a show before uh Phoenix? I think there was a women's physique before. Oh, the Titans won. Right. In California. Yeah. Right. Right. All right. Well, that's that's still impressive. Now, um Oscar, I have a couple questions for you because uh let's just deviate before we get back to Terasita. You saw the Olympia. Were you there this year? Yeah. Okay. You were there? I wasn't there. I saw at home. Okay. I was there, but I saw it on TV, too, because I wasn't allowed I wasn't allowed to go watch it in person. Now, uh, take take the mask off just cuz I got to talk to your face. I want people to see Oscar, even though I I love Yeah, I love the the thing, but I I want to see it. Now, you I'll pull the microphone closer. You started working with Kai Green when he was What? How old? Uh, wow. When he was 16 years old back in 1993. Yeah. Yeah. You were like almost his dad. I mean, in that sense, because you've known him that long. Well, maybe not his dad, but maybe his You've been an influence on his life. Yeah. He's definitely a relative of some sort. Uh, and you know, you saw Kai Green go from, you know, an amateur champion to a professional who who didn't do that well, and then you took him to the level of winning pro shows, winning the Arnold Classic in 2009 and 10. I mean, uh, the elite levels, we like to call it. Um, you've been to the Olympia a couple times with him. Um, give me your insight into this past Olympia. And what do you think happened with Kai Green uh and the whole Phil Heath confrontation starting with the press conference where he kind of was a little uh I guess inappropriate while Phil was talking about his dad. He kind of broke in and tried to be like kind of WWEish. Then he kind of lost his cool with the prejudging on stage. What was your insight? You have a good perspective on Kai. Was that stage? Do you think Kai lost his school? I really can't say. It's been about maybe 4 years since we um we spoke. You know, wanted to come here today and celebrate her and her win. You know, we're going to celebrate. We're going to do it. Um but um I really don't know where his mindset is right now. Um back then um uh transforming his also meant transforming his mindset from um uh believing in in in scarcity and uh creating more abundance in his life, you know, not just in bodybuilding but in his belief system. So, um, try to instill a strong positive attitude along with training and and everything else that came along with it. Try to restructure someone who wasn't doing well as a pro. And, um, sometimes you can only do what so much with training and nutrition and diet. um the only only aspect that you can tap on is the mindset and and I knew that's something that he uh needed and uh he um thrived um when we worked together and um what happened at the uh 2014 Olympia I I I'm not privy to the background of it. So, I'm I'm uh taking a back because not that's not what we um envision um a champion to be, you know. Um when the whole world is watching, no matter what sport, you want to represent yourself to the best of your ability. Sure. And if especially if you're one of the elite athletes, you know, you have I don't know how many fans and uh it's just uh you can't lose your cool no matter how upset or angry even you get at times. Yeah. you know, when the spotlight is on you at that moment, you know, uh it's it's important to uh um how do you say um stay calm, uh stay in composure, and do your best to not lose your cool, you know, address whatever issues offstage, you know? Sure. Do you think that Kai is lacking in um emotional guidance at this point in his care? Obviously, he's got a world-class physique. We all know that. It seems like he just cannot bring the his best look to the Olympia. And I have to believe that that's mental rather than physical because we know he's got the physical tools to be the best. And I I think physically he is the best bodybuilder in the world. He just doesn't bring it to the Olympia. Need for him. I have to believe there's a mental component. What's your obviously you're speculating, but what would you say to that statement? You know, a lot of times when you get the athletes to that peak level and it's about two or three weeks, I'm sure you competed too. You know how critical the mindset is, you know, and if anything goes off goes wrong. You begin doubting if you're going to be at your best. And to some people it affects um more severe than others. And and um that's why when I prepped him um I sort of sequestered him during that time. So to not allow right any negativity whether it's from the forums from the internet or people you know it's just to me that's a a passageway um to him and um the wrong thing can be said and it can affect his his mindset. Yeah. I I I felt I just feel that he's almost like Phil got the best of him. Phil mentally beat him before he even got on that stage at that press conference and I I don't think he ever recovered from it. I mean because it was kind of weird that he pulled out of the pro show in Prague too. I mean, that's if he was with you, you would have never allowed him to quit, you know, because he didn't quit physically. He quit mentally at that show. It's it's unfortunate, you know. Um uh it's um when when you compete at that level, there's really not an excuse to pull out. You know, you're you represent the best in the world. And whether you take third or fourth, maybe if he was placing fourth or or third, however they had him, maybe he needed to go through that. Maybe that's what he needed to find something within himself to persevere as opposed to just uh just backing out and just not he might have won too. He was right in the middle of the of the call out, you know, whether won or not, he needed to follow through with you have to follow through with your commitment, you know. Um um many times people were sick between pre-in shows, throwing up, diarrhea, you come back and you do your best and you stand on stage, you know, and get get what you get and you learn from that. Maybe sometimes um a failure is needed in order to instill a a a seed of success inside you to continue to foster and continue to get better. You know, some people will take that failure and and take it as motivation to get better and be better. Some people take the failure and it actually they go down even further. But the best successes in any sport, in any uh undertaking came from failure, anyone who succeeded in anything. I mean, we competed early this year, too. We didn't do well in Toronto, in Tampa. Um, but every show got us better and better until what you saw this past weekend. So, um, sometimes not doing well or failing at something, uh, defines your character and you find within yourself to persevere and be stronger than ever and come back with a better mindset, with a better physique, with a better overall attitude. And uh if you um walk away from it like let's say he was facing third or second something that he was not happy with maybe accepting that that night he would have found something in himself that could have sparked a fire to continue for you know 2015 but I don't know I'm speculating. Sure. Now let me ask you a question and then we're going to go to Teracita because that's what we came here for. If Kai were to call you back, call you up on the phone or contact you in some capacity and ask you to work with him again, would you? Absolutely not. No. Why not? Just uh too many uh emotions. Can't go backwards. Yeah. Uh no. It's it's that's it's a bridge that you can't cross. It's just, you know, sometimes, you know, I tell people, you know, if you don't stand for something, you fall for anything. And um we had a great time and and just leave it like that. It was a big commitment for you time-wise, too, with him. I know he was not an easy person to work with. No, you you put your um you believe in something. You believe in a concept. You believe in an idea. You believe in what um we can do, what we can represent to the sport. And um when certain things happen towards the end, um it was for me hard to uh deal with emotionally because it was I was hurt. You were hurt. Yeah. But um just like any hurt whether it's physical, emotional, you heal and you get you you move on and you find a way to move on positively and prepping Kai during that time was really timeconuming. Um but I didn't see the time. I just saw what we can create. Um but not prepping him allowed me more time to take on awesome athletes. Sure. Like Teracita here. And I heard you're working with Evan again. Is that true? Yeah. never sent the P. Now, you know, it's it's it's interesting because it seems like Kai almost has a self-destruct thing in his head, like he had a great thing with you. Um, he kind of like blew it in a sense. Um, do you think that Kai is almost like his own worst enemy on stage? Um, we we can all be our worst enemies. Sure, of course we can. But certain people, I guess, uh, uh, can when certain variables are interjected during a time of prep or like the last month when you're physically not your strongest, you can be susceptible to outside influences that can affect you in a way that can make you self-destruct. True. I mean, he did it to Ron Norman, too. I mean, here was a guy who was trying to help him and just, you know, emotionally guide him a little bit and help him financially, you know, as far as guidance. And he seems like he he kind of stepped on him, too. So, I think the both of you kind of can relate to what, you know, each other went through because of that. And it just seems like Kai kind of doesn't really uh embrace the people who really have his best interest at heart. And that's why I almost see him as having like a self-destruct mechanism in him. And that's that's a shame because um he's one of those people that I believe has the potential to become Mr. Olympia multiple times physique-wise. Um, and it's in that mental aspect, not that he doesn't train hard or doesn't do enough cardio because he's a machine when it comes to doing that, but it's it's more than that. You know, you can't just rely on hard work or um just proper nutrition. It's more than at that level when everybody is doing the same thing. You have to have a some type of competitive edge. And the only competitive edge that you can tap on is your mindset and and creating an unbelievable um uh uh uh belief system within yourself that you know you're going to win even though the virtue hasn't come yet. When you do that and you actually believe it, cardio training is no problem. You'll just do it because you know the end result. Do you think Kai thinks he can't win in his head? I don't know. That's hard. Jay didn't never had a doubt that he could win. I know that Ronnie never had that doubt. Dorian never had that doubt. Even Dexter Jackson really never had that doubt. There's no one more secure on himself than Dexter Jackson. And he's outsized by everyone, right? But you talk to him, you know, he'll tell you he's going to win, you know, and I think that that's why he knows how to win. I mean, he's one of the winningest winningest bodybuilders out there. And he's probably the smallest guy ever to win that many shows. I mean, four Arnold Classics, he won, you know, the Olympia. I mean, and and he started out as a bantamweight. I mean, that guy has a supreme belief system in himself. And it's amazing because I don't know where some of these come. I don't know where some people get they you think people are just born with that or is it develop over the years of their life? I think gradually through life experiences from a child growing up uh you instill certain um beliefs in your in your system and you allow that to manifest as you grow up whether as an adult or as an athlete. Um but um I I want to touch on something that I got a uh an email um was it yesterday? a YouTube video email from one of my clients. Uh uh it had Phil Heath talking in U Francis. We've seen that. Yeah, we've seen that video. And he was asked as far as Kai's uh demeanor or mindset and and and Phil Heath went on to answer. Well, I think that was something that maybe Oscar put into his mind or into to have things. It's not, you know, that's not anybody who knows me. Yeah. That's not what I represent, you know. And I didn't think so. He Let me just just to rehash. Phil had said that that maybe Oscar built me Phil Heath up as the villain so to speak that Kai had to overcome and maybe it's still in Kai's head, but that's not how you operate, right? No. Um, as much as Kai wanted to beat Phil in 08 and you know 09, I remember in the 09 Olympia as we were preparing for the Olympia, feel he'll feel he is also competing there. And uh I remember him expressing to me how he he wanted not just to win but to really beat this guy and uh um I told him to just focus on making himself the best that he can because even if if um if he takes if Phil takes eighth and he takes seventh, you'll be satisfied. He's like probably not, you know. So, um, so that, you know, it still didn't seep in through yet. It was the manifestation of the contest where he got Kai got fourth. I think Phil got fifth that year. Right. Right. And afterwards, a few days out, we spoke about it. Then he realized it's not about trying to uh defeat another uh athlete or bodybuilder. But for me, it's it's more like you're trying to create the best version of yourself and surpassing what you've done in the past. And if you constantly do that, you're not going to see an opponent. You're not going to see an athlete. You're going to see the best version of yourself. So, we followed that mindset to the 2010 Arnold Classic where where Phil and Dexter and Branch came out looking really really good, too. Yeah, they did. And we were able to pull out that win. Um there was a lot of hard training of course and diet, but that mindset of just becoming a creator, expressing yourself through your physique. If you want to be great, you you don't become great by defeating an opponent. You become great by being the best you can be. And by default, by doing that, you'll win. You're smart. That's a very smart uh insight to make. And did it did you find that the last couple weeks for first show, Kai required a lot more, you know, babysitting, so to speak, or or a lot more you talking to him? Did he have more doubt as the show approached? Well, in general, I work closely with athletes in general, you know, whether it's working with her, working with anybody, it becomes um she was in shape three weeks before the I was going to say she doesn't need any mental. No, you know, it's it's it's tough. You know, there are certain times it is tough. It's challenging, you know, um especially her having a full-time job and doing cardio, it is challenging. And um but for certain people maybe are is a little more challenging. And for them, maybe the the idea of staying away from social media, the idea of I think that's a good idea. Yeah. Cutting yourself off from certain things that may distract you like a boxer would. A boxer would go away for 10 weeks, and then come back and and fight. Um, maybe Kai needs that type of structure for him to be successful. You're right. Do you find that women are mentally tougher than men usually? You know, I'm fortunate enough to train a good number of women, women and men, and I have to say they're pretty tough, man. She's She's unreal. You know, um I I push my athletes hard. Yeah. She's yet been the only athlete to actually lay down on the floor after training. Really? She came close a few times, but no, she's she's intense. Is it Is it true when people drive past your house, they hear people screaming out of your house? I I've heard that rumor before that people actually have called the cops cuz they they hear people screaming in agony from training in your basement. Uh probably in the summer when the windows are up, you know. But my my goal, my aim is not to to really create that idea, you know. It's uh it's not to try to test your will or or try to see how much you can withstand as much as it is taking you outside your comfort zone and and pushing beyond that and knowing that in order to become a champion, you have to constantly keep pushing yourself and not necessarily every single day because you need to recover, your central nervous system needs a rest, but understanding that if you really are willing to take this road to become a champion, then you have to be willing to go through the go beyond the pain barrier I I had a guy once come up. This is a true story, by the way. I was in my I went to a hotel up in the Catskill Mountains. My father took my sister and I up there right before I went to college. And I was I had the upper body of a of like a intro bodybuilder. I had the lower body of a runner because I was a runner, too. I look like a rock climber really, but I was ripped because I had very good conditioning. And I had a guy who was a coach up there. I think he was a coach for uh track and field athletes, but he also he also knew a lot of bodybuilders. And he came over to me and he said to me, you know, how much how badly do you want to win? Cuz he saw I was I had good potential. And I said, I I want to I you know, that's all I want to do is win. You know, I had that that that drive and everything like that. He's like he said, could you hold your breath till you passed out? He's like, because if you can do that, then you're willing to because what the biggest fear people have or athletes fear is death, isn't it? I mean, I'm going to push so hard that I'm going to die and that's why a lot of them pull back and stop. He's like, if you can hold your breath till you pass out, then I know you're not afraid. and he and he actually made me do it in front and I actually did it and I and I actually passed out and it's the only time I ever did I never want to do it again by the way but um it's it's you have to sometimes test yourself to see if you can go that extra mile because when I dieted I never cheated you know unless I had a prepare cheat meal I never cheated I never deviated it wasn't in my option list yet I find a lot of bodybuilds do have that in their option list when they get hungry or they get tired or they get they get you know depressed one of the options is eat food I eliminated did that and and I think that that's important that you you instill that say I understand the concept of pushing these athletes in in your gym once in a while to the point of where they're puking or passing out or whatever the case may be. After a while it becomes mental. You you really have to be willing to surrender, you know, and just embrace this and just know that this is what you have to do because if you don't then you'll you'll get what you always got in the past. So if you can do that, you know, in your gym, don't come to me, you know, we're going to do something special. But we're going to go beyond what you've done in the past physically. And um that takes work and that takes I can't instill some uh in someone desire or or the will. You know, I always need a willing participant. And she's always whether she's depleted or whether she's feeling well, whether whether she had a bad day in court, you won't see that while she's performing. I'll say five more, six more, eight more, 10 more. She always and and to see that is for me is joy is passion because I know she wants it. It makes me want to give a 100%. So I like to work with like-minded athletes who are able to give that much. So I know she's given that much in her training. I know she's given that much in her car. And you're giving a lot too. So if you're going to give that much, you want to see it in return. You don't want to give and have these people crying and whining and complaining because then it's not fun for you anymore. Right. I don't like to pull teeth. You know, I don't like to, you know, if you want to do it, do it. If you don't want to do it, don't don't do it. Let me ask you a question. Terita, what was the toughest workout you ever did with Oscar? Do you remember it? You must. Uh, they were all pretty tough, I think. Uh, but I think as I got closer to the show, talking to the microphone. As I got closer to Phoenix, I think I was so depleted uh that there was, I think, one leg workout that I I was just gone. Like, what was he having you do? Give me an idea of what the workout comprised of. Well, I mean, the basic stuff. You do your your leg extensions, your squats, but you know, you do them the right way. Like, what's the right way? um proper form, you know, proper uh alignment of your back, just, you know, proper form. And push you past the reps like you think, "All right, I'm done now." And then he's like, "10 more." I mean, well, yeah, but it's just uh you know, I was so depleted that uh I I just couldn't go. I couldn't do anymore. And I think we identified that I was at that point where I just you can't push be that that's it. I couldn't push beyond that point and I think I would have just fallen. What was your insight into that, Oscar? You know, this is uh she's 5'1 at the time. You were what? 120 just about. Yeah. Eating barely nothing. So, she's pushing 225 deep squats, you know, and then we do a drop set. Wow. 225. 225 for 105. Double your weight. Then we did a drop set to 135 for like 30 reps. I don't think I could do that to be honest with you. So, that's a depleted. After that, I had to deviate the rest of the routine cuz I know that took a lot away, a lot from her. M so a lot of times it's like that I have to deviate depending on how the athletes performing but that day I know that it was challenging so I give her an option between an easier movement to do next and a harder movement and knowing her she picked the harder the hardest movement you know and but she paid the price at the end she was she was wiped like 10 minutes just to just kind of catch her breath um but the end result was success do you have like a pew pocket like in your gym I just have a little bathroom there that you can uh you can run into close by the squat machine now what kind of equip do you have in your gym? Because I I know you've invited me to go there and film and we we're going to take you up on that one of these days. What what what is your gym equipped with? Because a lot of people say you have great stuff there. Uh King, uh Cybex, Life Fitness, uh I rock dumbbells. U have a tennis machine. I have Oh, really? Yeah. It's everything. Incline, decline, stepmill, bike. Now, did when you equipped the gym, did you think I'm going to equip it for the people who I'm going to train here or you equipped it for yourself? Because that's what I would do. I custom tailor it for me and I think it was 98 when I was prepping oral work for 98 USA 99 nationals. So I created that I uh that I think it's about 1,200 square f feet and that's a nice size gym. Yeah man. I had everything tailored to that place and I have uh dumbbells up to 200 lb. The stacks of the of the of the machines are like you know 400 lb. Oh wow. So they were all customized right. So it took more time and my basement is not actually the highest basement. So, the cable crossover machine, you know, I had to uh uh Yeah, modify it a little bit. Step machine. You're like hitting the seam. Is Oscar's gym like in my head every single time I take a step. Oh, really? Cuz it's too high. You know, my friend Ron Norman has a a comb gym and I once went in there and and I put my foot on on the bench and he he he shed me off the bench. Is every Can people train in your gym and sweat there or are you like a clean fanatic with the gym? Bit uh Oh, really? Really? Oh, okay. Clean. Well, at the end of the day, but yeah, I mean, you know, it's when I tr You're not uptight about it. No, no, because it's it's what I would want for me, right? You know, so for me, it was a decision that I had to make a while ago to share this great equipment with with people, right? No, cuz it's tough. You don't want to see your stuff destroyed, but at the same time, equipment is not meant to be watched. It's meant to be train used, right? Of course. You know, so uh I don't know if you let Jimmy in your gym. He's a he's a brutal trainer, you know. He's brutal on the equipment. Welcome. the the the equipment is heavy duty. Akin sent, Jimmy. All right, Jimmy. Maybe one of these days we'll get you down there training at with Oscar. Yeah, when I get back in shape. Yeah. Well, that's you tell me you're gonna get back in shape, didn't you? Yeah, I was. Yeah. Well, now you have another incentive version. Well, now you got no excuses anymore. You know, you got to you can't just live in the past. Maybe Oscar can mentally Jimmy's very in the dumps cuz his mom passed away uh last week. It was, you know, he's very depressed over it and, you know, things haven't been going that great in his life and, you know, I think he needs what what could you tell him? Can you give him a little advice maybe to to pick up his one hour in a room with him? Quiet. Really? That's it. All right. Jimmy, are you are you offering to talk to him for an hour? Sure. All right. You maybe should take Oscar up on it. I think you need a little lift. Yeah. He's great. And then the wor Yeah. The worst case scenario is you want to go paint your house after, you know. That's all. He'll get you in a positive mood. Johnny, final request for people to guess the species nutrition newest athlete. Uh he's the mystery guest over there. He's got the Doth Maul mask on. Maybe we can get a little camera on him. And uh so you keep saying he we got a guess for Lacy Duca. Yeah. Who said who said Lacy Duca, John? Someone guessed that he's Lacy that this guy is Lacy Duca. That would be the biggest. The only thing I can She must have gained an awful lot of weight. The only thing I can think of for Lacy Duca is that on our RX Muscle social media, we have a thing that we do. It's called Muscle After Midnight where we feature some of the, you know, the the beautiful physique, fitness, bikini women that are out there. And we featured her about a week and a half ago and it got a really great reception. That doesn't look like Lacy Duca, does it? But again, how do you draw if you It must be somebody not watching the show. Cuz if you're watching the show, how does that look like Lucy Duca? Yeah, I don't know. All right. Well, we got a great prize package for the first correct answer. Johnny's going to calculate it. We're going to take a commercial break right now. When we come back, we're going to announce the newest species edition, species nutrition athlete, and we're going to announce who won and who got the new prize package. Stay tuned. I am the new. I am the new I