Welcome inside the RX Muscle Studios in New York. New York until next week or the week after. We're going to be coming live from you from Florida/N New York, but it'll be here on rxmuscle.com. This is Ask Dave 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. All your questions on diet, training, supplementation, life, whatever it is all out here on the table as we bring in Dave Palumbo. Dave, all sorts of chaos and madness as you begin your big move to Florida next week. The stress is crawling up my neck and it's strangling my trachea right now and I could barely suck air in. Uh it it it's a it anytime and anyone out there who's moved before knows what I'm talking about. It's an enormous amount of stress. Now add on top of that the fact that you know we're moving 1,200 miles away, not like around the corner. And on top of that, we're moving two businesses. Actually, three businesses if you include my my crazy snake collection, which is which is adding a layer of stress also because I got to drive them down there. And you know, it's tough. We're going to be giving you as much programming as as conceivably possible. We'll still have more programming than everyone else these next two weeks. But, uh, we might hit a little glitch, not next week necessarily, but the week after that, uh, if we have some internet issues when we first move down there because we were supposed to be in a new facility. the new facility is not going to be ready probably for a month or two. So, we had we rented a separate set of offices and um Johnny Styles and I will we will going shopping for a makeshift studio when we get there. But I think I you know I think you guys like it when you you kind of watch my life kind of I guess expand before your eyes. So, I will be videotaping the entire road trip from New York down to Cape Coral, Florida, which should be a 24-hour drive with my good friend Cole Hanzik. And uh I'm sure that will be uh hopefully not ripe with too many adventures, but it I'm sure it'll be interesting for this to say the least. It's going to be a lot of fun. We're going to be promoting this over the next uh week or so. Uh Dave is going to be making what will amount to be a 24hour drive to Florida as rxmuscle.com as well as speciesnutrition.com make the big move. For those wondering or who have been asking us, Sid, they I don't think the camera's on you because for some reason uh the camera that Johnny was using blinked out on you. I don't know what happened. I think it's a bad. So I am going to take over as host of this show right now. It's going to be called Ask Sid. And uh the first question for Sadi Farooqi will be uh the one question that he does not want me to ask him. Who are you voting for in the presidential election? No one. No one. That's a very, you know, for some reason everyone is very heated and I and Chris Aceto and I try to avoid politics on the radio show, but Chris absolutely hates Donald Trump and um he can't stop from talking about it. And every time he talks about it, I get hate emails from people telling me I I tuned off the show because Chris is talking about Donald Trump. And you know, I don't care about politics because I know it doesn't matter who we elect, it's going to be the same old same old. Uh but uh it is what it is. The one thing about this election and it's it's exhausting. I mean, there is no middle ground. It's you either hate candidate A or you hate candidate B. You either hate the other side of the fence or you hate this cable network, that cable network. There is no middle. There's no more room for dis when I drive around I see bumper step stickers that say f you uh Donald Trump or Hillary's a a [\h__\h] you know, and and the and the interesting thing is I'm always saying to myself, I wonder what happens if the person they hate gets elected. Uh I would be worried about putting like on my Facebook page half fish this guy because what if the government's actually looking at this and and you know oh you know what let's audit this person who said screw me when I went when I was running for office. So I remain neutral like Switzerland. So once again just to recap and for those who have been asking yes I'm going to stay on. It's going to be a new setup. We're are going to be setting the studio up over the course of the next week. Uh Johnny Styles and myself. So essentially, it's going to be RX New York. Now, for those who watch ESPN, they're based out of Bristol, Connecticut. They have a new studio in Los Angeles, which they call ESPN LA. And then at midnight, they have Sports Center Midnight. So consider that it's going to be RX Muscle is going to be headquartered in Florida. We're going to have a New York studio. We're still going to be in touch with the large scene here, Bev Francis, Powerhouse Gym, all the IFBB pros and NPC competitors. We're still going to maintain that contact. We're still going to be bringing you all sorts of content, all the interviews, training videos, and more. So, we have a lot to look forward to, but what Dave is alluding to is over the next couple of weeks, it might be a bit of a transition, but we're going to do our best to continue to provide you the best content in all bodybuilding. Dave, and as long as Salombo, my father, is living in New York, RXMuscle New York lives on. So, let's go to the questions. We start on the muscle central forum on rxmuscle.com and go to it's either gent or gintter Dave I hate your show I would rather be doing highintensity stairmaster cardio for hours than watching it that's really bad question for a healthy female cycling anavar may it cause infertility after a short period example two cycles um I have never seen a woman who's used anabolic steroids not be able to get give birth in the future future and I've seen some pretty heavy steroid using women uh and they all have been able to to conceive. So uh when you stop the stuff whatever happened reverses itself in the sense of reproductively suppressing. Now you got to remember what happens in a woman's cycle. Woman produces estrogen. Estrogen peaks at a certain point halfway through her cycle that stimulates ovulation. Once ovulation, you know, occurs where an egg is released, then, you know, the progesterone levels rise and estrogen decreases until and then if there's no fertilization that occurs, you know, the egg is destroyed and the womanates at the end of the month. When you take anabolics, okay, androgens specifically, they tend to block the effects of estrogen. So, the woman never gets to ovulate. If she doesn't ovulate, she loses a period. She doesn't really need to get a period. So most steroids will suppress a woman's period. When they stop the steroids, sometimes it takes could take up to six months before the period, you know, starts again because the estrogen levels and the progesterone levels are a little off. But I, like I said, I've never seen a woman even using the hardest anabolics uh that they could possibly use. I have never seen a woman not be able to conceive. So I I wouldn't worry about two anabar cycles. Keeping it steel. Dave, how should a cleanse cycle look in terms of starting dosage and dosage increases three weeks prior to a show for a 220 pound male? I start when all my anavar cycles off unless the person's super super sensitive to clenuterol in which case I might start them on a little less. But I usually start on 20 micrograms twice a day. Uh I don't increase that dosage unless necessary. the person needs to continue losing fat and their body has plateaued, I'll bump it up another 20 micrograms, but I don't increase it until at least two to three weeks have passed. So, usually every two to three weeks, I'll increase it by 20 micrograms. Sometimes if I'm in a in a rush scenario where there's only six weeks left or three weeks left, I might increase it like every couple days, but I try not to do that because you do get side effects from it. And what are what are the side effects of clutter? Well, cluterol can cause some cramping, which is not necessarily a big deal. It can cause headaches. For some people, it's bad. Other people can tolerate that. More importantly, clamuterol drops blood pressure, which is actually a good thing for bodybuilders, but it's not necessarily a good thing if it happens too severely because if blood pressure severely drops um radically in a sense, the heart has to beat faster now to to pump blood to the body to raise blood pressure essentially. Uh and that's when you can get people can get some racy hearts or palpitations. So, you don't want to take too much clamol too rapidly. You also don't want to take too much at one time. So like if you let's say you're taking 80 micrograms a day, you don't want to take it all at once because you're going to get that super drop in blood pressure. You want to spread it out 20 micrograms four times a day. Uh so that that's the best way to use clenbuterol. And then when you come off the cluterol, you want to make sure you you cycle down off it. Usually no matter how high people get up to, and I don't allow people to go over 120 micrograms a day. As soon as they're done with the cycle, I bring them immediately down to 20 twice a day again for a week. I go 20 per day for a week and then off. So, it's a two-eek taper off. Let's go to GCT 20,000. Dave, hate the show. Question. In a keto diet, do I have to lose weight or can I maintain my current weight, losing fat and adding muscle? Well, all the term ketogenic diet means is that the brain is using fat or ketones as as a fuel source instead of carbohydrates. You can do a ketogenic diet and not lose any weight and and not gain weight, not I mean not gain muscle, not lose muscle, not gain fat, not lose fat, you know, depending on how much food you eat. It depends on why you're doing it. Most people will do a ketogenic diet because they want to lose drop body fat. So, in that case, you obviously want to make sure that your portion sizes are right for your body weight so that you can continue to lose weight. uh if you're looking to try to grow on a ketogenic diet, it's a little more challenging because because the body is using fat as a fuel source and not to repair muscle and same thing with with protein to a certain extent. You might you have limited resources. So it might be a little harder to put muscle on in the absence of a carbohydrate, you know, fuel load, so to speak. Doesn't now that doesn't mean you can't eat low carbs and and and grow muscle adequately. Like I have a lot of guys that don't want to get fat and I'll do a high protein moderate fat diet and then we'll do moderate carbs. So we might do 25 30 grams of carbs per meal maybe for four or five of the six meals a day and that seems to you know help them maintain their body weight in the sense that they're not and maintain their body fat levels where they're not going to get higher but they're still going to be able to add muscle tissue. Once again it becomes more of a challenge because you're limiting resources but it can certainly be done if it's strategically laid out. You're watching Ask Dave on rxmuscle.com. We're taking questions from the Muscle Central forum on rxmuscle.com. And just about every week, we tell you to subscribe to our YouTube channel, especially if you're watching for the first time ever on rxmuscle.com. You're not going to miss any of our show segments or any news updates. And then of course, we tell you to sign up to the Muscle Central forum. And one of the coolest things is that when we take these questions, often I'll see it'll be somebody's first post, second post. So, it does show us that people are signing up, people are actively partaking in the conversations on the Muscle Central forum. So, again, we appreciate that and we appreciate your support as always. Let's go to Muscle Head 713. Dave, I have a question. According to my orthopedic, I can no longer do leg extensions as a result of an alligraph surgery I had back in October of 2015 to repair the tear on my left ACL. What would you recommend as a substitute for leg extensions? Well, you know, leg extensions don't build muscle, you know, as much as people might think. People think that leg extensions will build big quads because you feel them, you know, in your quads so much when you're actually doing the movement. But if you compare how much weight you're lifting in a leg extension compared to what you could squat on a squat bar or leg press on a leg press, it's it's it's minute. Okay? So, if your leg if your leg extensioning 150 pounds, but you're squatting 400 lbs, think about how much more weight is is being imposed on that quad muscle. So, um you can skip I I my good friend Jerry Scalisi used to always say, "Go to the gym, do 10 sets of squats, and go home, and you'll have great legs." And that's what he used to do. And he had some of the best legs in bodybuilding. So, squatting is a complete movement in and of itself. It works the quads, it works the hamstrings, it works the adductors, the abductors. Uh it works everything. It even it even builds mass on the rest of the body because you have to stabilize the bar on your back. So I wouldn't worry about the leg extension too much. I was actually you know I have recovering from my third quad repair myself and I really have come to the opinion of the fact that I haven't done any the doctor didn't want me doing anything. I didn't go to physical therapy. I didn't stretch excessively. I did not do any exercises whatsoever for my quad. I had it done in redone for the third time in March. and it's as strong as it's ever been. And I did nothing, which goes to show you what rehab's all about. I have full range of motion back just from walking and walking steps and and and doing everyday activity. So, the body knows how to repair itself. And when it knows how to repair itself, you got to just nurture that aspect of it and not worry about it. Um, what what should you do with a quad or ACL or any kind of like knee type injury? If there's a movement that hurts and and it's gonna negatively affect your recovery or possibly cause a reinjure, don't do it. It's like the old saying when I used to do uh triceps. Everyone did skull crushes, right? You know, with the bar over your head. I never felt them in my triceps. I said, "Why am I doing these?" I stopped doing it. My triceps didn't get worse. They got better because I started doing exercises that I did feel. So, squat, leg press, do adductor abductor machine. your quads will get stimulated. I promise you. And you will not have to worry about You could even do um onelegged squats on a Smith machine where you kind of step back into it and and off one leg, you do 10 reps with one leg, then you go to the other leg. So, I've done there's a million different exercises you can do. If the doctor says don't do leg extensions, don't do them because you know what the worst thing is, and I can tell you this firsthand, you don't want to reinjure that muscle or or whatever was repaired in there, that ligament or tendon, because it's a nightmare to have to go through the surgery and the whole rehab again. I promise you that. Let's go to our YouTube questions. Go to Jason Brown. Dave, can Vmineralize be taken to get proper nutrients instead of eating vegetables? Well, you know, why do we eat vegetables? That's the question. We eat vegetables for the phytonutrients, the antioxidants, the minerals, the vitamins. You know, we like to think that vitamins can perfectly mimic the effects of of mother nature, but it's hard to do that. Now, we do know there's certain vitamins and minerals that are absolutely essential to our I guess you could say the chemical processes that go on in the body. And I've pretty much with Vmineraliz have put in everything that's important. Okay, that is the vitamins, the minerals, and all the minerals are chelated so that they're 100% absorbable. But I I felt that even though I put in all the known vitamins and minerals, I said to myself, you know, mother nature knows better. One single apple contains a thousand phytonutrients of which we probably have only identified about a hundred of or maybe 200 of them. So we don't even know what some of these things do. So what I did with with Vmineraliz is I put I took the two most potent plant and uh uh fruit extracts and I put them in there. I have a darkberry extract coming from blueberry and I have a lycopene extract coming from tomatoes. And I put those in there because they have such high ORAC values, meaning antioxidant polyphenolic values that I felt that if there was something missing in the vitamin mineral mix, they'll make up for it because like I said, mother nature knows what's best and what the right ratios are. So, I combine a little of mother nature with a little bit of man-made vitamin and mineral. And that's why I I truly believe that Vmineralized is probably the most complete multivitamin multi mineral that's available. Unfortunately, we're out of stock of it and no one seems to have it because we sold we sold the stuff. So, I I told people about it so much that we sold so much of it and so quickly that we ran out and then my manufacturer was taking forever to get me the one blueberry extract that I wanted because I won't take just anyone. And so, it should be out by the end of the month for those people waiting for it. Let's go back to our YouTube channel and uh check in with Joe Abandoned. Dave, can you discuss bodybuilding and the gastric sleeve? I suspect some pros and amateurs on YouTube may have had it done. Super small waist and huge weight drops can't be explained. Um, I think what you're referring to with the gastric sleeve is that thing that you wear on the outside of your body that kind of restricts your stomach so that you can't eat as much. It's kind of like the lap band surgery except you're doing it on the outside of your body rather than on the inside of your body which is a way better way to do it because I don't believe in stapling the stomach or or lap banding the stomach because whenever you restrict the stomach or the contents of the stomach but in other words the food is not exposed to the full uh complement of the the internal components of the stomach. You're you're missing things and what are you missing? Well, you know, certain enzymes are produced from certain parts of the stomach, digestive enzymes, gastric juices, the acidity of the stomach in the stomach. We know that vitamin B12 has a very uh intricate absorption process. If it doesn't complex with intrinsic factor in the stomach, okay, it won't get absorbed in the intestinal tract. That's why a lot of people who go for this lap band surgery wind up actually having to take injections of B12. Well, this external sleeve they call it, they kind of it looks like a waist shaper really and they they wrap it around your body like a rubber band. You know, the whole concept is ridiculous that people have to [\h__\h] be tortured like medieval torture so that they can lose weight. I have this woman who cuts my hair. I've been telling her for she 20 years she's been cutting my hair. I've been telling her how to eat. She has to go and get gastric, you know, the gastric lap band surgery and now she's eating healthy. I said, "Why are you eating healthy all of a sudden?" She said, "Because I get sick if I can't if I eat the stuff I used to eat." I said, "Why did you have to go for surgery to do that? Could you just do it yourself?" People have no discipline. That's the problem. Um, do I like this this this this lap thing that this external lap band surgery or whatever they do? Excuse me. This external lap, what is it called? Lap band. Lap band. Thank you. Uh, I don't I think it's ridiculous. And you know what? For most bodybuilders out there and people who compete in fitness and figure and bikini, we don't need that. We're pretty damn disciplined. We can do whatever we whatever we want on our own. We're advising the other people in this world who can't control themselves how to eat properly. But I will say one thing, the waist shapers that these that that the women and some of the men's physique guys are wearing nowadays, they do reduce the size of your waist. They're very uncomfortable to wear. You have to wear them super tight. You have to wear them 24 hours a day. The only time that they don't wear them is they loosen them up a little bit in the gym and I think they loosen them at night to sleep. But they're not comfortable. So, if you want to lose a couple inches off your waist, you're going to have to go through a lot of discomfort. Let's go back to our YouTube chat room. Again, if you're watching us for the first time ever on YouTube, we ask that you subscribe and like this show. Jason Netherland, what do you think of the classic physique lineup at the Diana Kadau Classic this coming weekend? Chris Bumstead, Darham Charles, who competes at what, 11, 12 shows this season, and Terrence Ruffin, one of the rising stars in classic physique. Well, I I really liked Terrence Ruffin at the Olympia. Uh alone on stage, he looked like the like the champion. I if you read my commentary, I thought the guy was going to win the was going to win the Olympia. Uh standing next to some of the other guys that were bigger than him. He he needed some size. uh in this lineup. I don't think he could beat Darren Charles because Darren beat him at the Olympia. Chris Bumstead who just turned pro and young guy. I think he's 21 or 22 years old from Canada. He might be a shocker in this lineup. I didn't even think he can make the weight to be honest with you. But he could be really good if he doesn't have to suck down too much and and and ruin his shape. I would say this could I could be a sleeper. He might win the show. Um, but I'd have to if I was a betting man, which I'm not, I would bet with Darren Charles only because of the experience factor. Now, like you said, is the fact that he's done 25 shows already this year. Will that come into play? You never know. Let's go back to our YouTube chat room. Again, we're taking questions from our YouTube channel, the Muscle Central forum, Facebook page, Instagram, and on Twitter if you use the hashtag askdave. I don't even lift. Bro, I played I pulled my front deltoid badly and it's very painful when I use it. I've tried resting it. I'm now on ibuprofen from the dock, but don't know if it's going to work. What should I do? Um, you know, the first thing I would do, especially if it's not an old not new, not a brand new injury, which it seems like it's not because you've been working, you know, trying to you go to the doctor and see what's wrong with it. I would go find an ART, active release techniques practitioner in your area and have them work on it. I 99% chance that'll solve your problem because what happens is when you injure a muscle, okay, scar tissue or adhesions as they call it, build up in that muscle. And what happens is muscles that normally will slide past each other, the front deltoid and the pec muscle, now because the of the scar tissue build up, adhesions, they get stuck. The reason they're called adhesions because the muscles stick to each other. Now, instead of doing this, they're doing this. And what's that doing? It's rubbing on the bone. And when that tendon rubs on the bone, you get tendonitis. Okay? So, the art practitioner goes in there and strips the adhesions off while you're moving the muscle through its range of motion so that now the muscles can slide past each other easily. The the great thing about art is that it's instantaneous relief. Now, you may have to go for a few treatments before they get rid of all the scar tissue, but you get relief. You'll feel better immediately. You don't have to stay out of the gym. You can train. Uh the best place to find an art guys, if you can't find a referral, is uh activerelease techchniques.com. You can put your zip code in. You'll find all the certified practitioners in the area. My good friend Darlan Castro is probably one of the best in New York. Uh Derek Farnsworth does it out in California, San Diego, California there. He's terrific. And I know there's a lot of great other guys doing this technique as well. Back to the YouTube chat room. The simple dude one, can you naturally increase your T3 levels after yo-yo dieting for almost a year or are drugs the only option? Granted, you want to keep dieting and not go in a growing phase. You know, T3 is the active thyroid hormone. Inactive thyroid hormone is T4. So, the thyroid gland produces T4 and then your body will convert what it needs or what it wants into T3 and that's what the active form is. So, how do you how do you raise T3 levels without taking actual T3 or cytol? Well, I mean, there there are certain ways of doing it. Obviously, a lot of people, and there's a couple theories on this, believe that taking growth hormone increases the production of T3, meaning GH causes more T4 to convert to T3. And that that's that's an interesting thing because I always thought that, you know, we all were originally told that growth hormone suppresses thyroid production, okay? And that that's why you need to take thyroid. And that's not the case. What it might do is it lowers T4. So a lot of times when you go for blood work, most doctors only test T4, which is thyroxine, the main thyroid hormone. The problem is that T4 is meaningless because it's inactive. If more T4 is converting to T3, you could have lower T4, but you can have actually higher T3 and that's what's dictating your metabolism. So if your T3 is high or higher, you're going to burn fat and you're going to metabolize food quickly. So I think that's why that's one of the effects indirect effects at least of GH um is by liberating more as far as supplementally going is is concerned. There's a uh Indian Ayurvdic herb called uh Google sterone. There's a couple of them. I put them in my uh my lipolyze daytime fat burner. And what Google stones do is they actually increase the production of T4 into T3 at a much higher rate. U and I I used to give it to people postcontest to get their thyroid back in into swing of things. Um but you know I thought it worked so well I actually put it in in lipolyze because a lot of times when we're dieting T4 to T3 conversion can slow down a little bit because the body kind of knows what's going on. Uh so that's a good uh supplemental form of it. Like I said, if you want to indirectly stimulate it using drugs, you can take you could take GH or you could just take Cytol. Now, the the disadvantage of taking cytool is that you're now you're going to suppress your natural production with that. So, you might not want to do that. Let's go back take another one from the YouTube channel Migs Machuk. Dave, will you have your guru class in Florida now that you're moving down there? Uh, yeah, I probably will once the studio is is ready and to go. Um, which I look, you know what? I I thought everything would be done by the time I got down there. Obviously, that's not the case. Probably by the first of the year, which is when I'm going to be all settled in and everything, and I'd be ready to give the next class anyway. We'll probably be fine. So, I'm looking at a Janu maybe a late January or mid January uh diet guru course there. We still I have to talk to Derek Farnsworth. We're still looking to do the guru course in San Diego. Maybe the second weekend in December because the first weekend in December, Johnny Styles and I are going to San Marino, Italy uh for our good friend Jean Enrico Picas, San Marino Pro. I know there's going to be a big uh guru debate there. I hear I think I'm going to be debating George Farah and I'm not making a joke about this. I really think really think I am debating George Farah and Shawn Ray. Not about anything interesting, but probably more of just about something some kind of fruity topic that we'll probably all agree about. So bad. It's going to be Iron debate, you versus George Farah in San Marino. In San Marino, pretty much. Yeah. What I think was what I wanted to do is I wanted to bring you Sid and then like after they did the fluff debate, then do the real debate, you know, since we'll do it live. Yeah. If I can get one of those like, you know, WWE entrances, then unexpected now debate. Yeah, that's a good idea. I'm going to tell John Enrique I want my own entrance song. I have to come. I'm gonna have Too bad Lammy from uh from what's it called? um from Motorhead is dead because Triple H is great friends with him. He could have made me a my own we could have called it instead of the game. We could have called it the um the jumbo, you know, or something like that. I don't know, something crazy like that. Let's take another one from this is going to be the last of this episode from Mac Pharmacist on the Muscle Central forum on rxmuscle.com. Dave, I hate this show as much as you used to hate dropping the soap in the prison shower. Well, maybe you actually liked it. Do you think the bodybuilders training at Oxygen Gym in Kuwait have created an uneven playing field for competitors not going overseas? I hear that Oxygen Gym has I guess anabolic chicken. The change in certain bodybuilders has been dramatic and he names Roelly, Victor Martinez, Phil Heath, Nathan Dasha, so on and so forth. I think that uh people are always looking for what they don't have or people are always looking for some secret that they don't know about and there is no secret. The secret is persistence, hard work. I know people don't want to hear that, but that's the truth. What's going on in Oxygen Gym is that Beta Badai, who we just had up on the screen, uh created an environment that's conducive for bodybuilders to really be their best, almost like the way Gold Gym Venice was back in the day. Why were the best bodybuilders out in Gold's Gym Venice? Because the environment for training was awesome there. I would go back I would go there in the 90s and you know you you you train doubly as hard because everyone was there. People you wanted to show off. You wanted to prove that you were the strongest guy at the gym that you could train the hardest. Everyone ate right. It's like hanging out with people that are all have the same goals as you. How much better is that? It's like a it's like a critical mass that's building. Everyone's eating right. Everyone's training right. And people are trying to eat better than the next guy. They're trying to eat more than the next guy. They're trying to train better and lift more. Why? Because they're all in that competitive environment. And it's conducive to making a better bodybuilder. And that's what Bader has created. He's created a a a basically a a pot where we can put all the ingredients for beef stew in there and make it and everyone's right there. And there's no distractions. There's nothing else to do but train, eat, and grow. And you know what? If you have trouble focusing on your bodybuilding because you have too many outside distractions, that's a good place to go to. However, if you're a disciplined guy, you have your own business here, you get to the gym, you don't miss meals, you live that Spartan lifestyle like I lived back in the day, you don't need to go to Kuwait to be a great bodybuilder, but there are people. Think about who the guys that did the best over there, okay? Who has made the most improvements? Guys that are easily distracted. Victor made some good result because Victor's an easily I know if Victor says he's not easily distracted. He's distracted by life. He's got a lot of kids. He's got [\h__\h] going on in his life. Nathan Dash, another guy. He's not the most focused guy. He's a genetic freak, but he's not the most He went there and he's got no distractions. He made terrific, you know, gains there. And I'm sure I don't know Rule's lifestyle, but Ry Winkler made some terrific. I think he was listening to too many people. He had everyone trying to tell him how to be the great bodybuilder. He went there and he trained. That's what he did. He ate. He slept and rested because there's no time or there's nothing to do that's going to keep you awake at night. You go to sleep early, you wake up early and you do your thing. And and Bader has provided trainers to push these guys through workout so they're not dogging it in the gym and just, you know, playing on their phone. So, what is the secret to to Oxygen Gym? It's the environment. And the environment can be created anywhere. It's just a matter of how disciplined you are. And that is going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave as you get a look at Rolley the Beast Winkler posing down at Oxygen Gym. Next week, our final episode from this Long Island, New York studio of Ask Dave for Johnny Styles and Dave Palumbo. I'm Sadik Farooqi. We'll see you next time.