Dave Palumbo here at Stop and Shop at 10:30 in the evening. And I'm at my favorite counter, the jelly counter. And if you look over here, I'm into pickles lately. I don't know why. I love the half sour pickles. I don't like the dill pickles. The dill pickles have some kind of AI don't know, a funky taste to them. And I look over and every time I come to this deli count here, I mean, they got 4,000 things of pickles. They got uh off the vine pickles, kosher dill pickles. Everything is dill. I want you to look at this. Dill, dill, dill, dill. We get the clawson pickles. Dill, dill, dill, dill. And these are all different cuts and everything. Dill, dill, dill. Then if you go up to this this brand, this is like the uh the stop shop brand. All dill pickles. There's not one b jar of half sour. Now there's one there is one jar. I found one like isolated over here half sour. Okay. Which look like they've been sitting here for about uh 2 years because they're not even green. They should be like a light green. Now obviously every time I come here they have hardly any if any half sour and they have all dill. People are obviously not eating the dill. So I don't know why they have so many [\h__\h] different types of dill pickles here and they don't have half sour pickles. I it baffles me. They don't even And if you notice, you might say, "Well, they probably sold out." No, they don't even have the spot here. There's like one spot where the where the half sour should be and they they they have like four jars and then they're gone. And if you don't get here early, then then you don't get pickles. Okay, that's a little thing that irks me. Now, I'm going to show you something about Come over here cuz I'm going to show you something about guacamole cuz I'm into guacamole now, too. I don't know why. I guess my wife is pregnant and I have all the weird cravings. She doesn't want to eat anybody. Now, there's two different types of guacamole you can get. This guacamole, which is probably what most people buy, okay, where it says 95% avocados. This is the one that has all the sugar in it. Tastes like like like cream cheese. It's it's terrible. It's not like real avocado. I don't know if they they put some kind of binders in here. You got to get the Sabra guacamole. And they got the classic and they got the spicy. Now, I started out with the class this the classic because I don't really like too much spice and I and I started getting bored of it and I found that the the spicy has a little more kick to it. So, I I I've been doing the spicy now. Um, now you can do this or you can do the little ones, but you know, I eat so much of it that that the little ones are not worth it. Okay, this I'm I'm interrupting people here from from doing their shopping at 10:30 at night. So, uh this is the best guacamole. If you want to try guacamole, what I do is I buy pretzels, the big thick pretzels. uh the ones that they make, you know, in Pennsylvania, Dutch country, and I dip the pretzels into the guacamole and I eat that at night. That's my snack. That's my carb up for my bike ride the next morning. So, guys, once again, a little nutrition tip here at Stop and Shop here in uh Seafford, New York. Dave Palumbo signing