 I'm on this I'm on I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Okay, so let me ask you something about Steve and Jim Mannion. I have nothing against Steve Mannion, but Steve, Lee Priest told me that you had to send Steve Weinberger videos because he was in the video for pre-approval. Is that true? I'm glad you brought this up because I was going to bring this up anyway. First of all, you put up a video clip of Lee telling a story. Yeah, Lee was speaking his own words. I'm going to tell you the whole story in the right historical perspective. Why would you put up a video from several years earlier that Lee did that made it look like it was... There wasn't. That was with him and Xavier. Yeah, and you know when that video took place? When was that interview? It wasn't that long ago. I don't think it was that long ago. No, it was long ago. I'll find it. I'll go find it. But why would you put up an old video? It's not an old video. I'll go find the Instagram reel that I found it on. But Lee was not happy about it because, you know what... I talked to Lee about it. Lee was not happy, right? He didn't tell me that he wasn't happy about it. Oh, he was not happy. He said that you weren't happy about it. No, he wasn't happy. He said that you were not happy that that clip was up. He told me that, man. Full transparency. It's like, oh, take it down. Take it down. You wanted me to take it down. You wanted to censor me. You want the truth, Dave? You're going to get it with me. I'm not the guy to try and play that card with, brother, because I will tell you the truth on this show. And you better not edit this clip out, David. You better not edit this clip out. You want the truth? That's the truth. Obviously, you're not dealing with... You don't know who you're dealing with, all right? I do know who I'm dealing with, David. I know who you are. Let me tell the story. So a couple of years... Lee had a falling out with the IFBB. You remember that? Yes. So did him and John Romano. And they were doing a show and they were saying, you know, criticizing. And it wasn't the critique of the organization that I think the organization had a problem with. It got personal. And Lee and John were saying things about, you know, people's families, okay? Which is not... That's off limits as far as I'm concerned, okay? Yeah. You could... Professionally, you can complain about whatever you want. You don't talk... Bring people's families into it, all right? So Lee was out of the industry for a while. And Lee and I have been friends for a long time. And I said, Lee, you know, I think... I said, do you miss... Do you miss it? You miss, you know, being on... I'd love to interview you, but what do you think about, you know, trying to come back? And I said... He goes, well, I don't think anyone's going to let me back. You know, I really... I overdid it. I went past the line. I think... I don't think they're going to let me back. I said, well, how about this? What if we do an interview? And if you really are sorry about the fact that you stepped over the line and maybe crossed into an area that you shouldn't have talked about, which is other people's families, why not apologize? I said, I don't... It doesn't matter to me. I said, if that's something you're willing to do, what I can do is I'll reach out to, like, Steve Weinberger, and I'll say, listen, Lee wants to apologize to you guys. And I know that, you know, because of the fact that he insulted you guys personally, how about I do an interview with Lee? I'll upload the video to you. This was my idea, not Steve. Steve could care less. Okay, okay. And if you guys think that the apology is authentic and you're okay with it, I'll run the interview, and I would like to start using Lee on RxMuscle because, you know, he's a good personality, and he really wants to get back in the industry. And, you know, the guy's not making the money he was making before, and he really loves the industry, and he says he's sorry for what he did. He did step over the line. Steve's like, fine. So I do the interview with Lee. I upload it privately. I send Steve the link. He watched it, and I don't know who else watched it, and he called me up, and he said, you know what? It's good. He goes, he's authentic. I can tell that he's sorry. We forgive him. And that's what happened. No one made me do it. I'm the one who approached Lee because I could tell that Lee was missing being in the industry, and Lee did have remorse for going, you know, he wasn't. Okay, then why did Lee make that clip then? Why did he say it like he said it? It's like, what the fuck are these guys? Why is Dave Papst even fucking do this shit? Like he was like mad at it, so it doesn't make any sense with the story here. Look, Lee is a person who's, I say whatever I want, and no one's going to tell me what to do, right? That's his persona, all right? Yeah, but then he was saying like you were doing this because you got your press passes taken away before, so now your machine is being a good book. Like it didn't, it's weird. It's like, why would he say it? What are you talking about? Yeah, yeah, he said that in the clip. It's all my people go to my muscle disorder. Just remind me what he said. He just said that, you know, you threaten to take your press passes away. You had your press passes taken away before. Is that true? You've had your press passes taken away before? All right, yeah. So I've had John Romano, we went to an Olympia when Robin Chang was running the Olympia backstage. He's no longer there for good reason. But John criticized, we gave raving reviews for the Olympia. Yeah. And John said, the only thing that I could have seen be better was, I think the aisles are a little narrow in the Olympia Expo. And I'd like to see them widened up a little bit. I think that, because there's a lot of people that the Olympia has to accommodate. They use that as an excuse not to give us press passes for the next year. Isn't that bullshit? Listen, yeah, listen, listen. The year after that, Robin was, they were raving, ranting and raving, that AMI was saying how we're going to get the bodybuilding Olympia is going to be on NBC Sports. I don't know if you remember this. They were ranting and raving about it. And I said, and then it changed a little bit. It's not going to be on NBC Sports. It's going to be on the NBC Sports Network. It was like a cable version of that. And then it changed. It's not going to be live, but they're going to show it like a week or two later. Yeah. I said, my commentary was that this isn't, they're not doing, NBC is not doing bodybuilding a favor. They wanted to really showcase bodybuilding and AMI wants to brag about what a great deal they got. Then show the show live on the sports network. No one watched it at the time. No one was watching the sports network anyway. It was that no viewers. I said, show it live on it. Who wants to watch the bodybuilding, the Olympia after the fact? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I said, what's the big deal about that? And I said, you know what the truth is? It'll probably never air on, they'll probably never put it up. Yeah. And you know what the funny thing was? So he took away our press passes that year because I said that. And you know what happened? They never aired it. Yeah. You were right. And I know why because behind the scenes, a good friend of mine in the WWE, I won't mention names, told me that they, the NBC came to the WWE and said, can you watch this thing? It was so bad. Yeah. What they taped. It was so terrible that they said, we'll never, we can't put this up. It's horrendous. Right. And actually the WWE volunteered to have their editors re-edit the whole Olympia, but the Olympia people, and this was AMI, this is before Jake owned it. AMI did not want it done. And they said, no, we don't need you editing it. And so it never aired. So I lost my press passes for two years and I was right. I was right. That's right. Just speak in your mind. Like I, that's what I don't like that kind of dictatorship. You get your press passes. You don't, because you speak your mind truly. And I don't, we don't want you to say certain things. Like I hate that shit. I'm done. Yeah. I'm giving you the whole time. The year after that now, I somehow get press passes back. Okay. At this point. Robin Chang has this rule that you got to pick up your press passes on Thursday. Okay. And the show's Friday and Saturday. So you got to pick them up on Thursday. There's a hurricane. This is a couple of years later, I think in Florida. Okay. My photographer's in Florida. So as well as I am at this point, and we fly in and he, he, he can't, he, I go in a day early, but he couldn't go in a day early. So he, he misses his flight because the airports were closed and he has to take a flight the next day. So he gets in early Friday morning. Um, and he goes to get the press pass so that he can shoot Friday night. Right. And they tell him, sorry, you didn't pick up the press pass on Thursday. You can't get it. So I went to, I, I, I, so I go crazy. Right. I'm like, Robin, we have press passes. Well, the guy, there was a hurricane. Yeah. There was, the airports were closed. He's like, sorry, that's the rule. I said, are you serious? He goes, if you want to give up your press pass for your photographer, you can do that. And so now I'm ready to, to pull a, a map, right. I'm ready to go online and go crazy. Right. So, but Jim Mannion always told me, if I have a problem, you come talk to me. Cause he knows what was done to me the last two years. So I go talk to Jim Mannion and he's like, listen, it's not worth it. And he gives me two VIP tickets, you know, for, for the, for the show. And he, because, because he knew it wasn't right. Okay. He knew it wasn't right. And so I've been dealing with this crap for years. I was at the NPC nationals about, about eight years ago. I had just had a shoulder replacement. So I, or I think it was the shoulder replacement and I couldn't, they didn't want me, you know, I had, I was in a sling. So I'm like, they used to have this Steve Carroll who ran that show, who's now fired too, by the way, after, after what he did to me, he had a policy that we couldn't film backstage. Only NPC could film backstage. So I asked J M Mannion, who obviously is father, is the president. Jim, you mind if I, if I filmed backstage? Cause I, I can't be running all the way to the lobby, which was like, like, like a half a mile away to do interviews with people. I said, but I have a shoulder, you know, he's like, yeah, no problem. I go backstage and I film. And Steve Carroll comes back to you. He's like, I told you, those were the rules. You can't film back here. And he had, and he kicked me out of the place. So I filmed the whole way out as he was kicking me out. And I was going to put it up. Okay. But I was told that they would take care of him. And the next year he was gone. So I have nothing but praise for the people who run the organization because they know when things are, when there's people, shady people, whether judges, promoters, and you know what? So no one's been victimized more than me. So believe me, I don't kiss anyone's ass. So what I did for Lee was because he's my friend and I wanted Lee to be able to come back into an industry that he loves, make money from it and do good stuff. Cause I think he's a great personality. And that's why I did that. So by you throwing Lee under the bus, by putting it up and making it look like he just did it, it was like, it was like sticking his fit. It was like throwing him into the fire. And then I'm getting calls from people. Why is Lee? I said, that's an old interview. And it was taken out of context. It wasn't explained. Right. And so rather than you coming to me and asking me before you put it up, which you could have gotten the story I just gave you, it just, it just, it was like a smear campaign. And once again, you're doing it because you want to stir shit. It wasn't even about you, Dave. It was about me. It was about why the judges, why Steve and them are censoring what can even be done on your show. That's, that's, that's, I went to them. You don't, you didn't ask me that my side of the story, that's the absolute, then Lee said his side of the story in that clip. Plain as day. So I can't speak. I just let it play. You did not ask me. And Lee, Lee and I will be working together again very soon. Good. And so I don't, I don't, you know, I don't need him becoming persona non grata for something old because it made it look like the way you, you, let me just explain something. Well, I want to explain to me. Yeah. I, I, we all click bait things right now. So the people will watch the stuff that we do. We all do it. You do it. I do it. Everyone does it. Right. You click bait. The problem is, and I didn't realize this. People don't watch, don't watch the whole interview. They, they see the headline and they think that that's exactly what happens. It's like, it's like what happened used to happen in newspapers, newspapers, newspapers would put these extreme headlines and people would read the headline and they, they would get, they would think the story was something else because the headline was a click bait. And so the way you had in a position that looked like Lee had just done an interview with you and had just said stuff. And that, that was, that was telling the wrong story. Unfortunately, no one watched the clip and actually saw what the hell you were talking about. Yeah, I don't know. That's not how I take it. It was clear that it was him and Xavier speaking. It wasn't me and talking to Lee or anything like that. It's all in the text. It's all in the caption. It's all there. And I called him up and said, why'd you just do a new interview? Why would you do this interview? And then throw, he's like, Dave, that's an old interview. Yeah. So why is Matt putting it up? He's like, I don't know. That's why, that's why he contacted you. You know, it is what it is. I just put up what he said. It's not what it is because what you're doing is you're, you're hurting. I'm not trying to hurt anyone, man. I'm trying to show that there's censorship in body. They've even made a hot take on censorship. There totally is. There's no censorship. There totally is. Okay. You can't speak out. You can't be an athlete. You can't say what you want to say without fucking getting screwed over in the next show. Sean Ray. Yeah. Sean Ray was fired from speaking out. He was fired from the Olympia live commentary for speaking out. There is censorship in bodybuilding. Trust me. Listen, when, when Sean was competing, okay, him and Lee priest with, with talked more. I know. I know all about, I know all about that. It never, it never hurt their placings at all. Okay. It never hurt their placings. I don't think Sean, I think Sean Ray would probably disagree with that, but yeah. Sean was second at the Olympia. You don't think he should have beat Dorian Yates? No. The torn bicep in it. Okay. Yeah. No. All right. Dorian was still better than him. But, but the, you know what? Dorian was a very deceptive body. If you didn't see him in person. No, I never seen him in person. You couldn't get, you couldn't get a true appreciation from him. He was a freak. He really was. But the point I'm making is that do, is there personal vendettas? I'm sure that get taken out of people. Absolutely. I'm not going to say that. That's, that's yeah. But I'm going to just tell you, I've had a lot of run-ins over the years with people. And you know what? I still have a good relationship with people. For God's sakes, Jim Manning choked me at a show. Because someone gave him bad information. All right. And he's like my father. Yes. I really consider him like my father. And we've had a lot of run-ins and I've lost press passes from him. you know, but it's like, I don't, he knows that I don't go and then bad mouth him because of a decision that I don't like that he made. I'm not that child. I'm, I'm the child that, all right, I might not agree with what you say and I'll give you my opinion, but I'll read, I'll be right back the next day doing my thing. And I think too, you can't be a private. You can't be a private. Yeah. And I agree. And I, and I, and I think even with the, the Lee priest clip that I posted in the comments, I put clearly, like, this has nothing to do with Dave. This isn't about Dave. So it's in there. I'll show you later. I'll take, I'll show you a screenshot. It was trying to show that. I was shilling. You were making me seem like I was shilling for the, for the, for the, maybe that's how the clip looks. Cause how Lee's talking, but in the caption, I was like, no, right. It was taken out of context. It's about the Steve and like, why do they have to preview things ahead of like, that's, that was all that was, man. If you're going to put up a clip about someone, okay. Then you should ask the other person what the story was. Okay. You don't take it out of context. I was just taking it from what Lee was saying. Listen, I'm giving you, I'm giving you advice as a person who's just getting in the industry, who's someone who's been there and I've gotten more trouble than you'll ever get in. Okay. Because remember there was no social media. Now I, if you do something, if someone does something wrong to you, you go to social media and run to them and everyone will back you. Right. Couldn't do that back in the day. So I'm giving you some advice. Check both sides of the story before you post and you give these guys a, a vehicle to complain because you need to know both sides of the story so that you can challenge these people. If you only allow people to give one side of the story, you're going to get people pissed off at you. If you have both sides of the story that you can present, then, then you're being a reporter and that's different. Yeah. And again, I was thinking what factually, what Lee was saying and put out there, but we can go back and forth on this. I didn't do it. I didn't edit it. I didn't do nothing. I just took the clip, put it out there. Let people. I don't agree with that at all. I don't agree with that at all, but we can, we can agree or disagree. I don't agree with what you're saying. You can't take things out of context. It's his words. It's not, it's not out of context. Dave, it's not out of context. It's because you're saying it's out of context. They did that at the dollar. Okay. So, oh, come on. Let's not get into it. Everything he said out of context. So. Did he say it? He said it. Yes, but it was out of context. That's right. He said it. Yeah. That's right. You can't, you can't take things out of context. I'm just, look, I'm giving you, I'm giving you advice. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. Yeah. But yeah, I do appreciate the chat GPT debate because like I said, and thank you for having me on. Thank you for having me on to talk about it. There's no right or wrong because we both have, you know, we both have some opinions and they're both strong. And you know what? Maybe the, the answer is somewhere in between. I don't know. Yes. That's good. So we have a discussion. This is great. This is what it's about. Um, and I don't, maybe we'll probably wrap it up, but I wanted to get one thing in with you as well. Yes. Uh, Bob Chikarell. Uh, what your thought, I think you've already kind of opened your, your, your talked about this openly about your thoughts on the MC and talking about Nick Walker. Yeah. Let's bring that up. That's yeah. Like really Dave, like I get, you know, Bob's been around for 20 years doing this, but to talk about the athletes as the MC, as the voice of bodybuilding to disrespect the athletes, like he does. And as if it's okay, it's fine. Who cares? He can get away with it. Do you think it's good? Is it a good look for the, the Mr. Olympia brand for the MC to be conducting himself this way? All right. First of all, you know, Bob and I's history. Yes. Yes. No, no, you're not, there's no bias there. You're in. You know what I'll tell you after all said and done, when we go to the Olympia, we shake hands and we've actually sat down and broke bread together after that, after those things. So Bob and I get it. It's, it's, it's a professional thing versus that doesn't mean that as people who are human beings, we're not, you know, we don't like each other. We do like each other, but you know, we have strong different opinions. You disagree with it. Yeah. However, whether I agree with what Bob says, which a lot of times I don't at all, you know, I will defend his right to say it till the end of time, because it's called freedom of speech. Now, if Bob was on stage as the MC and said, here comes Nick Walker, that guy with the big belly, who I, is no way ever going to place top five. You know, that's, that's inappropriate, but he, he should be, Bob should be allowed to, to, to, you know, make a living for himself and critique people. Now, as long as he's not doing it on the Olympia stage as the MC, then as far as I'm concerned, he can say whatever he wants. You don't have to believe it, but you don't have to agree with it or not, but he has a right to say it. I might not agree with what he said, but he has the right to say it. But think about the athlete that now has this guy condes, making these condescending remarks about them. He's got to go. Now they got athlete has a walk by Bob on the stage. You'd be like, that guy was fucking just mocking me. Say, I'm going to be eight at the Olympia. Fuck you, Bob. Who the fuck are you? Who the fuck is Bob? But why does he have to be mad at Bob? Why can't Bob have an opinion? Why can't Bob? He can't have an opinion, but be, be respectful. You're the MC for this Olympia, bro. Listen, I, I, like, who the fuck is this guy? I just think he just, Bob's got a bad, Bob's got a bad personality. That's it. He, he doesn't, sometimes him and Sean Ray don't know how to put things nicely. Okay. But the point of the matter, they have a bad bedside manner, I should say. But the problem is that Bob should still be allowed to say whatever he wants. And you know what? Nick should say, you know what? I'm going to win the Olympia. So that when Bob goes to interview me, I can, I give him the, I give him the finger or I can say, Bob, I guess you were wrong. You know, that, that would be the greatest of all time. I get it. I get it. And that, it wasn't just, it's Regan Grimes and the things, the comments that, and the athletes have to go on social media and defend themselves and, and fucking make fun of Bob. How much money do you think Bob makes a year from emceeing shows? I think he might for the Olympia. I think it's like 15 grand he makes or 10 grand. So Bob's not getting rich from emceeing. No, no, no, no. But it's, it's making him popular, right? Would you agree with that? I don't know if it's making him popular. He's just been in the sport for so long. Everyone knows who he is. Well, yeah, I mean, that's, that's popularity. I think if he was more popular, I think if he was more popular, Dave, his channel would be doing much better than it is. That's okay. You're right. You're right. But people might not like him, but he is known. Now, he's, the money that he makes in this industry is because he is known. And then companies like Panada or whoever, you know, these, like Sean Ray works for mutant. These companies hire these guys because they're popular and they can have them do appearances and everything like that. So Bob's making his money from sponsorships, not from emceeing. I don't know if it's popularity. I think it's more connections. But like, whatever the case may be. The point is that Bob has to be allowed to, to give his opinions. Okay. Because if he's nothing, he can't make a good living for himself. The emceeing job is not, in other words, if he was Michael Buffer or Bruce Buffer, and they were getting paid, you know, millions of dollars a year to emcee, Bob, you wouldn't hear Bob say boo about anyone. I can guarantee it. Yeah, but you don't have to be condescending and disrespectful and disparaging to the athlete. That's all. He can say, he would do so much better. Yes. He would do so much better. If he was just like doing normal commentary of these guys, this guy needs to be better shape. He looks great, but he does his improve on this. Not all that. This guy would never turn pro in my era. That guy's a cry baby. He should retire. Like that's fucking bullshit. You're so disrespectful. Bob Ciccarello. But you're getting mad at Bob for the same things. And you're doing the same thing on your channel. I'm not the emcee. I am not the emcee of the Mr. Olympia. I'm in the media. I'm in the media. I can say whatever I want. I don't work for the Mr. Olympia. But Bob can say whatever he wants to, as long as he doesn't do it. It's a bad look. Look, Hey, look what happened to Jimmy Kimmel. Come on. Yeah, but Bob's not. Oh, they got rid of him. They fucking chopped him off because of what he was saying. But then they got backlash and they had to bring him up. No, I'm talking about Jimmy Kimmel. Like as an example, you know what Sean Ray posted when Dallas. It was not good. No, he posted a grim reaper. Yeah. That's what he posted in response to Dallas. McCarver. Yeah. That's not in good taste at all. Yeah. That's entirely. He should have been, he should have been kicked out. Well, he was, he was canned from the commentary for the live commentary at the Olympia. They got it. It wasn't. And then Jake would have to reprimand Sean Ray in a video, right? Like it was pretty clear what they did there. But he's still making money. He's still, and he's still involved. Yeah. He comes back around. They always get back in and that's how it is. But yeah, you know, so I just thought that was just, I think Bob just, I think Sid, I think Sid, I think Sid would make a great MC for the Mr. Olympia. Well, Sid's my guy. So I'm, I'm, I'm always going to go along with that, but you know what? At this, at this point in time, Bob is the MC. Yeah. As far as I'm concerned, whatever Bob said, doesn't want, warrant him getting fired as the MC that I didn't agree with you on that. Sorry. Yeah. I mean, it is what it is. I just think that he's been there for 20 years. You know what? I think he should gracefully exit and let someone like Sid or, you know, whoever else come in the younger generation. Yeah. Why not? Yeah. I don't, I don't disagree with that. You know, I don't think that Bob really wants to continue doing it from what I understand. I would, it's not, I don't know if it's worth it because the money they take forever to pay him. So, I mean, yeah, it just takes time. So I don't know why this dude, Bob, do your YouTube focus on that, blow it up. I think you would make more money on YouTube. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. And then, then he doesn't have to worry about people. He would, he could go to town. He'd probably be more controversial than me. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe. But he also makes his money from the industry. So he's not going to cut. Yeah. I get it. Yeah. Yeah. But look, that's, that's, it's fine. I'm about freedom of speech. So like, even though if I don't like something you say, I still defend your right to say it because freedom of speech is not about speech that everyone agrees on. It's about difficult speech. It's about, it's about speech that we don't want to hear. That's, that's what we're defending the right for. So when people say this guy shouldn't be able to say that because it's inappropriate, well, that's what freedom of speech is for. It's for the stuff that we don't want to hear. It's about the Nazis that wanted to march in Skokie, Illinois. No one, I don't want, no one wanted to see those guys. No one wants Nazis in America, but you have to defend their right to do it because it's called freedom of speech. Once we start restricting different groups, then we have no freedom. I know, but there's, there's, there's boundaries when you work for an, a corporation. Imagine Dan Solomon said that. Well, I think Nick Walker is probably going to announce eighth place by Bob. Like, I mean, he would be fucking gone. Dan Solomon would not be the president of Olympia after the remarks that Bob made. It would be done, but Bob gets away with it. Bob gets away with it. But Dan's a politician. That's why Dan's not. Yeah, but he knows he's, he has the mindset not to talk trash. That's why Dan probably makes a lot more money than Bob. Yeah. Yeah. There you go. Bob, you'll learn from Dan. By the way, Dan's got a great new book out. I do. He just sent it to me. You guys want to check it out. It's spent a long time writing that thing. But anyway, thanks Matt for stopping. I really appreciate it. Thank you for having me on, man. This was another special edition iron debate. If you like what you've seen, put, let us know in the comments below and maybe we'll get back Matt. Yeah. I would love to come on. Some iron debates leading up to the Olympia. Thank you so much. Thank you. Dave Palumbo saying, see you next time.