Heat. Heat. The Arnold Classic is around the corner and RX Muscle has you covered with previews and analysis from the top minds in bodybuilding and interviews with the top competitors and personalities in the sport. It's RX Muscle's Iron Road to the Arnold sponsored by Scitec Nutrition only on rxmuscle.com. Welcome back to Live with RX Muscles Iron Road to the Arnold Classic brought to you by Scitec Nutrition. Visit scitecnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and we're here tonight with Mr. Muscle Intelligence himself, Ben Pakulski. Welcome. What's up, Dave? How you doing, man? Good, good. Uh, you know, I heard some good stuff about a new gym you just opened up called MI40 uh down there in Florida. You gota, before we get to all the other stuff, you got to tell me about it because this guy was so excited. I don't remember who it was who told me about it, but he said the gym was was just like unbelievable. the best equipment he's ever seen. Man, you know, I'm AI'm a fan of bodybuilding and I'm really I'm a fan of training, man. I love training. Um, so I went out and literally hand selected every single piece I've ever wanted. Like, I was a 17-year-old kid shopping in Toys R Us and I just went and picked everything from around the world. Um, you know, I made kind of a wish list and I've checked off literally every single piece on the list. We've got, um, you know, two sets of dumbbells up to 220. We've got um you know so the Watson dumbbells which are the best dumbbells in the world the UK stainless steel they're beautiful to look at as well as awesome to use. Uh we've got all like literally hand selected every piece. We've got an awesome brand of equipment called Prime uh which I think is literally the best stuff in the world. We've got um you know four or five leg presses, five four hack squats, four squat racks, the best elico bars, the best plates, like literally everything I've ever wanted. Um, and I put it in a 10,000 foot private facility just for me and uh, literally everybody that comes here doesn't want to leave. So, it's a pretty awesome place. Like I said, it's private. Uh, we do do camps every month. So, um, you know, people can come attend a camp at the gym. It's either a two-day camp or a 4-day camp where we basically teach you everything you need to know about training for each body part. And what does it cost to go to one of your camps? Like, what does someone have to pay for like a two or four day uh, you know, camp experience? Uh 2-day camp is $9.97. Uh 4-day camp is $14.97. We do early bird discounts if you get in quick. Uh we book them literally every month and they're sold out within usually 3 or 4 days. Um so we we try to launch them within um 6 or 8 weeks prior to the date and then they're sold out within 3 to 4 days. And the irony of it is most of the people I would say 95% of the people are from outside of the US. So we get people coming from Europe, South America, Australia, uh literally everywhere other than and Canada and very small percentage of people coming from the US, which is kind of ironic considering it's here. But yeah, we get people coming, you know, emailing from like Orlando, which is an hour away going, "Oh, when are you going to do a camp in Orlando?" Lazy asses don't want to even drive an hour, whereas we get people flying from Australia to come to the camp. So, um, yeah, man. I mean, it's it's awesome. It's a great experience. We try to make it a life-changing experience, right? We get people coming here when they leave, not only they getting, you know, a program, they're get learning how to train. We're helping them with nutrition. Um, trying to literally, like I say, make it a life-changing experience. And it's not just like, oh, I went and had a workout at Ben's gym. It's not what it's about. So, you know, it's a 2 to1 ratio of attendees to trainers. So, we literally get six or seven trainers. It's a very small group of people. Um, you know, max is 15 per class, per group. And so, it's good intimate two workouts a day type thing where we're kicking your ass and teaching you as much as we can in a short amount of time. It's interesting because you know what I give my uh secrets to becoming a diet guru class which is you know how to become a diet coach and you're and same thing I give it in New York. No one from New York shows up. It's all people from out of state or actually out of country like you said and I can't figure out why the guys from New York are not attending it. It's it's really bizarre. But I think it goes back to the old thing that they always love you from where you're not. You know people who see you all the time they take for granted the knowledge that you have. But it's it's great that you're giving back like that. Um, and I gotta definitely come down and see that gym at some point because it it sounds like a great facility. What I got to ask you because it's driving me crazy. What What did it cost you to outfit that gym? It had to be a a huge small sum. Uh, yeah, man. I mean, you know, I funded it. It's got to it's got to be an impressive number. Well, man, I'll tell you what. It's all out of my pocket. I didn't take any loan. Um, it's it's it wasn't cheap, man. I'll leave it at that. I mean, so the place I built it in prior to me taking it over was a printing shop with like huge holes in the wall and massive equipment in here and I had to move all that [\h__\h] out. There was a second floor. I literally was a shell. And if there's actually videos on YouTube of what it looked like before and then kind of the progression of it. Um, it was a shell, man. So, it was a huge undertaking. It was probably almost 7 months, six, seven months before it was even now I don't think it's complete. I mean, there's still things more things I want to do as you can imagine. Um, but it was it was a big undertaking, man. Um, we'll say it wasn't as much as a million, but it was more than half a million. Very big. And the reason I ask you that, there's a reason. I'm not trying to like, you know, throw outrageous numbers. It's a huge amount of commitment on your part to put that much money into a facility. Okay. When you're not opening it to the public, you're making it a private facility. That just shows how much you care about this thing and how passionate you are about it because you probably could have done it for half that amount and it would have been just as amazing to most people. But you did it because it's something it was a labor of love. That's the point. And dude, I wanted to make it perfect for me. And I'm I'm I don't know if I'm a perfectionist, but I want it to be awesome. I want people to come in and go, "Holy shit." And I want to come in and go, "Holy shit." I don't want to come every day and be stressed about something and be like, "Ah, that looks like shit." I don't want, you know, like I want it to be right, man. I want it to be tight. And when I and when people come in, I want them to go, "Wow." Like, dude, I'm a such a fan of bodybuilding and training that I grew up uh you know, training in hardcore gyms, traveling the world, and appreciating what a gym is, what a gym is meant to be. And and I despise health clubs, man. Like, you know, the the typical big box health clubs make me want to vomit. And I don't want to go. Not only because they're massively overpopulated, but the equipment's a joke. So, I I hate it, man. So, and I built it for that. And I know there's hundreds of and thousands of people out there just like me who despise the what the big box gym is and where, you know, the $10 model is taking the gym industry. Uh so I went to the antithesis of the $10 model, man. You know, if you want to train at my gym, it's not cheap. Uh but it's private. You get to come in whenever you want. You know, you get 24-hour access. Uh you know, you get a code to enter when you come in. You can't even open the door from the outside when you walk up on the street, man. You like, you know, the door's locked. You got to be able to enter a code to come in or someone's got to buzz you in. Uh, just I just don't want random people off the street, man. You can't just come in. You have to work with a trainer at least to start to to make sure you're up to par. Um, you know, it's it's I don't want idiots coming in and training my gym. I want to be I want it to be awesome. I want everyone to have awesome progress. I don't want anyone to come in who doesn't have goals and and uh a plan. So, we'll help anyone with a goal and a plan. Um, you know, we'll help you achieve that goal. We'll help you set goals. I think, you know, the gym has been ruined because you have so many people that go in the gym and look the same day in day out. don't ever get any progress because they don't know how to get progress. They don't know how to achieve their goals. So, we're trying to overcome all those things as well as putting it in a badass facility that you just love to be in, man. And you know, my the slogan of my gym is excellence without ego. So, no one in here has an ego. Nobody. And if they did, I kicked them out because, as I say, I built this all from my own pocket. I don't need your money. I'll kick you out and I'll train by myself in my little dungeon by myself. So, um yeah, man. It's it's an awesome place. It's like a family environment and every single person that comes here has loved it. So, you um do you have like a nervous breakdown of someone like puts a like their foot up on a bench or something like that or you know are you No, man. If if you're using the gym respectfully, dude, I encourage you throwing the weights, dropping weights. If you're training hard, keep yourself safe. If you're being an [\h__\h] I'll kick you out. But, uh dude, I'm not anal about walking on things or dropping dumbbells or dropping plates. If you're deadlifting, drop the weights, man. If if you're squatting, you get stuck, dump it. like I don't care. Uh if you're respectful to my stuff, I have no problem. If you're being an idiot, then you probably wouldn't be in my gym to begin with. Ben, in 2013, you kind of shocked the the bodybuilding pro world, that is when you placed second at that Arnold Classic. Um how did your uh persona, your life, the perception of you as a bodybuilder change after that second place finish? And I don't know. I don't know to be honest. You tell me, Dave. I really don't know how it did. Um, you know, I've always validated you. Well, you know me. You know me, man. Like, I've always believed in myself. I always believed I could do it. Uh, it was just a matter of like sometimes [\h__\h] gets in the way, man. Sometimes life gets in the way. And you unfortunately, um, you know, you know as well as me now, like I've got three kids and a family. Um, sometimes bodybuilding is no longer your first priority, man. And since then, you know, up until that point, it really was. And since then, it's kind of shifted a little bit. And, uh, you know, I've always believed I could do it. I've always believed I could be top at the Olympia if I put my my mind to it because I'm a pretty committed guy, man. When I say I'm going to do something, I do it. Um, and you know, eventually you realize maybe it's not worth it to be a selfish [\h__\h] to your kids and and maybe you want to be a good dad and you say, "Well, okay, I can't justify training four or five hours a day to be an Arnold Classic champion anymore." Although, you know, I'm doing my best to to do that on just less time. So, you know, you learn to be more effective. You learn to be more efficient. you learn to kind of get away with minimum effective dose rather than um you know having to sacrifice 6 hours of your day to train and eat and sleep and and etc etc. So um you know I still think I can place really well. I still think I have a great chance of of winning an Arnold Classic. Uh just trying to do it with a little different formula now. Um you know there was that movie that came out a couple years ago, Generation Iron was supposed to be the pumping iron 2. I don't know if that really filled that gap, but um in that movie they kind of depicted you as the scientist, the guy who, you know, was using science to really, you know, propel his bodybuilding uh career forward. Um was that an act or was that is that really how you feel? Because a lot of people like didn't like that the persona that you portray in there. I I always felt that you were acting for the camera, man. As you can imagine, it's a Hollywood film. There's a there's a good degree of playing things up well beyond what it is. Um, as far as me using science to my advantage, man, dude, it's the only way I can compete, right? Like, I have to be mindful of every little thing that I do, everything that I eat, everything, the way that I train. Do I train in a lab? No. Like, you know, it's kind of ridiculous to say I have scientists watching over me. Like, no. But I do pay mindful attention to every single little thing that I do. Uh I am training more uh scientifically and more intelligently than most bodybuilders out there just because I have a background in it, man. And I'd be stupid not to, right? Like if I can definitively say that this way is better than that way, I'd be stupid to do it any other way, right? Like and and I' I've noticed a massive difference in my physique and everyone will notice that this year when I get on stage. It's really just started to click, man. Like it's just really started to click in the last, you know, 12 months for me. um really how to use weight training and weights to my advantage rather than um you know slinging weights around like a monkey. I'm I'm learning to contract muscle against load which is ultimately what muscles are meant to do, right? I mean ultimately muscles like you know the cliche is muscles don't know how much weight you're lifting which is obviously true. Um so it's learning how to to use the weights as a tool rather than slinging [\h__\h] like a monkey. like that analogy, but you know it it is true. You know, all professional bodybuilders are genetically gifted athletes obviously, but some are more gifted than others. Take the Ronnie Coleman's, the guys that are just the flex wheelers. And you know, you're in an arena obviously where you're a gifted athlete, but you're not Ronnie Coleman gifted. And you got to use every tool you have at your disposal. I always said that. I always said I always did better than I should have done because I understood nutrition. I understood supplementation. I understood the science of how to train. And I think that, you know, people don't understand that you're using every tool at your disposal to be the best bodybuilder you can be. And you're probably raising your game above what people would normally think would be capable of your genetic gifts. And I think that that's to me that that should be celebrated rather than poo pooed. Yeah, man. And I mean, dude, at the end of the day, there's always going to be someone that wants to hate on you for, you know, whatever it may be, you know, from the way you train to the color of your skin to the color of the underwear you're wearing that day. Like, people are always looking for a reason to hate on you just cuz they probably aren't secure in themselves. And I couldn't care less, man, at this point in my life. Uh, I do things for myself at this point because I enjoy training. I enjoy the way that I train. I think it's extremely effective. I keep myself safe. um you know, I don't hurt myself and um you know, there's always going to be guys who are hating on it. That's cool, man. I mean, I'll shake your hand and I'll and when you realize that I have some value to offer, I'll shake your hand for that, too. You know, either way, the Arnold Classic is coming up in two weeks. Your name is obviously not in the lineup. You won't be doing this year's event. Uh you're waiting to New York Pro. What uh what led you to the the idea or I guess the strate strategic move to skip the Arnold this year and do the New York Pro given that you had been doing the Arnold the last three years in a row. Five years in a row. Sorry. It's all right. No, it's a long time. Um to be honest, man, I was dieting for the Arnolds. Um you know, full disclosure, nobody knows, but I was dieting. I did four weeks of diet for the Arnold and I end up tearing my hamstring and I wasn't training. I was being an idiot. Um so, and I didn't it wasn't a terrible tear. It was just enough to keep me off the list, man. It was just enough to keep me out of the prep. Uh cuz I mean, you can't do the Arnold Classic and be 70%, you know, and you could imagine hamstring terror, even if it wasn't massively, um, you know, massive terror that was going to inhibit my my aesthetic, it was absolutely going to hinder my ability to train 100%. So, um, you know, it kept me out for about 4 weeks. Because I was kind of in the middle of prep, I just shut it down and, uh, you know, pushed it back to the New York Pro. And obviously, man, dude, I did Europe Pro in 2010 and I love the show. Um, it's awesome. So, plus it allows me to compete a few more times consecutively. That's another kind of side note for me was, you know, after the Arnold, the only options are Australia and then Brazil. And I don't want to go to Australia and Brazil. I've gone too many times now. So, I just want to kind of stay local, stay in North America and do three, four shows in a row um to compete, man. I've never really done that in my career. So, I want to do a few shows and uh qualify for Olympia. a good plan to me. Now, you uh you also have another uh you keep adding new job duties to your to your repertoire, to your resume, I should say. Uh you're taking over Dan Solomon's uh role uh on Pro Bodybuilding Weekly now, which I think is now called Pro Body Building Worldwide. And how'd that come about? You and Chad Nichols are the new hosts. Well, you know, Chad and I are tight, man. And Dan and I have become um really well acquainted in the last six months. um you know since Dan wanted to was launching his digital muscle project. Him and I have been in pretty close contact um with regarding stuff to do with that. Um and man I you know I'm a talker. I'm always a guy who doesn't mind throwing his opinion here and there. Um so they just asked man they brought it up and I said you know think about it I'll think I I think about it but I don't want to take on something that I'm not going to love doing. I love talking to Chad man and you know it's kind of a it's kind of a hard decision because I don't like to gossip. I don't like to talk about people and I kind of felt like that's what the direction of the show is. Like if people want to hear about bodybuilding, what do they want to hear about? They want to hear about like, you know, what's going on in the sport. They want to hear about gossip. They want to hear opinions. And as an athlete, I'm not really entitled to an opinion. I don't want to give opinions with my competitors because it doesn't matter what I think. And and um you know, I I would rather keep their respect and and compete against them rather than be the [\h__\h] that everybody's kind of pissed off at at the moment. So, uh, so yeah, I mean, we kind of talked about I said, "Listen, man. I'm not going to be controversial. I'm not going to throw stupid comments out there to give ratings. I'm happy to give my, uh, opinions or I'm happy to, you know, um, you know, observe what's going on." And, you know, man, my thing with bodybuilding is I love training. I love helping people, uh, understand the the contest process, the training process, all these things. And if I can contribute that, then maybe people will listen, you know? Um, who knows? And I guess they like the idea of having someone who's a little more current on there, someone who's got some behind the scenes access to some cool things. So, um, you know, if that's what it turns out to be, then, you know, hopefully that works out. Good luck with that gig. And obviously being a radio co-host myself, uh, it could be fun. And but, you know, I I like to talk about the gossip because I'm not in the sport, like you said. I'm not competing anymore. So, it's not like I'm talking about my contemporaries. I'm talking about the history of the sport. I'm talking about what's going on. and I I can give my opinions. If I don't like the way someone looks or a judging decision, I can throw it out there. It's not going to matter. It doesn't affect my place. But you're right, it is more difficult when you're on stage uh and you're actively competing to be a host of something. But then you got Chad who's who's not afraid to say anything. So, I guess uh you got to balance each other off in that sense. I I think one of the cool aspects will be, and this is one of the reasons I chose to do it, is because Chad and I are probably going to be working together this year for my prep. Um, and I think it'll be a cool insight for people to hear what's kind of going on with me behind the scenes. Um, so you know, talk, you know, do our kind of check-ins with each other on the radio show. I think people would take would be interested in that, especially if I didn't do New York and the Olympia and, you know, like kind of get an update and I think people will tune in just for that if nothing else. Um, you know, so now Scitec Nutrition has been in your corner for a number of years now. Obviously you've traveled the world with them. Uh, you know, is that something you still enjoy? Do you still enjoy getting on a plane and going to foreign countries and meeting all the fans? Uh because that was something I always loved as an athlete and obviously with Scitec they give you that ability to do that because they are a worldwide international company. Right. Tell you what, man. I I think it's the best part of my job because when people come to see me at an event, they don't line up to go, "Oh, Ben Pakowski, I love you. You're my favorite bodybuilder." Nobody gives a [\h__\h] about me as a bodybuilder. Well, some people may, but most people say, "Ben, you changed my life." So with my um online training, with my programs, with my videos, etc. I'll have the biggest I think we lost Ben there while Johnny tries to get him back. Uh you know the thing I I got to tell you a story about Ben Pakulski because in 2008 Ben contacted me and he said to me, "Dave, I want you to help me with my prep for the North American and Canadian Nationals." And I said, "Sure." And you know, we started working together. And you know the thing that struck me about Ben, Ben was a very confident guy, you know, and and to me I I like to work with confident people because and Ben obviously was very also he really enjoyed the science of you know what I was about and I think you know we worked well together because he asked a lot of questions. I had a lot of answers for him and you know I feel like I at some point I contributed to his scientific knowledge base and you know he took a lot of the the information I gave him and he ran with it and he became his own man and I think that that was great and to see be able to see him you know turn pro at that Canadian Nationals and then go on to what he's done today is is impressive. Ben, I was just we got you back. I was just telling everyone how we first met in 2008 and you know we worked together for the North American Canadian Nationals when you turned pro and uh you know to see the evolution of your career from that point not only from a competitive standpoint but also from a knowledge base and what you're now giving back to the community is just uh it's admirable. Thanks man. Thank you very much. Yeah I remember um you know first time we interacted through intro through Steve Blackman. Um yeah, I mean you were definitely um you know there for me for some advice along the way. We were talking about uh visiting uh all around the globe and and you visit with you talk a little bit more of that about that. Yeah, man. So do you want I mean I get you know typically get the biggest lineups at the scitec booth and it's not because people line up to me and say oh Ben you're my favorite bodybuilder I love you as a bodybuilder. They line up to say, "Ben, you changed my life with your training, with your programs, with your videos." Um, and that to me is the most rewarding thing possible, right? Like, I don't give a [\h__\h] if people like me as a bodybuilder. Like, if you like me as a bodybuilder, great. That's awesome. Like, I do it because I love it. I don't do it for the recognition. But, you know, the fact that people come up to you and say, "Man, you changed my life." That's impactful. And that that motivates me to keep going, man. That's why, you know, my a lot of my focus now is shifted toward helping people, man. toward um you know that's why I built the gym to drive my online membership site to provide more content to provide um more value to the people who follow what I do. That's ultimately what it's about, man. Is um you know, who gives a [\h__\h] if people like me for my legs, for my calves, it doesn't matter, right? That's going to go away eventually. It's kind of like looking at a chick who's smoking hot when she's 27, but by the time she's 40, she looks like a chewed boot. Nobody cares. But if you but if you provide value, people will remember you forever. And that's ultimately what what I've what I'm trying to do. You know, important. And this is a good point for all bodybuilders out there watching this. You have to carve a niche out for yourself so that when you are done competing because you will be done competing at some point, you can still make a good living and still contribute to the bodybuilding industry uh at Infinitum because, you know, as an information provider and obviously as a supplement company owner, I can continue to give back to the community. Ben as a person who's running his training camps and and giving his information as well will continue to do that well after he's done competing. And that's what that's what really bodybuilding is all about. I mean, if you don't give back what you learned, you kind of, you know, you kind of, you know, not going to be a person that people are going to look up to and want to emulate. And I just believe that a lot of our former champions, and maybe you can speak to this, Ben a little bit, have been people that didn't give back. and and maybe that's why they're not as popular today as they was when they were competing. Like I said, people looking for their physiques and they'll maybe forever love them for their physique, but they're not changing anybody's life. They're not impacting um their life in any way other than that, right? So, you know, when I started training, I was 17 years old and I looked for that one person who I could listen to with respect to training and nutrition and supplementation, all that stuff. there's no way, man. You had to kind of put together this kind of mish mash of, you know, eight or 10 different guys to really learn all the information. So, I kind of set out to become that guy. So, you know, not that I say I know everything about nutrition cuz by no means am I nutritionist, but when it comes to training, I believe I can teach somebody or everyone something. So, I try to become kind of the master of, you know, I purchasing training, obviously along the way, learned how to go about nutrition supplementation, um, in the hopes of just being someone people can rely on for great information, man. No [\h__\h] Um, great information and people continue to come back and buy my programs and join my members site and um, you know, attend my camps at the gym and watch my videos on YouTube, etc., etc. And so, um, you know, that's that you got to transcend what is going to go away. you know, eventually your looks are going to go away and you got to have some of value of substance behind it. I couldn't uh agree more and I want to just uh wish you the best of luck obviously with your prep for the New York Pro, your MI40 gym down there in Florida and of course uh the hosting job at PBW and uh Scitec Nutrition. You got a lot going on on your plate. I want to send my best out to your family, Ben, and uh thanks for taking time to talk to us tonight. Thanks, Dave. I just want to quickly shout out to Sidekick, man. Like I've been with these guys for 2 years and uh they're fantastic company, man. I couldn't be more happy. Um treat us like worldclass superstars. Uh their products are fantastic. They're always researching. They're always actually asking for my input and my insight on how to better their products, how to improve new products. Um and they're just such an awesome company to work with. I'm so appreciative. And I'm more appreciative now here in the US cuz I mean I get emails every day of pissed off clients and mine saying, "Why can't I get sick in the US?" So now you can get in the US. So everybody's happy about that. So thank you Sitec. And uh yeah, I appreciate it. Take us to the end of another episode of live with RX Muscles Iron Road to the Arnold Classic brought to you by Scitec Nutrition. Visit scitecnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo. We'll see you next time.