It's the weekend here at Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Lab. abs make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Friday, March 24th, 2017. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. In a sport that's dominated by giants, it ain't easy to make 180 lbs look monstrous. But I'll be damned if Shan Clarita isn't doing just that. New progress photos of the 212 division's newest giant killer were released earlier this week, showing the craziest looking 180 lbs you're going to see this side of the multiverse. Year in and year out, Shan Clarita always seems to find a way to take down some of the divisions heavy hitters. And before the year is all said and done, it's more than likely that we'll see Clarita bring home gold and return to the Olympia stage. We've already seen a few shakeups in the fitness division early on in 2017. And now here comes Fiona Harris, ready to jump in and make an even bigger splash, only a few weeks removed from a smashing second place performance at the Hawaii Pro. The perennial powerhouse is already back to firing on all cylinders. New leg training footage shows an awesome looking Harris demolishing a recent leg session as she prepares for round number three of her early season stretch. Fiona Harris at her best is an absolute beast in every sense of the word. And the scary thing is I truly think that she's only just getting warmed up. In just about any avenue of life, having tunnel vision usually isn't the best strategy. But contest prep is definitely one of the rare exceptions. This week, new photos surfaced of a laser focused Logan Franklin, who looks to be blasting through the early stages of the season's first contest prep. After a roller coaster first year and a half, Franklin really seems like he was starting to come into his own at the end of last season. And assuming he can come back and pick up where he left off, this should be the year we finally see him realize some of those enormous potentials. There aren't a whole lot of guys in the sport who can walk around at a legitimate 290 plus pounds still rocking a set of visible abs. So, I guess that puts our old friend Paulo Alo in some pretty exclusive company. This week, we were able to get our hands on the freak's latest offseason progress photos, where we see him packing a rock solid 294 lbs of nastiness. Last season, Almeida put together his best overall body of work on a pro stage. And with another 10 to 12 lbs of quality muscle added to the mix this year, you'd have to believe that things are only going to continue to look up. The official rookie madness hasn't quite taken hold of the season just yet, but then again, we haven't seen Sergio Oliva Jr. hit the stage yet, have we? The former NPC national champ has been crushing it lately, according to inside sources and seems to be right on schedule for his highly anticipated pro debut. Oliva Jr. checks all the boxes you look for in an Impact rookie. And over the course of the next few months, we'll see if he's got what it takes to live up to the star billing.