 One of the most asked questions I get lately is, what do you think about MLP-Q-C-R-Z-1-7-P-R-L-3-9? Another peptide! I have no fucking clue. So we conjured up the most controversial man in bodybuilding to tell us all about it, the man who brings the receipts, Anthony Roberts. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we are back for another installment of the Palumbo Podcast. I'm Dave Palumbo, joined by my compatriot in crime, John Romano. We're going to be having a little fun today, John, with some, probably a man that no one even knows about exists anymore, but he is getting it done behind the scenes, huh? Yeah, for a long time now, too. I mean, if you ever want to, like, dig deep into some investigative reporting, you think Johnny Bravo is going to be... Imagine this guy and Johnny Bravo together, forget about it. Oh, my God. Yeah. You can find the hope for everything that we lost. Johnny Bravo should actually hire him, I think. You'd find aliens together if you had those two guys together. Yeah, and they would probably discover aliens. Yeah, exactly. So, you know, I think that he... I think Anthony Roberts, who we're talking about, we're going to be bringing him in a minute. I think he might have been the original internet troll. I don't think... I don't think... I think he might have created that moniker. I don't think there was a troll before him, right? He drove a lot of people crazy online for money many years. Oh, my God. He had his tongue like a carving knife. I mean, it was just... Back when message boards were big, right? Right, when message boards were big. Now, wow, we're going back, like, 20 years, like, close to it, right? We're dating ourselves here, for sure. You know, I've been doing a lot of interviews on a lot of podcasts lately. Well, not a lot, but, you know, a couple podcasts. And they always ask me, they're like, you guys are the original. Without you guys, there would be no podcast. There would be no, you know, like, what bodybuilding reporting. There'd be no TV shows. Like, we kind of spearheaded and started all that stuff back then. And you know what? You know, it's funny because I'm always thinking, like, when was the last time I competed? And I'm like, well, that was, like, 25 years ago. And I'm thinking, yeah, but we started the bodybuilding, you know, coverage 20 years ago. That's a long time. It feels like it was yesterday that we were doing it for the first time. But it really is a long time ago, you know. And the guys doing it today, we're not even... Some of them weren't even born. But, you know, a lot of them were like little babies at that point, you know. And the technology that, you know, increased. We used to have to call in to Voice America and they used to patch us together, you know, to do a broadcast. Now, look. Do you know how much we had to spend when we did the first live TV show? We had to buy, like, a live stream. It was called livestream.com. And we had to buy a subscription for that. It was a couple hundred bucks for the year or something like that. But no one can live stream unless you had that capability. And, wow, the hoops we had to jump through to try to make that happen. Yeah. Now anybody... Now you can do a podcast on your cell phone. Cell phone, yeah. Exactly. The whole thing. Edit it, you know, engineer it, the whole thing. Unfortunately, my son knows that too. And so sometimes he starts live streaming with my phone, you know, from my house, you know. On your account? Yeah, yeah. Of course on my account. He wants viewers, John. Is he acting like a correspondent, you know, to Dave Fluff? He's got a built-in 330,000-person viewership, you know, on our channel, you know. And they all love him. Yes. So that's all good. He's posing, you know, he's rapping, you know. I have to, like, grab it and delete them. And there's always someone who sees it, you know what I mean? Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's funny. So with today, what I wanted to make sure we covered, since this is the reigning expert and that nobody knows. Yeah. Like I said in my intro, the peptides that are coming out now are like 10 a day, it seems like. It's just, our industry is so flooded with peptides. And there's a new peptide for this and a new one for that. And we just have zero research on these things or very little, if not zero. I think some of these have been around a long time, John. They're just bringing them out to the marketplace. Right. And then they're marketing them as being the cure-all, longevity-all, you know, do-all, you know, ingredients because they're readily available and people are selling them illegally on their websites. And so you don't know what to believe. Because some of them do have some benefits. And, you know, let's get Anthony on so we can start talking with them. We don't want to waste too much time. It's just the volume, the plethora of them. There's so many. There's so, so many. It's ridiculous. Once they make them, once people can't be selling them like so cavalier, because I know the gyms around here. You go into the gym, John, and they're at the front counter. Like in Mexico where they sell the steroids. Yeah, point of purchase display like at 7-Eleven at the gas station. Anthony, what's the legality of that? Welcome to the show, Anthony. Hey, thanks for having me. So the first thing I wanted to clear up, John was talking about how they have some peptide, you know, QX3, 45G, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So the letters in the name of the peptide are the experimental drug letters of the company that produced them. So MK-677, that's Merck, the pharmaceutical company Merck, 677. Or CJC-1295, that's Conjukem 1295. Or GSK-501-516, that's GlaxoSmithKline 501-516. So what are the numbers delineate? That's just the number that they've signed it internally so they know this is Project 501-516. Oh, okay, okay. Which makes, I'm glad he explained that because otherwise you'd say, why are they making these things so complicated? They should just call them what they do, right? I'm waiting for them to put emojis in the names too, you know, happy faces and syringes and shit. Well, BPC is body protective, you know. So. Well, yeah, yeah. So there's two of them, right? There's BPC-157 and there's AOD-9604. And those were not, those were made to go to market, right? So those, what they did was BPC is, you know, body protective compound and AOD is anti-obesity drug. Gotcha. So these are companies with only one product, right? Like the original, you know, producer, the holder of the intellectual property only had one product. And so he just named the product what it did instead of the name of his company. So as far as those two, those are named what they do. AOD is anti-obesity drug. And that's all they're going to make. When you have a company that only has one drug, would you, would you tend to believe that that thing actually does something because it's, it's like, you know, they put all their marbles, so to speak, into one thing. Well, it's interesting that you bring that up. Anti-obesity drug, 9604, that actually failed phase 2B clinical trials. Oh, really? Why? Yeah. Yeah. It failed to produce meaningful results above placebo. So they, you know, they're obviously, you're talking about these little like penny stock, you know, biotech companies. Right, right, right. And it, it just crashed overnight. And what they did was then they, they self-affirmed, uh, grass status. So generally recognizes safe and started, I guess, marketing it as a dietary supplement, which I have a, I have a hot tip for you. If the word drug is in the title of the product, it's not a dietary supplement. No. Exactly. Well, if it has drug-like effects on the body, it's not a dietary supplement, right? Right, right. So, yeah. So these guys, these guys, they self-affirmed grass. They, they snuck that into a couple studies. Right. And then everybody who was selling that peptide thought they had been granted grass status by the FDA. Gotcha, gotcha. Everybody thought they had been granted grass status. Like, I was at an FDA meeting and a doctor said it and the FDA corrected him. Like, no, we didn't, we didn't do anything like that. What does grass status mean? Can you explain it a little bit more? So grass status, uh, that's, that's when you take something that's like, usually something pretty old that's been used forever and every expert knows that it's safe and it's not a unique ingredient where people would spend a ton of money doing clinical trials on it. Okay. But everyone knows it's safe. So you convene a panel of experts, they all say it's safe. Right. And it's fine. And it's usually like a food additive, you know, some kind of. Like what? Give us an example of like something that would have grass status. Like those, uh, like those dyes, like the, you know, the red dye number three. The red dye that everyone's saying now we kill people. Right. Right. Like those, those old food additives, right. That have been used forever. Those would have grass status. Now all of a sudden they're finding that they cause autism. Right. Everything causes autism. And masturbate, ADHD, and all these other things. Right. Right. Those would be the things with grass status. So these guys. Pop tarts were in that status, John, too, until recently as well. Until the pop tarts started causing autism. Yeah. You could sort of do that. People have used it for a long time now as an end around for, um, you know, for, for new dietary ingredients. They've said, ah, whatever it's, you know, we're never going to get this past the FDA. So we're just going to self-affirm grass. And, you know, if you want to come after us, then, you know, we'll, we'll fight it in court. So they've done it as like a, like a loophole. Right. Right. I'm not going to say where I see in these things, but there is a gym by my house that sells peptides at the front counter. There is a health food store by my house that sells peptides at the front counter. Injectables, not orals. Injectable. Injectable peptides. What's this? What's, what are they risking, you know, being arrested? What is, what's the status of that? Yeah, absolutely. They're, they're risking being arrested. What a bunch of lunatics. No, there's, there's some peptides that are, that are like sort of okay. Like there's that GHK-Cu, that's a copper peptide. That's like a skin lotion. Right. So you're dealing with a different set of rules. A lot of people think that you can take something. BPC is a great example. A lot of people think you can take BPC and make it a topical. And now all of a sudden it's no longer a drug, but really what you've done by marketing it as like a cosmetic or whatever, what you've done is now you have a cosmetic and a drug. So a really great example of this is like a pen and shoulders, the medicated shampoo. Right. That's a cosmetic and a drug. It's, it's not binary. It's not either or. Right. So they think, oh, now we have a cosmetic. And it's like, no, now you also have a cosmetic. You still have to do all the drug stuff. But now you've given yourself another job where you have to now do a, the cosmetics fact panel and a drug fact panel. You need to like, go check out head and shoulders. Go, go check out any of those types of products. And you'll see the, they have to follow the law for both things. Do you, so you, so what basically is going on is that people are just getting away with it because so many people are doing it that the, you know, I guess they can't crack down on everyone, the FDA. So they must probably, and I would assume just from my experience, unfortunately, with the, over the last, you know, 30 years with them is that they go after the big players and they try to make examples of those people. Yes. So they, they published a list, I think it was September of 2023. And it was basically the most popularly used peptides. And they said, Hey, just to avoid any confusion, these drugs have not been found to be safe. They are not allowed to be sold. So they published this huge list. And what happened was compounding pharmacies went nuts because that's kind of the whole point. That's the business. For the most part of going to compounding pharmacies is you can get stuff that you can't get anywhere else. Right. The real kind of point of compounding pharmacies is like when you have a kid that can't swallow pills. So you get something compounded into a cough syrup. Right. Right. That, that's the real sort of purpose behind them. Most, most pharmacies used to be compounding pharmacies. So once they kind of said, Oh, well, we're allowed to make stuff for individual patients based on individual prescriptions, they have a closed loop. So that doctor that's prescribing BPC and maybe some other stuff, that doctor who's only sending that prescription to that compounding pharmacy, the FDA, unless they perform an audit, they don't know that's going there. They have no idea what's going on. Right. And even if they knew what was going on, they would refer it to the local, that state's board of pharmacy. So the boards of pharmacy are saying, wait, no, this is a federal act. Right. This is a list coming from the FDA. This is federal. So the local boards of pharmacy don't want to act. Right. And the, the FDA certainly doesn't want to create more work for themselves. So you have this weird sort of middle ground where boards of pharmacy are looking to the FDA and the FDA is looking towards boards of pharmacy. And nobody's really cracking down on peptides like they, they normally, they would if it was controlled. Right. But, but let's, so that's one aspect. The people, the, the compounding pharmacies that are prescribing for like these rejuvenation clinics. All right. But let's assume that's a little bit more on the up and up because it's being done within a controlled environment. What about the people who are importing these peptides from China and then they're selling it, you know, on peptide websites, you know, saying it's for research purposes only. Oh yeah. That's research content. Hold on. And, or they're selling it now in gyms and health food stores. What's the legality of that? And how does that get? Oh, that's, that's, that's a hundred percent illegal. The problem is that the, the boards of pharmacy, right? So if you're, if you're a local inspector, they usually have what's called an inspector and they have an investigator. So they're not going to gyms. Like they're going to pharmacies, right? So you're never going to get an inspection from the authority that actually would crack down on that particular thing. You have to do something absolutely crazy to get a board of pharmacy. So like they're, they're getting away with it because the, the people who would inspect a board of pharmacy is not, is not going to go to gold's gym. Right. Or, you know, I'm sure it's not gold's. I'm sure it's some, some other gym. The local gym. But, but yeah, they're the people who would be cracking down on it will literally never step through those doors ever. Right. Ever. So who, so who is getting arrested? Is it the peptide websites that are just selling them, you know, because they're so, it's so identifiable. I mean, you can just go to the website and you can see who's, who's doing it now. Right. Yeah. Those, those guys are getting in trouble. Those guys are getting in trouble. A lot of it, a lot of it is, is local. So you don't see the big announcement on the FDA website. Occasionally you'll get some federal action, but not really. But the guys with the, with the research chem peptide websites, they're getting in trouble. The pharmacies that want to do the, you know, do the right thing. They're falling behind. Right. Because let's just say you, you, you do the full longevity cycle. Right. So you have your test and you have your, maybe an AI. Right. And then you have some weird peptide. You're going to get them all at the same place. Right. So the place that doesn't have that weird peptide, they're losing the sale of the test. They're losing the sale of the AI. Sure. Right. Because you're not, you don't fill, you don't get a prescription and fill it at three different pharmacies. No, no. You get a prescription, you fill it at one place. So they're saying, the doctors are saying, don't worry, I'll call the prescription in. And then they're shipping it across state lines, you know, to wherever. And, you know, during COVID, they, they, they really relaxed the in-person nature of a lot of doctors visits. It was gone. It was always telemed. Well, you know what, though? Was that ever a good idea to take the 20 sickest people in a town and put them in one room? No, it probably, no, you're right. The telemedicine is probably better, you know. Much better, much better for a lot of reasons. As long as you're getting the real person showing up, you know, for the meeting. Right, right. No, I always thought that was a crazy idea. Like, you know how many people probably walked into, walked into a doctor's appointment not sick and walked out of the appointment sick? Right, right. Die. Right. Telemedicine is a great idea. Telemedicine, I'm a thousand percent behind it. I don't want to sit next to your coughing kid. Like, I don't want to do any of that. I would much prefer to go through telemedicine. Pretty soon there'll be AI doctors. You won't even be talking to a real doctor. A robot will take care of you. Do surgery in your kitchen. So, hypothetically, let's take a hypothetical compound. Let's just say GlaxoSmithKline, GSK14893. And that has shown in clinical trials to increase muscle mass. Yeah. Okay. How does that peptide go from the bowels of SmithKline and escape the lab and go to China and be mass produced into powder and bottled? It doesn't work. That's why. How does it go from the labs at SmithKline to being able to buy it in bulk in China? How does that work? Right. So, let's take GSK501516, right? So, GlaxoSmithKline501516. They gave it to a bunch of rodents, said, all right, these rodents are developing tumors the size of other rodents. So, we're not going to sell this. We're not going to make it. But the body bulls will use it. Yeah. The body bulls will use it. Yeah. Especially because the tumors are in the right places. Yeah. So, what they did is GSK, GlaxoSmithKline, said, we're going to stop throwing good money after bad money, right? We're going to halt all of our research on this. And what happens as the intellectual property owner, when you say, I'm not going to spend another dime on this product. It's causing tumors. It doesn't work. Whatever the reason is. What happens is then these guys, these, you know, peptide experts or, you know, sometimes it's the pharmacies themselves. They'll say, okay, the patent holder has no more interest in this. So, I can swoop in and sell it. And they're not going to sue me because they're not going to sue me. They're not going to spend $50,000, $100,000, $200,000 to sue somebody over a drug they have no intention of ever selling. It doesn't work. Yeah. But how does China get it? How does it get out of the lab and into the market? No, John, the reason why China wouldn't make it to begin with is because they don't want to get sued because the company has a patent on it. Once the company doesn't give a shit about the drug anymore, anyone can make it, you know, at that point. But China sees it as a way to make money to sell it to us. I got that. I got that. How do they get the formula? How do they get it from the lab? How do you get a SmithKline? There's tons of layers of security behind all of their formulas. You can look up in the patent office. Yeah, yeah. You can find how it's synthesized in the patent. But, like, take – I don't know if you – well, yeah, you're going to remember. You remember Gintropin? Yeah, of course. Yeah, of course. Okay. So, Gintropin, right, technically, like, very technically, growth hormone is a peptide, right? It's a 191 amino acid peptide, which I know technically makes it a protein, but for our purposes, it's a peptide. Right. Lee Jin was the owner of the Gintropin company. Lee Jin was educated at UCAL Berkeley, okay? Wow. Like, so these guys, they're not – they're educated here. We're teaching them how to do this. And we have guys in the patent office who are, you know, born in China and running the U.S. patent office. We have tons of Chinese examiners. And, again, you have to take – to make something patentable, you have to take the formula such that somebody with ordinary skill in the art could reproduce it on their own. So, like, a really interesting case was when – you know those – they don't really work. They're actually kind of terrible. But you know those handles that you hold when you're doing the elliptical and it's, like, supposed to give you your heart rate? Yeah. And it's always, like, 20 beats off. Right. Right? Yeah. Well, that was a big lawsuit. And, you know, one of the footnotes says I was able to replicate – based on the patent, I was able to replicate this heart rate monitor using a couple of dowels, tinfoil, and wire. Right? Right? Like, so another interesting thing is you don't actually have to have a working model of the product to put it in a patent that someone else – so very famously, Alexander Graham Bell couldn't build a telephone. Right? He couldn't build one. He could figure out how it would work and put it in a patent and get the patent. But he himself could never build a working phone. Someone else built the phone and said, yeah, this works. So, yeah, in the patent, you do have to disclose the method that you use to make the actual ingredient. Yeah. And the reason you do that is because you have a patent on it. So it doesn't matter if people know how to do it. If they make it, you sue them. Right. Right. The patent gives you the ability to prevent other people from making it. It doesn't mean you have to make it. So you could come out with a product. And another point here is let's just say you wanted to come out with a growth hormone product, like a product that makes your body secrete more growth hormone. Yeah. You could theoretically patent 10 versions of the product but only sell the best one. And then everyone that thinks they have a workaround, you say, no, no, no, I patented that too. So a lot of patents are just – they're not to sell the product. They're to prevent people from selling it. Right, right. Interesting he mentions about these Chinese people. When I was in medical school, John, back in – it was 87. I think I started medical school. No, no, no. It was in 1990. Excuse me. 1887? 1887, yeah. At 1990. That's so true. I was in the dorm the first year. And in the dorm, there were these Chinese people staying. Yep. They didn't – all they did was cook. There was a big kitchen in it. They were always cooking. And everyone used to make fun of them and like, you know, because they didn't really speak English. And I – you know me. I love Asian food. I'm like, man, this stuff smells fucking good. We're eating shit. These guys are making like gourmet freaking meals. So I made friends with all of them. Turns out they were all doctors from China who came here to do like internship and research so they can say, hey, I was American trained. And that would raise their ability to make money in China and learn all our secrets, obviously. And I would bring them – they had no money. I would bring them food. I'd go to the supermarket and I'd bring back beef and chicken and fish and vegetables. And I would just dump it on them. And they would make the most gourmet meals. And I was eating like a king. And everyone's like – and then everyone started saying, what are you doing with those guys in the kitchen? I said, man, I'm eating like a – these are the best meals I've ever had. This would be like a $100 meal in a restaurant. I said, these guys can cook, man. And then everyone else was snooping around. But he's right. The Chinese come here. They get trained here. And then they go back to their country. And they have all these skills that they learned here. So are they – so is it – I'm into origins of things. So I can understand where they come from and how they work and why they do what they do. So would it be safe to say that there are Chinese technicians in China manufacturing or inventing peptides based on – Not so much inventing. Copying, copying, John. Yeah. I mean, based on research from like SmithKline or, you know, Behr. They're like, what do these Americans want to buy next? That's what they're saying, John. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's exactly right. That's 1,000 percent right. But this all started with – again, technically it's a protein because of its length. Is it SARMs? Well, it all started with IGF. Okay. With IGF, that was the first time bodybuilders started really trying to get it because, I mean, you saw the original research, right? It was like 40 percent increase in muscle mass. Right. And bodybuilders were just calling anyone they knew and eventually it went over to China and then China figured out, hey, we can make anything. Like there could be a study that shows that this stuff increases muscle mass in 12 sea otters and some American will shoot it in his ass. So once they figured that out, they'll send you the study. They'll send you like – I can remember being sent an offer to buy some peptide or something and included with the offer, with the price list, what were all of the studies. So they'll do the research. They'll say this is going to be the hot new drug. Right. The patent holder abandoned it so we don't have to worry about them suing us in China. Right. And let's get this on the market. So they're just getting it on the market however they can. Well, look, the newest thing is – and then they had these a couple years ago too, but now they have new ones, these myostan inhibitors. Yeah. And everyone's like, well, this is the new secret. This is going to replace steroids. I'm like, first of all, nothing replaces steroids. Bodybuilders just add on top of – that's number one. Number two, if they worked, don't you think everyone would be using them at this point? Right. Right. Nothing works better than steroids. I'll ask you this. Does anything work as potently as steroids to build muscle? No. No. Never. Not even close. It's like I would say if you're at the world-class level, like you're like a percentage point away from the fastest guy in the world. Yeah. And you add in, you know, some IGF, then maybe you'll be a half a percentage point away from him. But at the normal level, like the average gym-goer, you know, injecting a couple hundred megs of IGF or MGF? No. He's not going to notice it on top of the gram of testosterone you're shooting a week. No. It's really funny how people want to gravitate towards secreted grogs, precursors, SARMs, you know, analogs. Just do the real thing. Like, what the hell? You know what, John? It's because it's what's available. When things are easily available, they use that. So because they buy the peptides in their gym, they say, oh, that's it. Look, I have kids, young guys that come up to me and women who give me a laundry list of peptides that they're on. They haven't changed one iota of body composition, either no more muscle, no less fat, and they're on 16 peptides. Are you saying – What am I doing wrong? Wait, are you saying that the peptides are easier to get than a bottle of test? Absolutely. Seriously? They're legal. I could airdrop my dog into any town in America. I'm trying to provide them at the Dollar General store now. They're all over the place. You could go to any gym in America, any gym, even a Planet Fitness, and find somebody selling tests. So people – yeah, but a lot of times it's fake, and people don't like to buy illegal things. They get nervous about it. Yeah, that's exactly right. Like, so some teenage kid, some 16-year-old knows he's not going to go to jail over a bottle of SARMS. He reads a bunch of websites that are, you know, that are selling it, and he says, oh, this is just as good as steroids. I'm going to use it. Right. He has no fear of going to jail. No, no. So – and that's a big part of it, the fear of going to jail. So they can order peptides and SARMS out the wazoo, and they think this is going to be – if I use enough, it will be just like steroids. Right. But there is – I would say if you used a bunch of SARMS, a bunch of peptides, you still wouldn't get the same effect as 200 megs a week of tests. I don't think you would get as much as 30 milligrams of anivar a day. I don't think you would get as much. That's how we – we used to buy boron. John, we used to buy boron and think we were – that was like our peptide back in the day. We were buying boron. You remember? They say it increases testosterone 400% in studies, you know. There were all kinds – it was all kinds of shit like that, especially back in the back of the weeder magazines, you know, where you weren't supposed to do it. Well, hot stuff was probably the closest thing to steroids. It didn't have methyl test in it, the original – Didn't it have clen? I thought it had clen. I heard that Metrix had clen. I heard Metrix had clenbuterol in it. I don't know if that's true. I can't see Connelly doing it, but who knows? Bill Phillips was involved. And then I also heard that, yeah, the methyl test was in the hot stuff. Hot stuff. I heard clen for everything. I heard clen was in this. I heard clen – I used to take the original hot stuff. I had the banana was my – Banana. Did you have the worst farts from that too? It was just gastro distress. Yes. And the banana had that fake banana flavor. It was like those tappy sticks used to have when you were – Yeah, yeah, yeah. I would take a shake and I would go to med school class. I had to sit in a lecture hall. You ever hear George Carlin do the routine about when you have to fart and you have to let out a test fart first to see if the people around you can handle it? You could never handle a hot stuff fart. That's how bad they were. It was hot stuff. Muscle milk was another one. I had to meet Jimmy the Bull one time in a gas station, and I was starving after I worked out. And so I go into the gas station and I bought not one but two muscle milks and guzzled them down on Amherstown. Half an hour later, oh, man, it was like the guns in Navarone were going off. Muscle milk, I used to like muscle milk because when you finish the flavor, like there was always – Like if you finish the Cinnabon flavor, there was like a mint chocolate chip flavor. Like you could always find the new flavor. Right? I thought they tasted horrendous. Yeah, they were bad. Yeah. They were horrendous. It might be the worst product of all time, muscle milk. So greatest name, greatest name, worst product. Greatest, really good name. Ingredient list, meanwhile, it's just protein, and the ingredient list is like six inches long. It's just protein, and the ingredient list is so long. Like it is unbelievably long. It's ridiculous. I have a very keen sensitivity to chemical tastes, and I taste everything that's artificial in there. I can – it's like – it's just when it touches my tongue, I can't drink it. I cannot drink it. It's an identifiable chemical taste. It's exactly what it is, and it's just – it's wretched. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Brilliant marketing, though. I've never tried the stuff they sell at 7-Eleven. Like I've never tried the pre-mixed ones. They're worse. Yeah, they're worse. No, they're worse. Oh, geez. They're worse than the powder. That's why. They have to add six more inches of stuff beyond the water. You know what I used to like? They don't make anything even equivalent anymore? The Osmo that you had to add your own. Oh, yeah. Those are good. Yeah, those Osmos. Those were good. The plastic bottle with the powder in the bottom? Yes. You know, I did that for a while with species. I'd like to – But it was so expensive, those little plastic bottles. And I got the idea from Osmo where you just add the water. Triple H used to buy like thousands of them for me at a time because he would take them on the road with him. And he's like, oh, why did you stop doing it? I said, like, it's a fortune now. But don't you save on the shipping? Isn't it so much lighter to ship? It's lighter than RTDs, but it's not less expensive than a tub. Really? It was adding double the cost, John, just to put them in these little containers. It was ridiculous. Yeah. Yeah, and you had to buy water with him. Like, you know, you couldn't use – like, you needed cold water. Like, if you used water fountain water that was already a little bit warm. It's disgusting. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You had to use cold water. You're right. The things we used to drink in the name of – I'll tell you, you know who makes the best ready-to-drink that's pre-made is by far, and it's been since probably for the last 15, 20 years, has been LeBron as Lean Body. Matter of fact, I don't even know how he makes any money on those things because they're 40 grams of protein from, you know, milk protein isolate. They don't really bother your stomach too much. They taste really good. Really? And 40 grams of protein, I don't know how he makes – he's got to lose money on those things. They taste amazing. He's a loss leader. I think it's a loss leader. It could be. I think it is. It could be. Or the volume he sells is so enormous that if he's just making a few cents off – Yeah, the shipping, like you said, John, on those things is a four – you've got to do free shipping on Amazon. You can't make any money on that. No, no, no. And if you don't, if you're selling and you're selling on Amazon, people are going to look at your price. They're going to look at Amazon's price. They're going to see that they're the same, but then they get the free shipping. So you can't fight Amazon. You have to give someone a free T-shirt or you have to give them a free hat. Like you have to give them a reason to buy from you instead of Amazon, even if the price is the same, even if the price is a little bit less. You have to give them a reason to go to your site and buy from you. And that's got to be a shirt or a hat or a gym bag. Yeah, you can't – absolutely can't fight their shipping. Their shipping is ridiculous. People will pay more for my products on Amazon because they want it the next day. I'm like, why don't you just order it a week before you run out? And then you don't have to worry about it. But people don't remember. You want to create a fulfillment cycle. Every 30 days, if they sign up, every 30 days they get – Subscribe and save now, yeah. Yeah, Amazon will take it also. Amazon will make it so easy for you to get – they will literally go to your supplier and take pallets from your supplier. Like you don't even touch it. They just say, we will pay you in advance and we will load the pallet ourselves onto our own truck and take it from the supplier. And it's like you're just a monster. They're just a monster. You can't say no to them. So getting back to peptides, in your estimation, I know what I tell people. I have a feeling we're going to say the same thing. But which peptides actually do something where you would actually say, you know what? It's probably worth any money. Easy question. All of the peptides that have a metric that is objective, so all of the growth hormone-releasing peptides where you can read a study and the study says the guy's growth hormone was at one and now it's at two. All of those work. Every growth hormone – I mean, I'm not saying they build muscle. I'm saying they work. They do what they're supposed to do. They increase GH. Right, right. Every single one of those works because they – I mean, just objectively, the metrics now, is it going to help you sleep better? Like we're talking about a third-tier effect here, right, with a growth hormone-releasing peptide because the first tier is – or a third-order effect. The first order is the increasing growth hormone. The second order is the better sleep you get from it. And then the third-order effect is that you're thinking you're going to grow more muscle because you got better sleep, right? So the growth hormone peptides, I would say, all objectively work. The others, everything besides those, fall into the I think it's working category, right, because nobody wants to believe that they got ripped off. Nobody wants to believe that they just spent this money on Dihexa or a C-Lank or a C-Max and it's supposed to be a nootropic. They'll say, yeah, I can feel it. I can – you know, it feels – I feel short for work or whatever. Nobody wants to say that. I would say the other one that – the best placebo effect in the world is BPC-157. 100%, yeah. Because you will – first of all, injuries heal over time. So, like, that injury is going to heal, like, period. And you take BPC-157 and obviously time goes by. You buy one bottle and at the end of the month you go, oh, like, you know, my hamstring used to hurt and now it doesn't. It's like, yeah, but that month went by. That month would have gone by anyway. Right, right. And if you look at – well, I was going to say, if you look at studies on placebo effect and you look at what causes the greatest placebo effect, it's painkillers. Painkillers also cause – so when people say I took BPC-157 and then it hurt less and then I, you know, and then it healed, that exactly follows the way the placebo effect works in every painkiller. So, yeah, I would say the growth hormone peptides, objectively, you have to say they work. Because, again, objectively, you can see the number go up. Do they work to grow muscle? Maybe. No, no. But when you look at it, it's like, you know, two pounds over six weeks. Like, who's even going to notice that? Yeah. I, you know, I've used, you know, a couple of these different, like, healing peptides. I've definitely felt something from BPC-157 and I'm very attuned to my body. So I know when something is bothering me and I can tell – I know how long it takes for me to recover from injuries or from any kind of, like, pain. And so I notice the difference. Do you use injectable or oral? Injectable. I don't believe in oral stuff. I don't – they don't – Okay. But, yeah, the injectable – I find that it has an absolute effect or I wouldn't waste my time continuing to take it. So I also think that's why people like disarms, by the way, that we were talking about before. Like, I think people, if they say it's kind of steroidy, but you don't have to inject, right? It used to be back in the day – you guys will remember this. If you're not ready to inject, you're not ready to use steroids, right? It was the common wisdom. Like, that was the common wisdom because people would be like, can't I just take three weeks of D-ball or Anadrol or can't I just take this or can't I just do that? And it's like, dude, if you're not ready to inject, you're not ready to start a cycle. Now that's out the window with SARMs. Now all that stuff is out the window. And anything you can point to a study with any positive effect, somebody is going to try. Like, I did the math one time on – I don't know if you've heard of it, but MOTC? MOTC? Yep. You would need to replicate, right, if you look at the human equivalency dose, you would need – people are like, oh, I bought this bottle and the bottle was like 80 bucks. And I take five milligrams every other day. If you look at what the rodents were taking, the equivalent would be like 30 bottles a day. No, not joking at all. Not joking at all. Like, it would be like 30 bottles a day of sub-Q. And, you know, people think they're slick and that they can, well, just, you know, inject half the amount of water. But that doesn't work with insulin pins like that. You'll clog the pin. Like, you can't do that. I think people have this mentality, Anthony. Look, I've been around the sport for a long time. I know how people think. They think that if they're on every peptide, even a little bit of it, that they're covering all their bases. It's like they think they're taking a multivitamin. So every time a new one comes out, they just edit it. You know, I'll take a little bit of that, too. Because it can't hurt, right? And like we know, I always tell people, the more a peptide promises, the less likely it is to do anything. So when it says it's longevity, it's increasing mitochondria, it's burning fat, it's building muscle, it's immune system, it's mental cognition. That peptide doesn't do anything. Because you can't promise everything. There is no, you know, super pill. We don't have that, okay? Right. And so run for the hills when you see that stuff, you know. But they keep shoveling them out. They keep like – Well, yeah. I mean, it's an amazing amount of product that gets released. I tell people, and you don't have to listen to me. I do the BPC because I think it works. I use NAD+. I don't necessarily feel it, but I think theoretically it makes sense to increase NAD+. Sure. In the muscle as you get older. As you get older. I tell young guys, don't waste your money. And then I take glutathione too because I think as you get older, I think it's good for the immune system detoxification. Do I feel it? Probably not. The only thing I do feel is the BPC of the three things that I'm prescribed, you know, by Titan. And you do it sub-Q? Yeah. No, you know what? I do it – I do the NAD+, intramuscularly because it irritates otherwise. And I do the BPC wherever I'm in pain. So sometimes it's sub-Q. Sometimes it's intramuscularly. So I had two concurrent injuries, okay? Right. I had one in my elbow and I had one in my Achilles. So now you can barely move any skin on your Achilles, like to get a sub-Q shot. Like you can barely move the skin. I mean, it's just not happening. And your elbow, you don't have three hands. You have to shoot intramuscular. Right, right, right. You have to. So at one point I was doing every other day, whatever the recommended dose is, I was doing every other day alternating between barely getting that sub-Q Achilles shot and just jamming it right in the muscle for the elbow because you have to. Yeah. And I didn't get anything out of it. And so it wasn't research, Kim. It was actually prescribed. There's a place here in – it's actually in New York and they won't – I don't know if they're still in business, but they won't ship across state lines. Really? So I guess they're theoretically like trying to avoid the FDA. Right, right. They will not ship across state lines. You have to either get it shipped to a place in New York or go pick it up yourself, which I did. It was actually out on the island now that I think about it. And I was doing every other day and I didn't notice anything personally. Now, maybe it wasn't the type of injury that those things help, but I didn't get anything out of it. I have a bunch of the oral – like I had like four or five bottles of the oral that I gave away. And that guy said that it helped, but again, who knows? It's so subjective. How do you feel? You know, it's – you can't even describe pain to another person accurately. My suggestion, John, to people is not to use more than two or three different compounds because once you start mixing everything together, first of all, you'll never know what's working and not working. But second of all, there is – and I'll ask Anthony this. I'll leave it to you. I would have to imagine that there could be some polypharmacy going on, interactions between these things, wouldn't you say? Yeah, I mean, I – what I did was I did all of the GHRPs, so – or I should say GHRSs, all the growth hormone-releasing secretogs. So whichever mechanism of action it was, right, because there's two mechanisms of action that they use for those. There's one where it mimics growth hormone-releasing hormone, right, and then there's one where it acts directly on the receptor. I used both, and I couldn't – I couldn't tell when I switched from one to the other. Now, I did get better sleep on all of them, and I spent – I want to say like half a year on them. Did you get hungry? Were you very hungry on them? Well, I always took them at night before I went to bed. Oh, okay. So I was trying to avoid that hunger. But yes, I did notice the hunger increase. I did get the better sleep. But as far as like one being better than the other, I couldn't even notice when I switched one to the other. And I just did them all back to back. So that's my experience with what I say works. Right. Now, what do you – now, Bruce Neller, I had him on the show a couple – like two years ago or something like that. And he claims that everything coming out of China is just growth hormone. Like the secretive guys are a growth hormone because there's no difference. It costs the same thing to make it, and they're sending everyone – It's just easier. They just make one thing and slap different labels on it. Because no one would know because no one tested. Would you buy into that explanation? Well, actually, I don't know if it would be growth hormone though because you're talking about 191 amino acids versus something that's like 20 amino acids, right? They have to – those aminos have to cost some kind of money. I mean – He said it costs the same thing to make both. Well, tessimorin, I want to say, is 47 or 43 amino acids. And just logically, I would think it's easier to make four times less amino acids. Like so – You would think so. But I would believe that it's whatever one is easiest to make, right? Let's say the synthesis is three steps for one, but it's six steps for another. I would totally believe that it's exactly the same thing coming out of China. I would 100% believe that. Yeah, I would be more likely to believe that all the GH-releasing peptides are probably the cheapest made one, and they're just marketing them as different things. I mean, I want to know the difference. You said you couldn't tell the difference. Mexican steroids are famous for just being all low-dose tests. You know, they just make a bunch of bottles of 25 milligram per milliliter test, and then they'll slap a Primo label on it, a Deca label. You could test those things now. You could test with the Roy test kits I sell. There's no peptide testing things, although we do have a growth hormone test. But other than that, I mean, no one knows what they're taking. You assume it's real, especially if you're buying it from a peptide website. You have no idea of what you're taking is real. Well, you can tell – right? You can tell the old school. You can tell if it's HCG, right? Yeah. Because people used to be able to get HCG, but after 2020, the FDA made it so you can't compound it anymore without a special biological price. I think it started up again. I think you can compound it. Is it? Yeah, I think they changed the thing. They were more off, maybe. The last I checked, they had this thing called the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act. And as far as I can tell, it was meant to prevent price competition and innovation because you could no longer get HCG. You could no longer get anything that was more than 40 aminos in length that was now considered a – it was considered a biologic and you needed a separate license. And these compounding pharmacies aren't going to go get a separate license. No. Like, none of them are going to do that. So as far as I've seen, no one's ever been given a license to make IGF. No one's ever been given a license to make a tessamoralin or a grifter or whatever it's called. I've never seen a license for any of these things. So – and I've seen all of them compounded. I've seen all of them as research chems. So as far as I can tell, this act that was meant to, you know, foster competition and foster innovation did exactly the opposite. It shut down the market to where nobody can get HCG from their regular pharmacy anymore. I can get it from a – I know the compounding pharmacies. I mean not the compounding. The rejuvenation clinics I use, they can get it compounded now. For a while it was just pregno, but now it's back to the generics. I have one question for you guys that's a little off topic. Why is it that my membership to get my car washed every month is now more expensive than my gym membership? Remember when gym memberships used to be like, you know, like $700, $800 a year? That was like back like 25 years ago. Now it's like $10 a month, but yet I have to pay like $40, $30 a month to get my car washed, you know, every day if I want. It's kind of weird that car washes are more expensive than gyms. My gym doesn't provide two-and-a-halves. Like they don't have two-and-a-half-pound plates. It's like getting rid of pennies. Like they get rid of pennies. We don't want to do two-and-a-halves anymore, right? Right, but like that's a jump, man. That's a jump to add 10 pounds to something when you're coming up. No, you're right. You can't just add 10 pounds to a curl or add 10 pounds to your ball. You've got to bring your own two-and-a-halves with you, Anthony. That's the deal, yeah. You know what's worse is when you have the two-and-a-half, but some fucking bozos piled four 45s on top of it on the horn. You've got to strip the weights off. I need that 45. I need that two-and-a-half, but I've got to lift, you know, 90 pounds, 180 pounds to get to it. You know, I was invited, John, to doing Champions Day. Remember Bob Bonham used to do Champions Day back in the 90s? That was great. I did Strong and Shapely. They're doing a Champions Day this year at Strong and Shapely on the 13th of March. I actually happen to be – I'm going up to New York, Connecticut, to see my sister with my kids that weekend. I'm going to see if I can make it over there because – and isn't that in your neck of the woods, Anthony? That's like three miles from my house. Oh, my God. You've got to show up. Yeah, you've got to go. I will absolutely show up. My friend used to have – when you're out front, there's like an apartment complex. Right. My friend had that apartment, that first corner apartment. Really? Oh, that's funny. Oh, my God. It was a two-floor apartment, which I've never seen in my life. It was like his apartment had an upstairs. Like a duplex. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Whatever they called it. And it was like $1,000 a month. Wow. It's probably fucking a fortune now. Yeah. Oh, yeah. I'm sure they tripled it when he moved out. Did you hear that? Yeah. I love Bonham's place. I'll absolutely go there. That's true. Yeah, good, good. That'll be fun. Yeah. I got to convince my kids to go. They'll go. Tell Logan he can pose. Yeah, no, yeah. You know, they'll be the center of attention, too, if I bring them, I'm sure. Last time I went there, Greg was giving a seminar. Greg Valentine. That's a long time ago. I wonder if Greg would come. I should tell him. Yeah, he would go. It's for nostalgia. You know how they have to prepare mentally to get in the car, and then the car is not working, and then if the weather's cold, and maybe his heat doesn't work in his car. He's one strip of duct tape away from a disaster. And they sleep, you know, they sleep till 2 o'clock in the afternoon because they're dumpster diving till 4 a.m., 5 a.m., 6 a.m. You know, they have a very busy lifestyle. They have a very interesting life. He was trying to do a seminar, and he kept putting it off. Like, just kept saying hi to people and getting involved in, like, really long conversations. So by the end, like, it was, like, 6 o'clock at night for, like, a noon seminar. And so he just starts the seminar, and Mr. G was there. Oh, my gosh. I get it. That's even more of a distraction. And Mr. G did not let him speak for more than 15 seconds uninterrupted before he came over and, like, would say, you know, this guy's the best or whatever he would say. Oh, my gosh. It was, like, every 15 seconds, like, someone would ask Greg an arm training question, right, or whatever. And Mr. G would come over and be like, this guy right here, this guy, he's the best. It was unbelievable. It's like two senile old people going, you know, talking back and forth to each other. They can't keep their train of thought going. It's unbelievable how courteous Greg was. Like, I was just like, is he going to let this keep going on? And he just kept coming over, and he kept doing the same. Like, I didn't know. Yeah, the original ADHD kids from back before it was diagnosed, you know, they had it. They could be the original Norwood Hardy. Yeah, yeah, now I have one final question before I let you go. You were obviously up in Jersey. You got this tremendous snowstorm the other day, right? Yeah. Two feet of snow. Yeah. And are you noticing that there's a lot of price gouging going on for snow shoveling? I mean, I shoveled myself out. I got to be honest. Yeah. How long did that take you? This was the first time I can, like, probably when you were kids, when I was a kid. Yeah. Like, as soon as you shoveled yourself out, you walked around and tried to shovel people out. 100%. This is the first time in probably a decade I've seen kids do that. Really? And I was already shoveling, so I didn't get any prices. Like, they're not going to stop you while you're shoveling and offer to shovel. Right, right, right, right. But this is the first time I've seen it in a good 10 years, ever. I'm glad kids are finally looking to make money because they think that this was a big payday. That's why, John. Well, I mean, that should be a – money should definitely be a motivator. But, I mean, normally the kids are so fucking lazy, they don't do anything except if it's not on the phone. Yeah. A month ago I was out there and it snowed and I was shoveling my sister's driveway. And then she – and then I had neighbors coming up to me and wanted to hire me, which I almost did because, you know, I like money, John. I'm a hustler. But, you know, I'm, like, thinking, dummy, you're 57 years old. You know, what do you – do you really need the $100 to shovel the guy's driveway? And I said no. Were you wearing shorts? Of course I was wearing shorts. Now, here's the funny thing. Now, that was, like, you know, like four, five, six inches. This was two feet, John. Yes. This is a different beast. So, now, I know that what happened to her is that people will come around and they'll – they charge like $200 to shovel your driveway and more. So – but then they shovel and then what they do is they don't do a good job. So, you got to call them back. Yes. Yes. And – No, you have to work that out. You have to work that out in advance, right? So, if you don't work it out in advance, what they'll do is a one shovel-width path on your sidewalk. Like, they won't do the whole sidewalk. They'll do one shovel-width. So, you have to, like, work out in advance. You're right. No, you're right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She calls the guy back and she says – because they send, like, three, four Mexicans to do it. Yeah. They have, like, teams of people. So, she's like, maybe these guys were in a rush and they didn't – because my car isn't dug out. So, the guy comes back, texts her. 30 seconds later, she writes him back and he's already gone. He actually drove back to her house, felt that nothing needed to be fixed and just left. Rather than knock on the door and say, hey, well, you know, at least do something to make it – you drove all the way over there. Right. You know? Right. The customer service is terrible. I can't believe it. My friend is still waiting as of, like, 9 a.m. The law here is that 24 hours after it finishes, you have to shovel yourself – you have to shovel the sidewalk. Oh, really? I didn't know that. Wow. Yeah. That's the way the law is in my town. In his town, I think it's roughly the same thing. But if you don't do it, you'll get a ticket. But the ticket's only 15 bucks, but it's a mandatory court appearance. Oh, shit. Well, you know, it's funny. I say, Greg, did you shovel? He doesn't shovel. Lucia shovel. Lucia. Speaking of Lucia shoveling, have you seen those little Roomba robot snowblowers? No. It's a little robot. They have two different kinds. They have one with a plow, like a pitch plow. Oh, that's cool. And it can plow it. And they have one that's a snowblower that actually blows the snow. Optimus robot that Elon Musk is making can shovel snow. Probably. But this thing is, you know, purpose-built. It just goes up and down your driveway and it clears it off. Right. And the one with the plow in the front, also the guy, it pulls his boat, you know, on a trailer when he wants to move his boat around. I would have to imagine those things have to be very powerful, John, because that snow is heavy, you know? Oh, yeah. It has cleats. It has cleats like a bulldozer. Really? Yeah. Yeah. Not tired. Yeah. The snow was like good, like snowball snow, but it wasn't like wet. It was pretty- Couldn't make an igloo. You could pack it, but it wasn't like tightly compacted. So it was okay to shovel. I'm so happy I'm out of there that I don't have to deal with snow anymore. I can't tell you. Anthony, I can't believe you're still up. Weren't you in Florida for a while? I was. I was in Florida working on the Blackstone case for like five years. Yeah. Why didn't you leave? What, are you crazy? I'm Jersey, man. I'm 100% Jersey. I can't believe it. I mean, I know it sucks. Sometimes you wake up and you're like, I have four hours of work to do before I go to work. But I'm just completely Jersey. I'm a Jersey guy. Him and Johnny Bravo with the Jersey. Yeah. They'd be a good investigative team, those two. They would. They would. They would, 100%. I was spoken to him. He's up in Tuxedo Park. Yeah. Yeah. He's right over the border. Right over the border of Jersey and New York. He's within probably 35 minutes of me. Yeah. Oh, I didn't know he was that close. Plus, don't his parents still own that restaurant, too? You probably can get some good food if you hang out with him. I don't know. I'll have to find that out. All right. Well, Anthony, I appreciate you taking time out of your schedule and spending some time with John and I. It was fun. And if you ever have any topics that are just blowing out of control and you want to vent, come on anytime because we love to get the updates. Because I know you always have an inside track, usually, on everything that's going on in this industry. Yeah, he does. No, thanks a ton. Thanks for having me on. When I get an inside track on something, I'll give you a heads up. Yep. Definitely. All right. Thanks, Anthony. And, John, I guess that's going to take us to the end of this show. But, you know, I'm really miffed about the whole gym membership thing. I'm telling you. How are these gyms? You owned a gym. How does a gym that charges $10 a month stay in business? You have to have another revenue stream inside the gym. You've got to sell clothes, water, shade, something. Yeah, maybe that's what it is. Personal training. Personal training. You've got to sell something because you cannot make it on $9.99 a month. I mean, you just – But the clientele, the best gym member you can have is the one who pays the membership on EFT and never comes to the gym. And a lot of Planet Fitness gym members are like that. The doctor said, I've got to work out. You know, that's why they're there. So they don't want to be there. They're supposed to come three days a week. They might come two. You know, they might come one. Right. They might not come at all with some weeks. That's what you want because they use hot water, the electricity, wear and tear out the equipment. Right. So you want a high membership base with very few people through the front door. Got you. So that's what they're trying to bank on. Yeah. And then the people that do go through the door have to buy training packages, buy water, buy supplements, shake. I don't know. I've never been into a Planet Fitness. So I don't know what to have. Well, there's got to be another revenue stream on top of the membership. You know, when you're in Florida, the car wash membership is way more valuable because I take my car every day pretty much to the car wash. I have one here. I use it. It's called mod wash. No, I go two, three times a week. It's so convenient. It's right there. I'm just passing. Oh, yeah. I go through the thing that I vacuum. And I'm like, I'm an erotic. If I have like a couple of pebbles on the floor of my car, I got to vacuum it up and clean it out. And I armor all my things. I wipe down the whole, you know, the wheels. And, you know, it's like part of my loop I do. I have like a loop. You know, I have like the place I eat at. I have a gym. Your room. I have a supermarket. You know, I make the loop. You know, I have the cleaners is on there and the pet store too if I need that, you know, for that particular week. And so the school, you know, when I have kids. Remember Angela Frizalone? Yes. Her husband? Yeah. He was a lunatic. But he had his route in the morning. He had to stop in here and stop. They would go his whole route. But, yeah. So, no, I'm building a new truck now. So I'm going to be at the car wash even more. Nice. Nice, nice, nice. I just, isn't it amazing though how much better a clean car drives than a dirty car? It's not only the clean, it's the stuff in it. I have nothing in my car. I have the registration and the proof of insurance and a knife. And that's it. That's it. I have nothing else. Well, because it all rattles around, you know. I know, but John, Matt, put three kids in your car. Oh, God. I have to go to the car wash every day because as soon as they get out of the car, I got to go to the car wash because it's like a tornado hit the car. How they get – I don't even know how the crumbs get into the places that they get into. It's almost as though they're, like, purposely, like, trying to look for places to throw this stuff. Like, you know, my daughter, she takes a gum out of her mouth and throws it in the car. Just flings it. Oh, God. It's unbelievable. You got to institute the Germans. In Germany, they don't eat in the car. I wish. I wish. Cup holders didn't show up in German vehicles until 2002. No, German cars never had cup holders. No, because you're supposed to drive the car. If you're going to eat, you pull over, you know. Well, they were losing too much business to the American cars that had the great cup holder. We invented the cup holder. We lost the car battle to cup holders. Porsche had to go out on his knees in 2004 and put cup holders. I had a BMW, John, that was a 97 or 96 BMW, and it had this little, like, thing that came out from underneath it. It was like a little cup holder. And the thing was so fragile that if the cup was way too much, it would spill. Because they insulted the Germans that you would ask for a cup holder in the car. And at some point, they just gave in and they said, all right, we got to build a cup holder. We're losing all this business. We got to have a cup holder. But the cup holder wasn't just a dent in the plastic with a ring around it. It was like an arm had to come out, and this was moved over. And then the thing ended. Now we have coolers in the car. Yeah, it had like seven functions to open. It was like a transformer because they're German. They got to have all the engineering. You can't just have a place to put the cup. It has to do something. So, yeah. Yeah. Now my BMW has 40 cup holders, you know, from the SUV. Like in the front, the back. The third row has a cup holder that comes out of the ceiling, you know, because they know. Americans need cup holders. And let's face it. We're the number one marketplace for everything. We're the biggest consumers of everything in the entire world. That's why the Trump tariffs work so well. Exactly. Exactly. Because we buy all their shit, you know. That's why we'll never lose out to China because China needs us to buy all their crap. Exactly. Because no one in China is buying their crap. We buy it. We have 330 million spenders here in this country. So that's a lot of buying power worldwide. That's right. Yeah. That's right. Now we're buying all their peps. Even the bodybuilders buy all their shit. We buy all their peptides, all their drugs, their growth hormone, everything. I think China is a great place. It's like anywhere else. There's good places and there's bad places. It's like one big Walmart, John, China. That's what it is. It pretty much is. And if you search, you can get a quality version of anything you're looking for over there. Cheap. But they're building some crazy stuff there. I've been watching some of the buildings they got there. And bridges. Cars and robots. And, you know, it's like, you know, everything's like a cheap knockoff of what we got. But it works, you know. And they're ahead of it. It seems like they're ahead in a lot of things. Some of those bridges, the engineering projects, the infrastructure that they're doing, they're incredible. They're like six million feet high. And the crane is all the way up at the top. And somebody's got to climb up there every day and spend the day up in the crane. I know. And, you know, you never hear about it. But I'm sure thousands of people drop dead when they build those things because they fall off. But no one, you know, they hide the statistics. No one knows what's going on. No one knows. It's like Dubai. They could build a city of the most advanced city in the world in 10 years, you know, working around the clock. You know there's a bunch of Pakistanis buried in that cement of those buildings. There's no doubt about it. Put the slave labor in there. Yeah. Yeah. Because they don't get breaks, John. They work around the clock. Around the clock. They turn the lights on and that's it. They just keep going. Yeah. You see them hanging on. And then they, when I went to Dubai, what really struck me was that the window washers, like they have to wash, you know, because there's a lot of dust there because it's a desert. So they had these people hanging from like a hundred feet up in the air, you know, washing the windows. A thousand. Some of those buildings. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm like, man, what did those people get paid? That's got to be some job, you know, description. You know, you get, yeah, we're going to pay you $50 an hour, but you're going to be hanging from a thousand feet in the air, you know. And if the rope breaks, sorry, you know, we don't, there's no insurance. We're not paying you anything. You ever see the tower climbers? They climb those insanely tall radio towers? Yeah. They got to replace the light bulb at the top. Right. So they climb all, it takes them like, like a while to get to the top and it's like 1500 feet. They're ridiculous. You would think they'd have a better system, you know, when they're building the building. It's like, all right, we're going to build the building that it's almost impossible to get to the lights to change them. But we'll worry about it when the light bulbs go out in 10 years. Yeah. Put that on the guy that's got to change the bulb. Yeah. It's his problem. You would think at this point they would, they would have a drone with a robot arm that can go up there and do this stuff by now. They'll probably end up starting with a robot. How come they can't change a light bulb? I bet they will. I bet they get to the point where a drone can do it. Yeah. Yeah. Or at least have a robot climb the outside of the building, you know, the swipe and falls. Who gives a shit, you know? You sweep it up and you send another one up there. The guy who the robot hits on the way down. Yeah, there you go. All right. Well, good call on the Anthony Roberts. We'll have to see who's available next week for us. And we got a lot of good, we still have the Derek one coming up. I don't think Sid put that one up yet. Oh, they still got to go up. That was a great interview. I like that one. Yeah. The Troy Zuccolato one. So we get a lot of good feedback on all the guests we've been having on here. And we're going to continue doing this into the foreseeable future since you guys have been supporting the show. And it's always good to be able to spend some quality time with you. You know, this is like our forced alone time we have every week. I know, right? We had our break from the lunacy. We're in the lunacy of our other endeavor. The other show. Yeah. The other show. We just call it the other show. Yeah. Boy, do I wish I could tell you what George went through, man. I have to tell you. I'll tell you off camera because he's such a lunatic. So you heard Anthony Roberts said he's a lunatic. And Anthony doesn't even know him, you know. Exactly. All right, guys. I want to thank you for joining us once again for another edition of the Palumbo Podcast. I'm Dave Palumbo with John Romano. Thank you, Anthony Roberts. We will see you next week. Bye.