Dave Palumbo here and I have a new product I want to show you. As you guys know, I love to introduce you to new innovative products that help you become healthier and recover better from your workouts and be better bodybuilders. My new product today is called the pH9 generator. As you know, I'm a big proponent of alkalinized water. Uh why? Because when we raise the alkalinity of the body, the immune system functions better. We recover better from our workouts. We neutralize acidic waste in the body coming from the lactic acid built up from exercise, the waste products from protein digestion, stress raises acid levels. So, alkalinized water we're all aware of now, and alkalinized foods are really good for us. But what's the best way to get alkalinized water? You know, you can buy a,000 to $2,000 water filter. Uh I sell a product called the ion pod, which actually filters the water and alkaliniz it. But I even have a better suggestion for you. Now, the inventors of the PH9 generator got a typical regular plastic water bottle, okay? Just like you would see in any at any booth, at any nutrition store, at any expo. And they've coated the inside with a special coating uh based uh based around minerals of calcium, magnesium uh that get released into the water once you pour it into this bottle and enable the water to become alkalinized in a matter of minutes. This bottle will last 4 years, too. I mean, you can't get better than this. A water bottle you can throw in your gym bag lasts four years. Alkalinizes your your water to a pH of 9, which is very high. Um, and as an added benefit, it also clusters the water. Now, what does water clustering mean? That means you're taking your water molecules that are all different sizes and making them smaller and all equally the same size. That means the water will enter the cells faster, hydrate you faster and draw nutrients into your cells faster. And obviously, as bodybuilders who work out hard, lose a lot of fluid when we train, lose a lot of nutrients while we train, we want to replace that as quickly as possible. So, let's let me show you how this thing works a little bit because I have some regular uh Poland spring water in this my little species shaker cup here. This is a normal shaker cup. This is not a pH9 generator. And I'm going to pour it into this cup here. Okay? And what I'm going to do is I'm going to take our we have a little pH test kit here. Okay? And this little when you put this little solution into the water, it will change it to color and then we can match it up on the color chart to see what the pH actually is. So, let's take a little squirt of this stuff here and we'll put it in our water and we'll swirl our water around here. And you'll see it's a very yellowish color. Okay? And if you look at the color chart, it's probably about the maybe second color matches that orange color. That's a pH of five. That's very acidic. This is the water from a Poland Spring bottle that you are drinking every single day. Very acidic water. Obviously, not helping your quest to become more alkalinized. Now, I put some Poland Spring water in this bottle about 5 minutes ago, and I'm shaking it up a little bit, and it only takes a couple minutes. Now, I'm going to take this water, and I'm going to pour it into our other cup here. Okay. And we're going to add our solution, our little pH reagent here. We're going to drop that in there. And we're going to swirl around a little bit. And as you can see, it's turning a deep blue green. Okay. Now, if you look at the color chart right now, we're approximately about 8.5 on the pH rush. This will continue to get darker. And I really didn't put that much reagent in here. It raised the pH from five to 8.5. That's 3 and 1/2 points in a matter of minutes. And I probably didn't even leave this in there long enough. So, as you can tell, instantaneous alkalinization of your water. You can drink this stuff now and you can start neutralizing acidic waste and making your body putting it into a better balance. Uh your immune system will work better. You'll recover better from your workouts. Get all that lactic acid and bad acidic waste from the protein that you're eating out of your body and you'll be healthier and you'll be bigger. If you guys would like to purchase the PH9 generator, um I sell it at davepalo.com and you can purchase it there. I'm the only distributor right now in the United States selling it. So Dave Palumbo.com, you can purchase your pH generator for 34.95. And if you'd like to carry this in your stores, I am also the distributor. So for distributor inquiries, you can email me at huge285aol.com. That's hugeaol.com. Guys, you got to try this. It's one of the most innovative products on the market. I'm super excited about it. So should you.