Dave Palumbo here with Chris the technician Aceto for rxmuscle.com and we are here at the Mr. Olympia prejudging that just let out 2016. Chris and uh Phil Heath after being off for two years in a row comes back and tonight I was impressed with the way he looked. He was full. He had a lot of energy on stage. He was aggressive and I think he I think he probably got out of this prejudging in the lead. I don't know if it was by a lot, but I think he's leading the pack. Yeah. You know, there he had the fullness right through the from the the from shoulder to shoulder and including the pecs. The last two years besides his shoulders being flat, his pecs have been really flat. So, it's killed him on the side chest. It's killed him on the side tricep which is a tricep pose but when he's full through the pecs and he turns to the side it, you know, it's there's a lot of wow factor and that's a big advantage for him. But the big overall advantage for him is which he's lacked two years straight is the round pecs, the round uh triceps and biceps that completely shut down the idea that he's narrow because you could tell he felt good about himself tonight because he was aggressive up there. He was he was, you know, hitting shots. He was excited, you know, whereas last couple years he you could tell he wasn't happy with what he brought and he and he wasn't really showing it off too well. Yeah. No, I I think, you know, he he came into the show knowing obviously that at least if I'm coming in rounder, it's going to look different and it's going to play out either one of two ways. either probably it's gonna, you know, for him coming into the show, it's going to work and and it did make him look a lot better or the risk is, you know, when you try to fill out too much sometimes you spill over and there's that risk of not having the condition. I don't think he was spilled over. Let's talk about Dexter Jackson who uh was second last year, talking a lot of, you know, smack at that press conference that he was here to win. Um he's not going to win. I I was not impressed with Dexter, I got to tell you. And I I know Dexter thinks I'm hating on him all the time. I'm really not cuz it has nothing to do with you, Dexter, as a person, but I felt his his abdomen was was was big. Uh I felt he his ab thigh shot, which is usually very dominant, was not good. His side tricep, his stomach was hanging out. So, I don't know if he was having some distension problems or an upset stomach, but this was not a sharp Dexter Jackson. Well, I think mainly what hurt him is the the lack of what looked to be leg separation or leg mass. Maybe it was a separation. Well, he never has the leg mass, but don't you think it was the abdomen that just gave the illusion of him not having that? I mean, well, you know what? Yes and no. Yes. But he's up against Phil, who's got who's packed through the delts and arms, which is going to create a better vtaper than than than he had last year. So, when he's standing next to Dexter, you know, he's going to dominate him in the Vtaper department. I thought Dexter as prejudging went on got worse, too. Yeah, he was a little better when he first came out. I think is, you know, you could feel that he was up against a tough lineup and he didn't get the, you know, the dead center call and that plays a lot, you know, psychologically on people and they they start to fade. Phil, um, speaking of, uh, fading. Okay, let's talk about Shawn Rhoden who I felt, you know, when he first came out, I was impressed. Then I started noticing that he was having some, not as bad as last year, some abdominal issues. And I don't think it was his I don't think it was a distension issue as much as it was a lack of sharpness in that abdominal area. We're used to seeing that that really really tight abdomen of Shawn Rhoden and we just didn't see it. It was it was it was like he lacked control of it and he looked tired out there. Yeah, he looked tired. It's almost like he was sharper too from behind than he was, you know, he was really tight from behind. Um and and you know, probably could have been a little bit more detailed towards the end in the legs. It looked like he lost control of the legs, but on the poses that he did lose, he still won a lot of other poses. And I thought that, you know, I had him winning at least three poses out there, you know, and I know it's not the show is not decided on pose by pose, but but Rhoden did dominate three or four poses out there. Yeah, I mean, he has a a pretty package. Um, it's hard to get by Phil when Phil's really full. Um, you know, I know some people see it one way or another. You know, I I I I think it it's it's uh you know, well, I hear that it's really close, but you know, Phil's got some bonanza shoulders and arms going on tonight. So, you know, and it obviously you helped Shawn Rhoden. If can Rooden come back better tomorrow night? Yeah, I think he can come back a little sharper. And if he comes back sharper, it probably enhance, you know, his crazy natural, you know, pretty shape anyway. And that's his calling card. You know, it's it's not that he's, you know, 290. Uh, I mean, he's in the 250s, but you know, he's got to be sharper attack to be able to maximize what he has. Now, if Rhoden and Dexter are fighting for second and third, we have to I have to say the big Ramy's in that fourth position. And you know what? At the end, when I saw that last call out, I actually had Ramy winning a couple of poses. Certainly the front lat spread, the rear lat spread, maybe the side tricep. Rammy is I mean side chest. Ramy's got a lot of muscle on his body and I was impressed. You know, I think Well, give me your impression of him first. Well, when he first came out, I thought he was I was surprised because I thought he was flat. Um, and and I think that's him by himself. But when in that call out, you know, Sean's my guy when they put when they put Ramy up against Shawn and Phil, I think that I, you know, I I think the most interesting call would have been him next to Phil because I think in that that four he wins the front last spread, back lat spread, side tricep, uh possibly side chest, crazy detailed glutes and quads, which is not the the beall end all, but it's enough when you're standing next other guys who you're a lot bigger than, you know, to to give you some type of, you know, advantage. He's I Here's my theory on Ramy. Everyone's so used to seeing Ramy at 315 lbs on stage overpowering everyone with that roundness that you you just don't see. And all they're saying is, "Hey, if only Ramy would come in in shape." Well, Ramy was in shape tonight. And you're not going to have that crazy roundness when you're in shape because you're going to see more angles. And I think people's not used to seeing Rammy the way he looked. But if you break him down pose for pose by these guys, he really, I think, held his own real well. And he's certainly the biggest guy out there with with just as good a conditioning as anyone else. Yeah. No, I I agree with you. You know, I mean, it just uh you know, I I was surprised. The only part of the prejudging that I was surprised with is probably in that last call that they didn't switch and put Ramy next to Phil for a couple shots. We might see that tomorrow night though, possibly. or uh you know more detail or like Dexter next to Ramy which would have made Dexter extremely vulnerable. We if we know if we assume Rammy uh Phil Shawn and Dexter are top four. I'd like to see more comparisons with those guys tomorrow night so that we can really dissect what how close they actually are. Well, this this is a show that uh you know I' I've thought two years running that Phil was behind and he's you know he slammed the door on Saturday. Well, he's ahead now and if he slams the door tomorrow, it's not it's going to be game set over. The point being is that and you know, it's a two-day show that they judged it and I had, you know, I think coming out of the last two years, I think the most important is uh the the second night, how you show up on the second night. I don't think Phil's going to get better. He'll probably be the same, but I think Roden can get better for certain. And I don't know if Romney can get better or not because I didn't think he looked bad. So, um it'll be interesting. William Bonak looks like he's going to sneak into that fifth position. That's got to be a huge accolade for him. I personally I thought he was looked freaky up there. I you know people compared him to Momo Benaziza from years ago, but um I don't know if I was that I don't know if I would have had him in fifth. What' you think about that call? I I thought he looked really good, but I would have had Roly Winkler ahead of him because he's he's he's freaky. Uh he's a bigger person. Um his condition was equal if not better or equal. I I would say actually better. They're fifth and sixth obviously they fight. So, uh, you know, and I think Rolley's just being a taller, wider guy helps him o over someone like Bonak. But, you know, Bonak looked great. I just think that Roelly, you know, left a bigger impression on me at least. All the new guys, you know, we talk about Compton's and Macarver and they're just out of the top six and Victor Martinez out of the top six. So, I mean, it was it was a tough show. The third and fourth call out were not slumpy guys there. But, we got to mention one thing. Kevin Levrone, obviously, I I bowed down. I was wrong. I say who's going to win. Uh Kevin obviously the legs didn't come back. There was a reason we hadn't seen the legs the whole prep and you know look at 52 years old. He showed his age on stage and I have to say so you were right Shawn Ray when I'm wrong I admit I'm wrong. Um what does Kevin do? Does he retire after this or does he try to come back and uh and make improvements? You know I've I've said all along is you know the most talented athlete we've ever seen is Michael Jordan or one of the most talented and he couldn't come back in his craft. I just don't think that people have the ability after 40 years old to come back. Well, I I know, but after, you know, you you you talk about Coleman, you know, Jay, uh, you know, all of those guys actually did it with shorter prep time, too, than they usually do, including Levon. But even if I think all of them took, you know, 6 months, it it just your body changes after 40. And what's more important is your momentum changes once you get out of the gym. And I guarantee Coleman will tell you this, Jay will tell you this, Levrone will tell you this. You come back and you you probably surprise yourself how hard you train, but it's different when you are just have nothing to do all day except live, breathe, and and eat the barbells. True. So, you know, you can't take 13 years off and and wing it, you know, come back in four months training. If if if that was successful, then then then he he should be running for president or, you know, or modern day bodybuilding is a complete joke. At least you should I think you should run for president actually. Actually, I think Jose Ray Jose come Jose Raymond come over here for a second. Um I heard that you lost um 37 pounds in the last 7 weeks. In about 10 weeks? Yeah. In 10 weeks? 37. I heard it you were so bad that the people around you were worried. It I was worried. I was embarrassed. Was it true that Chris had you doing three hours of cardio? Yeah. I had for three three rounds a day of 45 minutes or more each. Brutal. Yeah, but it worked. Yeah, it did. You look good. We're going to talk about you in a little bit when you're not here, but I want to ask you who you thought uh won that prejudging round in the open mens. In the open, Phil. Easy. Yeah, I think he slammed the door. I think as uh that interview we did a few weeks ago, he had something to prove. He was a little embarrassed from last year. um and he wants to bring his best and and he was big, huge, hard, round, full, all the all the words you can come up with and uh he's got enough to win. All right. Well, before we talk to you, come over here. Here's a couple shots for our cameras cuz we have no video footage of Jose Raymond. The Boston Mass 37 pounds in under 10 weeks. You can do it. That's a record at at 52 years of age, too. Just like Levrone. Uh let's talk about the 212 division. Flex Lewis. Um coming back potentially looking maybe his best ever. You thought he looked the best he ever looked. Yeah. You know what? To me, it's it was his best look. It's odd because his best look maximizes one thing, his flow and tie-ins. When he when he comes in too full, you don't see those. And when he comes in too flat, too too flat, you don't see that. And even having said all that and he looked outstanding outstanding there there there's still a odd enough weird when compared sometimes in a need for improvement in muscle density or maturity. I I thought when Flex came out he looked really really good. I felt he faded a little bit toward the end. And to me I and I don't know this cuz I haven't talked to him or anyone around him. I felt like maybe there was something wrong with him. Like maybe he was a little sick or something like that. But he wasn't as enthusiastic on stage as I normally see him energy wise. May maybe it's that it's what I saw is tremendous condition, great flow, great round muscle belly bellies, but a hint of something like not flat but just not some sometimes his muscle is blown out. I didn't feel the energy I normally feel from him. That that's the best I can say. Maybe that maybe he just wasn't hitting his poses. Otherwise, he's, you know, regardless. Surprised surprised the 212 division is Ahmad Ashkani from uh Kuwait there, who, you know, is battling it seems with Jose for that second place position. He was pretty dominant in the early part of the 212 lineup call outs and then at the end I felt that Jose may have passed him. Um, what do you think about Ashkinani? I I I thought he looked really good. Um, I I you know, the knock on him is is he needs more leg separation and and I guess it would be detail like you know, the muscle's round. He's got uh full muscles everywhere. A great back. Yeah. But, you know, he doesn't have, you know, he's going up against Jose. Jose's got thinner skin, you know, the crazy Christmas tree, more striations in the glutes, that type of thing. And I think that's what'll put Jose ahead of him. Yeah. Jose looked a little flat at first, but that last call out, I I he kind of lit up. I actually almost had Jose beating Flex in that last call, a couple of those poses. So, you know, it will be interesting to see what the score out on enthusiasm. Yes, I noticed that. If Jose hat was in the open class and they and they called him in the top six, he would fill out and and look like a top six guy. Seriously, he he just thrives off off the energy uh and you know, the the the the idea that he's one of the best in the world and when he gets the calls, his body comes alive. The figure uh finals will be tomorrow night, but the bikini finals were tonight. We saw a new champion crowned in the way of Courtney King. Uh Courtney King is the new bikini Olympia champ defeating Ashley Cultwer and Angelica Texera who finishes in the second position. And we also had a uh repeat of the fitness Olympia champ and Oxana Graina comes in once again and and dominates that field in rather splendid fashion and uh with a great routine again. So congratulations her on the win. Tomorrow night we'll be back with the figure finals, the 212 finals and the men's open. And of course, we'll be at the expo tomorrow afternoon with the men's physique, women's physique finals, and classic physique Olympia. So guys, stay tuned all weekend long to rxmuscle.com. I'm Dave Palumbo with Chris, the technician Aceto.