Palomo here with an RX Muscle rant. I guess you guys have seen it by now. Phil Heath's girlfriend has posted an update about what's going on with the seventime Mr. Olympia champ. He had some hernia surgery done. I know a lot of people out there were complaining about his stomach being protruding, him having that umbilical hernia that was visibly evident. Uh I was critical of that. I I didn't think his abdomen was as bad as people were saying, but according to the doctors and according to what uh Phil's girlfriend has reported, he had a significant hernia there. And as you know, when you have a hole in the abdominal wall, your intestines can kind of pop through. And from what the doctors were telling uh her postsurgery, Phil was experiencing that his intestines were sticking through slightly. And obviously, that could always lead to strangulation of of the intestinal tract. Matter of fact, my dad had that happen recently. He hadn't gone to the bathroom in like 3 days and people were uh he was complaining of pain and everyone thought he was being hypochondric as usual. But it turned out he had strangulation of his intestine and they had to push that back in. Uh he didn't have the surgery. Uh but then again, he's not getting up on the Olympia stage anytime soon. So Phil has had the surgery. Hopefully that will at least solve the umbilical hernia portion that was kind of sticking out of his belly button. And you know, as far as will his abdomen be flat, that's not going to really happen from hernia surgery. You know, abdominal distension can be done can be caused by multiple things from, you know, having too much retained fecal matter because you're not using a fiber supplement, from not controlling your midsection on stage, from having excessive fluid retention sometimes. Obviously, Phil was really dry and hard. I don't think that was what it was. It might have been hard for him to control his midsection because of the hernia. That is a possibility. So, because I've never really seen Phil have too many problems in that area. All I know is that when he gets that umbilical hernia fixed, now that it is fixed, I should say, and he recovers by next year, he won't have that thing popping out. I know a lot of other bodybuilds have had the surgery done, myself included, Kai Green, Dennis Wolf. So, it's a common surgery to have among body balls. As we get bigger, you know, that umbilical area uh is is weak. And the reason it's weak is because when you're, you know, when you're uh in your mommy's tummy, so to speak, there's a there's an umbilical cord that goes there, and that's what's providing nutrients. So, there's actually a hole in the abdominal wall. uh when you uh are born that whole you know closes up theoretically uh when the and then the umbilical cord falls off when it dries up but the problem is a lot of times it doesn't close completely and you know as bodybuilders we get so big and our musculature gets so strong that that becomes a weak point and a lot of times that will open up and I'm surprised you know more bodybuilders don't have them but Phil obviously has gotten that surgically taken care of it and I think it's going to give a much more aesthetic and pleasing look to his midsection the rest of them is great you know So things happen. Uh he snuck by. He won the Olympia this year. Obviously, he brought a tremendous look to the stage. Uh the fact that he's going to come back next year and probably look better than he did this year now that he's had the surgery done is going to only make him that much more dangerous. So, um I'm sure Phil is going to feel much more confident going up on stage knowing that that thing cosmetically is not there. Like I said, the abdominal distension guys get that's not going to be solved by any kind of hernia surgery. And you could explain it any way you want. That's just not going to happen. But once again, if Phil works hard at controlling the midsection on stage, I I think that it's not going to be an issue. Uh it hasn't ever really been an issue for him. Uh but as you can see, it can happen to any bodybuilder. I mean, we saw Dexter having some problems with it this year, and he's certainly not the biggest guy on stage. So, it's not a size thing. Sometimes guys just don't control it. They're having some kind of an issue going on in their midsection or in their uh GI system. uh they ate something that's not agreeing with them sitting right or they haven't been able to like I said a lot of bodybuilds the last couple days can't go to the bathroom because they start eating a lot of carbs it's dry it it makes the uh your your I guess you could say the fecal waste going through your colon much harder to move it stagnates a lot of times then we dehydrate ourselves on top of that the last day or two so it's the perfect storm of of of causing you know abdominal distension so my suggestion uh not that I'm trying to sell my own products But fiberize twice a day, guys, the whole diet. Okay, you should be using it all year round, but at least the last especially that last six weeks. And I always have guys the last day before the show, use it three times a day because it will make sure that everything's moving efficiently through your uh intestinal tract uh so that you don't have that that that worst thing I could I could that I experienced when I used to compete, this is before I knew about fiber, was not being able to go to the bathroom before I got out on stage. It was like I couldn't vacuum my stomach. I felt like I had something in there. It's a terrible feeling. And I know a lot of women experience it. I work with them as well. Guys, fiber, that's the key. And you got to use the right type of fiber. You need a soluble and insoluble fiber supplement. Uh, like I said, give Fiber a try. I promise you, you will not be disappointed. Phil, I'm glad you got the surgery. Best of luck in healing up quickly. We want to see you back on stage. Maybe one of these days you'll shock us and show up at the Arnold Classic in Ohio. I know people would love to see that, but uh obviously that's not going to happen with the surgery just taking place. Um look, number eight is last year is next year. Lee Haney and Ronnie Coleman better watch out because if Phil ties you, number nine is right around the corner. All right, I'm Dave Palumbo with another RX Muscle Rant. Stay tuned to all the programming on rxmuscle.com. And if you haven't subscribed to our YouTube channel, hit subscribe now.