Welcome back to Iron Rage, brought to you by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo, your host of the evening, and I'm joined by the rager of ragers himself, my cohort in crime, John Ramano. Welcome, my friend. What's up? What's up, Dave? I like the green shirt you got on. It's it's uh it's very vibrant today. It was on top. It seems like it's it's it's lit on fire, which is good because we have a very uh a very controversial topic to talk about this week. Uh it's been all the rage. Uh let me give a little background first of all. One of the uh the athletes over there at the shreds supplement company by he calls himself Devin Muscle I believe he uh what what's that Johnny physique? Oh Devon physique. I'm sorry. Okay. But his name is Devin. He uh was confronted by a bunch of fans saying that uh they they detected that he was photoshopping his images that he was putting up to to to say how great the products worked and everything like that. and they they put up a pro they put up a comparison of before and after and they showed how the same picture was doctorred up and he and he went online and he actually admitted he goes, "Yeah, yeah, these are photoshopped pictures." And I guess when he did that, the owner of the company, Arvin L, uh got pissed off at him and he fired him for for doing that. And then he went online and tried to do some kind of a justification video as to why he fired this guy. Now, I don't give a [\h__\h] if the guy was fired or not. That that's his beef with Arvin, obviously. The question, John, is photoshopping of pictures. You and I both know it's been being done for 30 years. Blackman invented the [\h__\h] technique. Um, is it wrong or is it right or does it not matter? Well, there there's photoshopping and then there's photoshopping. I mean, it's one thing to, you know, take out, you know, some wrinkles or some little fold of skin or a blemish or a scar or, you know, a hairy mold or, you know, whatever. But, I mean, you know, to make something look more aesthetic, but, you know, it's it's you mentioned Blackman. what you know he he's the master of you know inflating body parts to make them look bigger and and you know unrealistically you know you know changed for the for the quote unquote better and it was you know that Superman shot of him like this you know when he's got you know 28 in arms when the guy weighs you know 122 soaking wet so I mean that's that's extreme photoshopping but I mean I've seen it we've seen it done for years years and years and years I mean you You know, it just it depends on how it's done. If it's done to to make a photo look better, to remove blemishes and imperfections, that's been that's been done since when they used to call it airbrushing, right? But what the negative, right? But John, what about the fact if you're trying to sell a product to someone and you're showing these pictures and you're making the guy's waist two, three inches smaller, you're making his legs bigger, you're making him look his coloring better, his conditioning better, you're etching his abs. I mean, isn't that false advertising? People are pissed off. Look, I've been saying it for years. All these companies are full of [\h__\h] with their marketing. They're the most deceptive marketing employees out there. Now, everyone's getting pissed off because they're doctoring pictures. That's nothing new. How about doctoring the actual supplements themselves, but but that's another topic. We can go on, but let's talk about the pictures. Is it deceptive marketing to show pictures of people that don't look as good as they really look? Absolutely. It is deceptive. Of course, it is. It's it's it's the ultimate deception in it in and of itself. Here you have a photo, you know, of a guy who looks like whatever and then 20 minutes later you have him again and uh you know, he looks 20 times better. You brought it up before we started and bigger, stronger, faster. We even showed it how how uh you know air photoshopping is is employed in a variety of of ways advertising magazine articles whatever to to you know look at Blechman the way he photoshops the covers of all his magazines. I mean he he did that one to Jay Cutler and I was like what do you need to photoshop Jay Cutler for? I mean, the guy weighs 300 lb at 5'9 and you got to Photoshop him. Seriously, you know, ah, it's got to look better. It's got to look awesome, you know? It's stupid. I mean, leave it for what it is, right? You got you got these guys. I mean, they're they're the best in the world. You don't need to Photoshop, but if you're photoshopping an image to create an illusion that a product is working or is doing something, that's absolutely false advertising. Yeah. And you know what the what you were referencing before is the movie Bigger Stronger Faster uh showed a segment in there where they actually took a person and they actually shot the before and after photo on the same day. They just doed it with Photoshop and it was amazing the transformation. The person didn't dye it at all. They just completely changed how the person looked with Photoshop and I was flabbergasted by it. You know, it really struck me that that that that Photoshop is that strong of a of a program. After that, obviously, I've seen some of Panel's uh Photoshop work where he blows up a tricep or or some pecs or he makes a smaller waist. Um I think one of the covers also, didn't Blackman do a um Fitness RX for women cover with Kim Kardashian and and she was fat and out of shape and they had to like make her look good for the cover. That was some serious Photoshop work, right? In a dress. They had her in a dress. Who puts who puts who puts a model on the cover of a fitness magazine in a fulllength dress? She was, you know, she was out of shape. Yeah, she was. We're really out of shape. And they photoshopped the crap out of it. And actually, you know, that was before Kardashian got really really, you know, Yeah. I want to say big, but I It's not a pun, right? But, you know, when she was still like very, you know, still hanging out with Paris Hilton vomiting all over her, um, there was uh, you know, he was going to be the new next big sensation and yeah, she was photoshopped like crazy. Made her waist smaller and, you know, fixed her face and did all kind, you know, the stuff she ultimately did later in real life. So, you know, the we get back to the original, you know, topic, um, photoshopping, changing the way someone looks, deceiving the public. Why do you think that the people on social media are so outraged by the fact that this kid admitted that he actually had his pictures photoshopped? I mean, I mean, it was pretty I thought it was pretty bold that he actually admitted it and said, "Hey, yeah, you know, this this is just the way it is. You know, I still I look good, but I look better here because they they fixed a few things on me." It's like filters on Instagram. Yeah. The social media the social media community has been augmenting their photos since day one. You know, even taking your photo from, you know, up here, you know, looking down Yeah. is is gives you a uh you know, when you do your selfie like that gives you an illusion, you know. Um there's all kinds of ways that you know, people have been doing this since the beginning of social media. So, I don't know what the big deal about it is. I mean, it's I I I think market perspective, if you're marketing a a product that's supposed to have an a a a specific effect and you're cheating and making that effect apparent by virtue of Photoshop rather than real life, you're absolutely deceiving the public. But if you're doing the same thing as putting a filter on your photo or, you know, to make yourself look more, you know, more defined or, you know, less, you know, white or or more, you know, grainy or whatever, you know, I think that's just part of the deal. But I think that that's a totally separate issue. As far as advertising and marketing goes, it's completely deceptive. All right, here's let's take another angle of this uh of this debate. Obviously, a lot of people are talking about specifically this Shreds uh episode that happened. Uh was Arvin L, the owner of Shreds, wrong to fire this Devon kid for admitting that he was photoshopped, his pictures were photoshopped. Absolutely. Absolutely wrong. You got Look, it's the way it is. You got You know what's wrong with telling the truth, you know? I mean, if it's it's it's and it also depends on the extent of the photoshopping. I didn't see the pictures and I I can't tell you, you know, exactly what he did, but I'm sure, you know, it's he enhanced the photos to make them look better, which everybody does. So, to fire somebody for letting the cat out of the bag, that's that everybody has. I mean, I think it's really stupid. I mean, the the idea that I mean, if he's trying to say, "Look, the product doesn't work at all." I mean, the only way it looks like it did work is because we photoshopped the photos, that's one thing. But if you're if you're giving a testament to the fact that this product works and the photo is a little bit enhanced just to make it look better. Um, you know, everybody does that. There's not a there's not a company out there that's not doing that. So to fire somebody over admitting that is absolutely ludicrous. Do you think that this will hurt the company Shred's reputation and uh the people who buy the product because of this? Probably not. Why do you say that? Because people are shallow. They don't give a [\h__\h] I mean, they want, you know, if they think the product is going to work, you know, they're going to have they're going to put more credence on the hope that it's going to work versus the, you know, the the allegation that the that that the photo that the model in in the ad was photoshopped. Yeah. I mean, they'll take testimonials over over, you know, photos any day of the week. But do you think that the people who buy products are going to say, "Hey, you know what? I'm not going to support this guy who fired this kid for being honest. You know, maybe that would be nice if if uh you know, the community stood up for each other and did that every once in a while. That would be nice. Or at least or at least rally to get the guy, you know, hired back. I mean, he didn't do anything. All he did was admit the truth. You This is the day and age we're in now, Dave. You tell the truth, you get in trouble. You lie, cheat, steal, and do whatever you can to get by and and and nobody blinks an eye. It's just a It's ridicul. Look at Hillary Clinton, the career criminal since Watergate. She's ready to get indicted and she's running for president. Nobody gives a [\h__\h] So, you know, I I I I think it's a sad commentary on on society today that, you know, liars, cheaters, stealers, robbers, criminals are given a pass, you know, but god forbid you tell the truth. And that's, you know, that's terrible. The the thing that really gets me is that, you know, the whole thing about reality TV, reality, social media, people like to see, they don't want to see the the the magazine covers. They want to see the selfie in the mirror in the first thing in the morning. Um, that seems to be the new thing that people look forward to. I think you can get more of a like by taking a a picture of your butt in the mirror in the morning than you could by having the sexiest photo shoot in a magazine spread. Yet, people are now taking the uh the realism or the reality TV aspect or the reality social media aspect and now they're turning it into what magazines had become that we all hated. It it it's like it's like we're going back to what we hated and we're abandoning what was so pure about social media in the first place, which was what? The fact that it was real. Yep. Yeah. It was reality. It was the ultimate reality show was social media. But now it's you can look, you know, from fake accounts to fake photos. just people that have, you know, they'll they'll start an account, a guy, he'll start an account with a girl's picture and then, you know, he'll change it and then, you know, there's so many phony accounts, phony people, fake names, fake pictures, fake everything. It's it's a it's a you know, it's a minefield out there of of of, you know, of of false advertising and false representation, right? But, you know, think about what made Dana Lynn Bailey the star that she was. It was that her and her husband went online. They put just goofy pictures of themselves on there. They put real videos from wherever they were. Nothing was doctorred. And people just rally behind them because it was so real. And they love reality TV. I watch people watch reality TV. I'm like, I can't believe they enjoyed this. They watch reality TV about people that aren't even entertaining. They're not even anything different. They're they're average people. People love realism out there. So now, uh I think that's what the outrage is. People don't want to see doctorred pictures. They don't want to see they don't want to be deceived. They want the real thing. And I think that uh it's a it was a big huge mistake uh for Shreds to be doing that. I I I think that's why people don't read magazines anymore because they know it's like fantasy land. They like reality social media. Well, you know, reality TV isn't reality TV either. All those reality shows are scripted, too, you know. Yeah, that's true. But but but it's kind of real. You know what I In a sense, in a sense, but not really. I mean, you know, the the the first reality TV show that really took off was OC, you know, American Choppers, right? And, you know, Big Paul was going like yelling and screaming and throwing [\h__\h] That was all scripted. We found out later, right? But I think he really yells at his kids anyway because they don't talk anymore. Yeah. Yeah. Ex. Yeah. Then they're all millionaires because they they they live the lie. I mean, look at Kardashian and Bruce Jenner and and you know, Paris Hilton in the beginning. I mean, there was all all of those, you know, Jersey Shore of stuff. All of that stuff was scripted. And, you know, people are sitting in their living rooms thinking it's real life. It's not. You know, the news isn't even real life anymore. I mean, you to find reality anymore, you got to look under a freaking rock. Yeah. It's it's it's uh the purism of what social media was intended to be and what it started being. It was changed. But I I think people are going to fight against that. I really do. I think people would rather see a undoceded picture. I like I've seen women post pictures of themselves with no makeup on like some stars and those pictures get a gazillion hits because people want to see that these celebrities or in our industry the athletes that are celebrities are real people because then they can relate to them better. Well, go back to the Dana Lyn Bailey example you gave, you know, a minute ago. They they they got super famous for two reasons. One is is that Dana was unbelievably strong and they had videos of her doing, you know, bench presses and dumbbell presses within weights guys couldn't lift, you know, and she's 5 foot one little, you know, 120 pound girl. And um and they gave it all away for free. They never charged anybody a membership or anything. So, you know, they blew up on YouTube and and they were the originators of reality in in our industry because nothing was fake. The plates weren't fake. The lifts were real. Everything was real. You know, now fast forward to today, you got people, you know, they put on 10 and shooted from an angle. They look like 45s. You know, the weights are fake. The the lifts are assisted. You can't see the ends of the bars, so you can't see the people on the end lifting it up. Everybody's out there trying to make themselves look bigger and better and better than they really are. And it's pathetic, you know? Just be real. That's all. It's fixiation training. It's fxiation, guys. The bottom line of the debate is, do you think do you think that people should not photoshop pictures? Do you think it's inauthentic? Do you like people who who who photoshop files or show photoshop pictures or change their pictures so that they look more pleasant to the eyes? What are your opinions? That's what we want to know. Comment below if you like this show and you like all the programming on RX Muscle. Subscribe because we're going to have a lot more and a lot more opinions. The iron rage never stops here at rxmuscle.com. I want to thank John Romano for coming on once again. We'll be back next Wednesday once again for Iron Rage. For now, I'm Dave Palumbo. We'll see you next time. Later