Hi everybody. I'm posing coach. My name is Kenny Wallik and I have three major tips for just anybody who's going to be out there that can cover all categories. The number one tip I have is to try to look structurally perfect. Meaning, you want to try to keep your shoulders from going into your ears in any position, whether it's a quarter turn or a mandatory pose. You definitely want to keep your shoulders out of your ears. Keep them nice and level. This way, it adds to you being structurally perfect. Secondly, what kind of everybody does, and I'm just going to let it know right now, is fidgeting on stage. You need to stand still when you're hitting a pose. You can't fidget, move your shoulders, move your arms, move your fingers. It's very It's really not becoming to the pose. It's not professional. And quite frankly, it's very annoying. So, please, no more fidgeting. I see it all the time. Please, I'm going to work with the legs now, okay? Try to keep from looking bow-legged. I see every a lot of people looking bow-legged, whether it's uh a bodybuilder, a figure girl, women's physique. Try to not have a a bow-legged appearance on stage. Try to keep your knees relatively straight. Okay? Yes. Do you want to show outer quad sweep? Absolutely. But try to try to maneuver it in the mirror where you could still get quad sweep on the outside and not look blegged. Okay? Just a matter of probably not squatting down as much. So you go from a locked leg position just unlock your legs and it should pop right out and you won't have that bow-legged appearance. Also to help it out, you may want to just kind of watch where your feet are to so keep your line in uh in alignment with your b your legs with alignment with the body and you should be right there. Okay, so those are my three major points. And also one more thing real quick, keep your rib cage up. When you're showing a pose, you want to stay nice and big and structurally perfect. Again, when you're sunken down shoulder abs, it diminishes the whole post. It makes you look small. So, don't do that either. So, there's four for the price of three. I can guarantee everybody that you will never ever lose a show because you pose too well. That I can guarantee. And there's one thing I can also say. You can definitely lose a show because you're not posing well. Okay? So, take that, put it in your brain, and think of that every time you practice. Okay? Once again, everybody, my name is Kenny Wallik. posing coach and you can contact me at posingbykenny.com. Thanks everybody.