Dave Palumbo here, the massage gun guru. Seems like lately everyone wants me to review their massage guns, and I got yet another one in the mail today from a company. This is the Miback Chic. I'd love to show you the box. Sometimes these boxes are really nice. They put a lot of money into these boxes. Let's Let's open this thing up. Nice little case they got here. The Mi Back Chic. Write the name right on it there. Um, you got to have a good case cuz my You should see my son throw these things around. These cases have to be able to protect these these massage guns. All right, so we got this. We got the little Comes with the little instruction booklet here and all the little stuff in there. I don't read instruction booklets. I'm I'm the massage gun guru. I know all about massage guns already. Here's a little This is kind of cool. This is your big your big heads for the massage gun. Here's the the smaller heads right here. I call this the bullet head. This is like the jackhammer head. This is the uh the head you kind of use Um, if you want to, you know, go between, if here's your spine, you kind of go on each side of your spine. You almost can get a chiropractic adjustment out of this one. And this is another little, this is almost like this head. It's almost like a jackhammer head. To be honest with you, 90% of the massaging massage gunning I do is with this round head. This is the most comfortable one. So, I use this one mostly. You have a It's a obviously rechargeable this unit. You can plug it right into your wall right here and charge it up. It charges pretty quickly. It actually come I like the ones that actually come with a little charger already in them so I don't have to charge them up. You just pop this on here. It's very easy to change the heads on these guns. This one is is is less than 2 lbs. It's actually it looks big but it's actually pretty light. Uh it's got the switch on the bottom. You switch it on and then on the top you can kind of dial in how fast you want this thing to be. Now I used this a little bit before uh and I got to tell you what I like about this and what makes this a little different. I like that. I like how you hold it. It's got a very comfortable handle. It's uh it's pretty cool looking, too. It's very high-tech looking. But more importantly, this one might be the strongest one that I've used. And uh I've used some strong ones, but once again, you can dial up how strong you want here. I Tyler couldn't believe how how fast this thing was going before. And once again, you put up goes faster. Low. Now that's on good. Switch it on. But this thing is very very powerful. And you you might not want to start. I like to go right to the hardest one, but this thing is is is so powerful that when I feel it, and I've used these things before, remember, I've used a lot of massage guns. This is the most powerful massage gun I've used so far, the Mi Back Chic. Um, so if you're if you really, you know, have a lot of muscle and you got to get deep penetration with the gun, and everyone's going to make fun of the word penetration, this is it. If you want to do shoulders, this is actually a good head to use because it's flat. And for some reason, I find the flathead kind of will if you have any kind of lumps in your shoulder or anything like that or or any kind of um bruising or something that it kind of really kind of pounds it down and it feels better. Whereas that that the ball um massage head tends to be better to get into the back muscles, deep into the back muscles of the quads cuz it's more comfortable. This might be a little too abrasive, but for the shoulder, this one really works well. So, you can adjust. Once again, you don't have to go full strength with this thing. You can go a little less. Like if if my four-year-old son wants me to, you know, use this massage once, I keep it on a lower speed for him and he'll just, you know, he'll use it on his neck and he'll put it on his back and he's not going to wind up, you know, hurting himself or something like that. It's it's for some reason I I I don't know if I like the longer handle cuz I have a big hand. So to me, this this feels a little better. A lot of these other massage units have shorter handles and they so it's a little less comfortable for me. But, you know, once again, it really depends what you're looking for. To me, this thing, if you use it, it's like the old cardio equipment in your house. If you hang laundry on the cardio equipment, it you're gonna get no benefit from it. If you use the gun, if you buy this gun, and these are all available at amazon.com, the Miback Chic, just look for it. If you use it on a regular basis, I guarantee you, you will not need to get a massage by a person as often. When I was competing back in the day, I was getting massages once a week. If I had one of these, I probably would be getting them once a month. that that's how good this is. And if you have someone else who can do your back, you know, and once again, it's not a pain in the neck to do this on someone else because all you got to do is turn it on and just hold it on the person. Whereas, you know, in the past, I've had to ask people, oh, you can rub my back and you do this or my my feet. Now, you can do it yourself. I sit there watching TV, I get my foot out, I'll do the bottom of my foot because I have a little planttoitis I want to work out. And once again, you find that you find the head that's more comfortable. For the feet, this this is something I I use a lot, too, because it kind of gets a little bit slightly it's smaller and my feet are smaller. You can change these up, but the bottom line is you have to use the unit. If you're going to use it and you and you're sore on a regular basis, you need to help and massage is something that you just can't afford on a regular basis. I'm telling you, these guns are absolutely worth their weight and gold. The Miback Chic. Check it out at amazon.com.