What are we doing here? It's just Valentino Palumbo on me. You figure it out. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution week and a half just came out. Look at that. I love it. And we're back for another installment of After Hours with the Whack Pack. I'm Dave Palumbo live here with John Romano and Greg Valentino. Wow. This is When was the last time we had this little This is the core group right here. There you go. Way back in. We're like the Muscle Mob all over. The muscle mob. Remember that [\h__\h] Does anyone remember that? Should we tell that story for people? That's how it all started. Yeah. I mean, think about it. So, I'll I'll start and then John, you can add you guys can add in because I had to assassinate. I'm just going to go pee while you start then. I'm listen. Oh, he's just like he's my father like a cat. No, he has no interest, John, anything unless he's talking, you know? Right. I know. Exactly. So, we we started Muscular Development Online. um the ma the I guess as Blech would say the digital version of it in 2006 and and we had to come up with a with a radio show. There was no video at the time. You can just do radio and uh Dan Solomon and Bob Chicarilla had body pro bodybuilding weekly. So we had a you know challenge them. So we came up with this idea we was going to be John uh Greg and I and we called ourselves the muscle mob. No, there was that other dude too. What was um I don't think was Oh, Larry Pepe. Larry Pepe. remember he he got so grossed out by Greg he goes I can't do this anymore. Yes. So Larry was a straight Larry's a great guy. He's a lawyer. Lives straight shooter guy like very knowledgeable fact knowledgeable. And so it was Larry you me and and then we added Greg and I wish I had that. I'm sure black and I threw it out. Remember that big uh Jerry Beck drew like a character of all of us. Yes. Yes. I remember that. You do have it. Yeah. No. You had that big banner I had on the wall bat and there was something like that. Yeah, it's a drawing. Hold on. You have that big poster I had on the wall at muscular development. Yeah. Yeah. Oh my. You got to get If you're not using it, I want it. I want to pay to Wait a minute. Wait. Hold it. Well, I don't have the actual physical picture. I have the video like the uh the picture of it. Like the like you have the digital image of it. Yeah. Can you send that to me? Email it to me. I will pay to have that restored, printed, whatever. Yeah, I'll print it out. We'll and we'll make uh God one of those. That's a great caricature. Yeah, I'll dig it out. It was very good. Very well drawn. Everything that did a great job. Crazy job. Yeah, I blew it up the size of the wall and I had the whole wall at the muscle development office was that thing. So, I remember I and I remember driving that guy Larry crazy. Who? Who? Who was he? Larry. No, he quit the show because of you. Yeah. Lar. Yeah. Not Not our Larry. So Larry, no, not all Larry. No, Larry Pepper, right? No. Quit the muscle the the Noble Radio Show because Greg was like telling like probably [\h__\h] No, he was talking about hitting somebody in the can and pulling his pulling his his uh his the same stuff we still talk about, Josh. He got out and it had broccoli on it or something. Yeah, that's that's right. That's right. Larry just got Lar I mean Larry, God bless him, straight as an arrow, but yeah, you know, he that was just too much for him. I remember that. You know what it was, John? He thought it was going to be a straight news show. And he didn't understand that that you that our whole shtick is we need to have some comedy in No, it's now I'm remembering it. It was a t Greg made a tape and he had to squeak in bed like I don't even remember that going on for like ever. And then and then he pull and then he's like, "What's that?" Ah, broccoli. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's in the days when he recorded it somewhere. Yeah. I remember that. That was [\h__\h] I remember him going nuts. That guy speed. Larry. Another Larry. You remember when the speed that Greg spoke was probably three times as fast as he does now. He was He was like in a That was like his mode, you know? He was just Yeah. Well, we were doing it on the phones. That's why there was no We didn't like on the phones. You We had to call in. Yes. To Voice America. Yeah. We had $210 a show, John. That's how expensive it was. I remember. And you know what? And what was really funny, they said by their metrics, one of our biggest markets was the gaming guys. Gamers would watch our show. I got to remember there weren't any podcasts back then. There was like 10 podcast. It was I never even knew what the [\h__\h] podcast was. We called it the radio show. But you remember one time I you remember you guys I would you would call me on I'd come on as Mrs. Coleman's mother and all this not treating us so well. You know what I mean? And I would go on and I do all this [\h__\h] You did everything that was politically incorrect. We would have been we would have been banned probably. These are like memories that get jarred. I haven't thought of that in 10 years 20 years whatever. had all those shows. John Jeff the producer had downloaded all those shows. God knows where he is now, but he had he had a file of all the old heavy muscle radio. Does he really Noble radio shows? Yeah, dude. Do you remember one time I I was like uh we you had you were interviewing Branch Warren and then you brought on Oh, Bridge Ronnie Coleman's mother she's wants to talk to and I was like Bring got cone nuts for your teeth and I was like saying all this [\h__\h] up [\h__\h] You know that when I saw Branch later on he was actually really pissed at me and I had to tell Bridge it was all a joke. We were you know and because he was really because I was like going on and on and on. I would do the Rick Cole me and you know we remember that remember that impress impression impersonator that did Arnold's voice and we called Blechman and left a message. Yeah, but that was when we had Noble Radio already. That we already left muscular. That guy was good man. He Jeff knew this guy. He did he did Arnold impersonations. He was perfect because he thought it was him and yeah he called but we called tattoo up. Remember said it was Dairo and Dairo. He goes don't go anywhere. Well then what happened was stay home. Don't go anywhere. Tattoo Timmy wanted to get into into acting and so we had Dairo call him and tell him he had a role for him. Wait, wait. People don't know Tattoo Timmy. He's tattoo Timmy because his face is tattooed black. Solid tattoo like his face helmet or something. Yeah, like a helic. Yeah, you got to get a picture of tattoo. Dude, I went to [\h__\h] uh I did a video with him and I followed him into the urinal and I was like, "Is that thing tattooed?" And he goes, "Yes, it is." You know, [\h__\h] around. He's one of the great He's one of the great very I love tattoos. Very good. ran I ran into him in Venice a few months ago when I was out there and he he has a dog walking business. He makes a fortune out there. Smart guy. He's you know I used to watch uh read your uh Rambling Freak when I was in prison back in uh God when was that 80s and uh every month I get that magazine. I'd read it cover to cover but I remember his particular uh column. I'd laugh my ass off the whole time. Thank you. I used to talk to the guys in jail all the time. You know what I mean? Because uh Yeah, we had I had a bags big bags of like I had a guy write to me tell me, you know, you don't know I was going to kill the guy in the cell next to me because he he raped this this other guy because he had a [\h__\h] in a colostomy hole, right? Because the guy shot a cop and a kid had a colostomy hole. I had the whole paper. I let I let Chris Bell read it when we did the movie uh Bigger, Stronger, Faster. And and and uh he was like, "Holy [\h__\h] this is the cuz the guy's like, "Oh yeah, they shot this kid. You know, he's in my cell next to me and you know they the the brothers rape him every [\h__\h] night in the colostomy hole." And he goes, "I was going to kill the brother." Can we not talk about this? I'm getting like nauseous. Can you Why do you have to bring up the grossest story of all time? I'm sorry, but it was [\h__\h] the I'm just trying to show you. Can you give us a better story of motivation? Chris Bell was like, "Holy, he I had a garbage bag full of [\h__\h] notes and like letters that people That's tattoo by the way. I don't want to hear the story. You're getting me I'm getting upset by the story." I was trying to segue into, you know, I used to get a lot of snail mail from guys in prison. You know, would help them with their diet. Why is Why is Mr. G in the comments, but he's not in in the show. It's technology by Mr. G. That's right. You know, Mr. G yesterday, he did a video of him. I sent it to Mr. G. You see the video of Mr. G yesterday standing in a swimming pool with a shirt on, rowing with no boat like this, and he was teaching them how to row. Did you see that? He's in great shape. Yeah, I love he's he did ask me to do a commercial for his uh for for the Lion's Mane cookies. Uh the coffee and lion's mane chocolate chip cookies he made. They were unbelievable. Matter of fact, everyone who comes to my office here, I'm always I'm always like offering these cookies to them, especially if they come here to help me do some work because they got caffeine in them, the caffeinated ones. And Oh, really? They are great. They they they taste better than any cookie I've ever eaten. Like, you know, like they're so they're so good. I don't know if it's the coffee with the with the little bit of mushroom. It has a little kick as Emerald Legosi was has a little kick to it. But they are absolutely delicious. So, do you have a t do you have a table set up there with a with a fitness girl cutting them into pieces? He he better bring he better bring a hot girl with him or at least find one in in Montgomery, Alabama for June 21st. Yeah, but Whoa, whoa, whoa. Whose definition of hot? Uh, not his. He's funny. No, he's got good taste. Mr. G's got good taste. I've never seen George with an ugly girl ever. Good. Good. God bless. George is funny. George, you gota get a hot girl to work the booth in Oklahoma. I got You got to bring cookies. Well, the boo whose booth your booth. Not Oklahoma. Alabama. Alabama. Excuse me. Alabama. Why do I Why do I need a hot girl to to come to my booth? Because you got to get She's going to cut the cookie in little pieces and so everybody can have a taste, you know, like at like at the like Well, that's that's that's summer. If summer comes. Well, then why can't you hire like a local to to work the booth? I'm sure this this break. Oh, okay. Hold on. I got to All right. Since you let's let's put it out there. A fan of the show. All right. Any any any fan I just a fan of the show. Who's ever a fan of the show? Who wants to go to the show for free? Come out, hang out with us. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, are you doing a casting call right now? What? Are you doing a casting call right now? Yes, I am. Yeah, I'm gonna Yes. Look, this is what we do, don't we? We do stuff. I mean, this is the whole idea behind the show. Do the girls have to be biological females or does it not matter as long as No, I want I want a girl who's in sh a girl who's in shape just No, this is an important question. Yes, because it's it's a very important question. Okay, you need to answer that. I want someone to be biologically female or not as long as she's good-looking. Can she be below 21? What are you Dave? What are you Why are you bringing a woman? These are hot button topics, bro. You got to stay up to speed. Yeah, this is in today's world, George. It's important. It's relevant. Matters. Gota ask these questions. All right. Uh a woman, someone o someone that's over over 20 years old. No. No. The question is biologically female. Well, that's that's a that's a given. I don't know what you guys are thinking about. We're not biologically female who pose as a female. That's not I don't know what world where in what world does that exist. the one we're living in right now. The one Let me see. How many do you see that when you're out in the world? I don't American civil liies whatever might come after you if you don't. I don't really get good. Let me come. My name is George Smallley. I live in Boca Raton. Maybe come to me. I'm a patriot. What's right? I believe in Jesus. Stephanie's. Oh, Stephanie's. We're plugging George now. George step on a cookie with a bar. Amazing. Do that. Stop. We're plugging George here. Larry Larry's Larry's coming to to Alabama. That's great. I'm glad Larry's coming. This is an opportunity for somebody out there that that's in shape. All right. And um and wants to wants to help out at the booth. Somebody. Can you define somebody? Yeah. And they'll get they'll they'll get to go into the show for free. Get to come out with Wait. Who's somebody? Hold on. Hold on. You you But you said somebody. What is somebody a woman? Okay. Biologically female. Of course. That Okay, we got it. Got to drag it out of me. He's discriminating. He's discriminating, John. Right. Gotcha. Got you. He's discriminating. John, I don't I would never discriminate. I don't What if Greg finds you like a girl that's hotter than a girl, you know? That's not really a girl. No. Someone who's in shape and and Greg, can you do a casting call for us? Put out a casting call to some all your followers, you know, that that might want to. If you look like Ariana Grande or something skinny and small like that and you're young. Oh, yeah. Let me ask Greg a question. Greg, if if we found a a really hot hot hot, you know, [\h__\h] and she was working the booth, would you have trouble, you know, being there with her in this booth with being that your girlfriend is going to be there and everything like that? No. I would [\h__\h] knock over the cookies and say, "Can you pick those up?" Well, I'm standing behind her. What? What the hell? Dave, can you imagine just for a moment that that Greg provides this super hot [\h__\h] and George uses them? I will not to uh to you know, you don't know. You won't know. Let me finish. I will not. Then, you know, some pictures get taken, some people get involved. Instagram, whatever, Tik Tok. Next thing you know, the Mr. Captain America's prote Captain Protein protein cookies are now viral. They're everywhere. They're in Bangladesh. You're curing hunger in the tribes of these bloated potbelly kids. You're doing marvelous things around the world. You're providing clean water in Tanzania. You're doing all this [\h__\h] right? And the entire pre the entire basis of the company is a hot [\h__\h] that Greg Valentino or or you're providing circumcisions in Burma. You know what I mean? That will never happen. But wait a minute. Let me ask you. Wait, let me ask you a question. What if we'll do the we'll do the Andrew Kate question. What if the train look like [\h__\h] Megan Pop, right? Going through or we get a female bodybuilder who look like Hulk Hogan. What do you Who you Who are you talking to? Are you talk are you talking resembling resembling Hulk Hogan or do you actually mean Hulk Hogan with a vet Greg Greg Greg it go it's a biological female I mean that doesn't matter what they look just what if you don't know the difference hold on a second I want to make something clear just because someone isn't born born there are people who are born with with unbelievable good looks and some that are not you know it it it's it's doesn't it doesn't mean that this is marketing George this is marketing we're talking about that. I know. I'm not going to. And marketing wise, I'm going to choose a a biological female. They're [\h__\h] with you, Georgia. That means one who was born with a vagina. Yes. When it comes though, I tell you what would happen. That person that that tried to to to do the fool fool me or fool us, God would get in their heart and they would they they would they would change their way. They would they would go back to their normal their normal incentive. I hate to disagree with you, but I don't. Yeah, I disagree too. Speaking of biological the cookies are delicious though. Sorry. As long as the cookies I got to tell you, I get mistaken for Brad Pitt all the time in the movie. No, the whole look the whole idea is for people who are to much is given much is required. for us, for people who are born with good looks. Born with talent in certain things. We're supposed to recognize the people that weren't weren't. What about But what about somebody like myself? I don't have talent and I'm not good looking. But I could still hand off. But you have you had the Momo gift. You have the gift to Gab. You Momos out there, you got the finger. You momos out there don't know. Stop buying the [\h__\h] cookies. You used to come out with like dimetrodine cookies. Remember the little [\h__\h] efforts and [\h__\h] The tiny little Yeah, that's a good idea. Instead of an energy shot, an energy cookie, George. Yeah. Or VPX. [\h__\h] Well, it is an energy cookie. But I mean, but marketed like an energy. No, I know it is. Dude, you don't care. Where does it say energy on it? Wait, why don't you come out with like a chicken and broccoli cookie? We could sell it to the competitors. Like they're up there. They're hungry. They haven't eaten. You say, "This part's just chicken. Eat this piece right here." And it's just chicken. And in this part, the broccoli. You know what I'm saying? Right. No, we're gonna I have a hard time with you saying broccoli anymore. I have a especially after that story, John. Yeah. I mean, just the way he enunciates the B is is like nauseating actually. Dude, if I I think I found one for you, Greg. Hold on. I mean, for George. How about this? Can this girl work the booth? It's gonna be a joke. I can guarantee you. Is that a What is that? Can she work the booth? She's available. No. Who's not? Why not? What? Why not? Tell me why. How do I know something? I'm just asking if she can work at the booth. No. All right, never mind. You're trying to trick me. Well, with an answer that profound, I think it should accomp be accompanied with an explanation. I think the best person to give 360. I think George should be God so loved the world. He gave his only begotten son that whoever What has that got to do with a [\h__\h] that wants to work the boo? Yeah. Why? Exactly. What does it have to do with Yeah. What does that got to you cheapening? You cheating by using it like that. You want to date her, but why can't she work the booth? She'll sell cookies for you. She's not a female. Who cares? So, you couldn't trick me, Dave. I didn't try to trick you. I'm just saying. Would you have that girl hand out cookies? She's not a female, Dave. I I I'm sure if you asked her, she would beg to differ with you. Okay, Dave. What's her name? All right, so you're interested. All right, I I'll send it over to you. What's her name, Dave? I'm gonna I'm gonna go on her Instagram account, right? Because I have my phone with me. Smack these cookies. That's her name. What's the What's her name, Dave? I don't know. Kimberly Star. Yeah. Oh, Kimberly Star. Is that really his name? That's at least that's what it said. Kimberly, her name is Ed Beckley. Wait, Kimberly. Now I would have Kimberly Gilfoil come there. Kim Gilfoil. Oh my god. Can you fit another tooth into that girl's mouth? She's not with Trump. Holy crap. She just I Dude, wait. You want to sell cookies? Get Ty Trump there. comfortable. Yeah. The granddaughter. The granddaughter. I think she just turned 18, didn't she? She's got She drives some kind Elon gave her some kind of souped up um Cyber Truck that goes like Dude, that's a good looking girl. Holy crazy fast. Kimberly Star is her name. George, just forget about it. George, you don't know her. Don't look her up. She's about Wait, wait, wait. Here's a disaster. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Here's a disaster waiting to happen. He's gonna look her up, right? He's gonna hit what? Pornhub, you know, find out the new movie she's on. He's going to forget that it's on his phone. He's going to leave it there. His girlfriend's going to come home and see if see what the [\h__\h] are you watching? Is this what you're into now? You've been spending too much time with And then he's gonna blame me. Say Valentino. Yeah, you are. The next words out of the mouth is Valentino. It's somehow your fault. He sent that to me. I would never throw anybody under. Hold on. Before we go on to the next topic, I want to um just rem remind people that this coming weekend, my good friend uh Eileen uh who is the district chairman Eileen Calibesi uh in Oklahoma has the IFBB and NPC ProLeague uh Oklahoma ProAM this weekend, Saturday the 7th at the uh Union High School Performing Arts Center on Mingo Road in Tulsa, Oklahoma. I've been going to that show since the 90s. She does a great job. I've known her since the 90s and she's awesome. And they have a crazy crazy classic physique pro lineup there. So guys, there's a free live stream. You can check it out if you're if you're not going to be there. If you are going to be in the area, stop by. Thank you, Eileen. I love you and uh good luck with the show this weekend. The other thing I want to um bring up is the enhanced games. I know we've talked about this in the past, but they I guess they're official now. They're coming to Las Vegas in 2026. That is the Olympics that will not drug test. They actually encourage you to take performance-enhancing drugs. And they've been, you know, putting a couple. Some guy just broke the world swim record. He's all jacked up out of on finally. I want to ask you I want to ask you guys a question though about it. Do you think this will you will will get the best athletes in the world or are guys gonna say I don't want to be stigmatized as being a a drug using it? All depends on the scutar. That's what I think too. There's a Saudi prince or some kind of Saudi royalty is behind the money in this game. So I'm assuming there's going to be some cash available. If if there's big money then then they're jumping in. No doubt about what they should do is I don't know if they're giving away cash prizes but that would really get people there, right? I think it's going to be like the um when Vince McMahon brought that bodybuilding uh federation that he was trying to start off they're pleased to confirm that the first athlete to set new world records for the 100 meter sprint and the 50 meter freestyle will receive $1 million. Yeah, people are going to just try to decide if it's going to be a like an ongoing thing that they're going to be able to keep going and making money at it or if it's going to be a oneoff and then they're going to and it's going to be shut down. I I think that the guys who compete in the Olympics will be better than the guys who compete in the enhanced games even though the guys in the Olympics are quote clean. I agree 100% they're going to be better because Dave that is a brilliant point. I agree I just brought up because what we have now is the enhanced games, right? Okay. There's no there's no such thing as the unenhanced games, right? Okay. So, so that that's a very good point. Now, what you have you have one division that says, "Okay, no rules. Do whatever you want." So, you're going to have the real extreme use of it, but the limiting factor in the in the current in the current situation, the current lineup is that it's they're jacked, but not as jacked as they could be because you got to be really careful. You have times you have to work around. You have, you know, it's going to slow you down, too. Yeah. I mean, you got to be really, really, there's a lot of timing involved. It's very difficult to pass a drug test these days, but it's absolutely still possible. Sometimes less drugs is better when it comes. There's actually a good point. Another good point. There are actually rules in the enhanced game. So, you can't just do whatever you want. Why not? There's my my good friend GMO Escalante, who's a a medical doctor, who's also a competitive bodybuilder I've known forever. I'm going to be interviewing him next week about this. And he's on their board. And in order to compete, you actually have to get blood work done and submit health uh things to the board or whatever it is. And if they don't test out healthy, then they're not going to be able to compete. Well, what what are they? Yeah, but the question is what do they consider healthy? because I don't I don't know but they're they're probably going to look at hematocrit and hemoglobin and you know it's easy to go donate some blood and get but that but but John that isn't the whole idea behind enhancing to raise hemoglobin hematocrit so you can run faster and longer yeah but they don't they don't want people to drop dead in the middle of the game well then who then there's no enhanced games if that happened in the tournament is not on your table then it's not the enhanced games exactly there is there is actually a plaque in the road, the exact spot. I don't remember his name, but where a tour to France rider died of a heart attack. I remember that [\h__\h] during the race. Okay, so they're all enhanced. Yes, it's got to be on the table, John. Or I'm not watching the enhanced. If you're not if you're not taking a risk at an aneurysm, I'm not watching. Well, you're telling you're taking risk anyway, even if you're not doing drugs. No, you can train. I could train myself. I could train myself to where I don't have to eat. I don't have to drink water. I could I can run without drinking water. I could I can I can hold my breath under underwater till I pass out. Listen, who's explains it? Your win. You're going to want to win. What I'm saying is that you could train your bo you could train your mitochondria and your body without any drugs to go to go beyond beyond the mentally quick. Yeah, somebody ought to try that one of these. Run and actually run to death. Run till you die. Right. Well, they that I would pay to see run when they die. I would Wouldn't you pay to see that? It's like you get a lineup of guys, you know, on the line. Mark, it's set. Boom. Go. Boom. And you cannot stop running until you die. That's right. Right. And you win a coldin. The first guy who dies wins. Or or quit. Sean, you can quit, too. No, no, no, no, no. You got to die. How? Well, not every single may die. Call the coroner. Take you away in a black cart. If you're a great dead guy who dies wins. Wasn't that like Schwarzenegger's movie The Running Man? Yeah. Yeah. Well, he got to beat people. So now, if you're a great athlete, you're not going to want to win the enhanced games. You'd rather win the Olympics. I mean, the the you get you know what that W means when you're in Olympic champ. Drugs don't matter. I don't care what you say. that no that's why the only way you're going to get people really entering this this enhanced games is to give away a shitload of money because they are doing that I'm just saying if they do that then then it'll be successful otherwise no one will go because the you get the even though the Olympics doesn't pay necessarily um maybe some countries pay but um even though it doesn't really directly pay you make money from endorsements so and it's impressive if you're g if someone's going to risk their career year as an Olympic athlete to go in the enhanced games, they got to be making some serious, you know. Yeah. You're going to tarnish you're also going to tarnish any marketability because now you guys now you now if you say say like a company like mine who sells cookies, I'm not going to want to have that guy because he he's promoting drugs. Unless the enhanced games becomes cool. I mean people smoke weed. Weed smoking is cool. That's drug. No, I don't want weed either. You got magic mushrooms in your cookie. eat my cookie and promote it. Maybe steroids will be cool. You'll be able to put steroids in your cookie. Maybe mushrooms are okay. But mushrooms are okay. What I want to see of the What I want to see is the NFL have a version that's got no rules. That would be nice. I want to see like baseball football. I want to see like can you imagine like a 300 pound you know football player who can run the 40 and like 36 you know some [\h__\h] inhuman amount inhuman number not hurting steroids in baseball is the stupidest thing it's not a contact sport who cares let them do whatever they want exactly let them baseball and football and to some degree soccer should be absolutely rung what you run what you brungg no rules absolute maximum performance whatever it takes and if you die on the field you will get a monument a mile high. It's beautiful. Listen, let me tell you what it should be. Look, Formula 1, Moto GP, Road America, all of those freaking highend high-end races, the Indy500, it's all it's all a duel with death. All right, there. It's okay to die to to face death racing a [\h__\h] car or a motorcycle. But if you're going to do it with a football helmet on, no, listen. Let me take that's stupid. If it's if you're not willing to die, if you're not willing to die, then you're not willing to listen. You should be able to you should be able to take uh anabolics, especially if if you're an older ball player. Like look at Roger Clemens at [\h__\h] 44 years old. He went from being a fat slob to looking like a marine and he was throwing gas on the mound. You know what I'm saying? Because I think he could extend an older guy's career. Now, if you're 22 years old and [\h__\h] like that, I I don't really feel you need that [\h__\h] But if you're [\h__\h] like Roger Clemens, your 40-year-old athlete, you're or 38 year old athlete, you're [\h__\h] your shit's starting to decline. I don't see what the big deal is about going on TRT. It's proven that some of these guys should do it in high school, Greg. But they have extended do they should start in high school. They should start young. The ones who have talent, the ones who have talent should be should be cultivated and nurtured and brought to like a special camp like they do in China and you know raise them like cook for them you know feed them right train them right the best trainers the best medical kidney and make a [\h__\h] monster a monster and then well trained freaking agile guy hand eye core everything make him a monster and I you want to sports explode. That's when you put monsters, like contrived manufactured, homemade monsters on the field. Then you're going to start having some fun. That's right. And you're going to get a lot more crowd. You can outramp me. Let me tell you something. You can't have fun. I learned from the best. You can't have kids on [\h__\h] teenagers. That shit's going to destroy the do it in China. Look at that. Look, you ever seen a Come on, man. In China, if you show promise at like three years old, you're gone. Their parents say they got waved goodbye. You're gone. Where? China. They did that in They did that in German in in Russia. Yeah, but those girls [\h__\h] works, man. By the time them gymnastic chicks are 17, they can't even They're [\h__\h] cooked already. It's too late. We had the one. Yeah, you got to start them young. You got to start them seven, eight years old. Don't you [\h__\h] remember Arena who was an Olympic uh uh diver from the Ukra was she where was she from, Dave? Ukraine. The girl, her name was Arena. Remember Arena Manta who who did the from Australia? Yes. Yes. Yes. They took her they they took her like four years old and and they said, "You're going to be you're going to be a world champion spring uh board diet." I think she was originally from like Ukraine or something like that, but she moved to Australia. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And at four years old, she couldn't even They threw in the water, right? And then she she I think she won the silver medal. Yeah. She was she was a great athlete. She was you got to do that's what you got to do. You got you want you want gold medals. You want win. You want big I have that girl at my booth. Where is she? I have put them on the Going back to the enhanced games. Look, John, we've had this conversation with Victor Ki. We have in at least with regard to running. Okay, track and field. Let's talk about track and field for a second. That's where all the record the glamorous records are. Right. Right. Um, regard to the the to track and field, these guys can't take too much gear because if they do, it slows them down. Also gets too big. So, what they do is they train on gear in the offseason to get stronger and build muscle. And then when they get closer to these races and these events, they actually stop it and they because it's hold making them hold extra weight. They've already built the muscle. They have the speed and the strength now and the stamina. And so they're really they don't need to take the gear, you know, while they're, you know, actually that's not completely. Now, some of them will take growth hormone for recovery purposes, but they don't need more muscle at that point. Taking too much gear actually slows them down because it makes you hold water and it it ruins your flexibility, you know, right? Your muscle that's not 100% correct. They they use windstrol and turnaball when they're competing because it doesn't hold water and actually makes them faster. Well, Tyranny definitely makes war. They the sprinters and the and the runners, they they you basically explosive um competitive sport, they use windstrol and turnaball because those two things don't make them hold any water. They don't make them put on any weight and they do make them faster and they produce more muscular endurance. Tyran Tyrannobal definitely makes you hold water. The the East German women it definitely does. It doesn't. It absolutely is Diana without the uh it doesn't aromatize. So it doesn't make you hold any water. Trust me. Take some take pyanol for a week. I take it all the time. I know. Yeah, it it definitely makes you Victor Ki was saying that they were re uh they were resurrecting [\h__\h] like Black Drone and [\h__\h] like that. That's why they were going under the radar with stuff. You know what I mean? Oh, Patrick Arnold made the the Patrick Arnold. Patrick Arnold's my boy. He discovered the clear. The clear. Yeah. He didn't he created it. this I the story I heard was that he sent it he sent a sample of it to to Victor Kanti and he said this stuff might be anabolic and um Victor took it from there. Yeah. Whether that's true or not, I don't know. He knew it was but he knew it was undetectable at the time. Yeah. Well, it wasn't undetectable. They just didn't have an they just didn't have a test for it. Right. Both of them worked for MD. Both of them. You know what I'm saying? I used to talk, matter of fact, Patrick, I used to drive him crazy because he [\h__\h] he was liberal and uh you know, he didn't like the Trump thing. But the whole I'm just saying, you know, Patrick was a genius. That guy supplements his supplements were amazing. You know what I'm saying? Very smart guy. Very very smart. Biochemist, wasn't he? Yeah, he's very great supplements. Just like the other guy with McMaholic. Who was the guy? Who was what's his name? I forget his name. the uh the overweight biochemist guy that used to work with everybody. I don't know that one. Bodybuilder. Dave, who did Osmo? Was that that was who? Osmo. Oh, yeah. I don't I don't Joe Schwarz was just at my house. He was because he worked for him, but one of those guys used to all come out with like wicked [\h__\h] too. You remember Osmo? Yes. No, I remember Bob Bottom used to sell it at his gym. Yeah, but they they were doing sketchy [\h__\h] you know. There was a lot of stuff. Not sketchy, but you know, they were coming out with like leading [\h__\h] and everything, you know. They had all that stuff. Remember they used to sell the GHB in a little bottle like this in in in uh in G of GNC and they'd have the little Coke spoon. You go in there and [\h__\h] take that GHB and people go nuts. I never Then they used to sell it as Rej and you had to go to the health rejuvenate, right? Ask for it. Blue Nitro bag. Blue Nitro. Blue Nitro. Yeah. We're we're sounding like we're we're 90 year old men repeating the same story over and over. We've had this conversation. What? Whatever happened to GHB? Can you get it anymore? I mean, the people, you know, you can get it by a prescription. It's controlled one substance. Oh, wow. That's not good. But I'm sure like that. Why would you used to get the kid? Remember? They make it for people who can't sleep at night. It's like a very rare night sleep. Cliff Young, the guy who the guy who ran the race in Australia, the the ultra ultra ultra um marathon race. He he died 22 years ago. He did. Him up. He was a farmer. He used to have sheep and he used to run. He used to go go for five days out, not sleep or run. He looked like he ran for five days. No, but he he showed up to the race. They had all these competitors from all around the world all drugged up and everything. He shows up at 61 years old wearing galashes, right? Two day race, right? And and he wins. And he didn't know that you had to that that the other guys went to sleep. He ran the whole two days non-stop. Oh, really? Oh my god. He's an Australian folklore. He's got to know who he is. He ran in big big galashes. Someone should do a movie about this guy. Yeah, that that's what I'm talking about. Here's a guy who doesn't take any drugs, just trains and and does it and is able to to keep going. No, but you know what? Ultramarathon guys. Actually, the women are better sometimes than the men in ultramarathon run. They have They're lighter. They're lighter. Yeah. Well, no, it's not that they're lighter. It's that they have more they they men burn themselves out because we don't we don't store stuff. Women are store. So, they they they retain that like body fat as they can use as fuel in their lower body. These uh but these ultramarathoners, they just it it has nothing to do with drugs. It's just how much endurance you have that you can Is that why they have fat asses? Yeah, that's where the motor is. I don't like fat asses. No big fat ass. No, there's no replacement for back to the enhanced games. Look, no tople person who has contracts and and Nike contracts and stuff like that is going to do the enhanced games unless there's a [\h__\h] boatload of money available. So, what you're going to get is you're going to get the second tier guys and women who are going to do it because they want to make the money and they know they can't beat the top tier guys in in the Olympics. So, they're going to go for that and now they're going to be able to take drugs. So, now that's going to make them better obviously. It's going to be like the uh in bodybuilding where you know the genetic freak like Ronnie Coleman would have been Mr. Olympia if there were drugs or not. Right. But then there's like that second tier of people that never would have been on the Olympia level if they if there weren't for drugs. Right. Right. And so it's g that's what it's gonna be like. It's gonna like level the playing field a little bit, but the problem is you're never going to have the enhanced games compete against the open guys unless someone creates a Super Bowl, you know, of of you know of of these games. Unless you're you're you're I agree with you. Unless I think we need to look past year one. If we're five years down the road and now the pri prize money is $5 million and it's getting incredible, you know, traction and everybody's into it, then then everybody's dropping like flies. They're going to go to the if if nobody's if it's like the WNBA then or what you might get, John, is is people like doing the enhanced games but saying, "Look, I'll you can drug test me every week. I'm I'm drug free in this drug." Like, you know what I mean? Like they'll be like natties natty or not. We'll have They're not going to win. the track event the Michael Hearn of the of the enhanced games. He's like, you know, I'm compete with these guys, but I'm natural, you know, and you can test me if you want, but uh just so they can keep their, you know, keep that honesty thing going and keep their endorsements because let's say if I'm Usain Bolt and I'm doing the Olympics and killing everyone in the Olympics and then the enhanced games come out and I know I can probably beat the 100 meter guy even though he's going to beat the 100 meter guy anyway. Those guys are not going to go in there just to win the money and say, "I I you could drug test me all you want. I'm not on any stuff. I already passed my the Olympics. The enhanced games would work great with combative sports, but not with endurance sports like running. No, it's not going to make a difference. They're going to get killed. They're going to get killed. There's no way you could do all the drugs on. There's no way you're going to beat a USA bolt. There's no way you're going to beat the long distance runners or high jump. You're just not going to do that." Now, a combative sport if they the strength sports will be a big difference. Yeah, pseudo boxing [\h__\h] like that, you might be able to pull it off. Anyone know about that neither, Greg? Boxing, you might have trouble. They should have like they should have bench press, deadlift, and um squat. They instead they're doing snatch, clean, and jerk like for they're doing the Olympic events. I think that's boring as [\h__\h] Yeah, it's boring. Those things are hard to do anyway, though. The categories are swimming, 50 meters, and 100 meters. Freestyle, uh 50 meters, and they're not going to win [\h__\h] 100 meter butterfly. Track and field is 100 meter sprint, 110 hurdles, and then weightlifting is snatch, clean, and jerk. What's the prize money, Denny? I'm looking for that. I don't see the prize. I agree with Greg. I don't think I don't think the speed sports are going to are going to No way. No way. Swimming, you're going to get killed, too. But I do Yeah, because you sink like a rock. I do like an idea of a clean snatch. Did you say it is for you? Not for you. You don't get a clean one. No, I know dirt, bro. That [\h__\h] stinks. I'm not down there, bro. Yeah, I see this guy Duza. He's on the panel here. Uh, Larry, there's only two things that smell like fish. They're just basically trying to copy the Olympics. An empty coffee can. Well, they're not they're not doing all the events. They're only doing like a couple. John, what did the blind I guess they want to test it out. What did the blind guy say when he passed the fish market? Hello, ladies. Ladies, that what I what I see missing from this website is I don't see prize money listed. They only they're only promising like a million dollars if people break, you know, the world record or something like that. But they're going to get juice heads, but they're not going to be super jacked juice heads. You know what I mean? But you got But you but you got in all fairness, Greg, you got to give them you got to give them the learning curve. You know, like when when bodybuilding comes up with a new division, it's always a mishmash in the first grows legs. And it still it still doesn't really grow legs because nobody gives two shits except for they all go to the bodybuilding show. When you go in the other shows, it's [\h__\h] It's going to fail. It's going to fail because they're not doing it right. They're not doing it right. Run the 200 meter all out. That the 200 You can a human being can only run 100 meters all out. I want to know. That's why my That's why my idea is so good. You run till you die. That's no one the endurance sports genre are like boring. Could you imagine the excitement of that? I mean, leading up to that, I mean, you're It takes too long. We need instantaneous rap. Yeah, we die immediately. That's the I want to know how many grams of caffeine is in that [\h__\h] cookie that Dave has not stopped eating making noise. You hear the rapper? I'm trying to promote I'm trying to promote he would cookies. George, where can people buy these cookies by the way? He would have muted us. That he ate that whole thing. I wanted people to know that I enjoyed I enjoyed this cookie thoroughly. Well, you got to share with the rest of the class. captainproteincookie.com. George, you would be getting a lot more mileage out of this if you'd send us all cookies at the same time. So, I know it takes a long time to write on the box, but I mean, if you cookie, it's not Charlie Arms, guys. It's not Charlie. Why doesn't anybody understand that? The guy's funny. He came on Joe Potaro show with me and he he was stark naked wearing a gorilla mask. He is funny though. And last week, Dave Dave, last week he donated here to this show. I don't know how much money. So, we have to we have to make believe. So, here's what we're going to do for Georgie. He's going to send us all cookies. And then what we're all going to do is we're going to like, you know, coffee or whatever your favorite drink is to go eat with the cookies, milk, coffee, whatever. And we're going to sit here all together and have coffee and eat the cookies and and we'll do like an infomercial for Gotcha. you know, and I and I and I guarantee you the phone is going to ring off the hook. I got I got to tell you, his his website is almost actually pretty impressive, actually. Really? Yeah. It's any of the links work. Wow. Look at that. He's got the decaf chocolate chip protein cookie with lion's mane. That's the one I'm eating. You should be selling like 20 million a week of this with right chocolate chip peanut butter cups. Nice. George, he's got the jumbo. Dave, why don't we put a pixel on the homepage for him? Yeah. Make me a banner. Give it to me. Oh, I can put that one on if you want. Give it to me. 300,000 people looking at it. Now, the only thing is where where's your top banner? Like, so people like I I take that back, John. It It does suck the website. Ah, Jesus. Got some nice Where's the Where's the menu bar? Supposed to be under after hour. What is you have a menu bar? Wait a minute. Why does it say after hours on that's No. Is that What is that? The Is that the template? I'm I'm confused. What? No. No. The after hours is our thing. Yeah, his. All right. So, here if I want to buy the cookie. So, it's 69 bucks. How many cookies do I get for that, John? Great. 12. 12 cookies and 20% off. Okay, that's good. That's by Which, by the way, 12 cookies for $70. That's That's a low price compared to what other people charge for just I'm in the wrong business. Yeah, you should be doing cookies, John. I think so. You know, I I honestly I have not Two different people have wanted to do this for me. Totally set me up and I have said no because I out of respect for George. There you go. So, thank you, John. Well, I'm gonna John, we're going to make it big and when we do, all you guys will be included. I just I just couldn't I just couldn't take that and run away with it and and you know do that to you. So, Well, you need you you know what you need. I'm getting new ovens. More ovens. That's right, Charlie. So, we're going to have the capabilities to to make more. Good. But I think in the meantime, you should send us all some of those lion. Hold on. How many? Well, John, we're going to see you in two weeks. He can give them to you in two weeks. How many? We got to do it on the show. How many cookies are you? We'll do it on this. We'll do it on the show. No. How many cookies? That's a good idea. 200. How many? 200. That's way too little. 200. You need 2,000. No, you need about You need about three 400, I would say. At this point, you want You want to bring 300 cookies? 500. How How many do you think he How many legitimately you think he can sell? You can't sell How much you going to sell them for at the show? You got to do a sale there. Yeah, I'll do a sale. How about if he had a portable oven like he used to have? Portable oven and he cooks them right there. No, he's not going to cook them there. No, because they do the Double Tree Hotel. You got to sample the cookies out so people could with toothpicks so people could try the cookies. Okay. While you're there. So you got to figure at least 30 or 40 of them are going to be sampled out, right? Maybe more. So then you have to have stuff that people buy. Now the great thing about selling these cookies at the show is that everyone is going to be done dieting and they're going to want to eat the cookies because when the show is over. So you will sell a lot of these cookies. I can promise you people buy stuff after shows because they're starving to death. And your cookies are great. They have protein in them. Uh you know it's a it's it's a healthy treat. I think you'll sell a lot of them. I would I would bring at least 300 to sell, but then you have to also have some to uh some Now, what George's arch nemesis did at the Olympia was had a table set up backstage where the competitors could take all the cookies they wanted for free. Yeah, we he can't do that. He's not that big. And in the package, there was a reorder ticket so that you could, you know, he can't do that, John. He'll go broke if he does that because he You could put the reorder ticket in there. Yeah, you should. Why? I would. Yeah. St. Why don't you each cookie staple something too? Like a little like either that or put or put a um QR code on the label. You just scan it and then you can order cookies right off his website. John, come on. This is a little too high tech. A QR code on a label. Come on, Georgie. You could do that. John, that you could ask Grock to do it for you. What a GR doesn't even know what a QR code. He can ask Brock will do it. Brock will do the whole thing. It'll lay it all out. All he has to do is press publish. I know what a barcode is, but I have no idea what a QR code is. I told you. QR code is that is that squared thing. But then you got you gota figure out you gota figure out how much is going to be your break even point that you're won't lose money but not make money and just use this as a promotion so that you can get as many cookies out as cheaply as possible. Yes. And just use this as to to promote your business. What if we what if we had Larry threaten everybody in the whole auditorium. Get a [\h__\h] cookie. Go put the line out there. Larry's not like that in person. I think you should. Larry's a good guy. What we should do is Michelle should just um give out one cookie to all the competitors. Yeah. One cookie all goodie bag or something like that. There's not that many competitors. That's a good idea with the reorder thing there. With the reorder thing in there. Yes. Make a reorder thing. Staple it to the cookie packaging. John George, let her put it in the competitor bags and then every competitor gets one cookie and then, you know, they're obviously going to love it and they're going to order more from you. I think it's a brilliant idea. All right. All they got to do is tear it off and then the other ones you sell there, you know? Right. Right. But give away one free one to all the competitors. I'm bringing the I'm bringing them on the plane with me and make a banner for for the homepage. Either that or ship them ahead of time to her. No, if I ship Hold Let me explain about if I ship them. Yeah. Unless I ship them next next day. Yeah. Right. It's going to take three days to get So, I'll just fly. We We'll we'll we'll bake them the night before and then I'm I'm going to bring them on the plane with me. Well, why can't you send them? You don't You think they'll go bad in three, four days? Well, I just want them fresh. I mean, if you got if you got orders if you got orders totaling 2,000 cookies, how how long would it take you to fill that order? 2,000 cookies. It would take me uh 3 days. Okay. All right. So, we we we got a plan then. We know what we're doing. He might be right. Cuz do you ever buy a bagel, right, from a bagel place and it's [\h__\h] fresh and it's doughy, right? One day later, the thing's already got no preservatives. No, but I'm saying fresh cooked [\h__\h] fresh baked stuff, breads, even cookies, donuts, whatever. The day too late. You see, to me, cookies get better the older they get cuz they're they get staler. So you can dunk them in the espresso. Yeah. I I was going to say, John, I actually like when they're a little crumblier. I like them crispy crispy so I can dunk them. Or you can get a little microwave there and you can nuke them like before you get them out. Yeah. Then they get soft. Yeah. Yeah. I mean they're good. They're good a week later. I mean I mean Lee Lee used to have keep the cookies under his desk. Yeah. For weeks. Speaking under about under desks, Greg, do you have anything interesting under your desk? Someone was asking me to uh I mean I got a lot the most important thing is that poster. Let me see. What would you like to Yeah, but I don't have the poster. I have What do you have exactly? Show us what you have. Where is it? It's at another computer. I'd have to go dig it out and then put But it's it's that [\h__\h] one where Dave's got the bat. It's the three of us. Dave's got the bat on his shoulder. It's the drawing. I have that drawing. It's But I have I don't have the actual But you have it digital. I have the digital. Yeah. No, copy that and send it to me or Dave. Send it to Dave. The Muscle Mob. Yeah, send it to me. I'm gonna print it out. Dave's like right here. He's got that back. And I need you guys to sign it. I got to have that on my wall. Yeah, I got to have that on my wall, too. Dude, the muscle mob was the original. We were the nuts when we all started and all that stuff and all that stuff. And you know, all these other momos out there that have podcast, dates, and plates and this guy, you know how John, that was 20 years ago. Can you believe it already? Yeah. I think it was more than 20 years. We started this [\h__\h] No, 06. Yeah, 20 years ago. 20 years ago. It was around 20 years ago. I remember all that [\h__\h] We called it the radio show. We didn't even They didn't say a podcast. Remember Remember Jimmy the Bull? When are we going live? That That was after that. That was way after way after. But when it was just the three of us, remember I used to come on. All right, we're bringing on Mrs. Coleman. Remember that time I almost assassinated you walking into drostanolone through the side door? I put a bag over your head. You and Roco Labracha, right? Me and Roco, we were sent to assassinate you. You had to call You had to call into the thing on a telephone. Yes. Yes. And really, Cell phones were not that good back then. So, you really needed a a home like a landline. Yeah. And you couldn't see anything. You just you were just on this landline talking like you were talking to your friends. And you never knew what if it was good or bad or, you know, I would sit in front of the computer and look at pictures and it was like you're trying to like tell people what was going on. But you know what? At the time there was nothing like that. It was it was the only live thing you could do. You couldn't do anything live on the internet except it was the only non-print media. Yeah. Do you remember I did something I don't even remember what it was really [\h__\h] up and it was you know it was I don't know if I think it was make believe I was Steve and you guys are like I can't put we can't put that on you're going to I don't remember what it was but I come on there was a lot of that I would come on as them fictitious character but Mrs. Coleman was the one I used to always come on a lot, you remember? And if you had something and you I remember John was almost like yelling at me, "Bro, if we put this on, you're going to get fired the next day." I forgot what it was. I was like, "Okay, we won't use that then." Yeah. Remember, remember Dave never wore shoes. Dave was always barefoot. He still don't when I went in his hotel room. Then then we graduated to Dave's second bedroom and we had like nine people in this my computer room. You were in my computer room. Computer room. That was so great. Two guy two guys per microphone and we had that room packed with people and there was so much screaming in there George that John that my dogs remember those little dogs I had. They were like traumatized after everyone left. And then no one would leave the show like no one would leave be like 2:00 in the morning and got out a house full of people. That's cuz everyone's too tired to Dave has some big [\h__\h] feet though. I got to tell you. Holy one of those things, Greg. And and Dave's species warehouse was was that was right down. That was that was the next Well, yeah. Once we went to the the warehouse, that was first. Yeah. That was that was like our coming alive party, right? First warehouse was in his house. Yeah. I know. Yeah. No, opposite. Obviously. Okay. Once we moved to the the Westbury location and John built that studio for us, it was great because we had people there till midnight. It was like every every week it was a party. Yeah, it was a party. It was great. Remember we had the pizza eating contest there with Furious Pete? Oh my god. Yeah. This was the most hysterical thing. We have the whole pizza eating contest, right? And the guys come and they're eating a pizza. They stack it up, roll it up with all these techniques and they're eat and furious Pete beats everybody. He ate two pizzas in like 15 minutes and and beat everybody. Then we're hanging out. We're talking. A little time goes by and I look over and there's Furious Pete leaning up against the wall eating a piece of pizza. I'm like, "Didn't you just get make yourself sick on pizza over there?" And he goes, "No, man. I was just shoveling in. I couldn't taste it. I just wanted to see what it was like. It tastes really heavily eater guys." You know, one one of the one of the other competitors thought he was going to have a heart attack. Remember that, Dave? Hold on. I'm gonna put I I found it. Hold on. I found it. I found it. I found a pizza eating color. Here we go. Hold on. This is great. This was hysterical. I can't believe I found that studio was that giant fish tank you had. I did. Yeah. I love that. Do you still have that? I know. I had to sell. There's Joel eating. There's Joel. Furious Pete. He just won, I think. Hold on. Let's Let's go back. Yeah, but to Joel, that's just dinner. There's Furious Pete in the middle in the red. Yeah. Down in his pizzas. Who's in the white shirt? Um, is that Juan Morell? Is it? I don't know. Juan was there. I know that. I don't know if he was there. Yeah, that is Juan. I think it is Juan. Yeah. Joel looks like he's ready to throw up. Joel's got a speech. Who are these guys? There's Jeremy. Remember Jeremy, the the the casting director? Yes. Yes. Yeah. That's Juan next to Furious Pete right there. Juan was a good eater. And who's all the way on the right there? I can't see now. After all, after so pure after all of this. Is that pizza? That's pizza. Oh, no. Is that a That's the cheeseburger cheeseburger one. Yeah. That's the one we did at the That was Yeah, that's Yeah. No, no, no. This is a strip club. We did that. And I was wondering this didn't look right. Yeah. Is that Nick the stick? No. Is it? No. Next to one. I can't see. Go back. Let me see if I can go back a little bit. Who is that? That's Nick the Stick. That's Nick the Stick. Yeah. You know Nick the Stick is a is a psychic now. Did you know that? Yeah. You told me that. I couldn't believe it. He's really good, too. Supposedly. Really? Yeah. Yeah. The only the greatest memory I have of Nick the Stick is he's picking you, me, and somebody else up to go to the airport to go for like four days to the Olympia. We all have luggage. He pulls up, he opens the trunk, and there's this giant subwoofer in there. Oh, that's right. I remember that. We didn't take it out. Yeah. Up the entire the entire trunk. And we're like, dude, we're all going away. We have You didn't think we might have luggage with us, you know? Oh my god. The car could carry nothing. It had a little back seat. That was terrible. Yeah. Yeah. How did we get around that? We make them take the speaker out. We made him take the speaker out. He left it in my garage. Yeah. Yeah. We made him They left it in the garage, right? We did so so much so many videos. I mean, I got I gotta go find those those old ones. You have the one of Georgie chasing the chicken around the warehouse. I'm sure somewhere. Yeah. Yeah. Has to be. I mean we did we we did a transformation challenge remember when we first launched the MD we did it right did it for uh 16 week we did it for almost 40 weeks we did the same one that um became a pro too liberator liberator remember blackman said I'm going to put him on the cover and they ended up just giving him like this little triangle in the corner you know yeah he he didn't he cheated him out of the cover cheated him I remember that but then I think he got a real cover when he became Bro, he might you might be right. I think he did cover. Yes, he did. I'll tell you, you know what's funny? I was with him. Uh, and he kept calling Guy Sister and he kept calling him I think he kept calling was it did he kept calling Guy uh Mike Liberator or call Mike Lieore guy? Remember he kept say hey. And he's like that. No, I'm Which one? He'd mix them up. He'd mix them. He got him mixed up in person though. He would talk to them. I I forgot who I was with. I can't remember if it was Guy or or Liberator. And he kept calling the other one by the other one's name. Hey, so guy, what are you doing today? And he's like, "No, no, no. It's it's Mike Liberator." My good friend Steve Weinberg. Remember? Yeah. Good. Steve was changed his name. I was just gonna say that. That was I still love Steve Blackman. I know you guys good friend Steve. Greg. Greg, we do not dislike him. We do not dislike him at all. Yes. You know, he he did very well by us. He just he just did a shitty thing to us is all. just let us he let us do what we wanted to do if if it wasn't for him. But you know, Bobby Smalls got massages at the Arnold Classic on Black. I was sitting with him the whole [\h__\h] time. Hot tea bags. That's what he had. Hot tea bags. I never seen the guy had these tea bags and the room opens up. My my brother's laying there stalk naked and he's have they the guy has these teaags or whatever look like tea bags all my you know smacking my brother on the back and stuff. Oh, look who's joined us. We have special guest Mike Morris IB. Oh [\h__\h] This is amazing. I know Mike for a year. How you doing? Good. Great. Good. Welcome. Thanks for having me Dave. Yeah, it's a little late, but we're gonna get we'll get you back next week and we'll get you on again. But, um, what's going on with you, Mike? Give us an update. Um, I'm just happily married, living in Phoenix, Arizona. Um, I work a full-time job at a children's ministry and, uh, wow. Healthy and good for you, Mike. Enjoying my life really. Wow. Mike and I um used to compete obviously at the same time together. We Mike would come out would drive up from where you were you in Delaware at the time? Uh South Jersey. Jersey. Oh, South Jersey, but it was almost Delaware. He would drive up, we'd hang out, you know, we would talk about gear and all that stuff. And uh Yeah. And you you won what year did you win North America? Yeah, that was a long drive, Dave. Yeah, I know. It was You came up all the time, too, you know. Yeah. Um over the Verzano Bridge and good times. Um what was your question? What what what year did you win the North American? 1999. The 1999 North American. Wow. That's a long You and I um did the North American in either 97 or or 98. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. 97. 98. 98. You're right. I think I got second to uh Chuck Sel and uh at Dexter uh Dexter Jackson won that year. You're right. Dexter Jackson weighed 188 pounds. Yeah. He was a Well, he I think he did the USA the year before that as a middleweight, wasn't it? Like he didn't he didn't he won the USA at like 180 pounds or something like that. That's how freak I thought he was like a bantamweight. He was a lightweight, Dave. He competed. He was like 100 he was like 180 pounds. No, he won he won the southern states as a middleweight and then he and then he went to the n the USA and he was like the smallest light heavyweight and he still won. You know, he What was What was his lightest competitive weight? Granted, I think at one time he competed in the lightweight. He was a bantamweight I think at one point. Like 130 really thin like that. Yeah. Yeah. He put 100 pounds of muscle on during his career. So he went from like 135 to 235. Yes. Yes. Crazy. Correct. That's true. Always had them calves. Remember Mike, you were showing me your calves in uh Yeah. I've been blessed with uh I mean I still had to work for the size of them. No, but you had some calves on you. But I I didn't I wasn't uh didn't have high calves, so I had real low insertations, but I still had to bomb them real hard. But yeah, legs. I was known for my legs. Really? Yeah, you were. Yep. M Mike had um uh some head of hair, too, at one point, too. Don't you hate the fact that you lost your hair? I did have a head of hair before all the time where girls did all the time. They be like, "Oh, you're never going to lose your hair and my hairline will be down here real thick." I was like, "I guess I'm never going to lose my hair." Well, you know, Genetics had another plan for all the gear I took, too. Yeah. Yeah. Funny when when you're in a big convention center and it's got multiple events going on and you're looking for the bodybuilding event or the powerlifting event, the security guards always say just look for the bald guys. Yeah. Yeah. Is that Is that Al Fory you with in that picture? It is Al Forney. Yeah. Ali soul. Yeah, he died. Yeah, he passed. Good guy. really good guy. Terrible bodybuilder. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Trying to trying to find the picture. What kind of training you do now? Uh right now I'm just uh just trying to keep myself fit, trying to keep myself healthy. I'm certainly not trying to put on any size. Um I'm in basically stage three kidney disease or renal, whatever you want to call it. Oh, really? stable right now. So, I don't take creatine and I'm not, you know, pushing myself in my workouts because I don't want to put any extra lactic acid in my body. So, I'm just training to be fit, you know, jumping rope, doing some sprinting. Um, and I I say this all the time, I just want as we're getting older, you know, we're all close to the same age. I just want all my my parts to work, you know? I mean, I have brother school. He can't lift his arm over his shoulder. He can't take a gallon of milk out of the refrigerator. So, I just want to be able to go up and down steps. I want to be able to sprint at a moment's notice. Uh I want to be and live a long life. What What's your What's your creatinine at when you on blood work now? Uh well, right now it's uh right at a 1.9. The last time I got it done was about six months ago and it was at a 1.7. Okay. Is it pretty stable? It's been stable for the past 10 years and then this jump that went from 1.7 to 1.9, right? I don't want to say it startled me, but obviously I'm I get my blood work done every six months to see where it's at. And that's always in the back of my mind. When is this going to start ticking up? You know, how much damage have I done? Um, and I do have I think there's a reason for what I was doing that I was getting into the carnivore diet and I was doing that pretty pretty heavy. I mean, I was still only eating about three meals a day, but I was doing steak with every single meal. It's hard to digest, that's why, probably. Yeah. Yeah. And I went to a new nefrologist and they did uh I was happy they did this. They did two uh blood tests. They did one at the beginning of the month and one at the end of the month, right? And I was still doing that carnivore diet and I think I was just leaning into the carnivore. I was like, "Oh, let me just really because I I was getting good blood work before from doing the carnivore diet and uh it just kind of seemed to tick up a little bit." So, yeah, that's where that's where it's at right now. You know what I I tell people, the kidneys will heal themselves. They take a long time. Not like like the liver regenerates pretty quickly. The kidneys like I have a product called kidney stuff. I I don't make it, but I sell it on Dave Palumba.com and a lot of guys use it and it lowers your creatinine, but it it lowers it over a longer period of time, like I said, rather than when you take the liver like liver products like they really help the liver can regenerate super quick. So what happens is a lot of guys get the li the kidney function stabilized and they they're doing the less protein and they're you know they're they're doing the kidney stuff and they're doing all the you know essential uh fatty acids to keep inflammation down in their body and then what happens is they they they're stable for like two three four years and they start upping their protein a little bit because you know you feel better when you eat more protein obviously put a little and then what happens is the the creat it might not happen initially but maybe in six months later all of a sudden creatine starts to creep up a little bit And uh usually if you just cut back that protein or change like in your case the kind of protein that makes it a little easier to digest maybe more fish and stuff like that and whey and something like that it seems to you know then go back down again. It's you're probably at a your kidney function is compromised but it's probably not going to get worse as long as you control blood pressure you know in your diet. And I do do that. And like all the the good things I learned through bodybuilding about consistency and diet and um you know sacrifice. I'm doing things in my life now to keep that kidney you know stable right now. Yeah. Because some guys don't care and then they go back on a cycle and they they get big again and then they then the next thing they know they're on the kidney uh the kidney transplant list. You all I put in the pro bodybuilding I'm putting into keeping my kidneys uh like a permanent vacation. I do fasting and things like that. I'm constantly drinking water and uh yeah, all the things. Did you feel any different when you had when your create when when the levels went up? Did you feel any different bodywise or just you had to take the blood test just told you? You mean when I was competing in my career? No, no, I think he's trying to say that. Did you know had did you notice it? Like how did you find out that you had this or did you just get a blood test and you found out or did you notice I'm having symptoms of whatever? You mean like when I was competing or just this? No, he means when you first discovered you when you It was 2005. It was 2005 when I came back from the Australian probe and I got blood work done and uh everything was just completely blown out of range. I mean, I would still get my blood work done from years prior, but you know, looking back at it, I kind of just really didn't do anything about it. Oh, so you knew I didn't control my blood pressure. Um, I didn't uh curtail any of the things I was taking. It just seemed like year after year, like once I turned pro and even a little bit before I turned pro, I knew I always had high blood pressure, but it just kept creeping up and up. And I wish I would have I've said this before. If I would have known to control my blood pressure with some medication, I would have been a healthier, better bodybuilder. So I try I tell people guys do too, you know, control your blood pressure and stay off the recreational drugs. Yeah. There's nothing there's it's so easy. I mean, I always tell guys, you might even want to just take an ACE inhibitor as like a prophylactic thing. We take estrogen blockers prophylactically. Why not take, you know, a blood pressure medication when you're especially when you're offseason and you're really big, you Yeah, that's exactly what I take now is listen. I take about listener. Let me ask you a question. What was the craziest cycle you ever took for a show? Um, it was probably in California and uh I was taking probably about two or three grams of test and sustenon. Wow. Because I would take about a 3 cc shot and I would take that for four days in a row and then take a day off and then repeat that cycle and then have girls on top of that. Did you Did you run out of injection sites? Uh, I would rotate it. So, I would do one glute one day, the the other glute the next day, and then shoulder this day, and then shoulder this day, and then take a day off, and then start back with the other glute again. Now, if I was taking something like suspension, you know, that usually starts to hurt. So, shoulder, and then one more day, I got to hit that. That's hurting a little bit. So, not enough time to recover. What would you take with the testosterone? Uh, I would take tests. I would take sustenon 250. Um, you know, all the all the different things we used. What anabolics would you take with that? That is test. Yeah. Um, I would take Anavar Primaan back in the day. We used to get the real good uh sharing and stuff, you know. So, you did How much Tremolone would you take? Uh, I didn't go crazy on the tremblone. I would take the parabolan and um the finette and uh gez about I think they came 100 milligrams per milliliter probably at the most power 76 76 that's right so maybe like three or four ampules um I used to write everything down I really need to dig those up and look for them I'll write down every single thing I did because you know sometimes your memory is not Exactly. What? And when you look at stuff you wrote down, I was like, "Oh, what about GH? How much growth hormone?" Wait, wait, wait, wait. Before we graduate to peptides, what? So, if you added up all the milk, you said 2 3,000 at your at your most. That was just test. That was test. So, so in a week, if you added up everything, what would you say the total milligram amount would be? Including like debball or anadrol things? Anything anabolic or androgenic test, steroids, any anything anabolic. 750 times four would be 15 3,000 I'd say about four grams. Wow. 4,000. That's a that's a healthy I mean not really healthy, but it's a big cycle. I could say, of course, you know, everybody always asks this, but this was at the tail end of my career. So I pro, I really kind of had a really good shape. And then after I turned pro, I tried to I was like, I'm in the pros now. I got to put on more size. And I feel like my waist got a little thicker and I I contribute that to, you know, maybe I shouldn't have pushed the gear that much, right? I do think I had a lot of those gut issues from, you know, being on New Bane and painkillers and that causes inflammation everywhere. Um, so ah fellow Newbane addict. Oh, you had you had to do a lot of you had to do a lot of um uh you had to eat a lot of food because you had a fast metabolism. Well, yeah, absolutely. I was I've never been fat. So, I mean, I always had to stuff the food down. And that's one of the things I'm really enjoying in my life right now is like I can just eat when I'm hungry. I mean, I eat pretty scheduled. I eat about three times a day right now, especially with my job. But, I mean, I just really enjoy not having to like, oh, there's time to eat again. I eat every two hours. You know, it's tough. You know, you leave wherever you're eating, the Chinese food store, and now like, yo, I got to be at my next meal in an hour. Mike, do you have kids? Do do you wind up having a kid? Do you have kids? No. No, we have no children. We have uh three dogs. So, smart man. Those are our like the children's ministry that you do. Do you do you uh promote exercise and stuff to the kids? Uh no. Um we um I'm the facilities guy there and I am involved in some of the you know the things we do like food distribution and things like that. But um the the things we do with kids is like a foster care. We have a pregnancy center and um we also have something um where uh parents or so will get separated from their children you know for different reasons drugs or domestic violence and then they have to have a supervised visit and um they'll have that at my work but I'm not directly involved in that. I'm just in charge of the facilities so everything works right and runs right and is a you know a nice inviting facility for all the people that come there. Well, that's got to be gratifying being able to help that those people. Yeah, it it really is. It really is. I mean, I really feel like I'm uh serving God and it's So, in hindsight, if you could have done it over again, do you think you could achieve that same level of development and competed as a pro at that level without taking as much gear? If I could somehow magically go back to when I turned pro, I would have just kind of kept everything consistent and I definitely would have start wouldn't have started. I would have kind of not gone to that extra level and I and I can't remember exactly what I was taking right before I turned pro, but I know I was taking more when I moved to California. You know, I'm training at Golds and working out with Chris Cormier and all the pros that come through there and I was like, I really got to step this up. And um so if I could go back I would after I turned pro just kind of keep everything cruising just I had a winning package and a winning plan and I should have just stuck with that but my mentality was just like now I got to do more now I got to take a little more of this and I got to diet harder and I got to do a little more cardio and it just uh so that's the advice I would give my younger self. Yeah, but Mike, the New Bane thing was it it swallowed up a lot of us, man. It was that was environmental, you know, cultural Titus. Well, Dan Duchain really was. Yeah. But Craig was was How did you get started on that, Mike? Um, I was, this was be I think before I turned pro or right around that time period. I've been thinking about this a lot like when did I exactly start, but there was a pharmacist that was kind of giving me gear out the back door, so to speak. And uh I guess it was about that time when New Bane just got popular and he's like here the guys want this and he wanted to sell it to me and I was like I don't want that. And then I think he just gave it to me. And then once I got it, I was like, I tried to sell it to somebody else and they gave they gave it back to me. And then I just kind of had it sitting in my arsenal of stuff. And then I think one day I just tried like a little two units or like a little teeny bit and I did some Q and it was kind of like I had a glass of wine or something like that and I was like, it feels kind of good. And then I put it away and I was like, okay, don't do that ever again. And then maybe a couple months later I did it and you guys know how it goes. Once it gets its hooks in you, it's not like alcohol or something else. It's It's Was it always subq or were you mainlining it? I did it subq at first, just like I'm telling you. And I was like I I would write it down in my calendar. I'm like, man, I got to make sure I don't do this. But then it's just the time periods. Yeah. Shorter, you know, and then every 20 minutes. Yeah. Around the clock. Question. I did. I still have the scars on my right here. Right. Right here. Right here. To answer your question, I started doing it introvenously when I moved to Venice Beach, California. Yep. That was where it was at. One of the guys that picked me up from the airport. As soon as he picked me up from the airport, he's like, "Hey, give me some new Bane." He started shooting up right in the right in the thing there. And it was like it was kind of soon after 911 when all the police officers were there like telling you to keep moving. Get out of here. And he's, you know, shooting. I'm like, "Dude, can you go and wait till we get to the apartment or something? Wait till we get to the firehouse at least." Goodness gracious. When that feeling hits you, man, you got to do it. What did you progress beyond New Bane? What what like what drugs did you do after that? There was another guy um that I was getting gear from and he was into the pills and Percoets and Oxycottton and he was going to a doctor in Pennsylvania who got busted since then and is doing life in prison because he was just dulling out Oxycottton to everybody during the whole Oxycottton thing. So, I was getting my gear from this dealer and he said to me, he's like, "Hey, why don't you come to this doctor with me? He'll probably prescribe you some gear and get your get Oxycottton and you can sell them to me and I'll give you we'll trade more gear and stuff." So, I started doing that and then um and I kind of started selling Oxycottton, too. Oh [\h__\h] I didn't know you were doing that. Wow. Well, I mean, I was getting like 120 of them a month. Holy mackerel. And um what do those sell for on the street once they're kind of going in and out of your hands and stuff? I was like, "Oh, let me try a little teeny piece of this." And so that's kind of how that started. How much do those sell for on the street? Or at the time, how much are they selling for? Well, back then I think it was like 20 25 bucks a a pill. A pill. Wow. Crazy. Yep. How did people afford to do those, Mike? H knocking over 7-Elevens. Yeah, it depends on how much you're into it. It's uh it's it's ex Yeah. Is that what is that why people progress to heroin because it's just cheaper? Yes, I would say so because and especially now like you can't get Oxycottton like you did before, right? Not only that, but Oxies and Xanax now are coming as fentinel stamped with Wow. with the the real stamp. So you're it's it's basically 100% fentinyl, but it's got the stamp. Really? Yeah. It looks real. It looks real. It looks like the drug. Well, that's a good point, John, because there was a time where I was taking those little the blues, they have a little M on them, and I was doing them before when they were just straight oxycodone. And actually, where I work now, it's kind of a bad neighborhood. So, when I'm in the parking lot and stuff or taking out the trash, I can I see the tin foil on the ground and um I know a lot of people are doing them out there because they'll light them up on the foil. And uh I don't know what these drug addicts are thinking. I mean, I shouldn't talk. I was into it, too. They would they light them up and they smoke them and then I I find the tin foil everywhere with the burnt residue on it. But sometimes they have like half a pill like not even dissolved on there and still sitting in there and I was like you paid for that. Like finish it, you know? And it's the same thing sometimes if I'm going through the parking lot and I'm picking up like empty like beer cans or whatever. They're like all half full. I was like, "Wait, you scrubbed up enough money to buy a beer. Why don't you finish that thing? Let's Do you think Do you think that these people are getting so messed up on the drugs that they don't even know what they're doing half the time? Yes. Yes. Yeah. They're they're completely out of their minds. Wow. That's uh it's crazy. So, how'd you get off all the drugs? What was your method? Well, I I white uploaded a bunch. Um like when I first retired in 2005, I got my blood work done. I was like, "Hey, I need to I need to stop all this stuff, you know." Um, I trained with Tom Prince and I saw what he was going through and like Don Long and all the other bodybuilders and I was like, you know what I mean, if this happens to me, I'm just gonna, you know, stop because that that seems what you have to do because, you know, Tom Prince like he got blood work done and then I think he stopped and cleared himself out after a period of time and then he's like, I'm going to make a comeback and then, right, and everything kind of hit the fan. So, I mean, everything happens for a reason, and I think I learned from that. I was like, you know, if this happens to you, like, you need to just stop and just stay on that train and keep going. Yeah. But you I'm saying you got off the opiates, no problem. Was it Was it difficult? It was extremely difficult. Yep. I when I retired in 2005, I moved to Phoenix and stopped everything. Um, and the steroids was still difficult to stop and losing all the size and things like that, but the opiates just kind of kept rolling back around and coming back around. Like I would stop it, I would white knuckle it, and then after a couple months, like I don't know, something would happen and would just come back around. But it took me about a good decade to completely come off. I did come off with the help of Suboxone. Okay. And um, I did get after I came off of all the opiates, I was addicted to Suboxone. Yeah. Yep. For about gez a decade. About 10 years. Wow. And I tried to come off that. Tried to come off that. And that's a that's a tough one to come off of too. But um luckily thankfully um through like willpower and prayer and um I did come off of the suboxin. I've been off the congratulations. A good while now. Yeah. So my wife all the time I was like I was like hun man I just want to be I just want to be on pure air. I don't want to have to take I stand up I gotta take leinipil every day. I don't have to take this and that and all these other things, you know. So, um so it's a great feeling and I just anybody I hear that's on taking suboxone or on ops I just I really try to encourage them like you got to get off this stuff. Yeah, I think Arman is right. Arman's on the suboxone. He told us because he was on heroin for a while and he's he's on that but he's on that now. Yeah, he's still on the suboxone. Go off everything. He can do it. Yeah, I know. Look, if you moved in with him, Georgie explained it. He just told me he's booked. He's booked for Montgomery, Alabama, too. So, you can have a little pow-wow with him there. But Mike just Mike just told you how he did it. Yeah. Well, actually, I I think it would be great to add to our seminars. Took him one moment to find God and then he stopped. That one moment. I couldn't have done it without God. That's right. Ironically, I'm active in my church and I prayed about it and I'm a late in life uh born again Christian. So, it's all new to me, too. I' I'd say I have more experience in bodybuilding than I do in Christianity, but I know the moment I really gave myself and prayed, um he answered and um I just need to let people know that. So, so that's why you're on great great story of overcoming. You want to see the iron ironic thing? I wrote this down today. What? Hold on. Read it. John 3:16. Okay. John 3:16. Yeah. Beautiful. John 3:16. For God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten son that whoever believes in him should not perish but should have everlasting life. Amen. Amen. There's our on that on that positive note. I I love it. I think we should end on a positive note. Mike, thanks for joining us even though it was a little abbreviated. I'm glad to hear you're doing really well and we got to get you back on the show. Tell some of the uh the war stories that we all went through. Yeah, I would love to. I'd love to talk about the old times and I just want to say hi to John because I used to watch you all the time on uh American Muscle magazine. I don't know if we hung out. Wow, that's awesome. I used to see you at Golds every I used to see you at Golds every day back in the day. Yeah, but we never hung out that much and all, but yeah, I remember American Muscle magazine back in the day. So that was that was my start. Yeah. How's Jimmy doing? What's that? How's Jimmy the Bull doing? He still Jimmy good. Yeah, he's driving a giant dump truck that holds 40 yards of dirt. So I remember Jimmy back when I was coming up. We'd always go to the New Jersey State Bodybuilding Championships and he'd always have his bench out on the thing. He'd be doing skull crushers with 405 or whatever it was and he I was like, "Man, if he can do it, I can do it. I got to do skull crushers." Never try to do what Jimmy the Bull does. You find out you'll find out why they are called skull crushers. Jimmy the man. All right. Well, thanks Mike for joining us. Don't forget guys, the Oklahoma Pro bodybuilding show and amateur is this coming weekend in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Don't miss that. And the Wack Pack will be in Alabama. And I think we'd have Michelle on the show next week. We're going to be going over the whole itinerary of what we'll be doing in Montgomery, Alabama on the June 20 20th and 21st weekend. For now, we are out of time. Wait, I want to say one thing. That's not the real P re Lee Priest talking [\h__\h] in there, you guys. No, I know it's not. That's not the real Lee Larry. So don't listen to any of that [\h__\h] That's not Lee, George. That's not Lee. That's somebody. That's a [\h__\h] That's probably Charlie Arms. It's probably [\h__\h] the fake Charlie Arms. Just another Momo, right, Greg? It is. He's a [\h__\h] Momo. We have one listener who basically just masks and raises different people. Oh, he just is [\h__\h] ridiculous. But you know, you could start trouble like that. It's not because we basically just have one listener. That's why John, it's all about the digital. We're going digital. Digital. Dave Pal, we'll see you next time. God loves you. See you. God bless you, Mike.