 For now, I think we should just celebrate his life, remember him for the great bodybuilder that he was. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. he dropped and there obviously has not been an autopsy done. So I don't want to really report a cause of death. I mean, I heard some rumors out there about blood clots and the like. But, you know, until I get confirmation from his family and until they actually find out what happened, I think it would be, you know, foolish to speculate at this point. He obviously was in very good health from what I understand. Living in Tampa. I know he was Kamal. Saw him pretty regularly. I know he's the one who told Chris Cicito who had called me. Chris Cicito was his coach that worked with him and got him his pro card and his first win in classic physique at the IFBB San Antonio Pro back in 2018. I remember Chris telling me that Jason was one of the hardest workers. A lot of people didn't think he had what it took to become a pro and to be a good pro. And Jason proved him wrong. He got that pro card in classic physique. He won that pro show in 2018. He went to the classic Olympia. And he actually then switched to 212. He actually made it back to the Olympia at 212, which is an incredible feat in and of itself. Two divisions. And I know he had just recently been, you know, gunning for that open division. I think he'd done one pro show in the open division. And he was, you know, working this offseason very hard. His last, I think, 212 show was last summer where he wasn't very happy with displacing. But I know he was working really hard on making his debut this year in the open class where he wanted to try to prove once again that he can get to the Olympic. But he had a third time in another class. Like I said, I interviewed Jason a lot over the years. And he was a guy who just had supreme belief in himself. And, you know, the more people doubted him, the more he wanted to prove him wrong. People said he didn't have a good structure. So he built a great structure. People said he couldn't, you know, he couldn't get hard enough. He got, he was the hardest guy on stage. And I think that's pretty much how he conducted his life. You know, I know he was married. His wife, Ashley, posted something on her page. You know, I think her page is Ash Squats Low on Instagram. And, you know, it was a very heartfelt message about how she lost Jason today. And they had been married seven years. And, you know, it was really a tragic, tragic story. You know, anyone who, you know, I believe Jason was about 38 years old. And that's just way, way too young to lose someone, especially someone who was, you know, theoretically in perfect health. So I'm sure the entire industry is, you know, looking to see what happened. I mean, we always want answers, right? Not that the answers are going to change anything. It's not going to bring Jason back. But it's nice to have answers sometimes just to maybe have an explanation as to what might have gone wrong. We lost Boston Lloyd when he was, you know, only 29 years old. He had an aortic aneurysm that ruptured. No one even knew. He didn't even know, really, that he had it. So you never can tell, you know, when sudden death occurs like this. But that's why it's silly to speculate. I'm sure there's going to be some idiots out there who are going to, you know, blame it on steroids. But obviously that's just not the case. I don't think in this situation. And once again, Jason was in really good health and he took care of himself. And, you know, he didn't he wasn't having any problems that I knew of, at least. And he was very well respected. He had a bunch. He was a great trainer and he had a lot of clients. And I don't think I've ever heard anyone say a bad word about the guy, to be honest with you. He was he was the bodybuilder's bodybuilder. He lived the lifestyle. You know, he trained hard. He ate perfectly. He he he was the epitome of what it takes to be a great bodybuilder. You know, especially when people doubt you. I think which he was doubted a lot of his career as to how far he can go in it. And that really pushed him to push himself as hard as possible to prove everyone wrong. I mentioned that earlier. And it really is a testament that if you work hard enough on anything, you can achieve anything that your mind can conceptualize. And he did. It's just a shame that we lost him so young. Once again, my prayers and love go out to his family, Ashley and the his parents and his friends and fans. I know he's going to be missed. Like I said, I hope there is some answers that we get over the next, you know, couple of weeks as to what potentially went wrong here. And we get the entire true story. But for now, I think we should just celebrate his life. Remember him for the great bodybuilder that he was. And, you know, I hope this doesn't happen again. Unfortunately, it probably will. And we will have to do more of these. But I guess the take home message is live life to the fullest now because you're not promised tomorrow. And, you know, a lot of people have all these plans for the future. I'm going to do this in the future. I'm going to do that. You might not have a future. Don't do it then. Do it now. Live the life that you love. Jason lived the life that he loved. And that's why he will unfortunately be remembered as a bodybuilder who fulfilled his destiny and fulfilled his potential. But just didn't live long enough to really share everything. He had all his gifts with the entire world. Dave Palumbo with an RX Muscle News update on this sad day. And today we'll be back today. And today we'll be back today. And today we'll be back today. And today we'll be back today. And today we'll be back today. And today we'll be back today. And today we'll be back today. And today we'll be back today. And today we'll be back today. And today we'll be back today. And today we'll be back today. And today we'll be back today. And today we'll be back today. And today we'll be back today. And today we'll be back today. And today we'll be back today. And today we'll be back today. And today we'll be back today. And today we'll be back today.