Citech Nutrition Premium Quality products State of the Art look uncompromised ingredient quality Our products work and taste good www.sy tecnutri Johnny with rxmuscle docom You're here in Mexico at the 6th annual Mr. Mexico Classic with the new IFBB Men Phys Pro RAA. Tell us how you feel. Speechless, very emotional, very happy. I'm about to cry, but the tears aren't even coming out. I'm so happy. Many people saw you as incredible, in incredible condition. But size is n't the biggest of all. Tell us, what did you do to get into this physical condition? To be honest, coming from so far away, from Colombia and LG, to a place I don't know, has been very difficult. Eating well, I lost weight. The climate—I'm not used to this climate—has been very difficult. But maintaining symmetry doesn't matter. Size and weight don't matter; what matters is looking symmetrical. So, I tried to eat a lot of tacos to maintain my shape. Now, you know what's very important for the category you're in: posing. Explain to us how you learned to pose, to show the people who see you now at home how.  You learned to pose the way you do, okay? I was reading the Men's Physique rules and there was a part that says size and vascularity aren't as important, you just need to project charisma. Exactly, and here we are, smiling at people. And now you're the new IFBB Pro. The last question I'm going to ask you, and it's not going to be the one they made you eat, it's going to be, we'll see you again very soon, but I want to take six months off to gain more size to go and battle the pros. Rafael wants to go and give them a beating. Speaking of the pros, tell me your prediction for Olympia. Tell me the top three. First place: Jeremy Buendía. Second place: my friends. It's between Mau Je or Felipe Franco. W, tremendous predictions from Rafa, the new IFBB Pro. Rafa, any thanks you'd like to give? Of course, to President Francisco Cabezas, who has treated us very well, to the President of Colombia, Alejandro Santos, to the Valle league where I belong, to Palmira, to Megaplex Stars, which is my family, the club where I belong, to all my Instagram and Facebook readers, to all my friends. Quara here all day. Rafael arrived  and conquered. So raa Johny rx.com