cardio is done in prog. Jump around. Jump up. Jump up. Get down. Jump. Jump. Do it. Now comes the part where we throw our heads back and laugh. Ready? Ready. Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Tuesday, May 26th, 2015. And let's get to it. To quote basketball phenom Mark Jackson, "Mama, there goes that man again." Well, over the weekend, new photos surfaced of a completely insane looking Big Ramy, just one week out from stepping on stage at the Arnold Classic Brazil. As the old bodybuilding adage goes, the pictures don't lie. That is, unless there's been filters applied to them. This looks to be the best version of Big Ramy that we've seen. But in other shots, a true connoisseur of the sport has to question Ramy's conditioning from the back. The competition at next weekend's Arnold in Rio promises to be the best that we've seen all year. And with a victory, Big Ramy might just vault himself into the position as the frontr runner to challenge for the Olympia come October. While anything Rammy related always manages to set the internet on fire, fellow Arnold Brazil competitor Fred Smalls will be heading to Rio looking to make a few headlines of his own. Smalls has been working with the one true guru, George Farah. Or is he? and he appears to be bringing in an overall bigger package than what we saw from him a year ago. Standing by himself, Smalls has a few standout poses that accentuate the strengths of his physique. But the true test will come this weekend when he steps on stage and stands shoulder-to-shoulder with a stacked lineup loaded with potential top five Olympians. Although we haven't seen him officially take the stage yet this season, things look to be coming along quite nicely for William Bonak. This past weekend in Kuwait, Bonak, Big Ramy, and a few other headliners from around the IFBB took the stage and entertained a packed house of rockus fans. Last year, Bonak closed out the season by winning the IFBB Russian pro in an impressive fashion. And looks like he's on pace to pick right up where he left off. Although he tends to get lost in the lineup when the Olympia or elite are up there at just about any other contest, Bonak is a real threat to take down just about anyone. And it'll be intriguing to see what sort of improvements he can bring to the stage later this year. And if you thought species nutrition athlete Aake Williams was a terrifying beast of a man before, just wait until you catch a glimpse of his most recent guest posing performance. Williams took the stage at the NPC Florida Grand Prix, looking unfathomably big and exceptionally frightening in a mask that is sure to haunt the dreams of more than a few competitors. During last year's rookie campaign, Williams improved with each and every contest and will be hitting the stage bigger, sharper, and more refined in just a few weeks time. Competition, you've been warned. The Brooklyn Beast is coming for you. Oh, and by the way, rumor has it that Big AK got that mask on loan from Kai Green. We're about four weeks out from the IFBB Amateur Olympia, and it looks like Greek freak Volantis Do is doing everything he can to take the stage as an amateur for the very last time. Over the weekend, Dokos was spotted guest posing at the Greek National Championships. Looking like he's right on track to bring in his trademark razor ripped conditioning. Do has been working with friend of RX Muscle Dennis James and looks to be well on his way to becoming the latest in a list of great champions to emerge from the ranks of the amateur Olympia. Last year, Dokos came within a few points of earning his IFBB Pro card, and he's heading into this year's competition with one thing on his mind, retribution. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com. Today, I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions. And make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.