I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations dosed for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here for an RX Muscle news update. The IFBB Calp Pro has let out the prejudging that is. It is a three-man battle between Rean Grimes, Leandro Perez, and Sass Herat. Rean in the middle for most of prejudging, looking much bigger than everyone else. He is obviously the taller bodybuilder. He's wider than these guys. His his back is bigger. If it's a comes down to a size contest, I think Rean has this show wrapped up. Sass Herate is probably the leanest guy on stage. Glutes are striated, really dry. His back is super dry. Uh he's he's always got that perfect tan. He's always, you know, polished looking. And it makes your eyes go right to his physique, but Rean is just so wide and so big. It it it seems to me as though it's going to be hard to knock this guy off that first place pedestal. Obviously, you know, we still have uh the finals to go. Leandro Perez just keeps getting better and better each week. Matter of fact, Leandro Perez is is bigger than Saserati, too. And I think there's probably people in the audience who will probably say that Leandros might deserve to beat SAS. But Rean is definitely oversizing everyone, which is something that I don't think he's ever done in his career before. This is new to Rean to be in the position where he's the biggest guy on stage. He's always been the guy with the the best genetics or the most aesthetics. And over the last two or three years, he's really added tremendous amounts of size to his physique. And it's still aesthetic. And his waist is still small. Uh I still like to see his legs come up a little bit more in size from the front, but from behind, he's really dominant. And I think that's important to realize. It's Rean Grimes Mania in the street. Evaluate a guy after a good place at New York. Size matters in body. YouTube is popping right now. He's in the lead. You can't discount the biggest guy. You can say, yeah, you could certainly say and s have a little more polish. Condition looks to be good, but at the end of the day, you know, the biggest guy sometimes wins. I think it's usually like this video. He's just he's girthy. He's got belts. He's got big pecs. His arms have come up a lot. He's fuller, man. We saw him. His triceps better than his body. He's got abs, you know, for a big guy. He's got really good abs. And the pecs are strided. He's got big freaky glutes, which obviously always is a crowd favorite. He's got ripped hamstrings. You know, his his back is full and wide. He's got no wrinkles really in the lower back area. Definitely shape. You know, he might not be popping as much as I think here. Once again, I'm judging from the videos, but I think he's good enough here to win this show. about the world measure. but also has muscle maturity training a long time pretty much maximizing right now with that back he's in the best shape of his life you know maybe he might lack and that's what we look for when we look guy on stage. We want to see if they have feather in the lats. We want to see that the quads are crushed right midsection is super tight. He checks all those boxes and grime in a lineup that didn't have Rean Grimes and qualifies for the Olympics. See if he can challenge the width and you see him vers one does have better conditioning. Uh it's apparent that that is a little bigger and sass has more polish. I think probably what's giving him that polish. I think super hard here as well, but Regan's tan is just not that great. And I think it goes back to once again, I hate to break sound like a broken record. I feel like before he got spray tan just was very pale. You could only make someone so dark by spray tan. So Rean, go sit in a tanning bed for the Olympia, please. We have a good base tan on you before you get sprayed because you should look at sass and say that's the color I want on stage because that's the color that wins