Italy Pro preview coming up. Big show. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we are live. And we are back with another edition of Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palumbo. Almost didn't make it today, but we did make it. And the we I'm talking about is Chris Aceto, the technician, and myself. And uh Chris, I had AI had a matt you know how uh Prince wrote that song for the Bengals called Just Another Manic Monday. >> Yeah. Must have been Sunday. Must have been fun. >> Those start on Sunday for me. >> Yeah, me too. This was uh it started out all right and then I went to the gym and I um you know I about six months ago I was at the gym training and you know I put my phone in my upper right pocket. That's just by convention where I keep it. But if you're going to do dumbbells and you put the dumbbells on your thighs, it's not a good idea because the dumbbell the dumbbell can crush the phone, right? and which has happened to me before. So now I don't put the dumbbell I I take the phone out of my right pocket and I usually put it like under lean it against the bench so which is behind me so that the dumbbells you know they're not going to touch the the phone and I put the dumbbells up. I did my shoulder presses and put the dumbbells down and one hopped a little bit and I'm telling you maybe six microns of of the dumbbell skimmed the phone a little bit and you would have thought that I hit the phone with a sledgehammer. The screen cracked the the By the way, in case you've never cracked your screen, if you want to know, it's not just a crack. if you ruin your screen, it turns green first and then after green, it goes black. And um that's what happened again. And I was like, well, it's not going to be a good Monday for me. I could tell already because the Apple store where you can get the replacement phone is in Coconut Point, which is towards Naples. It's like 45 minutes from here. So, I make an appointment on the phone with using my other phone I have. Make an appointment. I get in the car, I drive there, I get there, they're like, "You don't have By the time they took me," which took another 45 minutes, they said, "You don't have Apple Care." I said, "Of course I have Apple Care. I've had Apple Care since Apple started." I said, "I I I know that I damaged goods." I said, "I was just here six months ago." I said, "I had Apple Care." To make a long story short, for some reason, when I they gave me the new phone six months ago, they didn't transfer the Apple Care over to the new the new phone, which wasn't my fault. It was a cleric cler, but clerical errors have to be corrected, you know, via long phone calls, right? So, I had to call Apple. I had I had to show them that the phone was the same phone. It was just a replacement. You didn't. I had Apple Care, but the problem was, Chris, that the that the Coconut Point Apple store didn't have the phone that I have, the one terabyte one, and neither did Naples, and neither did Sarasota, as if I would have driven to Sarasota to get the phone, right? Which but which I might have had to do. So, I have no phone now. I have no functional phone. It could it functions only on my car. When I'm in my car, I could I could actually make phone calls because the screen in the car works. So, I already know you've been in your phone all in your car all morning on your phone. >> So, that Thank God for So, I think you called me. Oh, no. I called you from the f from the car. I said, "Call Chris Aceto because I can't type anything." And it called you. I said, "Chris, call me on the other phone." I said, "Because because I I I have no way of contacting you and we have to be able to do the show." So, while I was driving back 45 minutes from Coconut Point to my house, I was on the phone with this woman the whole time who was facilitating and helping me to uh get this thing rectified. And uh in the meantime, all we were talking about was kids. She had three kids. I have three kids. We were just talking about all the the insanity that goes on with kids, right? Um Chris was just mentioning earlier to me he's like people who have a dog think that they think it's hard to take care of you know they have no idea what it's like to have three you have four kids actually so I said all right I got home I said I'm not going to get panicked by the way on the 45minute car ride no one was able to give me a solution to the fact that there's no iPhones available until they send me one in the mail in two to three business days which is you know what's going to happen I'm leaving on Wednesday for Pittsburgh for the man for the North American, you know, the phone's going to come on Wednesday. >> I'll never get the phone. So, I'm like, "Well, what am I going to do?" I said, "H how do pe how I can't function?" I said, "I get 6,000 text messages a day. How am I going to check my text messages and all the the business I do on the phone?" No one had a solution. Chris, all these, you know, they have the Genius Bar. Is it the Genius Bar? Yeah. The Apple store. >> Yeah. All the geniuses on the genius bar, including the 500 pound guy that was sitting next to me who who was daintily. You ever see you ever see he really heavy people eat? They're the most dainty eaters you've ever seen. They they can unwrap cupcake. It could take 20 minutes to unwrap that cupcake and they take very public bites out of it. There's not a crumb that falls out of their lips. If you or I ate that cupcake, it would be all over our shirt. this guy must eat 6,000 cupcakes a day because he's 500 pounds. And he I asked him, I said, "This guy's got into got a solution for me." I said, "Listen, I don't have a phone. You don't have any replacements here. There's none around. I can't wait three days." >> I said, "I can't wait three days for a phone. What What do you recommend I do?" He's like, >> I don't I don't have any answers, you know. I don't know. >> You did Dave, you didn't pull the I'll pay anything and any amount to have a new phone right now. >> Well, I No, I did. No, I pretty much said that. I said, "I will pay any amount of money." I said for for phone at this point >> and um they said well you don't have your phone. So um I was talking to this woman on the way back and she's like you know I'm like isn't there any if I sign into like my iCloud on my on my computer can I see can I see um text me? She's like no. She's like you can see your your pictures and stuff like that. And I said well what about um she's like I said what about an iPad? She's like, "Oh, yeah. You could if you sign into your account on the iPad, you can see the text messages." I'm like, "How come no one told me that at the Genius Bar?" >> Yeah. Wasn't a genius. >> You know what it is? It's like, you ever go to these you talk to these doctors that like a neurosurgeons like they could fix they could open your skull up and they could do surgery on your brain and fix it. They can give you new eyes and ears and all that stuff. But if you ask these guys to diagnose a uh you know case of indigestion, they they wouldn't know what to tell you to take. >> Well, that's why my father used to say we're we're a country of specialists. >> That's you're right. We are. That's what I found out today. >> I didn't know what that meant. He used to say that to me all the time when I was little. >> He's right. That was very wise. He's very wise to say that. We're too special. >> Specialist. Nobody knows the answer. >> Yeah. No. That's why I see this in on Instagram with all the guru these these self-proclaimed Tik Toks and Instagram gurus. They know they know everything that you could possibly know about the trendalone molecule and how it's spun and what where the carbon atoms are located and the hydrogen atoms and what it does and what aromatizes, what doesn't aromatize, what five alpha reductase it works on. But god forbid, ask them how to do a squat, they they they probably would only be able to do it on a machine. or god forbid you ask them about a diet or macros or something like that, they have no idea about anything. But they know they know tremble though and they'll get it to you too, these guys. Right. >> That's right. >> So I'm getting ready to do the radio show and I'm taking my I'm like I got to take my vitamins before I do the show. I said because I I'm feeling rund down at this point. Uh and I dropped the vitamin on the floor and the my cat was there. I didn't want my cat to grab it. So, I reached down, Chris, to grab the the vitamin off the floor and I hit my head right here. I can't believe I haven't split it open on the countertop to the point where I saw stars and and that you know you get that nauseous feeling. >> That's a sign that you have to slow down. The phone is not that important. >> You're sounding my phone. Yeah. >> You know what? It threw you off so much you end up in a car crash and you'll say, "Imagine I totally my car and my skull over a phone." >> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. So, I I I I So, my head bounced off the uh the marble countertop or whatever, granite countertop. I was waiting for the blood to start flowing down my head, but it never it never came. I I'm sure I'll have a big bruise here later. No one will notice anyway because I have a big head, so it'll just blend in. So, that's uh that's been my morning. So, I did I did get a a good workout in, so I can't complain about that. >> What did you What body part? >> I did a little shoulders. So anyway, that you know I have AI have I'm falling apart. I I I I you know I don't even I I'm afraid to you know you're you know you're in advance when you're afraid to look at the data on your on your iPhone or your I Apple Watch. I don't even want to know what the data says anymore. I do know that I did like 15,000 steps the other day. >> I talked Dave on the way over this morning. Skipper Robinson turned 81 yesterday. I know. >> Can you call up deadlift video on his Instagram of the guy who's 80 doing 405 for three >> this? All right, let me let me pull it up. >> It has to do the background story is I think when people, you know, speaking to specialists and experts, you know, when we started in the gym, you and me, people over, you know, close to 60, day one, this is who I started with, maniacs. And I always tell people I started with maniacs. And that was the foundation, you know, deadlifts, bench press, just basics, basics, basics, you know, barbells, dumbbells, barbells, dumbbells. Well, one of the guys I started out with besides Skip Robinson, who was uh Ed Connor's first house guest. Skip Robinson from uh Maine, he won the IFBB, uh Mr. World 1976. Trains at 5:30 every day in the gym till this day at 81. >> Is that him with Arnold? Yeah. >> Yep. Tim Arnold. >> Ed Connor took that picture. >> He told me that um he himself almost had a heart attack. I said, "What do you mean?" Because he's in great health at 81. He said, "Well, I was watching Marty deadlift and he deadlifted at 79 years old, 405 for three. He only weighs 160." >> Crazy. So that's on his Instagram and we were talking about that >> this morning and I'm just, you know, it's his birthday and I'm thinking like >> this whole is this is this the guy or this a different guy? >> No, it's an older guy doing a deadlift four or five to three. >> This is pretty crazy, too. I I'll keep looking. He's You know what? Skip Robinson at 80 something years old is puts more content on his Instagram account than than most guys in their 20s who complain, "Oh, I I can't do it. Can't do it. I have no time." >> So doing it at 80 something years old. >> Guy's still living. He's still living the life. He's like John Hansen. That's gonna be John Hansen when John's like 80. >> John's not deadlifted at 79. 405 to three. >> So Skip didn't do it. He's He's What? No, I know. He has his client doing it. I I can't find it. He's got too many video He's got too many videos on his on his Instagram. Chris, I'm telling you, the guy puts up a ton of content. I can't find it. He's got girls with in in bikinis squatting. >> Oh, yeah. I'm sure he's got a lot of girls in bikinis squatting. >> He Yeah, he loves the women, right? He's he was a real ladies man. >> He he trains only women. Chris, didn't you say that he had like some crazy car like when that you were like jealous of when you were like a teenager? >> Well, he had a Porsche that said >> then he had this this topless Jeep that said pumping iron on it and >> he had he had everything. He had motorcycles, fur jackets, cowboy boots, cowboy hats. He was he was like one in a gazillion. >> He he is still one in a gazillion. He's at the gym at 5:30 every morning. So >> I love that he's still doing He's still working. That's it's amaz to work. >> No, he's got that He loves going to the gym. It's part of his routine. >> Yeah. You know that I hope I'm like that too at the at his age. I know you don't want to go to the gym. >> I will get the video, Dave, and I'll send it to you so you can put up. See the guy said do four. >> I I've seen it. I I just can't find it. But I you know what I I love guys like that because you know what? He'll probably live to a hundred this guy and he'll probably be super sharp as attack at 100. And I think that's always the goal. The goal is not just to live a long time because you don't want to live if you're if you're like out if you don't even know what the [\h__\h] going on. I mean, that's that's not fun life. But if you can be mentally sharp and live to like 100, I think that's the the greatest uh thing that you could hope for. Well, he called me the day after that Biden debate and I picked up the phone and he said, "Have I ever sounded like that?" And I said, "No." He said, "Shoot me if I ever, >> you know, I see like guys like Jack Nicholson are in the 90s now." And I've seen a lot of pictures posted. You know, how the [\h__\h] do these guys survive? These guys were like doing drugs and alcohol and right. I mean, they certainly were not taking care of themselves back in the day. you know, the carousing with all the It's amazing that these guys are all, you know, Clint Eastwood, they're all in their 90s, although Clint Eastwood was always took care of himself and a right and trained and stuff like that. Nicholson didn't though. >> Some, you know, genetics, I guess, right? >> I I guess I mean, it's something I can attribute it to. >> I mean, my my you know, >> I don't know. Yeah, it's it's uh >> I always my my I I I had an aunt Dave who lived she died of lung cancer at 76. She smoked three packs a day from 16 to 76. >> Three packs a day. >> Yeah. >> I'll never forget going over a house and asking my mother, "What was that?" It was on the wall, >> right? >> The the whole entire wall was stained. every every inch of the of her house. >> All right, let's give let's give Muscle Insight uh a little plug because I like this video. I want to get your opinion. Have you seen this? Who has the best rear double bicep post currently in the open class? They have a picture of I don't know. They put Joe Palasi who does have a good back. Nick Walker, Derek Lunsford, Samson Sand Da, Martin Fitzwwater, Tonio Burton, Rean Grimes, Bay Ruse, Tobani, and uh I guess they were they were doing a they had a little Jose Raymond on the judging panel with Ian Valier and Paul was on. Who do you like in that little uh all of all these back doubles? >> I would go with Derek. I mean, I think it's understood his back is the best in the IVV. Yeah, I agree. Some of these pictures look a little doctorred, too, because Samson Samson looks a little too hard in that picture, Remember, I don't remember seeing him on stage that hard. >> No, just I mean, when you when you consider just width, depth. >> I mean, >> funny how wide he is for such a short guy, right? It's it's I mean to have a wide back double is that's filled in is so impress. >> Yeah, >> they got different back doubles. I mean I think you know uh Antonio has a pretty and superbly balanced back double, but it's not the best back double. >> No. No. But I >> I like Martin's back double because I like the back the lower back thickness. >> Yeah. You know what he does? I hope he fixes it for the Olympia. He he leans back too much on that shot. And he and he and he kink cr creases his lower back. If he would just not lean his body back forward that far back, his back would look even better because he's hiding the lower part of it and he's got really good lower lats. >> Yeah. >> I got an email out to Nick's mom. I'm wondering if she's gonna email me back. >> John Romano would not approve because no one's turning their head except Well, Samson turned his head a little bit there. >> Remember guys used to turn their head sideways? >> In the back double. >> Yeah, because that was what you was quote supposed to do. >> Well, that's Yeah, that's what I was told to do back in the day was I mean you turned your head so that your traps kind of like were popped out a little bit. I remember Dorian used to do that on the lat spread. It looked crazy. >> back in the day. That was a tremendous tremendous shot for him. >> Who do you think has the best who had who do you think had the best back of all time? >> Um, let's see. It would be >> I mean Ronnie and um >> I'm not gonna say Joel Stubs. >> No. Well, he was good too, but Ronnie and Dorian have to be up there, I would think. Right. It'd be between Ronnie and Dorian. >> And it would be Ronnie 98 against Dorian 95. >> Okay, I'll take that. Yeah, >> because Dorian's back in 95. >> I mean, I was there. So, >> yeah, it was crazy. I've seen them both. I I I I've seen them both compete and I think I was more flabbergasted with Dorian. And of course on the back double and if you look at Dorian's back double it's it looks great but you know I think sometimes you have to be there >> in per in person Dorian looked way better than video. You could not capture how hard he was >> when pictures. Well, when his Christmas tree was on on on >> Yeah. >> It was just remarkable. >> A lot of the lighting in those pictures wasn't weren't as good either. I mean, I when I saw him in person, I was just blown away. I mean, he was the the level of density and thickness that that Dorian possessed on on on his back shots was just nut nutty nutty. Um, Haney had a good back, too, believe it or not. But, you know, I think that Dorian took it to the next level. And I think Ronnie took it to the next level over Dorian in terms of maybe just sheer size in 03. >> Um, if you look at that 03, you know, those back shots, >> but I think Dorian had more fibery [\h__\h] going on that I that I kind of a little more impressed with. >> I think Ronnie was what Ronnie had done in 03 wasn't his best look ever, but he was so big. He was like almost 300 pounds. I mean that that it's it was just it was just like a like a it was almost like a comic book you it was like someone drew him. It was almost like you didn't believe that it was real. And uh that's why I think I think that got him the best ever because of that that look because I don't think anyone's ever competed at his height that big and that lean. And I think it was it was something we might never see again. I don't know. I mean, it was wacky. And that's not even good. That's not that the pose that Sid put up isn't even the best one of them. >> Yeah, that 98. >> Blackman had some great shots that Pab Vanell took of him. Uh I believe they were Pabanell shots and they were just nutty looking. I mean, the the the the level of detail because, you know, P knows how to do the lighting is the key. And P just had some insane shots of him. And I was just like, this guy is it doesn't even look real what he had going on. You find him? >> I don't know if that I don't know if that's the shot. >> No, that that's he's a little rebounded out after a show with the uh >> Yeah, that's the Olympia. That is the Olympia. I wonder what year that was. He looks crazy there. I don't know. Did Howard Stern get resigned with Sirius? I think he did. >> What's that? >> Howard Stern signs monster payday. Sirius XM contracts. I guess they kept them after all is said and done. Howard Cern, look, I I don't agree with his politics anymore, but uh Howard Stern's a smart dude because he he knows if he holds out that that whole Sirius satellite radio without him, they'll lose all the subscribers. The only there are people that only subscribe to Sirius just for Howard Stern and it's probably, you know, it could be 50% of the viewership. So, I knew they were going to resign him. I knew Howard was playing hard to get and everyone was saying, "Oh, they they they canned him because of his politics and blah blah blah blah blah." Nah, he was just playing he was playing hard ball. I like I said, I don't I don't know why he became so woke, but uh from being so cool before that, but I I don't I I didn't expect to see anything less than a big contract from That's my Howard St. But getting back to backs. I I think that I think Ronnie just had something that was just outrageous looking. I I never thought we'd see a better back than Dorian's, but Ronnie's was bigger. I don't know if I don't know if his the quality of his back was as good as Dorian, but it was certainly bigger. And uh I would put those two guys up there one and two, which is which is saying a lot because we've seen some good backs. >> Yeah. Over the years. >> And you know what? Everyone said Joel Stubs. Jose Joe Stubs had a good back, very good back, but I think his back looked so good and so much bigger because his legs really weren't that big. I mean, you know what I mean? Maybe if his legs matched his upper body, they wouldn't they wouldn't stick out so much his back, you know? Unless I'm making that up. I don't know. >> That trendalone expert on Instagram says, >> he might not. We got to ask him. Oh my god. Can't take it. Should we preview this Italy Pro? Yeah, let's let's talk about the Italy Pro because I I I thought it was going to be a crappy show, but I saw, you know, once I saw Sergio entered the show and I was like, you know what, this this is going to be a pretty good lineup. We got Amir Omaric in that lineup. We have Sergio. Uh we got the German guy Buddha Buddhaime Bara from the UK who's coming up. We got Quinton who's trying to still, you know, qualify for the Olympia. Got a couple of guys that, you know, play who are at the Olympia already. Theole Aguero from France. You got William Martins, I think, who used to work with from Brazil for a short period of time, right? >> Lewis Breed from the UK, who's been, you know, top five at a few shows this year. I think it's going to be a really good lineup. Who I mean, who do you Who do you I mean, do you think this is a show Sergio can go in there and dominate? Can he beat Quinton? Um, I think, uh, I think, you know, just like any other show, Quinton may have does have the better structure. >> Um, but I think that based on pictures that I've seen today, I think when comparing the two, Sergio looks to be in tremendous condition. And it's always hard for a Quinton type big physique to be able to come down and get the type of condition that's a slim dunk condition after having done two shows, >> right? >> It's different than like air was peeled at the last show. He'll be peeled at this show. It's just it's like a different body, different you know what I mean? He's got like a lot of natural density, a lot of uh natural striations in his physique. So, it' be much easier for him to repeat a condition than it is somebody. >> Yeah. >> Who's got like younger looking muscle in a Quinton? >> Throw on top of that. Throw on top of that, you know, you don't really know how people's physiques either get stay the same or get worse from a long travel. I've seen people get like get off a plane from a long travel and looked even better. I've seen people look like disastrous worse. Of course, it's just a flight. You know what I mean? You can get off the plane and look absolutely terrible, but in two days all that, you know, you look you're right back to looking great. but it can play with your head and you can try to like overcompensate with your diet or whatever you're doing to try to like recreate the physique that you had when you get on the plane for the long trip. So, anytime there's a long trip, there's, you know, odd factors that come into play. >> Yeah, you're right. As long as Sergio doesn't get into any car accidents, you know, on the way to the show, I think he'll be I think he'll be fine. I I happen to think that assuming Sergio is in shape, which it looks like from those pictures, he's looking really good. I think his showmanship on stage and his mastery of like the, you know, mandatory poses and he really your eyes really go right to his physique when he's in shape and he's on it. It's hard to take your eyes off him. I remember when you helped him for that show when he won Tampa. Was it Tampa, right? >> No. >> Was it Tampa? No, not Was it? It was either Tampa or New York. I don't remember which one it was. Which show did he did he did he you know come on? Yeah. He just really decimated the lineup. >> New York. >> He was so he was so good on stage that I'm just like holy this guy outposed everyone up there you know. He stole that show. I forget it was very close between him and someone else. I can't remember what show it was and he kind of and you were coaching him at the time and he and he just stole that show just with his his presentation and showmanship. And that's hard. That that that's a that's a tangible thing that gets judged and you you know you can't discount that. You know, everyone doesn't understand that. You don't really see it unless you're in person because what happens is the guys when you're on home on your internet on your Instagram and you're looking at static pictures or even just posing video, you're not really getting a true feel for what's going on when you're sitting in that crowd and what the judges are experiencing live as these guys are presenting themselves. because the judges are not studying pictures and videos and saying, "Hm, who's better up there?" They're getting a very quick uh basically highlight film of who these guys are and whoever can present a better highlight film quickly on stage is going to be the guy that's going to win. And that's that's why you have to there's a there's an intangible thing part of judging that happens when you're there live. And you know, that's why sometimes you don't get the true picture by analyzing stuff afterwards. It's like uh before they had the instant replay in football, Chris, you remember they they would miss call sometimes because sometimes you just don't see it. >> Yeah. >> Uh but if you play it back 600 times on slow instant replay, you can see, oh, the guy did get inbounds or oh, the guy stepped over the line. You're judging a show live. You're not you're not going back and and studying the footage afterwards and then making a decision. Well, Dave, that and throw in that some of the European shows have sometimes notorious long comparisons >> in the prejudging. Um, and two things come into play there in terms of who's going to be one, two, three. Uh, who fades and who doesn't fade and who has the ability to present that what they have. That's part of fading just stamina all the way through a prejudging, you know. So, if you get blocks down to like a final call out of three or four and they they run them through three times, which is conceivable, if you're smoked on the last call out and you can't keep your thighs tight, you're done. >> You know, if it's that close. So presentation is not only the way you present your physique, but presentation, how much stamina you have from the beginning of prejudging all the way up to the end. >> You know, you know, you don't see it like at at the Arnold or at the Olympia. >> Well, at the Arnold you did. You see like a first call out of three people and everyone did they did three rounds, >> right? >> But no, I so I I'm wrong. I mean, it's, you know, they do do three call outs at the Arnold sometimes in the Olympia, but >> Well, if it's if it's close, if it's close, they do that for sure, >> but Sergio is really good on stage is my point. The longer the prejudging goes, I think the better it is for a guy like Sergio because he he can be up there all day. He just enjoys posing. >> And for people who love to pose up there, the longer it goes, the better it is for them. I always say that uh because those are the guys that practice their posing over and over and over all night, you know, for for hours a day. Those guys can pose forever, you know. I remember when I was a runner, I think I might have even told the story. When I was a runner, I hit a point, Chris, where I would run like almost 10 miles a day usually, you know, depending on if we had meets or whatever, but I could literally go and I could run probably forever. Like like I didn't have to stop. Like I had such good endurance that that the only thing that would stop me would be I'd run out of glycogen or something like that. And I start feeling terrible because, you know, I ran 20 miles or something like that, you know, not not that I ever did 20 miles on a regular bus, but I could run forever. Like it just was it was effortless because I did it all every day, you know, all the time. It you want and not many people I don't think I ever got to this point, so I'm not like saying that I've done it, but there are guys that can pose forever. Like just leave them out there. They love it. They practice it every day. They they they have great posing endurance. like Cormier probably could have stayed out there for freaking you know two hours and posed at prejudging uh and stuff like that and not had a problem. And I think Sergio is one of those guys. I don't know if some of these other big guys can last that long and if the prejudging goes on for a long time like like you suggest it could because maybe it's a close contest that could absolutely help Sergio you know win the show. >> Yeah. Now, I don't know what Quinton's, you know, posing endurance or anything like that, but like you said, he has competed a couple times already. Uh, it does make it harder to come in at your best shape. Sergio's a little fresher, I would say. And, uh, you know, I think it's going to be a good battle and there's other guys in the line, but I think it's I think it's going to be between those two guys. What do you think? I think that's probably I would say it's going to be between those two. Amir and maybe >> Oh, I forgot about your mirror's good too. >> Well, because he's the odd person out on the condition. >> Yeah, >> because for sure his condition is going to be the best on stage. But um Buddha, you know, he's impressive. I mean, there's there's more than just Tim as in terms of impressive. >> You know, Sergio is starting to look more There's There's Quinton. Look, I I I we've said it a million times about Quinton. If Quinton puts it all together at some point, and yeah, I think he still needs to put a little bit more muscle on even though he's huge already, but he's tall, has a big structure. But once he puts it all together, this guy he's I think he's the most dangerous guy possibly in the open division. If if he can add the muscle he needs to his frame and still bring in that level of conditioning that that he's going to need, I think he can win at all. That's how good I think his frame is. I don't know if you agree with me or not, but I I I think that he can if he continues to improve at the rate he's improving, I think two two years down the road from now, we might be seeing a guy who's competing for an Olympia title. >> Yeah. Well, he's got he's got everything that you need to win a big show like the Olympia. >> Yeah. >> Period. >> He's got bells and whistles galore, you know. >> Well, he's broad. He's broad. He's got height. He's got calves. He's got quads. >> Yeah. you know, it just uh the only thing that he's lacking at this point, he's not lacking condition either, is he's lacking like the two out of years of training that makes the muscle look like Lewis Freed's muscle >> in the first call out probably. He's got muscle that looks different than everyone else's. It's like way denser looking, >> right? >> He's not as big. He's not as broad, you know, but he's compact and the muscle looks super rugged and take super rugged muscle under the lights and it looks like something. And sometimes when you don't have that density because you haven't been trading enough years, put it under the lights and it it has like a just slightly quote soft look even though you're not soft, which is the frustrating part because you you can be, you know, a Quinton type physique and have like pretty much no water retention and very very low body fat and, you know, the the guy who's the trenone expert comes up to after says you you know you got to drop 20 pounds when in fact it's just you know you got to continue doing what you're doing. >> He's he's just a work in progress. I you know I think he'll when he arrives everyone better watch out. That's all I know. I'd be very he's one of these guys that you should be very very scared of you know and hopefully he continues injuryfree you know and and gets uh you know to his full potential because he's uh he hasn't you got to remember the guy hasn't been taking drugs that long. Chris, he was a classic guy who moved up to the open division, started taking drugs, you know, and uh it is what it is. He's been making the improvements he's been making every year. So, he's he's a super dangerous guy. It's funny, my my phone is like bell chiming with with text messages that I that I can't that I can't view. So, so if any of you guys are text meing out there, don't text message me. I can't see it. All right. What else did I want to talk about? Um, so we got Italy. Oh, I wanted to say I wanted the title of the show. Can you believe what what has it, Sid? How long has it been? What has it been? Eight years since Rich Piana died. Seven or eight years. Rich and Dallas Macccarver. What a terrible tragedy that was in our industry. Eight years. Rich Piana. >> Yeah. >> And uh, hold on. There it is. What a good guy. I uh >> you remember when we went to Australia and Rich Piana had the line? >> This is how naive I was. I'd say what what is this line for? And you go Rich Piano. I said who's that? >> And I didn't know who he was because he had this crazy YouTube station when YouTube was starting >> and he had this supplement line. I had no idea. >> I I had never heard the name. And the line was like at the it was the Arnold. It was either the Yeah, the Arnold Australia and the line was like wrapped around the the the venue. >> Very charismatic guy. Yeah. He just people wanted to be around him. He it was like a phenomenon when we would go to these expose and see him. He would build these huge booths and it it was like it was like he had a castle in the middle of the expo hall and he he'd be there all day talking to people. I don't know how he did it to be honest with you, but he did it. And uh he he had some very original ideas that he you know with all the slogans on his t-shirts and and one day you may and all the other you know all these like you know little you know 5% you know all these little like slogans that people wanted to be a part of his little crew. Uh he was a marketing genius before before there were marketing geniuses. He was one of the first guys. I always tell people there's three people and unfortunately they're all not alive if anymore, but my friend Derek Anthony was the first guy to really go on YouTube. He would go on YouTube because he was he was because all the fans would like tell him that he was gay. So he would go in there and tell him f you this and that and he would do rants on on YouTube. This is before you could even monetize. He would have thousands and thousands of views on this. If he would have monetized it, he would making a fortune. He was like the first guy to really do that. Then, you know, you got Boston Lloyd who came along who was doing like, you know, injecting himself on on on videos, you know, and talking about drugs. No one had ever done that really excessively, not not the way he did, at least. I I mean, I talked about education of drugs, but not like I wasn't taking shots online. And then, and then Rich came along kind of like around the same time or right after that and took the whole genre to the next level. And I think everyone who does social media nowadays is really copying the rich piano model of of what he established because it's so successful. And so everyone who's making money on YouTube now or Instagram or Facebook because of social media what they're doing should thank Rich P or the memory of Rich Piana because he made it all possible. He showed people that there was a business model to do this and that if you're creative enough and that you sensationalize things enough or whatever you got to do you and you do it regularly you you can have a great audience. People don't realize Rich would edit his own videos. He'd stay up all night editing his videos. He didn't just create the videos. He edited them and then he put them up himself. He would stay up all night. You know something I did originally I didn't stay up all night but I would stay up late editing video when I worked for Muscular Development. So this guy was was a real innovator in that sense and you know still don't know how the guy died but the autopsy was inconclusive but it was a shame we lost him eight years ago today and uh he really like I said he changed the scope and allowed people to have the ability to make money who might not be top level bodybuilders but were influencers and uh so we have to thank Rich for that. And then of course we lost Dallas Macccarver who was probably one of the the brightest upcoming talents in the sport at such a young age. I remember he was out in um Australia competing right with Tony Dy and then he he collapsed on stage. >> Yeah. >> Turned out he had a heart attack and but it was like kind of like a silent heart attack. They told him, you know, at the hospital there he better get checked out when he goes back to the United States. I don't know if he ever did or not, but um you know, we know the outcome. He uh he collapsed. I think was with was it in Flex Lewis's gym, right? >> Um yeah, I don't know if >> it was in the Gym and I, >> right? I think it was in Florida, his gym. >> I know it was Florida, but I don't know where he was. >> Yeah, it was in I think it was in Flex's gym in Bokeh, the Dragon the original Dragon Slayer. And uh unfortunately, you know, he passed. He had a he had a blockage in his coronary arteries. Never went and got it checked out unfortunately. And we lost another a great not only was he a great bodybuilder, he was a great guy. He was a good soul. He was AI mean the guy had a smile on his face. He I I never heard anyone say a bad word about the guy. Everyone liked this kid. And um he was only 26 years old. So we lost and I think they were they died a few days apart if I remember correctly. So eight years ago. It feels like it was yesterday. >> Yeah, it does. It's nuts. So yeah, everyone uh this is uh both of these guys. I know that all the guys over in the east coast of Florida there. I mean they loved him. I mean he was very wellliked. He trained over there and you know he had moved over there. He was working for Redcon time and uh you know we lost him to God knows where he would be. He could be Mr. Olympia. He could have been Mr. Olympia today for all we know. You know, he was so young. He his potential was unlimited at that point. And he was he was, you know, vying for top, you know, two in every show he was in. >> Yeah. He was he was pretty freaky. >> He was a better Nick Walker really, if you think about it because he had better structure than Nick. >> You know, they're similar in that they're young and freaky and dense and shoulders and, you know, everything. quads, arms. >> I think that I think that um Nick is a little smarter in the health aspect. I think he gets checked out a little bit. I don't think he's like got one. I don't think he I don't take it because and just knowing Nick's parents, he's not one of these guys who sticks his head in the sand and doesn't want to know what's going on. He's he's very up on his his physique and his health and everything like that. So, look, there's always a risk when you're this big and you're pushing this hard to be the best in the world. You're taking health risks. We know that. We don't we don't have to avoid the obvious. However, there's a way to do it safely and there's a way to not do it safely. The safe way is to go for diagnostic tests, to go for blood work to see what's going on in your body. And then if there's something not going right, you back off a little bit. But, you know, when you put your head in the sand and you just say, you know what? Yeah, I know there's something going on with my heart, but I really don't want to know because I'm afraid they're gonna tell me I can't bodybuild anymore. That's just stupid because then that that's how we lose people and unnecessarily. And that's that's unfortunately what happened to Dallas, you know, was and and it happened to Boston Lloyd, too. You know, he had a aortic aneurysm and he could have he didn't die of kidney failure. He he was in kidney failure, but he would have gotten the kidney replacement. He was still only 29. I mean, he would have he could have lived a very very very good life. He didn't want to know what was going on with his heart. His father had a an enlarged day order just like I did and he had the same thing and he needed to get it fixed and he just ignored it. So don't ignore your health. If there's any message that this this relays what what you know this tragedy of losing all these people, don't ignore your health. You can push the envelope if that's what you choose to do, but but do it smart. You know, do it wisely. Get the diet, get the cardiac CT scan, get the echo cardiogram, get the EKG, you know, get the blood work done regularly. This way you know something's wrong. Something's wrong, you get it fixed. It's not that hard. And uh, you know, being silly. I I w you know, I I'm l we're lucky, Chris, that when we were coming up in my building that nothing terrible happened to anyone probably because no one was everyone was afraid to do too many too much too many drugs. But I mean, there could have been tragedies. We didn't know about they didn't have all these diagnostic tests. They didn't have all this information. They didn't No, you couldn't go buy a blood sugar monitor or a blood pressure cuff. You know, you had to buy a you had to buy a stethoscope and one of those little things that pumps up your arm and then you had to try to listen to your own heartbeat. It was ridiculous. Now, you put a a $10 blood pressure cuff around your arm and you know if you have high blood pressure or not. You you stick your finger in the morning with the glucose monitor for 109 dollars from Walmart. You can tell if you have high blood sugar. You know, you can go get a cardiac CT calcium score in five. It takes five minutes self-pay under a hundred bucks. I mean, there's no excuse for not checking yourself out while you're going through the bodybuilding journey that you're on so that you can do it in a safe way. And uh I'm taking the time to say this and I've said it innumerable times but if I reach one more person just from saying it again as we memorialize you know the 8th anniversary of the loss of rich piano in Dallas. I hope you guys are listening and you're gonna go do it because you know what? My friend Craig Licker didn't do it. Didn't listen to me. And he died in a car dealership, you know, of a heart attack and he could have also gone for a cardiac CT scan and found out had if he had a blockage, he could have got a stent. He would have been fine. So, take it for what it's worth, guys. Don't don't be naive about your health. All right. Oh, is that uh that's Rich that's Rich Piana's brother. Awesome. He's doing a He's been doing a car car project on his YouTube channel for Rich and the Memorials Rich for the last couple years. So anyway, we we love Rich. So >> it seems like we've done that show we just did Dave before, but it's worth repeating the the um caveat that you just put out. >> Yeah. Well, I I don't think I could You know what? I don't think I can repeat it enough, unfortunately. >> You know, I don't know if the envelope That's the That's what I'm thinking. I I just I I'll just say it. I don't really care. >> Yeah. >> I don't think the envelope needs to be pushed that hard. >> No. No. >> Frankly, >> I got I got I want to put up this picture of Mark Hector two weeks out. He looks really good. Oh, he's got a great >> He's He's really imp he's really improved his physique. Talk about improvements of physiques. He really has improved his physique a lot, I think. >> Yeah, >> he's got a lot of muscle. >> A lot of muscle. A lot of balance. He's got a physique >> small weight. He's got a physique that wins shows. I don't know about this show. >> because well, he could be bigger. I hate to say that. >> And he's 260, too. That's the >> Yeah, I know. >> Remember when Remember when 260 on stage used to be huge? What? A guy's just taller nowadays. Is that what it is? Is that why they >> He looks great. He looks great. I just He does. He does. >> I don't know where he's going to land here. We're gonna find out. >> Yeah. Yeah. It's turning out to be a good Well, you know what? These guys that are not qualified for the Olympia are crazy not to do these shows because here's an opportunity. There's a big huge opportunity here. doing it. Hector's doing it. Amir is doing it. Uh >> the is doing it. What's his name? Quinton. >> Here's We're gonna we're gonna quiz Chris Aceto right now. All right. Hold on. How old was Jay in this picture? >> Uh and who gave him the shirt? the gold. >> He's 18 there. That's before I met him. >> Oh. Oh, it is before. Oh, wow. >> I met him at the tail I think the tail end of 18. >> Oh, I didn't even know. I thought you knew him younger. Okay. That's a really young picture of him. Holy mackerel. >> I haven't seen that one, which is why I know that it's predates me meeting him. >> That's awesome. >> He did. Did you see he interviewed uh Dana White and Trump called Dana White when he was doing the interview? Oh, he did. No, I didn't see that. I didn't see that. That's awesome. He lives right in his backyard. How did I wonder how Jay got in touch with Dana White? >> I'm sure because Jay's Mr. Vegas, you know. >> Yeah, that's true. >> Everyone knows Jay in Vegas. He's been there forever. >> That's true. >> He is who he is. Mr. Olympia, Arnold Classic champion, business guy. You know, he crossed paths with everyone. >> Yeah. Jay probably gets recognized everywhere he goes. I I have a couple people who recognize me here and there. They come up to my kids like >> because Jay looks the exact more or less the exact same as when he was winning. >> That's true. >> It's not like when you see a bodybuilder, you say, "Oh, this guy's retired and he's like a you know, he's still got the width, still got the pack legs." >> Right. Right. >> You're right. You're right. >> There's There's Trump calling Yeah. Call him uh Dynamite. >> I only uh Oh, is that Oh, yeah. There it is. That's funny. I get calls from like um >> your lawyer. >> Yeah, my my divorce lawyer calls me. And uh who else calls me? I don't I don't I don't you know I I've noticed it recently and I don't know if you've noticed this. I don't get very many phone calls. Like I'm almost surprised when the phone rings because no one wants to talk on the phone anymore. Everyone wants to text >> text. My phone never rings. >> Never. If if a matter of fact if the phone rings I get worried like like like it's going to be like the school or something like that. Someone got hurt because no one calls me. The only person who calls me is Aman who works for me you know to tell me what's going on. >> People who work with me Dave do not text. It's not conversation. >> No. Yeah, I don't want to. Yeah, I don't want to do text. >> Takes forever. The little little snippets of conversation. It's like >> And Chris is the worst texter of all time. He cannot write complete sentences. His grammar is terrible. It's like you you you talk you you text like you talk, you know, like little drips and drafts, you know? What the hell is Chris talking about? I'm like I sometimes I've said that to you. I said what are you what what are you talking about? And then you have to then you'll explain it or you call me up and tell me what you >> see you get the calls from me. the nostalgic phone calls. >> That's right. That's right. So, I went to um Great Wolf Lodge again this the past weekend. It's my it's my daughter's birthday. I wanted to take her there. And um my body's beat up. I you know, I realized that after 50, your body just can't handle the same abuse that it did when we were younger. And uh we were they dragged me on all the water slides, you know, it's like an indoor water park, but it's you know they still get the slides and the lazy river and then they have an obstacle course with a zipline thing. They drag me every day because my daughter's too young. So and I went to the one sit in Naples, but the um but it's probably it's the same. It's set up the same. They if you're in the area, it's a great it's a great park. And I ran into about five or six different bodybuilders there who came up to me and they were like, you know, one guy was from Yonkers in New York. He was visiting down there. And but they were all there's a lot of really good guys that came up to me and said, you know, I watch your show. I love you and Chris. You know, you guys are great. You know, I I you know, I've been watching you for years. And you know, a couple of them told my son, oh, you know, your father's a legend. Yeah, my son could give a [\h__\h] you know, about that. Um, it it is funny how there are, you know, that that people do watch the show. I'm convinced actually that probably more people know you and I from doing the show than they would have known us from from competing back in the day, you know? It's just it's so weird how social media is so prevalent. You'd be shocked. I have like people who don't even look like they work out say we would listen to the show or I have wives come up to me and say, "My husband listens to the show and I hear it all the time. I I recognized your voice, you know, in the background, you know, when I heard you talking. It's it's it's bizarre that everywhere I go, I run into people who who have watched the show or they know who we are or whatever it is. It's it's I know you have the guy at the cleaners you run into who's a big fan of us. >> We're checking into we're checking into uh a hotel in Boston maybe two years ago. me, my wife, all four kids, and the hotel manager came up who looked like the guy from the Genius Apple store eating the >> the 500 pound. I got you. >> Yeah. >> And he said, "Where's Dave?" >> I'm like, "I know what like I just blew him off." And then he's like, "Where's Dave?" I didn't I would I didn't know if he was he talking to me or whatever. My wife said, "I think he's talking about Dave Palumbo." And Dave and he's like, "Yeah, where's Dave?" I'm like, "I'm here on a family like family trip to Boston." >> Dave Dave Dave's in Florida with his family. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> But in his mind, I don't know what. Maybe he thought there was bodybuilding convention or something or bodybuilding. >> You know, it's funny. Did Did you see you know, Lonnie Anderson died the other day, like about I think it was last week. No one knows who she is, but I'm sure unless they're over the age of, you know, 40. But, uh, I noticed that they had the girl who played Barbara Eden, the girl who played I Dream of Genie. >> Yeah. >> Bill Maher had him on had her on his podcast. I I gotta watch it. I haven't seen it yet. She's got to be in her 90s, too, right? >> Oh, yeah. >> What I'm What I'm wonder I mean, she she probably still looks great because she was she always looked great. Um, what I'm wondering is I wonder, you know, you see all these star people who are in their 90s now, okay, that we kind of watched when we were when we were kids. I wonder if if people are going to start dying younger or are they going to be are we going to say like 40 years from now, look at all these people 120 years old, they're still alive. I wonder if we're going to start seeing old like a hundred's going to start seeming like not a big deal anymore because, you know, when we were kids, if you remember, people the average, you know, life been most men died at 62 years old. that was the average you know death I think now it's like 80 or something like that or 78 or 79 for women it's over 80 but >> um so in like our lifespan the average life expectancy has gone up 20 years so I mean will it go up another 20 years I mean will will 100 be the average you know age of people at some point >> I don't know if >> I don't know like I are we going to ever see like the hund the hund age category the masters nationals and at the North American like I'm going to this this coming week. By the way, thank you Gary for providing a press pass for us again. Um, but I think we're going to see a 100 plus. I'm going to be doing these guys. They're going to be like hiring me, you know, to coach him for the hundred category. You know, they call him the centurans or something like that. Centurions fully fully believes he's gonna make it to over 100 and I expect >> I think I think Hansen might be in the hundred category, right? We might not be alive, but Hansen will be alive. Hans will beund with abs and full pack. >> I still have the vacuum, the rib cage vacuum. Yeah. >> How old is Hansen? >> Uh he's he's in his 60s for sure. >> He's he's he's pushing Jay, you know, for best kept celebrity bodybuilding known as in terms of like the hair, the physique, you know. You know, well, if you ever look at John Hansen's father, he's got a full head of hair still, too. And he looks great. So, Hansen's got longevity on his side, genes, the genetics. You know, plus, you know, he's got the hair genetics like you do, too. You know, you're never losing your hair at this point. You would have lost it already. >> Hope so. I hope not. I hope not. I'll have to call Guy and get me over to Turkey with his daughter. >> I was going to say, we'll have to send you to Turkey. You might want to go to Turkey anyway. If my if my health goes up, I'm gonna cancel it. If I get sick, run to Turkey. >> He's like, Dave, if this guy writes, "If Dave grew a B Reynolds mustache, he'd be like one of those porn stars." Yeah, that's why I don't That's why I don't grow a mustache. That's why that's why I don't know why guys wearing mustaches who wear a fake one a little next week for the show. Dave, >> I gotta get a Blackman frosted mustache. I don't know why these guys do I look if if I was on stage, you know, I wouldn't have any facial hair personally. I think that facial hair detracts. You know, if you look at the best bodybuilders of all time, very few of them had any kind of facial hair. There was, you know, a couple here and there, but not many. Even Labrada, Lee Labrada had a mustache for years and then he shaved his toward the end of his career. So, I just don't think facial hair, like look, we shave our whole body. Like, why why would you want to put facial hair on your face? I don't know, you know, the the problem is trends and what stylish changes over the years and like you know as just like bow ties and excuse neck ties where they have they go from thick to thin thick to thin they go back and forth every decade or so. Same thing with mustaches. They come, they go, they beards come in and they go, and then there's no people clean shaving. It's like I think people get bored, so they just kind of they try to recycle, you know, their uh their looks, you know, and that's really all it is to it. I think it's that's what it's all about. I broke another pair of reading glasses. Can you believe it? >> Well, not bad as your phone, Dave. >> How many reading glasses do you have around your house? Like stashed? I got there's one, two, three, four, five within eyeshot. >> I I have two in my pocket. I have one of every desk in my house. I tell people, I said, "Listen, when you turn 50, you're going to need them. You're not going to wear them right away when you're 50. You're going to squint and you're going to try to increase this the size of the text on your phone." Uh, but eventually you'll give in and just say, "Fuck it." And you'll start wearing those reading glasses. Everyone does it. It's so funny because I can go into like a restaurant or anything like that. Anyone I You could tell who the 50 plus year olds are. Everyone pulls out the the reading glasses. It's amazing. You would think they'd be able to fix that by now. They could fix your vision with with the lasic. Why can't they fix the reading issue? I >> was just looking at a a supplement bottle before the show. I had to >> You can't read a supplement it to expand what what the ingredients were. I'm like I I think they purposely put the ingredient the the the more dangerous the the product is, the more they'll the small the print on the uh the ingredient list is. I I have a pair of glasses. I still can't read the Diet Coke bottle. It's crazy. Now they have My daughter likes the youngest likes Fanta. Have you ever drinken that >> orange soda Fanta? >> Fanta when I was little. Orange tastes like orange sugar. >> Yeah. Yeah. So, but they just came out with now they have a sugarfree Fanta. So, I buy I I I refuse to buy full sugar, you know, sodas for the kids or anything like that or drink. I don't even let them drink juice. >> Uh because it's just it's just pure sugar. >> Remember when you were kids, they were like, "Arange juice is good for you. It's got vitamin C." It's got like almost no vitamin C. It's all sugar. It's all sugar. >> Believe me, don't let your kids if you can avoid it, don't give your kids any sugar drinks. And look, I'm not a big I don't think they should be drinking soda all the time, but I don't mind giving them a can of Diet Coke if if it's g I'd rather them drink that than to drink the full sugar high fructose corn syrup uh drinks. It's it's horrendous. >> Changing one of their uh formulations due to Trump from high fructose corn syrup to sugar. >> They're supposed to go back to cane sugar. That's what I heard. I don't I don't think they've done it yet, though. So, but even even regular sugar is not good for you. Who needs 60 grams of pure sugar in a in one can of soda. You think you're going to really eat your food after that? You're going to eat your your dinner with that? No way. It's going to fill you up. It's you're lighting your pancreas up. Like there's no reason to have that much sugar. And most kids are overweight anyway. That if your kid is overweight and you're giving them like full And I know these I see these parents all the time. They they they don't buy the kids soda, but they buy them like juice. Oh, this is natural juices. I said, "Yeah, but it's still got a ton of sugar in it. Why would you give your your fat kid sugar to drink? You know, you're better off getting some sort of a diet iced tea if if you don't want to do soda because you don't like the car. I don't know why people don't like the carbonation. So, it's it's not a big deal. Um I'd rather have my kids drink that than like I said regular regular drink soda, you know, and no kids drinking water. Very few kids will drink water. >> So, they want something with taste in it. Well, then you're gonna have to give them something sugar-free. I go to the Wendy's. I told you I go to this one Wendy's just to get the the drink machine. You can make they have like 600 different flavors of different drinks. They have regular sugar, but they also have diet drinks. You can get like eight different diet serums ginger also go in there daily. >> No, I don't I don't go anymore. I But I'll go in there once or twice a week. I'll take the kids there. I'll go there, you know, and uh just because I like the drink machine and my of course my kids have to go there and try every drink that every because there's there's like 600 combinations you can make. So they're like, "Poor, get out. Do another one." I'm like, you know how like when you were a kid and electric windows on cars first came out? Yeah. And your your grandparents would say, "You're going to break the windows. You can't if you keep reopening and closing, it's going to break." They just didn't want you were just making them a nervous wreck. That they were lying to you. Really? You're not going to break the windows, you know? But that's how I I'm like, "God, you're going to break the machine. They're going to make me pay for it. I'm gonna be like, you're going to be washing dishes in the back." When you start saying [\h__\h] like that to your kids with your parents told you that >> you know you're losing your mind. You know you're losing your mind. >> I say things like you're gonna break the machine or with the windows. I say it. I said you're going to break the window. >> I I lock the Thank God you can lock the windows now. I don't even let my kids even play with the thing. But they're opening the the moon roof. You know the but when you start saying you're going to be washing dishes that that takes me back to my childhood. That's what they used to tell me. You want to wash dishes in the Chinese restaurant? You better behave yourself. >> Yeah. >> Can we get him in the back? You need anyone help? Anyone help back there? I'd be like, "No, no, I don't want to go." >> My grandparent, my grandfather would be like, "I I know Sunun Jongqing, who owns drostanolone, he's Mr. Ching, is gonna come back here. He needs an extra helper back there to wash dishes for the rest of the night." Crazy [\h__\h] we did. >> My father told me, he said, he goes, "You're gonna get paid back." He told me this before I was even a father. He's like, "You're going to get paid back when you have kids. They you're going to know exactly what you were like when you were a kid." And pay back. >> He was right. You love them, but they they could drive you crazy, too. All right. Well, we're going to wrap up the show. Uh, two weeks. We got the Italy Pro show coming up this coming week on I Wednesday. I'll be out in Pittsburgh for the North American Championship. I think this is the biggest amateur show of the year, Chris, because you know what? Not only do they have the North American, which is a proqualifier, and it's over five days, but they also have a Masters division, which is almost as big as the Masters Nationals. Not quite, but they're giving a lot of pro cards out for that. And then they have a pro show on Sunday for the pro masters. I have people in all the divisions. So I will be there from Wednesday to Monday. >> So I'm I'm pretty much spending the whole week with Jim Manion and Gary Ud. So and I was just there two months ago or less than two months ago for the Masters National. So I I' I've been I've been in Pittsburgh more the last two years than I have probably for the last eight or nine years, you know, ever since I had my kids and COVID and all that stuff. So, and I used to go to these shows all the time. I I really like it, you know. But, you know, now I have my clients in it. So, they're going to help me get out there and pay for, you know, some of the expenses. I I'll come out there and help them. And it uh, you know, I love going to this show. I always meet people that I know. I make new friends all the time. And, uh, they I gota I gotta really hand it to Gary and Jim. They do a phenomenal job on that show. And it's it's effortless. No one's in a bad mood. Everyone is nice because the Masters guys, they don't they're not cranky. they they're very very grateful that they're there and uh like I said, I always run into people that I've known for the last 30 years there and uh it's it's a pleasure to go to that show. So, I will be there all week long and uh I'm sure we're gonna we're going to get probably 90 pro cards out of this weekend this weekend. I have a bunch of good guys in the show. Do you have anyone in the show? >> Nope. >> All right. Wow, that's a first for you. What all you guys waiting for nationals? >> Waiting for the Olympia. got 12 people in the Olympia. >> No, I know you got a big lineup at the Olympia, but you you you help a lot of the top guys. >> Oh, I've cut way. >> Oh, why cut back, Chris? It doesn't pay. >> I don't because I don't need the pay. >> Doesn't pay. >> Don't need the headache. >> You know, I before I before we we end the show, you know how I have the Blackman puppet? I don't even know where it is. It's on the shelf someplace. You know, remember the the Blackman and the George Farah puppet I have? >> Oh, yeah. I used to we used to have a segment called Muscle Puppets and I should have stuck with doing this. My kids watch this puppet YouTube channel called Jeffy. Do you know who Jeffy is? He's like a puppet with this kid with a with a with a pencil through his nose and he curses. He's like a troublemaker. My son thinks he's the funny I can't even let him watch it. It's so it's it's so the language is so bad. I can't even let him watch it. But they love this Jeffy thing. So, I go to the mall the other day with the kids and let me tell you this this you can't let the kids watch this YouTube. This this he curses like crazy. They got a puppet. They got a Jeffy puppet. Oh, this that's that's muscle puppets. This Jeffy puppet they're selling for 40 50 bucks in in in the mall. Chris, I guarantee you this Jeffy YouTube channel. Pull up the Jeffy YouTube channel, but don't don't don't don't play the audio. Your YouTube channel probably makes a million dollars a year. This thing >> I would have stuck with muscle puppets. >> I would have been a wealthy man today. >> Told you to to to expand the muscle. Sid, I told him expand the muscle puppet show because it was so funny. >> I I you know what? I I have good ideas and I don't follow through sometimes. >> I told you I told you continue with the muscle puppet show. You could make a like a Ronnie puppet, a Kai puppet. I should have. I don't know why I didn't. >> There it is. You see this thing with the pencil? He's got the pencil through his nose. >> And my kid, they know all the characters on there. They must talk about this stuff in school, these kids. They Everyone must watch this thing. >> The puppets aren't even as good as your puppets. >> No, they're not. The the Blackman and the George Farrell puppet are way better than this. This this these things. These are like not even cool puppets. Even Jeffy's not that good. But they want 50 bucks in the mall. They're selling all these Jeffy and these other character puppets. That's how popular they are. And I blew it. I had a chance at mus I got to bring back muscle puppets now with all my free time. I gota I gota I got to focus on that now. So I I had the idea first. I'm just going on record of saying it. But uh I you know what the the answer to my conundrum is if you want to be successful at anything, you got to stick with it. You can't stop. And people ask me all the time, Dave, how can I be successful with my uh social media, uh, Instagram, Tik Tok, Facebook, what's the su what's the what's the recipe for success because I want to make money on on social media. I said I said consistency. You can't stop because if you stop, you you're you're you could be one hour away from from making it big. You got to keep doing it. Even though some days that you might get no traction, some days you might think, "Oh, this sucks." But I'm telling you, over time, there it is. Over time, it's going to uh it's going to pay off. I promise you that. Thanks for joining us live. As always, as we say every week here in Heavy Muscle Radio, >> the truth hurts. >> We'll see you next week. Don't worry. Don't worry. Don't worry.