Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palumbo and I'm joined as always by Chris the Technician Aceto on this February 20th, 2017 afternoon. Chris, uh, we are rapidly approaching the Arnold Classic. Less than two weeks to go now till we get I can't even believe it. It actually crept us up on us really quickly. Maybe because um I don't know, maybe because I'm in Florida now, it doesn't feel like the winter, so I I really didn't wasn't expecting it. But, uh, Quest Nutrition will be the official sponsor of all the coverage of the Arnold Classic weekend on rxmuscle.com. And, uh, we have a lot of that planned from the Hall of Fame, which we'll talk about, Bob Goldman's International Hall of Fame ceremony that we always film, to the interviews we do there, to the contest coverage to the photos to the preview to the uh, wrap-ups, winner interviews, and all the exciting playbyplay that goes on at that weekend. Plus the of course the expo which is amazing. I can't wait to hit that that Quest nutrition booth is going to be amazing with all the keto meals they got there this year. So I am stoked to be going out to Columbus. I'm actually not stoked to be going into the weather at Columbus Ohio. But then again they've made that Arnold Classic Chris so good now that you don't even have to step outside. Everything's in one big building. That's right. You got me the last minute or Amanda, thank you. Amanda got me the the hotel that's connected to the the venue so I don't have to go out in the freezing water. Never have to leave. It's amazing. And if you have to go to the the athlete hotel, you just walk across the little, you know, they got like a little insulated crosswalk. Yeah. So, it's uh they built the, you know, it's funny because Columbus, Ohio has been rebuilt since I I mean, you've been going there also a long time. I remember when I went there the first time in 1994, it was just like a regular town. Now they have built this town around the Arnold Classic. It's amazing. All the hotels are connected to each other by c by you know walkways essentially at least the ones in downtown Columbus. Everything is the convention center wasn't there. It's built. Um everything is one spot. I mean, we used to have to go to the Veterans Memorial, which was like a mile away, and then everyone couldn't get cabs and was freezing, and people would be walking back. And now, man, that place has developed and evolved thanks to Jim Lurman, Arnold Schwarzenegger into a mega a megaolis, I call it. I mean, it's really a mega conference town now. A lot of people go in there, and it was all because of the Arnold. the Arnold started. Well, if if you remember, if you go way way back, you know, late when they first started it, I think it was 89 891. It was really like there was no place to eat downtown. No, there was no there was no restaurants. There was nothing. The whole place was And the there was Do you remember where people went? I can't remember. No. What was the place the one place that everyone would go after the show? Let me see if you can figure out. I only know the I only know the the Night of the Champions place next door, but the Spaghetti Factory, right? Didn't they have that? Oh, Spaghetti Factory. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't even know if it's still there to be honest with you, but that's where we went. The only the only two hotels was the one where the athletes used to stay, the Double Tree, right? Double Tree. And then that that one uh I the one that like has built on sort of stilts. Well, then there was the the higher regency. That was the the name, I guess, which is still which is where we're staying actually this year. Luckily, you know, it used to be you call up, you get a hotel room. You you can't even book a hotel room downtown anymore. They they block all those rooms because the Arnold people have to put all the athletes and all the vendors and and and so I mean, luckily we obviously we're kind of grandfathered in, fathered in. We've been, you know, working with them so long now that that they always take care of us as far as getting us a room. The rooms are expensive. Let me get you don't get me wrong. The the you're better off not staying close to the venue because it's really expensive. Um but or or not staying exactly right, you know, right there. Maybe a couple blocks away is better because some of the hotels are expensive and it adds up, you know, but um you can't pay the the convenience is so so great that it's especially for people like us who are running from one thing to the next. So So I'm staying at the same place as you guys, right? Yeah. Yeah, we're in the same hotel. Okay. So which hotel is that the one where the athletes stay or No, the high No, we're in the higher regency, which is the one where the actual show is. Right next door is the is the other hotel which is uh it's is it the fairmont? No. What is What the hell is the name of that hotel next door? Hilton Hilton. Is it the Hilton? I don't have to leave. I don't have to leave though. Right into cold weather. No, you could walk through the walkway. That's what I'm saying. Uh that's what we did left. I must have walked back and forth through that walkway 600 times. I kept forgetting things last year. And I'm sure with one one knee. Yeah. With one I don't Yeah. Yeah. Was I hobbling around last year? No. No. No. I think I think it was before I got my surgery. No, I don't remember. One shoulder. One shoulder then. No, last year, you're right. I did get my surgery, but I got it after the Arnold last year. My but I still probably wasn't moving ambulating too well if I'm sure. Um, next year I'll have one should this year. This year I'm looking for the shoulder replacement. You're right. Every year it's like another thing. I feel like my dad. They could rebuild me. They could make me better than I was before, better, stronger, faster. For those of you who don't remember the TV show The $6 Million Man from the 70s, that's what I was quoting. So, we got a lot to talk about, Chris. Obviously, now that the Arnold Classic is coming up, we there's always drama leading up to the Arnold Classic. And uh this past week was my birthday, Friday. I'm 49. I'm one year away from you. Uh turning like you turned 50 this year. 49. 49 doesn't say you seem so bad. And it's like, all right. But you know what? I now the stress is on because now I got a whole year, you to go before I'm 50. Uh, how did it feel when you turned 50? Any different? Um, it it Well, you you you break it down into two more decades. That's how I I you know, Right. But do you feel like weird telling people you're 50 now? Like when they How old are you, Chris? 50. 50 sounds old, you know. Yeah. No, it's um I tell people and and uh and it it there's kind of like a disconnect in my mind. I said, "Wow, 50." Cuz usually I'm telling someone like, "Yeah, I'm telling like a cousin the other day uh said, "How old are you?" I said, "You know, maybe he's in his late 20s." I'm like, "50." And he's like, "Oh, yeah." In other words, of course you are. You know, maybe I thought you were 55. You be you look way younger than than 50. That's for sure. you definitely don't look 50 because you have a full head of hair and you know your your face doesn't have a single, you know, line on it. So, uh, luckily, you know, I don't really have any, you know, I don't I think I looked older when I was competing than when I do now. So, because I'm thinner now, and when you're thinner, usually you look younger. But, um, I guess, uh, I'll deal with 50 when next year. I'm not going to deal with it right now. Johnny's put it this way. I I do this all the time. I I I say, "Well, in 10 years," which goes by in two seconds. Yeah, I'll be 60. That's even scary. And then I start thinking of like your uh sometimes I I kid with myself and I think of your father. I'm on it. I'm serious. And then I think of my father because at 50 my father started getting dementia and and like whenever I can't remember something. Me too. I'm the same way. Worried. You're right. I'm the same way. Every time I I used, you know, I used to have a fairly good memory. I don't And and now it's it's I just can't remember things. Yeah. I mean, people can ask me like, "Do you remember so and so?" And I'll be like, "No." "Do you remember?" "Nah, I don't remember him either." Her either. Do you remember this place? Vaguely. Isn't it good when someone else has the same problems that you do? You You kind of It makes it seem like it's not so bad, but we could both be going demented. That's That's the scary part. Yeah. Well, I you know, if so long as you have, you know, what happens if if you're going more demented or have more dementia than me, it makes me feel better because I think, oh, mine's not as bad, right? I said, you know, I talked to Amanda. Dave doesn't even know, you know, he thinks he's still in New York. Yeah. Well, the good thing is that I think you and I have what's called midlife too much going on. That's that's that's what we got. We still we still have our memory. We just we just have too many facts coming in at one time. It's like when you have a hard drive that's a little full and you know you got to keep spitting things. You got to keep deleting things to make sure that you can get the new information in there. You and I are not deleting enough. That's the problem. You know what I do Dave? We we delete enough. I I was on the phone with American Airlines the other day and you know you call the 800 number. I do this with everyone and they say for press one, press two, I just hit 0000 million times. I just I can't listen to the No, but now but they change it now. You can't hit zero doesn't do anything anymore. I I do that also and it disconnects you now. You have to hit like eight or seven. Like you have to listen to the whole freaking menu, you know? And who has time for that? I want like an override. Like I can just hit a key and go right to the where I want to go to. Yep. But uh so Johnny's birthday was uh is Sunday. Was Sunday. So he turned I think 34 or something like that. He's a young How how young? 34. He's a young. Congratulations, Johnny. 34. Wow. His wife's only 30, so he they're young. We got some youth in our uh in our staff. Yeah, that's good. And we we went actually to it's his birthday's today because, you know, we record the day before the show and uh we're going to go to the uh taking him to the Asian buffet for some Oh, you found a new place? Yeah, there's a new place here. No more Golden Corral. Well, I went to Golden Corral yesterday. So, Saturday is Golden Corral. Sunday is is Asian buffet for his birthday. and uh he took me out to Polo Tropical for that's a yeah that's a Puerto Rican place. He took me there for my birthday on Friday and uh I'm taking him to the Asian buffet which is sushi, you know, Japanese food, Chinese, they have everything there pretty much. So uh we doing a lot of you know look when you live in Florida you do you do the buffets. That's the that's the the shtick. When I went when I went with you to the buffet the customers actually knew you. Yeah. That's pretty scary. You know, they're trying to give you like a nod like a like old men like in the 80s like, "Hey, what's up? What's up? See you there every day." You know, you have to pick I didn't realize this. When you have kids, you have to really pick places where it's it's like an it's insane in there already because if it's too quiet and nice, then it's too disruptive. You know, your kids are too disruptive to everyone. Come on. The whole your whole life becomes like vacations become for the kids. What can they do? You know, eating at restaurants. I I was at looking at restaurants the other day and we were uh going up and down the street and I'm like that one's too formal. That one's too, you know, loud to upset the three-year-old. That one's too quiet. If he's upset, all the other customers will get upset. You need like the noise level like halfway in the middle. You know, this one's ridiculously expensive. The problem is that my dad always when we grew up always hated these um what he called cafeteria style restaurants where like everyone's sitting around and there's too much noise. He doesn't he didn't like that. So he couldn't go there. So we just never went out to eat. That was his excuse. I I don't want to eat in these these cafeteria places. So the only places we ever went out to eat was when my grandparents would treat us like the Chinese food. They take the whole family out. We'd go to these fancy places and we'd have to like if I we if we made it if we if I went crazy, you know, that was it, you know, smacked, you know. So, uh, but my dad would not go to these like Golden Corral places. Never. Would never step place foot in one of those places. It's funny because it's ironic because nowadays he eats all he eats is junk food now. When he was when we were younger, he wouldn't he my dad I never saw my dad eat a cookie, you know. Oh my Dave, I just can't even believe the the the I can't believe you said. My father is a junk food junkie, right? Well, he's got dementia. Maybe he forgot that he used to eat good, but he I I remember up until maybe I was in my uh early 20s that I'd never seen him eat anything with sugar whatsoever. Isn't that weird how you change? He'd always eat like low carbs actually. He would eat like I never saw him eat many carbs. Wow, that's funny. Did he do that purposely or he just just the way he liked to eat? I I think he you know was I think he did it purposely. So he knew he knew like that it made him look better. Yeah. Yeah. He knew instinctively that high carbs would destroy his condition. That that's where the old instincts come from. So you got something good for you, Dad. People say, "How does Chris what's Chris's methodology when he when he when he works with people? This how many grams of this does he give per pound?" I said, "He doesn't have any formulas. He just he just knows." I said, "He just knows." Someone asked me today, they they emailed me and they're probably listening to the show. They said, "You h he's doing a show. He looks really really good. And he said, "Um, do I count or do you count the protein that's in the protein food or the or that's in the other foods too?" Meaning like protein and pasta. And I said I emailed first I deleted it and then he sent it again and then I I deleted it again. And then he he asked me uh this you know please answer this question. And I said I don't even know how much protein you're on actually. I mean, I never added it up. Nine 10 ounces of chicken. Well, you do it per meal. You do it per meal. Yeah. You don't do the whole day. These guys want to know calorie count. They want to know. They want to know so much information. I know. I I think this if if you know if you're eating 8 ounces of protein, I don't know how much protein that is, but I know what 8 ounces is. It's like 50 g. And just just let's say it's on five meals or six straight meals. And I think you need more protein, then I'd just increase the ounce. You know what I mean? I don't have to get Don't you hate when you get these guys overseas? You got to convert to grams for them. I'm sure you don't do that, but I But they're like, "How many grams is that?" I'm like, "I don't I got to go to the Google calculator and figure it out." Yeah. Go figure it out. I don't know. Go figure it out. You need 50 grams of carbohydrates from oatmeal. Go figure out what that weighs on a, you know, burner scale. I tell people that, too. I say, "Look, you know, because people I say, I want you to get 40 grams of carbs from white rice." They're like, "Well, how much rice is that?" I'm like, "Well, it depends what rice box you're using. If you're using minute rice or if you're using in long grain rice or if you're using uh basmati rice, it's always different. You got to read the box. You read the box given the serving size, how many grams of carbs, and just follow the serving size directions. You can't give a blanket amount that's always going to, you know, fit every every box. It's it's always different, you know, whereas protein is protein pretty much. If you eat eight ounces of meat, it's eight ounces of meat, more or less. So, and people always ask me, is it cooked or uncooked? I I say cooked because the cooked value is what you're putting into your body. If if it's if you're measure weighing your food uncooked and and then you're cooking off 2 ounces of it, then you're not getting eight ounces. Well, that's a good point. That's a good point. You know, especially with red meat, you know, you lose a lot of of of weight when you cook it because a lot of it has fat in it, you know. Yeah. So, so that so speaking of the Arnold Classic, uh Josh Lonardoitz, who was a late entry into the Arnold Classic, is now out. He's I talked to I I talked to Matt Lors, you know, we were going over press passes and everything like we do every year. And uh he's like, "Oh, by the did you hear Josh is out?" I'm like, "Jot?" I said, "Wasn't Josh like a late entry?" He's like, "Yeah." I said, "How does a late entry drop out?" He's like, "Personal problems." So, yeah. I saw Sid talks to Josh a lot. What's his personal problems? People, people, you know, people love personal problems more than he had knee injury. Oh, people don't care. You know, he has a big personal problem. It What is it? Can you imagine announcing it? Whatever it was, people be like, "Whoa, people, right?" I mean, you're right. You're right. It's like uh so and so busted for anabolic steroids. Like, you know, the the forum explodes. Oh, yeah. When they announced that, I mean, Don Long got arrested. I mean, it was all over the news. him and his wife and Armando Aman and a whole bunch of other bodybuilders got arrested down in Florida about a week ago and people were like talking about it like it was like like someone just got elected president of the United States. I'm like guys this is not good news. They said this is you know we don't know what happened. All we know is that that they're going to have some hefty legal bills you know and and you know they have a newborn baby. I said so let's just chill out on Don Long here a minute you know. So it's Yeah. So Josh so Josh is out. He said he has family some kind of family issues, but you know what? He also hinted that he was, you know, was he got in at the last minute and he he wasn't sure he was going to be in the best shape. So, I have a feeling he just couldn't get in shape in time and he pulled out. That's what I think. Uh it's good to blame family issues when you know you're really not going to be in the best shape of your life. Very few people in the best shape of their life pull out because of family issues. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Good point. It's usually you find a way around it. You know, the guy Sister Nino went to his dad's his brother's wedding. you know, the day before the show. That's just the way it happened. But if Guy wasn't in shape, he might have said, "Hey, I can't do the show because my brother, you know, has got this wedding the day before." Speaking of, we'll come back to the Arnold, but I I I wanted to comment on the guy interview that you did uh on the TV station. Here's where you can put in the plug for the TV station. Uh but it was fantastic that you know, there's a lot of really good parts. I know you've known Guy for a long period of time, so you know how crazy he is. But really, and and I I know all his, you know, stickick lines. They're not lines. They're just the way he is. But the new great uh quote and and what really left me uh stuck with me from the interview is when he said the difference between me and quote these other guys and you know I don't think that meant guys like in the 212 it just means people who bodybuild in general is that I compete because I love to train period. Everyone else or not everyone else but other other guys want to be bodybuilders. Yeah. They compete because they want to be bodybuilders, right? He just competes because he he would he's training anyway, you know. Yeah. I mean, he just loves to So, I mean, you can you can you can want to be a bodybuilder and love to train, too. But there's a big it's a it's a huge difference, even though it's a small difference in that he loves to train, so therefore he will, you know, decide to compete, which means he'll probably train his his whole life. He'll never stop even after he's done competing. You know, some of these guys like, "Oh, I can't wait." It's funny. Flex Wheeler was always saying, "When I'm done bodybuilding, I'm never working out again." Well, yeah, that happened. Then all of a sudden, he got a kidney problem and uh and it was taken away from him. And nowadays, you know, he trains because he he he realized, you know, I did like to train. Maybe I didn't like training back then because it was too much pressure on me to to have to do well. I know he didn't he didn't really love the he hated the pressure of competing even though he was so good at it. Um which is an irony in of itself. You think if you're really that good, you would love it, but he didn't. It was he didn't like being on stage and it was it was that was the worst part for him. Yeah. Well, which is kind of ironic when he seeing how gifted he was. But but yeah, Guy is great because Guy tells it like it is. He's not afraid to say if he doesn't think he was judged properly. He he he voices it. I mean, he was talking about the Phoenix Europa show where two years in a row Charles Dixon beat him and and the last time he was actually in the center call out the whole entire show and Charles and his trainer actually came up to him and congratulated him on winning after the pre-judging and then he come came in second behind him after all was said and done. So, he, you know, he obviously was upset about that. He talked about um his life and he's getting divorced and and all the stress in his life and he's you know we talked about Oxygen Gym and I asked him if he thought there was anything magical out there and he's like these guys they're just too freaking lazy. They they they need to be sequestered out there. I don't need that. And it was it was a good it was it was interesting that he said that because I felt the same way when I and and you we mentioned this earlier before the show started. I um when I trained, you know, I lived the life of a monk. I never went out. I never drank. I never did any drugs. I I I just I was focused on bodybuilding. That's it. And there guys like Ronnie Coleman, Dorian Yates, throughout the history of bodybuilding, the guys that got the best results, okay, were always the guys that that had a self-imposed um I guess you could say uh monkship. Yeah. Self-imposed uh I guess you could say sequestering. Uh, so some of these guys are just very easily distracted and those are the guys I think that do well at an oxygen gym because it's like they're going to a training camp. Yeah. Well, that was the quote from Jay. I I told you I think I said it last week or maybe I never did on the show. He text me and say the these guys don't The quote is this. Uh, these guys don't understand that you can have no social life. Period. None. Period. That's the exact text. These guys don't understand that you can have no social life. Period. None. Period. And that and that's the life, you know, Jay lived. I mean, you know, he will tell you his social life, you know, was essentially, you know, eating out somewhere that he enjoyed. Well, you ever noticed and and and this is applicable to Dorian and to Jay, a lot of guys have wives, you know, some have kids. very tight family lives while they're competing and then then then they retire and all of a sudden they get divorced. Happened to Jay, happened to Dorian, happened to me um uh when I was originally married because I think the bodybuilders that are living that sequestered, you know, life with no social life. They need that that family, I guess you could say, structure around them so that they don't have to think about going out and and partying or going out and meeting chicks or going out and and and hanging out with friends. It's like they they create their own little fantasy world around them that's very protective and it enables them to to just focus on one thing which is their bodybuilding. And a lot of times when people stop competing after that, they start realizing, you know what, maybe this was kind of an artificially constructed type of thing. Even though I respect and and love the people that were around me at the time, that's not who I really am. Now I can I can explore who I really am. And I I think that a lot of bodybuilders make that evolutionary change after uh Ronnie used dated Vicky Gates for many years when he competed and then when he stopped, you know, he he now he's with another woman. So, I think it really just changes. It's like a It's like a It's like a disconnect that goes on. You have to have that if you want to be a great bodybuilder. Unfortunately, it's you're living in fantasy world for for those years that you're doing that. You have to have the stability. You mean they need the stability. And sometimes the stability is built on a relationship that maybe won't be functional once they don't need the stability anymore. Does that make sense? Yeah, it makes perfect sense. So, it's it's just part of the part of the game. But a lot of these, you know, Warren, you know, Warren Buffett early on in his career, he was married and and uh uh it just made me think of Warren Buffett. He he he's he's your hero. Yeah. Well, he you know, because he's simple, right? He he he has to some degree he he could be considered a hero. Uh uh he you like a lot of stuff he does. Like he drives the old car. You copy a lot of stuff he does. He was having an affair. Oh, he was. And someone said, "Who you having an affair with?" His wife thought he was having an affair. He was so into like reading balance sheets and stuff on businesses that he was, you know, he said he'd go and hide in the bathroom for hours. This is early early on when he was young, and read like balance sheets and stuff. Uh, and then and then finally, you know, uh, I don't know, his wife, she didn't kick him out, but she said, you know, I I you're better off just, you know, enjoying your business stuff. And Blackman sits in the bathroom reading science journals and looking at guy's glutes. So, I mean, is that not going to be construed as cheating, too, I guess. Let me let me just say because you know what is it's it it's you know what it it is beating a it's not beating a dead horse because the horse is not dead yet. Now he's still rearing. News broke this week that the lady who actually what mails the checks out. Yeah, Denise. Uh, she was the one of the nicest people there. Yeah, too. I mean, think think of that nonsensess that let's just go back. You need to build a timeline like multiple different timelines, but this timeline is Dave Plumb comes on the TV show or the radio show or both and says, you know, this is like 18 months ago. Blackpin's not paying people. And you know that's when he still has people over there. People pie along. What does Dave Palumbo? He don't know what the hell he's talking about. And then you know a little bit more seeps out. A little bit more seeps out. This guy's let go. That guy's let go. Fast forward. David Bay the whistleblower comes on the show. Fast forward the lady who sends out the checks that never get there in the first place. She's gone. she quits and and we're supposed to make believe that uh everything's fine still over there. Well, you know, it's and I say that and people listening say, "Wow, how fine are they at RX Muscle?" Well, that's the difference. The difference is Dave paid his bills. Dave paid people uh Dave paid people sometimes out of his own pocket uh or many times out of his own pocket. Um and and uh Dave tells told people you you know it uh I'm not going to be able to pay you in the future if we we if we and when we actually cut back on these shows. Meanwhile, Blackman's formulating the constitution of MD. Why cut back and send a me a text message and saying that we'll never cut back? We're actually he said we're actually growing. He wanted to pay you. He wanted to triple your salary. The only problem is you never would have gotten a check in the mail. That's the problem. Yeah. Meanwhile, behind the scenes, people aren't even getting paid. Yeah. So, you know, why beat a dead horse? Because it's fun, actually. And the irony the irony is uh or is that David had you bounced one check on someone someone in the past, right? You know, be all over the internet. Well, you know, well, we'd hear about it from the last, you know, with from the last employee. I mean, who's the last employees over there? Maybe Blechman's posting himself. He'll be posting it on MD's forum. He doesn't know how to He doesn't know how to post. That's the problem. He need He don't know how to log in. Yeah, he doesn't know how to lo in. It's interesting because, you know, we was speculating about Dallas Macccarver. Like, how the hell is freaking Blackman paying Dallas Macccarver? If he can't even pay, you know, Ron Harris, you know, who's now the editor-in-chief over there, he can't even pay, you know, Charles Glass, he can't pay Dan Ray. So, you know, we had uh he doesn't pay Genino. You're Yeah, right. You like that question I hit guy with at the end of the interview. How much money you owed? I don't know. He know he knows. He knows how much he knows to the penny what he's owed. Tell me exactly how much he's owed. He did. I knew it. I knew it. Well, you know, you were on vacation this week out in California. A lot of people don't know that. And uh you couldn't make the Iron Debate show this week, so uh we got Aaron Singerman to sit in uh with John Romano and myself. If you guys haven't watched the episode, it's a it's a it's a it's it's a doozy. You definitely want to see it. It was like a reunion of sorts. And I we John asked Aaron what he Dallas Macccar is your athlete. Why is he exclusive to MD? And it and Aaron told us the answer which was Aaron is is still shoveling money over there to Blechman. And part of the deal is that Blackman takes some of the money that Aaron gives him as sponsorship and pays Dallas with it. Well, that's even that's that's mindn numbing that that So Romano Romano basically said, "Idiot, why don't you just pay Dallas more money? You could pay him half the money you give Blackman. Don't give him anything because you're not getting any value over there." Like there's no It's ridiculous. It's It's a Ponzi scheme. You might You might as well drive down the the the highway and uh throw money out the window. Exactly. That's what John said. John John ripped I don't know if you you got to watch it. You you love this thing. Just watch even the last 15 minutes of it. John rips into Aaron so so much and and we had a good Aaron was a great guest on the show. We had the topics we talked about were really good and if if you it was about Dallas and about Flex Wheeler getting a job with Generation Iron and we talked about Kevin Levrone making a announcing his comeback at the Vancouver or a second comeback at the Vancouver this year. But um so the topics were great but just at the very end we had to break Aaron's balls a little bit because he is still supporting Blackman and you know what it is. It it's the Jewish thing you know because Blackman a you know you know he gives him all that stuff and he probably invites him to his mother's house down in Florida there and and so Aaron somehow thinks that you know he's getting value over there when he's not. But the fact that that Blechman is is leveraging the Dallas Macccarver thing. So if I'm Aaron I I would want Dallas talking to everyone. Wouldn't you promoting the my new product line from from from sorry someone say you don't know their business model from a business sense it makes no sense. No. Aaron thinks cuz he's got like three people in the Middle East who read Muscular Development Magazine that ah it's worth it. Yeah. We got a big readership in the Middle East. They they really value the mag the print. How about that? Romano's like why don't you just [\h__\h] print your own magazine and and distribute it in in the Middle East? It'll be a lot cheaper. No, they don't. They don't. They don't have sales. There's no fictitious sales in Europe or fictitious sales in South America. There, you know, if you you know what, if you can't sell Coca-Cola in in in Miami and in Los Angeles, you're not going to exceed the sales. You know, you're not going to be selling in Bellarus or No. Qatar or or uh you know, Kuwait. No. In other words, you know what? If you if you have a a business model and it's not working in the United States, don't think it's flying somewhere else and conning people and telling them that it's, you know, we do well overseas. Let me ask you this question since you weren't on the show and I wanted really wanted your feedback. Have you watched the uh this Dallas Macccarver uh posing video for Jim Manion that they Yeah, I saw it. What did you think of Dallas? Um, you know, Dave, I've been saying from on the radio show in nice in a nice way, um, that people expect Dallas, you know, to be like a Jay Cutler and and, you know, they thought Klo was going to be a Jay Cutler and they thought, um, uh, whoever they is, uh, who who's who's who won Orlando that sheriff. Who's the other? I don't negative. Compton. And they expected Compton who's, you know, to be the next Jay Cutler. Probably of those three, Compton would probably be the most likely to be the better of the three bodybuilders at this point. Um, but the the reason I bring that up and give it context is I saw the video and I just think it's more of the same. In other words, what you see is what you get with Dallas. It's a young bodybuilder who's continually added a lot of muscle in the last three years. And that type of muscle, the way it's put together is always going to look much smaller on stage than a And they're not really technically these guys are not that crazy big. Broden, Dexter, Biki, people with all the tie-ins, you know what I mean? Yeah. uh Cedric. Uh so weight, you know, you know, weight on the scale means something. Um but it's like a business balance sheet. You know what I mean? You could have a $10 billion income in sales, but you have, you know, 9 billion going out the door. You don't really have there's not really a lot there. It's better to have a $4 billion income and one billion going out the door, right? So, uh, I I saw the video and I saw the criticism of the stomach and, um, I just think Dallas has got like a lot of weight on his body and a lot of, you know, quote, a lot of muscle. Um, but structurally, I guess that's the reference to like the Dexter, the Roadiki, the Cedrics. when standing next to those guys, he's, you know, structurally that muscle does not quote show up all of a sudden on stage. Make sense? Yeah, it makes sense. It's interesting because Aaron said on the show as an excuse, he's like, "Oh, we didn't know that the the jam was filming, you know?" So, they were like like, in other words, like they weren't prepared for this. It was like a they like caught them by surprise and prepared to suck in the gut. Yeah. But let me tell you the truth because JManion called me the other day and JM said to me, "I want you to know the real story." The real story is that they wanted to come down there, you know, and Aaron wanted to make a big production, fly everyone in, Chad, him Dallas to come see Jim Manion, who had the flu, by the way, that weekend. And JM said, "Look, the only way," and him and Frank Zeppy, who runs the NPC news website, said, "Look, the only way you're coming in is if we can film Dallas because, you know, we want content. and we're not going to waste four hours of our day if you if you guys if we can't film this thing for the NPC news. And because they knew Blackman had this exclusive on on Dallas. Yeah. So Aaron's like, "Don't worry about it. I'll take care of it." You know, I'll call Blackman. And you know, I guess he got it clear. So they knew going in there that they were number one that they were going to pose. Number two, that the NPC News had exclusivity on on filming everything that went on that day. And from when they got there, they they knew that they were filming because they've been they filmed from the minute they got there. So they knew this was happening. And to make things worse, Jim because he was sick with the flu wasn't there. And they were like begging JM, give your dad a call. Can you see if you can just come down and take a look at, you know, we we really wanted to look at at Dallas. So they knew that they wanted Jim to look at it. So they actually must have thought that Dallas looked good. You know, that that that that had to be the belief. And Chad was bragging about how good he was. So, you know, Jim Jam calls up his dad and says, "Dad, can you come down? I these guys, they've been here." Yeah, fine. I'll come down. So, Jim comes down even though he doesn't feel that good and he looks at the guy and and he and he tells the guy on video, you know, you're not looking that good. You're not sucking in your stomach. you know, this is and he critiques him, but they cut that part out of the video because they didn't want to like put up a terrible video, you know, about they weren't looking to disparage Dallas. He got disparaged just by the way he looked there. He they didn't want to show Jim putting him down cuz Jim is brutally honest, you know, he's like Weinber, you know, not going to tell him he looks good if he doesn't look good. So, they knew he was being filmed. They just thought he looked good. You know, Chad is on jumped on the bandwagon with Dallas. Like, you know, and I love Chad and you we we mess around with him, but Chad is really trying to take credit for this guy's whole career. And this guy has been a great bodybuilder for a number of years before Chad started working with him in October, you know. So, uh, everyone's on this Dallas bandwagon. Oh, he's going to win the Arnold. I don't think he's going to win the Arnold. I think he'll place top five, but um, from my my point of view, well, you know, you know what's going to happen is, you know, Go ahead. Well, from my point of view, I'm sure he'll be shredded on stage. I have I have no doubt that that they're going to that Chad will bring him in tight on stage, and I'm sure his he'll control his midsection as well as he can. His glutes will be crazy strided. I just think that he has a weak back. We you and I have discussed this. And I think, like you said, structurally, if guys like Cedric and Biki come in in shape, there's no way Dallas beats him. Yeah. Um Yeah. Just just put them between those two. And I, you know, I I got, you know, don't count Juan Morel out on that. Yeah. And and Yeah, I'm sorry. Yeah, you're right. And I say that because the first thing I think of is Juan and and you know, everyone has their weaknesses. Juan's got some, you know, some weaknesses, which he's improved on, his legs. Um, but Juan's got a pretty decent damn, you know, depends on if he's full or not full. His back is pretty impressive. Yeah. And you know what? His pecs, you know, his side chest will be Dallas's side chest. And, you know, he's got a he's got no midsection at all. No. And he and he's and he's just as conditioned as as any of those guys, of course. Of course. Of course. I mean, Juan Juan Juan is the opposite, meaning he's got no midsection, no distension, no, you know, he's got a very small waist with very full pecs, which is going to look very impressive on stage. The only thing Dallas has got on on Juan is legs. Maybe from the front, but not from the back. So, I I think you're right. I think that Juan has I think that Juan will be I'm I actually in my in my head predictions, which we'll make next week, you know, the official predictions. I have Juan beating uh Dallas. Uh yeah, to be honest with you, I got news for you. Fouad Abiad could beat Dallas Macccarver if Dallas is not 100% on. So y he, you know, he beats a lot of people that that he shouldn't because he's he's a workhorse. He's kind of like I guess I'll call he's kind of like a Canadian Dexter. Well, he's just a workhorse, too. He's like a he's like a guy Sister Nino. He's like a guy Dexter. A guy Dexter. He's a guy Sister Nino. Yeah. He's he's a guy in in the mentality, but he's a Dexter. And like, you know, Dexter could be overlooked running into a show like people not expecting him to win it. you know, he's just got a lot of detail and condition. And at a lot of shows, maybe not all of them, but a lot of shows, most of the shows who had shows up in great condition, can slip by a lot of people. Josh Lonardoitz could have beaten Dallas McCarthy, but now he's not in the lineup obviously. So that's, you know, that's we got to remove him. All right, we got to take a commercial break, though. When we come back, Chris, I'm going to talk about some uh deaths we had in the industry. It's it's pretty sickening that we have to every single It's like almost every other show we're talking about someone dying. But uh stay tuned. Uh I'm going to announce one of them was a close friend. So I want to talk about her a little bit more than just a brief mention. Stay tuned. We'll be back in 2 minutes. A legendary name in hardcore supplementation. Iron Mag Labs. 100% original patent pending andro compounds. The most effective hardcore groundbreaking bodybuilding supplements in the world. In the world. Iron Mag Labs. Revolutionizing hardcore supplementation for more than a decade. Visit ironmaglabs.com. Ironmaglabs.com. Hi, I'm Dave Palumbo and I just had a protein shake made with Quest Nutrition's new salted caramel protein powder. And I can tell you this, it's on a whole new level. It's a total reinvention of the protein shake. The taste is incredible, and its creamy texture and richness make it taste like a real caramel milkshake. It's incredibly low carb, less than 1 g of sugar, and 22 g of protein in every serving. No soy, and it's gluten-free. Just add water, ice, a scoop of protein, and shake it up. It's that easy. I actually look forward to drinking this shake. And Quest Nutrition has got a total of seven different flavors. They come in convenient single serving packets so you can mix and match. Check out loveyouproteinpowder.com for more information on questproin powders and some delicious shake inspirations. Welcome back to Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Jay Palumbo talking with the technician Chris Aceto on this February 20th, 2017 afternoon. And uh Chris, we have some sad news in the world of bodybuilding. Uh Nicole Bass has passed. Uh she was uh known as the largest women bodybuilder of all time. Uh 6'2, over 200 lb competing on stage. She was on the Olympia stage and she won the NPC nationals. And she's been around the industry. Everyone knows her for years. She's probably most well known as for her stint uh as a Wack Packer on not on the RX Muscle Show, but as as a real Wack Packer on the Howard Stern show. She was always on there. Howard was always breaking her balls. Uh she did a little stint also at the WWE. Uh she was what was it? Sable's bodyguard, the wrestler Sable. She uh she was in there for a while. She she probably was had about a year run in the WWE. And then her her ex-husband or her husband Bob who is no longer with us also. He uh he had a big mouth and I think he got her in trouble over that. But and then she tried to sue and then she tried to sue the WWE and for sexual harassment and the jury threw it out because they're like who who would sexually harass her? You know, it was one of those deals. I can't I can't I I can't believe that Bob So Bob did Bob screw it up for her. Bob screwed it up for Yeah. Bob would be backstage at all these WWE events and he would be running his mouth and they're like, "Who the hell is this guy? Get him out of here." you know, and I I I truly believe that's why they get rid of There's no official word on that, but I I believe that's why because she was a popular wrestler. She was very popular and they were paying her really well, too, for a while. Uh because she was huge, you know, they like those, you know, she definitely des she definitely fit in perfectly with that WWE persona. I mean, that's, you know, cuz they never had a woman like that, you know, it was it was an anomaly. I mean, and she she was good. She was a good actor. She she as as kooky as she is and was, I should say, she was a good actress. She know how to play her part and uh she played it well, you know, the big crazy freak, you know, and uh it's a shame, you know, she was a sad person because she was she had a lot of gifts and she just I don't know, she I think she had depress she suffered from depression, which a lot of a lot of people do, unfortunately. Depression is a big is a is a major killer and she wasn't taking care of herself the last couple years. uh she was overweight and she was just wasn't healthy and she wind up dying of a stroke. That's that was the official cause of death. She was living I think I don't know if she was living or she was dating a girl. I mean, she switched uh she switched her sexual preferences and she was dating some really young girl who who did all the she kind of posted what happened because I don't think anyone knew, but they all the major news outlets picked up the story USA Today and it was on MSNBC and uh they all picked up the Nicole Bass death story probably because she was in the WWE and uh it's it's just it was sad. You know, I I had a lot of interactions with Nicole. If you see if you if you Google Nicole Bass, a lot of the pictures you see online were some of them were taken at my house because she was I was helping her for one of her shows and she would come and we'd do progress photos and we put them up and she just she was she was a fun person to hang around. It was she had great stories. She was a good storyteller. She had that very deep voice, you know, which it just was part of her whole persona, you know. She was it's like Andre the Giant, you know, Andre the Giant, you know, was not a normal person. I'm sure a lot of people picked on him early in his life, but he just became like this persona, you know, uh, and, you know, unfortunately, he also died young, you know, probably the result of his uh, overprouction of growth hormone in his body. But, uh, he was diabetic and, you know, he just didn't he didn't watch his health either. But she um, I think she died too soon. I really do. I think she had a lot to contribute still. I just think that she just was she was a troubled soul, you know, and once I think once Bob died, she just lost focus, too. Yeah. Yeah. And you never you never did uh like an long interview with her, right? On No, I had her on a couple t I had her I had a few I did a few interviews with her. I think on I got to look them up. I got to try to find them on some of the TV shows. I think I had her on a TV show once and uh she was very funny. She was a funny girl. She She could have been a comedian. She had very good insight into life and she was able to laugh at herself and that's important. You know, if you if you can't laugh at yourself in life, then you're going to be miserable. in terrible and she was able to laugh at herself and uh like I guess I'll miss her. You know, I I'll never forget I went uh in the the New York 90 1992 New York Metropolitan Championships. It was my second show ever, Chris. I was I think 22 pounds or something like that. I was a heavyweight. And I show up and you know, we're checking in. This is this is before Steve Weinberger ran the NPC. It was Carl Companion. Carl Companion was You think Steve's got a bad Carl Companion was like if you showed up 10 minutes late, you weren't competing. That's that's the way he was. So, it was very scary atmosphere signing up for the show because he it was very official and they they made it seem like it was like you were, you know, signing up for the army or something like that. So, I was nervous. It was my, you know, I still really was new to the sport. I didn't really know a lot of people. All of a sudden, I see this huge tall person with the It looked like they had a horse's mane of hair. I think it was hair extensions or a wig walking down and saying like I remember the laugh. It was like Santa Claus. And I'm like, "Who the [\h__\h] is that?" And I had known I you know I've been reading the magazines and I've seen her in mag. I'm like is that Nicole Bass? They're like yeah it's Nicole. I think it's Nicole Bass. And you know she looked like scary I'll tell you. and she was all tanned up and I'm like, "What is she doing here?" She's a pro, isn't she? No, she's not a pro. She's got to She re-qualified for nationals, which we're going to be the following week, I guess. What year? What year? What year? What year? 92. So, she was in the show. She was obviously the biggest person in the show, but there was an actually another girl, a Brazilian girl. Her name was Simone. I don't remember what her last name was, who was it wasn't tall, she was short, but she was jacked. Her legs were crazy. your back was. She actually beat Nicole. She beat Nicole. Nicole was second. She was and I think Nicole actually passed out at the night show on stage. She was drunk. But the true story, she was drunk. But this girl, Sim, Nicole didn't win. It was the biggest There was three giant women. That was back when it was only women's bodybuild. There were three giant women in the heavyweight class. It was like It was seriously like a national it was like the Olympia at that show. I couldn't believe the size of these women. And that was the first time I met her. And I was so intimidated. I didn't want to talk to her. and and and like maybe a year later I met her someplace else and um I brought that up to her and she's like, "Oh, you should have come up and said she was cuz she was the nicest person. She was intimidating looking, but she was the nicest person you'll ever meet." Um did you and Laura ever have any runins with them? Her and Bob. Um I I I helped her for the 91 uh nationals. Oh, you did? Yeah, I think it was 91. She got second and uh she was right up there back then. Yeah. Yes, she got second. Nikki Fuller. Nikki. Nikki. Nikki Fo. Yeah. Yeah. She was tremendous at first, right? She was fab. She was a phenomenal bodybuilder. And uh and I was Yeah. Let's see. I was living in LA and and like they came out like like six they camped out like six They came out six weeks earlier. Four weeks earlier. Oh, really? And Bob used to hang out in front of Gold's Dave. Her husband used to hang out in front of the gym in the parking lot with his uh clothing clothes on. What was the name of their gym? Oh, the natural body or natural something. Natural physique New York. Natural physique, right? And they they he wore the clothes like the Crips in the Blood, right? Or Crips in the You know what I mean? Like he wore that that that his clothes. It was like a It was a good gym back in the It was like a dungeon type of gym in the city there that uh it was in a very very busy part of the city. It wasn't a big gym. It was small, but they had hardcore equipment in there and they had a lot of famous people train there. Yeah. And he used to hang out in front of the all day long. Yeah. He would never I never seen Bob work out. Not one day. Never seen him work out. He would hang out in front of Golds. My office was there all day and most of the day he'd say, "Wait till you see, you know, Nicole. She's going to win the nationals. She's going to win the Olympia." Yeah. He loved to brag about her. Yeah. Oh, he'd just bre all all day long and he looked like he owned the Gold's gym even though he had the you know the the I mean the his mannerisms the way he would parade Yeah. out in front of the gym. That's why when you said you know you thought that maybe she lost her WWE contract because of him. I I of course I I would agree was into everyone's business. He was into everyone's business. He would hang out in front of the gym all day long. And if you walked by, if Jay Cutler walked by or Dorian or Lee Haney or Mike Masters, anyone just just pick a name, you know, just picking names, kids, he'd stop them. Yeah. And get into their business. Well, he was probably ultimately ultimately brag about which is about Nicole because he loved her. Right. Right. Well, you he probably was backstage badmouthing Vince McMahon to these wrestlers. Can you believe Vince is not paying for the taxi ride over or something like that or the limo ride over, you know? Guaranteed. I guarantee he was doing [\h__\h] [\h__\h] like that. Meanwhile, Nicole was lucky to [\h__\h] have the gig. It was she was making over 100 grand a year. You know, she was traveling. They were making her famous, but it went to it went to it didn't go to Nicole's head. It went to Bob's head. That's what happened. It went to Bob's. He thought she was That's it. You know, she made it Hollywood. You know, she's going to be she's going to be the next Arnold Schwarzenegger. That That's what Bob thought. You should have seen the two. They bought her They bought her a Corvette. She couldn't drive. She had no driver's license. I'm like, "Bob, why did you buy her this Corvette? She doesn't have a driver's license. It's it's in the garage up on stilts or some whatever you had it up on a lift." I said, "But you you're not driving it, though." He's like, "Well, she's going to get her license eventually. It's a collector's item." Like they were they thought that they made it. That's it. They thought When Dave, when did they get the Corvette? Right. When she was working with W No, when she was with the WWE because she was making good money. They were like, "That's it. You got you gotta tell Jay Jay that. You gota tell Jay that." Sorry. It was And it wasn't just a regular Corvette. It was like It was like the the You know how they at the Indianapolis 500, they have the the car that does the first lap. It's like a It was like the ceremonial like Corvette. It was all done up and striped up and everything like that. Pinstriped. It was [\h__\h] awesome looking. I'm like, "Bob, you can't drive this car around the street." He goes, "It's collect this item." I He's like, "Nicole's never licensed yet anyway." I'm like, "But why'd you buy this?" He didn't know. He just want he wanted to buy something. You know what I mean? To show that they had made it. Yeah. Meanwhile, they were still living in this little apartment in Queens, you know. Oh, I'm sure. I'm sure. I'm sure. I'm sure. I'm sure. So, well, you know, when he was out in Gold's Venice, you know, when I mean, here I am in Gold's Venice. I got an office next door, right? And honestly, Dave, till this day, you're just telling me for the first time that they had a small gym in New York. He made it sound like it was bigger than Gold's Venice. No. No. Tiny. Nothing in New York is big. You know that. I know. But that's the way he made it when he explained it to me. That's the way he, you know, I always envisioned it as, you know, and if you look at the apparel that they had, you know, his jacket, he had the leather jacket that said, uh, natural physique New York, and she had the, you know, 6' 8 in tall, you know, with the big jacket that said, you know, natural physique. I I figured the jackets are so impressive that the gym must be insane. I went in there once, this is actually before I could actually I I should, you know, I should preface. I actually had met Nicole before I I saw her that day at the show. But um maybe two years before that I was in medical school and my friends and I were in the city and we're like eating and we're like, "Oh, that's natural physique. Let's go in there and take a look. I think that's I think Nicole Bass and her husband own that gym because you know I was back then you knew everyone because of the magazines because you know they would put people in the magazines and I read those magazines like like a rabid fan. So we would go in there and Nicole the only person in the gym is Nicole behind the desk. this huge woman behind the desk and I'm like, "Holy [\h__\h] it's Nicole." And I got I was actually intimidated by her, you know, and I'm like, "Can we can we look around the gym?" And I wasn't big at the time. I was just really, you know, maybe 215 pounds, something like that, you know, offseason. And she's like, "Yeah, yeah, go ahead, go look around." And we went and walked around and it was like it was like a typical New York City like little crazy place. But they had they had you couldn't shoehorn another piece of equipment into that gym. They had so much equipment in there and it was a it was it was a it was a destination place for a lot of people. You know, Bruce Cardennis, who a lot of people don't realize was a New York City cop who works for Quest now. He's all over the world with Quest. You see him at every Quest booth. Bruce used to train at that gym. There's a picture he posted on his Facebook of him with Nicole. I couldn't even believe it was him, you know, in a tank top he had on. He was, you know, training at the gym and it was just him and Nicole at the gym and it was it was a great picture. So, a lot of people had a lot of run-ins with with Nicole Bass over the years in terms of meeting her in weird places. My friend John Minnella sent me texted me a picture. He ran into Nicole Bass at at Motor Vehicles or something like that in Queens or something like that and and he took a picture with her like two weeks ago, you know. I thought she didn't have the license. I I think she wound up getting the license after Bob died. But, but it's it's crazy where so many people knew her from all over the place. One one of the really fun events was Jimmy Pletchia had opened a Neutrport uh store where they sold like nutritional supplements for a while and he had a grand opening there and it was he invited Nicole Bass, Dick Dudley who is no longer who died. These are was a wrestler, me and Frank Zeppy. Those were the those are the people who made the appearance at the storefront. And we uh you know we and there was a there's a great picture I got to find it somewhere of I think all of us Frank me uh Dick Dudley Jimmy and Nicole. It's it's it's a classic picture must be in my file cabinet someplace. I I got to find it. Um, and the weird thing was I wanted to put the picture in a frame because I had it hung on my wall in my old house. And I had folded back one of the pictures, one of the people in the picture because to make it fit because I was too lazy to reprint the thing out. And I folded back Dick Dudley who wound up dying like a week later after I did that. I felt like I I was like a soothsayer or something like that. And uh but it's a good picture. Yeah. Nick, she I it's a it's a sad thing. I I really liked her a lot. I thought she was a good person and uh hate to see people like that die so early especially especially when when you and me are 50 now or close to it. I'm close. I know. I thought of that. I thought of that. She's only 52. She died. So when I saw that she was 52, you know, she was in that whole thing. Now did you think when you saw her in ' 91 and you were helping her, did you say, "Hey, this girl can you think she can wind up on top five at the Olympia stage? Did you think if she had her head together?" Um she had a good structure. Yeah, she had you you nailed it. She had a tremendous She had a tremendous structure and because she was so tall, right? I mean, she was so tall and so oddly big in real life, like she gave the appearance of much taller than even she was. What was she like 6'2, 63? And when she got on, I remember going to the show and when she got on stage, you know, her she looked so crazy on stage because of her height, you know, that she was um you know, her that she had great flow, you know, it's hard to have great flow. She had great legs, uniquely shaped legs. Yeah. Uh tiny tiny waist, big delts. Um, you know, she just went up against Nikki Fuller, who was like off the charts for that show. But I I thought she could I thought, you know, I thought she'd be a a decent pro. Um, I didn't think, you know, it goes back to the quote from Jay Cutler, you have to have no social life, none. She loved having a social life. Yeah, she was way too uh distracted. She needed to go to oxygen gym. That's what she needed. So, she needed to be sequestered. You think Beta would you think Beta would have brought Nicole Bass out there? Probably, right? Good publicity. Yeah. I mean, they don't like women out there, but you know, she might have been like an exception to the rule, you know. Yeah. You know, it may work, but she, you know, she was just um she was a social butterfly. You know, she loved being in the in the the the middle of everything. So, she liked drinking. I I thought I I thought that was like a distraction, you know, going forward. I thought like, you know, I don't know if this girl's going to be a Yeah, I think she had an I think she had an alcohol problem, too, earlier in her career. Oh, yeah. She Yeah, you're right. She did. She told me she did. But Bob would tell me outright, you know, she's going to be Miss Olympia, you know, and I would, you know, like disagree with him and and get pissed and and and that's probably why I only helped her for one job. Well, I think Bob Bob's problem was that Bob was was his her greatest supporter, but also her worst, you know, enabler. Enabler. So he he was good for her ego and good for her, you know, promoting her, but he was terrible for her because he was the worst person to advise her. He should have just remained a cheerleader. He wanted to control everything, you know, and that was the problem, I think, because he was not good at doing every he was not a good he didn't interact well with people. He pissed a lot of people off and because he was too too aggressive. And he used to take it should be dieting, Dave. She would complain to me that she'd be dieting and I'd say, you know, like meal four would be like, you know, 10 ounces of uh chicken breast or, you know, 10 ounces of fish or whatever in a salad and he'd take her out to like some New York City restaurant and and she'd have to order that. He'd order like, you know, two meals, you know, he he'd order like ve parmesan and then, you know, an appetizer and this and that. And he'd say, "Hey, this is what you're supposed to eat. You're supposed to eat that, Nicole. That's all you could have." Yeah, she'd drink 14 glasses of wine. Yeah, they would butt heads on that. You know that. Yeah, they they used to fight a lot, too. And their fights were loud, too, cuz she was loud. Yeah. Yeah. They used to fight everywhere. They'd fight in the Gold Gym Parking lot. I remember that again. A fight, you know. It was It was It was like a loving fight, though, because like I said, I've never seen a couple. They really They They work somehow. I don't As as dysfunctional as it looked, they worked. They they they never ever broke up. They were together, you know, until Bob died, you know. That that was that was definitely true love those two for sure. Yeah. No, they were made for each other without a doubt. Yeah. That's why that's why I asked, you know, it's too bad that um you didn't get, you know, there was no chance for you to sit down and do like an in-depth interview with her because it'd probably be great. I had reached out to you know what, I don't think the interview would have been that good these last couple years because I just don't think that she was as mentally astute as she was when she was younger. But um I have to go go back. There definitely wasn't I definitely had her on something. I know I interviewed her for something. So I I got to get her on I got to look it up on the website. We maybe we'll put it up on the YouTube channel as like a special tribute to her because she was she wasn't she was a unique person in our industry and uh if you'd never met her, a lot of people met her, but if you never met her, she she changed you when you met her cuz she was she just was different, you know, and it was it was she was very loving and she would hug you and you know and she just you you can't forget her after that. It's just that she had a lasting impression on people, you know, is it it's even if you didn't like her, you couldn't be mad at her. She just was that kind of a person. I'm laughing. I'm damn spit my cashew out. Listen, the first time I met her in person, when she came out to California, like the six weeks out, you know, and she she and Bob came to meet me in my office and she she gave me like a like it just like an awkward hug. And I like And you don't hug people to begin with, Chris. I tried to retreat. She probably crushed your ribs. I looked No, I took like a step back and she took took a step forward me towards me. I remember to this day she looked down on me, right? Because she's so tall, right? Yeah. And then I took like another step back and then she and she she just like did like a like an NFL just like like tackled me to get, you know, we're going to get this hug over with. Yeah. Chris is not the hugging type. She commented on that, too. Oh, she did. She commented on that right to me, like, you know, you don't like to hug or something. And I didn't know if I did or didn't. Chris, you don't like to be hugged, Chris. You know, the best thing was when she was on Howard Stern, they used to whenever she would be on, they they played the Herman monster laugh. You know, the Herman monster she had a very deep voice, you know, and uh Howard actually there was actually she was on the show and Howard was convinced that she was a man uh in disguise. And so he said, "Look, if if you want to convince me that you're not a man," cuz he would always call her a man. And uh he said, "You you're going to have to go in the bathroom with Robin and Robin's going to have to inspect and and make sure that you don't have any male parts down there." And so I remember the show vividly because it used to be on the E network. They actually filmed it. So she went into the bathroom with Robin and they both came out like like 5 minutes later and Howard's like, "So is she is she a woman or a man?" And Robin's like, "I'm not sure." He goes, "She's like, "Definitely a woman, but there's extra stuff down there." and they broke her balls, you know, constantly. And she just doesn't give a [\h__\h] She knew about comedy and she knew about taking it because if some people would have gotten insulted, they would never would have been back on the show. How would get her, we don't want her on the show anymore. But she played along with them and she did not have a problem laughing at herself and and so she was on there a lot. I mean, for for many years and recently she was on a lot. She was at she would go to and Howard used to you know Howard felt bad for these whackpackers because he would make fun of them. So he would get them events. They would do whack pack events like they'd do comedy clubs and he'd get them paid. A lot of these guys made a lot of money know and they would and I mean the call was way more functional than most of the Whackpackers that he had working for. Um but he I know he was helping her earn money the last couple years of life because she had no money coming and I know she was on disability but I don't think that she was you know it was enough to support her. But uh says Howard was very very very generous to her. Anyway, you know, also who died this past weekend, George the Animal Steel, who was one of the original wrestlers. Yeah, he First thing that comes to my mind is that he was a principal. Oh, I didn't know that. Yeah, he was elementary school principal. That was his original profession. Wow. How old was he? God, he had to be up there. Uhhuh. Yeah, he was in his 70s. He's got to be higher than that, right? 70s. I mean, I'm 50, dude. I was watching him when I was like right I'm trying to think. Yeah, he he was around a long time. He had the purple tongue. It's a great I I love the nickname George the Animal Steel. Think of how wacky wrestling just is, but ahead of his time was right. I mean, it was like the original reality. It was like, you know, people watch the Kardashians now or 79 TV 79. Yeah. did watch wrestling in the old days. Yeah. And they loved and the people who watched wrestling there my my grandparents used to watch wrestling. My dad thought it was beneath him. He wouldn't do that. But but you know my dad was an elitist. But back then people would even eat at cafeteria wrestling. What would he do? My dad was be very elite very elitist. You know back then people who watch wrestling would fight you to the death if you told them that it wasn't real. Nowadays we know it's it's all made up. Yeah. They thought it was real. They they they would insult them if you told them that it wasn't real. Yeah. Yeah. It's kind of like Trump now. If you tell them the news is real, he says it's fake. It's fake. How's that work? George Animal Steel, aka William James Meyers, passed away at the age of 79. The pro wrestler's death was confirmed by his wife, Patricia, who revealed that he passed from kidney failure last night in Florida. He'd been in hospice. Um You're right. The animal was a very well educated man. Prior to breaking into sports entertainment, Steel received his master's degree from Central Michigan University. Became a high school teacher and wrestling coach in the Detroit area. Didn't know that. Steel's first WWE appearance took place in 1967 when he began a heated rivalry with WWE Champion Bruno San Martino. Oh, that's right. Yeah, that's crazy. Let me see what else. For nearly 20 years, Steel was was a reviled villain managed by the likes of fellow WWE Hall of Famers the Grand Wizard, classy Freddy Blassie, Captain Lou Albano, and Mr. Fuji. His classic main events against Sam Martino and Pedro Morales and Bob Bachmann saw him come close to winning the WWE Championships on many occasions. Uh, Steel was embraced by the WWE Universe and changed the course of the of his career. After the Iron Chic and Nicholas Vov abandoned him during a match, Steel fell back under the toutelage of the then beloved Luwell Bano. They got the whole they got the whole the whole shtick out here. The whole But he was one of those big, you know, he was he was like a strong muscular guy, but he also had a lot of body fat and hair on him, you know. He was a real like Yeah. He looked like an animal, you know. He was really scary looking dude. Probably the nicest guy in person, I'm sure. Yeah. Yeah. You you probably see him at Golden Corral. Yeah, probably. before he died. He probably lived right around the corner. I would have not have known. Yeah. Well, that's that's that's the type of people who who go to the uh you know, older retired people go to the Golden Corral near your house. Yeah. And me who's now 49 going there. I got to get I you know, I have you have to start young. So, you know, by the time I'm by the time I'm 60, I know the whole layout of the place. They actually added a few new dishes. They got salmon there now. Can you believe it? Because of you or I don't know. They just changed the menu. Baked salmon. They got delicious. Is it local salmon or is it imported from China and it's probably grown up? It's probably grown in fish tanks. I'm sure it's far away. Can't be good for you. Can't be good for you. Can't be good for you. Yeah. All you can eat. Every time I eat like shrimp now, I think of China. All the shrimp or tilapia, right? Tilapia. You don't eat tilapia, do you? No. I Well, you know what? Probably a golden crawl. I'm eating tilapia for all I know. The white fish there's got to be tilapia. Sure. Kai green. Put it this way. But if Kai Green is still alive, then tilapia can't be that bad for you because that kid ate 10 pounds a day for God knows how many years, you know, and he's still he's still kicking. So, no, still got to be better than eating a lot of red meat. That's that's my belief. You know what the science you what's the scientific studies say? We'll have to call in Blackman and find out. too much arachidonic acid. What I want to know is is David Bay gonna show up in in uh Ohio to help us do like the wrap-up? I don't know. We'll have to see. We'll see if he's going to be there. How far is Wisconsin from what? How far is Wisconsin from Columbus? Pretty far, I guess. Pretty far. Yeah. Yeah. I I bet he shows up. I bet he shows up. Let me ask you this question. I don't know if you saw the um the I did a little uh John and I did an iron rage on it, but Boston Lloyd posted something about Frank Zayn saying that he looked like smashed [\h__\h] when he competed and he didn't understand why people thought he was he was good and that he should never have been Mr. Olympia. So, we did a whole thing about how people in our sport have no clue of the history of the sport and how it's evolved and you know, people think they think rich piano should be Mr. Olympi, you know, and uh that's the Boston Lloyd generation. And I actually got Boston I actually called him on the phone while I was doing the while we were doing the show. And uh you know, he just that's just Boston Lloyd's opinion. But um do you think that the younger generation disrespect the older generation and they don't really understand that that that bodybuilding is a sport of evolution? Well, I think the world is something I mean you can evol everything evolves, you know. Uh yeah, people can build 120 story buildings now, but you know, in the 20s, in the 30s, people were building 60s story buildings and 70s story buildings in New York City that are still standing today and are nicer square foot per square foot in terms of, you know, durability, strength, uh integrity of the construction than or as well as any building built today. and they didn't have the quote technology that we have today. I mean, things evolve. The idea of criticizing, you know, Roger Bannister ran a four-minute mile, you know, uh, knowing zero probably about nutrition, knowing zero about lifting weights, knowing zero Boston about anabolic steroids, and it was, you know, a groundbreaker in its day. Yeah. Just because some just because people are doing something different today, you know, Warren Buffett has a lot of wealth, but it doesn't compare to really Cleopatra. I'm serious. Yeah. Or it doesn't compare necessarily to JP Morgan or the Rockefellers what they had at at that point in time. I mean, we have the internet now. Wow. Well, we used to have the railroads. The railroads were the original internet that connected everyone everyone everywhere. So, you know, getting back to bodybuilding, you know, Frank Zayn I, you know, probably took more in I mean, probably took as much steroids in in in a contest prep than you know, Boston Lloyd takes in a week in a day. Well, I mean, and you know, and and that's a fact. Um, you know, I know what Samir Boot didn't use. I won't tell you what he did use because it's insanely ridiculously small when he won the Olympia. Sure. I'm serious. People People would say, "I listen to RX Muscle. Chris Aceto lying for Samir Bonoot and Samir Bonoot lying to him and Chris is dumb enough to believe Samir." Okay, whatever. You know, uh, people didn't take what people take these days. People in men's physique division take more take more. Yes. I I worked with Bob Paris. I know where he got his cycles from. Those were, you know, people would just laugh at what he didn't take, right? He looked pretty damn good. I think Bob Paris, like, you know, some of his best looks would do pretty damn, you know, decent today. Uh, you know, and not using what people use today. You know what? I bet you I bet you people looked better structurally back then because no one took a lot of steroids. So, if you didn't have a good structure, you couldn't do well in bodybuilding. So, you know, you couldn't What is What is What is Boston Lloyd's point? What is the What is his What is the point he thinks he's making? He's making no point. No, he's I think he's just trying to make stir the waters. Gras grasping. He's not stirring something. He's grasping at straws. He just likes to make controversial statements that that will will garnish him people. Well, that's not even that's not even controversial because it's it's he thinks that Frank Stain looked like [\h__\h] He doesn't think he looked good and he doesn't think he can't believe that he was Mr. Olympia. That's that's that's his his part of that is I would I would go back to like you know Frank Zayn obviously had no strided glutes. Neither did Samir Bonoot. Go back and look at some of the pictures of Samir Bonut and I know it's not Frank Zayn but 83 when he won. I mean the level of muscular detail is insane. Yeah. And and Samir, get him on the show. He will tell you training next to Frank Zayn. I know what Samir would say. I see him. He looks like a tennis player until he takes his shirt off and hits a pose. And what he means by that is what Chad, you know, one of the things that Chad said a long time ago that I I couldn't agree like a thousand times more with him is he was talking about someone, he said they had the right skin. People like don't even know what that means. When you have paper paper paper thin skin, I mean paper transparent skin, you look in real life like something, you know, and that's what Samir had. That's what Chris Dickerson had. That's what people in that period of time had, including uh Frank Zang. You know, they didn't need, you know, diuretics for 9 weeks to to, you know, thin their skin out. You know, they they were on a on a diuretic low carb diet, right? Makes sense. Makes sense. Makes sense. I mean, it's like saying it's like it's like saying like, you know, Arnold was nothing, you know, because Coleman's chest and shoulders are better than Arnold's. Well, you know, you're only as good as your competition. You're breaking ground. You don't even know what's the possibility of possible is, right? I agree. All right. I want to go to our quote of the week and I want to do some ask the technician and ask Dave questions because people seem to like that segment and I know we're we've been going for a long time already. But um my quote of the week, which I haven't done in a while, is about complainers. And I believe that people who complain a lot create terrible [\h__\h] in their life. And you you see this all the time. the people who have the the worst luck, who get sick, are the biggest complainers. And it's because you get what you think about, you get what you talk about. And here's the quote. Most people do not realize that as they continue to find things to complain about, they disallow their own physical well-being. Many do not realize that before they were complaining about an aching body or chronic disease, they were complaining about many other things first. It does not matter if the object of your complaint is about someone you are angry with, behavior in others that you believe is wrong, or something wrong with your own physical body. Complaining is complaining and it disallows improvement. What does that mean? It means it means stop complaining. Talk about what you want. Don't talk about what you don't want in your life. I have a client, the barrier. It's a barrier and offense. Yeah. I have a client. All she does is tell me about how this hurts her and that hurts her and her stomach is doesn't work and she can't poop. She poops too much. She uh she has low blood sugar. She has high blood sugar. She everything and and I think she just creates more and more problems in our body because that's all she it's like her body just keeps giving her what she's complaining about, you know, more and more of it. Rather than say, "I feel good. You know what? This is the first day I actually felt good. I have energy in the gym. I I I see myself improving. I'm getting leaner. Talk about the good [\h__\h] in your life. Don't talk about the bad stuff. And you know, I look, I'm just as guilty of that. I catch myself. I, you know, I'm taking a shower in the morning and my left shoulder, both shoulders are terrible. My left shoulder is really, really bad. I, you know, I'm trying to plan a date to get this thing replaced. And I'm like, and I and I and I almost catch myself complaining about I'm like, I'm going to stop. I'm going to stop talking about it because I'm just I'm just attracting more negativity to my life. Don't talk about what you don't want. Don't think about what you don't want. Dismiss it. Think about what's good in your life. There's plenty of good to find. You don't have to bring up the bad all the time. And you know, I try to tell my dad about this. He's like, "Ah, it's hocus pocus bullshit." You know, you know, but my dad's miserable. So, it's obviously not because he's, you know, he's not listening to me. But trust me, don't complain. No one wants to hear people compl hear you complaining too. That's the one thing that you you think if you complain you make you feel better about yourself, but you're pissing everyone else off around you. Don't complain unless you have a serious problem. That's a different story. Then you could bring it up. But don't go around saying how bad your life is because you're just going to have more terrible stuff happen to you. I I I promise you that. I promise you that. Yeah. You know, I mean, the the the more the the more you think negative, the more negative things happen to you. And the more you think positive or the just you don't even have to think positive. Just think about what you want. Think what do I want in my life and just fixate on it. Fixate on it. Think about it. Dream about it before when you're laying in bed at night. I used this is what I used to do. I still do it sometimes. I I make fantasy dreams. Like I'm like, "Oh, I want to I want to get this car. Let's just I I'll say something that people can relate to. not my crazy stuff. I want this specific car. I'll just think about the car. I'll think about going out and buying it. I'll think about sitting in it. I'll think about driving it. And you know what? Before you know it, somehow something comes along that enables you to buy this car. So that everything in life is like that. Think about what you want before you go to sleep and fall asleep thinking about it. That's the best thing I could tell you. That's the best advice. Yeah. I I can't uh there I can't disagree with you. I mean, I I'm sure and I don't want to get distracted. I'm sure you've thought about like places that you wanted to buy apartments or or houses or whatever condos and you you didn't have the money at the time or something like that, but you just keep thinking about I'm thinking about and somehow something comes along and just enables you to get that. I I'll tell this bizarre little quick story. There's I was looking at this this um there's these brownstones uh that I I sent the picture to like Jay I sent it to Arash Rabbar and you know they just they don't come for sale period. They don't come for sale. They don't come for sale because people like like if they die, they leave them to their kids and this and that. So, I I tell my broker, real estate broker, I'm interested in this this Brownstone area. And she says, "Oh, they don't come they don't come available ever. You know, I know I've been in this market 20 years." I said, "I've been thinking a lot about it lately, so they're going to they're going to come available." So, she's like, "No, they don't. They don't. They don't." So, I meet this guy for coffee one day, big huge, you know, real estate guy, and out of the blue, we're having coffee, and he says, "Would you like to buy um uh a a five unit?" It's like a five-unit apartment building. It's crazy high-end within this giant row of brownstones, right? And I go like this, "No." He says, "What are you talking about now?" I said, "They they don't come available." I know what he's going to say. He said, "They're they're available." I said, "No, they don't come available." I'm playing like devil's advocate with him. He said, "They're mine. I'm I'm willing to sell them just like to you only." Wow. And And I'm I'm like, "Of course you are." And he says, "Why?" I said, "Because I've been thinking about that brownstone for like a year." A year. A year. And I even told my broker that they're going to come, you know, that, you know, that I'm interested in that. And she said, "They never come available." I said, "Well, they they'll come available." That's so funny. Plus, he wanted to whack me with some insane price, which Did you wind up buying it? No, I I No, I can't. It's just he wants insane money, you know, but but the idea the idea that, you know, and and and I I said, "Why would you ever want to sell him?" You know, you know, I'm 64 years old. I've had him since I was 32, right? Cash out. I want to go to I want to go to Florida, you know, I don't want to pay the commission by putting it on the market. You know, I like you and the whole Did you Did you make him a low bowl offer? Yeah, I did. You know, I don't You know what he said? What? Okay, whatever. I I'll just make up the make up a number. Just a million dollars. Just just say. He goes, I'll sell them for a million dollars. And I um I go, "Okay, sure." And so I I decide, okay, I'll have coffee with him next week and I'll lowball them. Yeah. And and I said, uh so I I meet him and I said, "How's uh 700?" He goes, "How's 1.3? That didn't go didn't go that well. Yeah. So, I know where he's at because the bottom line is, you know what? If I'm thinking about him, of course, the whole entire world is thinking about him. So, he could put them on the market tomorrow and someone's dumb enough or crazy enough to pay some insane amount of money just to have them. You know, unbelievable. I'm just I'm looking at I'm looking at a text message from one of my complaining clients. you get what you think about is is your you know just goes back to your your idea of the car you know thinking about the car and dreaming about the car and then you find a way to get the car. But the danger is that is if you think if you think about poor health and you think about negativity and you think think you know what I mean just the opposite that stuff comes to you you know all the negative stuff comes that's got to be an interesting text message. Yeah, I I think I want to spoke to my doctor. He said, "I got so sick because the first doctor didn't prop properly diagnose me or treat me and I kept working and training and living because I didn't know I was so sick." Actually, high tolerance for being so compromised. It's it is going to be take a long time to it is it is going to take as long as it took to be sick to fully feel my best. So, do as I think and eat as and nourish and get the body but get oxygen in. So cardio and yoga for lungs and workout and stretch because meds stiffen all muscles and joints. Drink tons of water if if you want sauna. That's the text message. I didn't annotate read it. Exactly. This is the person. That's all they do is complain. And that's why they get just more and more sickness into their life. So all right, let's go to ask the technician and ask Dave. If people want to ask questions to Chris and I, you can submit the questions from asking Dave to Chris at aceto rxmuscle.com. If you want to ask um Chris any questions, you can submit them to me at huge285.com. I actually have a bunch of questions for you. So, first question is uh Chris, will you ever work with Dennis Wolf? Um you'll have to play the video where he he hates RX Muscle. So, the answer to that would be no. Oh, he does? Yeah. didn't you know what I was thinking recently I was in Europe and I said hey Dennis you know can we do an interview and he went like crazy on me. Oh really? Like oh I don't like RX muscle. I don't like I said what you know and then didn't ask Johnny about the story and then oh right I think I remember me and Johnny me and Dennis got into it for the longest like you know we're fighting about nonsense and he's like well Dave Palumbo said something negative about me. I said okay did you win the Olympia? And he said no. And I said, "Okay, so probably like I said, did you get second?" He said, "No." I said, "Did you get third?" He said, "No." Would he get fourth? I think third or something was fourth. No, it was fourth. He got fourth. And I said, "Okay, so you got fourth." So probably, you know, some of the judges might have had something negative. I mean, the only ones they didn't have, the judges didn't have something negative to say about Phil and that's it. Everyone else something negative about. And then once we got into that context, we got around to all the we did a great interview uh I think it was in FIBO or Yeah. Oh yeah, I remember that. That was a couple years ago. Yeah, Spain. But um you know, if he contacted you, would you work with him? Uh I may consider it. Okay. I mean, I don't mean that in like a pompous. I may cons I may schedule it in. You know, I I I don't get too excited about working with people. That's not a negative. Doesn't mean that I don't enjoy it, but just um you know, you can't you can only help so many people in a year anyway, right? Yep. All right, next question. Uh really enjoying and let me add to that. Let me let me add to that is I always had to say this to everyone. I I mean, how much can can you really help him? He's already been, you know, right up there. I mean, yeah. Well, now he's making the comeback after the injury, so who knows, you know? Who knows? All right. Uh hi Dave. really enjoy listening to Heavy Muscle Radio and appreciate the variety of topics. A question for the technician. Are physique competitor guys wait are physique competitors guys that just can't get big or do they just train and eat differently? Um, you know what? That's a great question. I I think they've probably been training less total number of years. That's one, you know, one reason they don't quote look like bodybuilders or look like blasted out. Um, they probably use less anabolics, but not always, than bodybuilders. And they, you know, I mean, there's a there's a very concrete criteria that they have for the look that wins, right? So, it's like a, you know, you you you can't take the top three guys in the at the Olympia and blow them up 12 pounds and have them still look like board short guys. Right. Right. You know, it it's making the conscious decision of, you know, for some of those guys if they wanted to be bodybuilders, do I want to be bodybuilders? So, I think it's got to be, you know, it's probably a big food issue, right? I mean, if if they wanted to gain 12 pounds, some of them could. Yeah. Yeah. And maybe their structures would end up looking different. You know, maybe they're thickening up in the waist. It seems like a lot of these men's physique guys are moving up to classic physique and, you know, that's kind of like it's like a it's like a stepping stone and then maybe they'll want to go up to bodybuilding after that. Who knows? You know, you never know. Yeah. May maybe we'll see a Dexter. Maybe we'll see someone come from board shorts right to Mr. Olympia where Dexter came from bantamweight to dominating. That's right. Hey Dave, please ask Christie three questions. Number one, how Mike Francois would do if he was competing in today's era? Uh he if in good health he'd do tremendous. Okay. Would he be top five at the Olympia? Yeah. Okay. Number two, Mike Francois verse Jay Cutler. Who is better in their prime? Um Jay because um Mike never hit his prime. Right. Agree. Did you ever meet uh three? Did you ever meet the chemist mean a lie? And did you only only he's been chasing down Jay since Jay was 19. You got to ask Jay about that. It's funny. There was no internet. But there was no internet or or I think Jay may had Jay might might have had dialup at like 20 or 21. Um, and but you know, Jay was like at 20, at 21 in like muscle mag and stuff and um, you know, he had that big giant show out in California where he came out at 21 or 22 and like blasted people and then he was in all the magazines and at the end they would have like his address in Massachusetts. So people would write him letters and I think he might have had like a phone number there, right? Um, but a mean's number of the chemist rings a bell because um, see I I have the nickname the technician because it's so ridiculous. It's so obnoxious and it's stupid. It's like a parody. But he called himself he called himself the chemist then. And and he was like in touch with Jay somehow way back then. Yeah. He was he was the original George Farah trying to offering offering chemistry services. Right. He was the original pharaoh, you know, like trying to poach clients, you know. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's right. He he was he would try to get Jay as like a quote client when people didn't even have clients. I mean, I was helping people just because I knew them, right? You know, there wasn't there was like no business model, you know. Uh but I I think he's still around because I think Jay may have might have Jay Jay like Jay unlike me and you who are like entering our dementia years. Jay may be Jay should go into Guinness Book of Worlds Records as he might not have the top 10 memories of all time, but in terms of in the sport of bodybuilding, there's no one who have memory like that. He remembers everything. Yeah. He would remember your dog's name from like junior high or your neighbor's dog's name or what your neighbor's dog used to love to eat when you'd go over to his house. That's great. I mean, his his his his mental capacity is incredible. So, Jay remembers all these people. Yeah. All right. Technician, do you have uh your guys eat beef in the offseason or is it chicken turkey just as good or is chicken and turkey just as good if so it paired with low carb meals or placed a specific time of the day? Also, do you prefer offseason each day to be about the same amount of carbs or do you like to spike them some on heavier days like legs or back? Uh, how many questions were that? Beef. The beef is the beef beef and chicken. Uh, I I have people I don't I mean people eat beef off seasonason and pre-contest, you know. I I know a lot of people like to like run to like the extreme. They'll say like, "Okay, now we're going to all fish, you know, six weeks out or something." And um, you know, most people just fall apart on all fish. Yeah. They'll just they just bodies will fall apart. Like literally, you know, add enough arachidonic acid. That's why you need that arachidonic acid. Not to to make not to to mock blackman, but arachidonic acid is not found in fish or eggs, uh, egg whites at least. It's found in chicken, turkey, red meat. That's why bodybuilders grow better on that because you do need some, you need that inflammatory, you know, and that essential fatty acid even though most of us eat too much of it, you do need it to build muscle. Um, and there's no way around it. That's why if you just eat an all fish diet, like you said, Chris, you just you don't feel as strong, you don't feel as full, you don't grow as well. Um, you know, a lot of guys I know a lot of guys that eat just tuna fish all day long. Yeah, because it's cheap. They buy the packets of tuna and they mix it with rice and it's you're not going to grow a lot of muscle in that. You do need some inflammatory fats in your body and inflammatory proteins in the body. So, but uh do you prefer uh offseason to be the same amount of carbs each day, Chris, or do you change them up? Um, I I keep them fairly steady. You know, I you know, it's it's offseason, so people just, you know, by definition since it's offseason, if they want to have cheat meals and this and that, it's like, okay, you know, should I schedule a cheat meal? Just what do you mean schedule it? If you just, you know, if you feel like eating your, you know, the higher McDonald's today, it's not going to, you know, you're eating six meals a day, you eat McDonald's today, your carbs are steady at the rest of the meals. It's not a big deal. Yep. Okay. Uh, that's it for you. Uh, give me two questions and then we'll wrap things up because I know we're running out of time here. Okay. Uh, got to log into those questions. Okay. Let's see. Um, oh, hi Dave and Chris. I hate the show. What do you think about the transformation of Brandon Curry? Is it the gear the the anabolic gear or is it the anabolic chicken um that's over there? Um, it's the anabolic environment. And we spoke about this earlier. We really did. It's a secluded uh environment where guys can focus on one thing and one thing only, bodybuilding. And for people who are easily distracted, they do well there. The people who are not easily distracted or won't will not do well there or they won't they won't be better there. That's all. Um, I think Brandon had a lot going on in his life with his wife and his kids. And uh, maybe he wasn't as focused at home as he is there. And I think that I think he will benefit from being there, but I don't I don't nec I don't think Aake Williams is going there and he's going to come back bigger. I think he might be a better poser. He might have better presentation. He might have some more detail, and that's good. That's what he needed. So, that's why I told him to go there. Um, you send a guy like Guy Cesterino there like we mentioned earlier and he's gonna he'll probably do worse because he he needs the the chaos around him because he's already no one can be more focused than Guy Cesterino. Let me tell you an idea how much Guy Cino how focused he is. He writes and I've said this before and people probably thought it was a joke but it's the truth. He writes down every time he goes to the bathroom in his little journal. He writes every time he goes to the bathroom. Who does that Chris? No one. Dave, I told you once I I remember the first time I I I I went into this hotel room when he was doing the Chicago Pro, which he's probably listening now and say, "Oh, I should have won that show over Tricky Jackson." Which I agree with him. And I said, "What did you eat yesterday, guy?" And he says, "Right there in my journal." I'm like, "Oh." And I look at this journal that looks like uh it's like, you know, 500 pages. It goes back like, you know, eight years or something. And I said, I just want to look at the diet that you ate yesterday, right? Yeah. So, I look at the journal and it's got all this detail of the workouts, right? And and what he ate and then on the bottom he had notes in his little scribbly handwriting. It said colon bad dreams. And I just laugh I just I started crying laughing at the detail of he what's the matter? And I said, "What do you have? What feedback do you get from bad dreams? I can't I forgot his answer. Yeah, but he had written down bad dreams that So he he journaled his diet, he journaled his training and then he journaled his sleep, which is bad dreams. Well, you know what? He thought he maybe dreamed that he was second. The truth is that if anyone ever goes back like 20 years from now and wants to study his journals, it would be the most detailed bodybuilding, you know, accounts that you could ever freaking imagine in your life, you know, looking at his stuff. I don't know if anyone would have the the audacity or the or the the desire to go back and read the the the bitter details of everything he's done over the last 20 years, but uh he certainly has it chronicled if he Oh, you you want to you want to listen that I wish I chronicled my life like that, Chris, because I would have a great book to write. I'd actually have all the details written because I can't remember anything that I did. Dave, one more listen, one more funny side note about that interview with him or two funny side notes is I'm at the Arnold at the Olympia like last few years and I mean I probably prepped for the Olympia I can't even remember. I mean just 12 16 18 people who have been in the Olympia different people in like the last seven years. Mhm. Guy Cino at every show in the hotel room. He's he he's running around back in He walks more in the hotel room. You know, you got these giant hotel suites in Vegas. He walks more in the hotel room. I don't know what he's even doing than than the other bodybuilders I'm helping are going to walk all week. Right. Right. Like they they are like, you know, you go to their room, it's like dark, right? You know, you go to a bodybuilder's room, it's like dark, the the lights are off, they're waiting for the next meal, they're either sleeping, the TV's on, guy is up, he's on the phone, he's he's running around in the room, he's conducting business. Yeah. Think just crazy. So, and everything is meticulously organized in this room, too. But, but what sticks out is people are just sleeping between meals and sleeping and farting up the room and sleeping and sleeping. You can't do that. One day last year, I was stunned. He He Dave, I can barely get this out. He sat down and he fell asleep while he was talking to me. He I've never seen him take a nap. He fell he fell asleep while he was talking to me and I let him sleep for about 12 minutes and he woke up. He goes, "What just happened?" That's good. I said, "What do you mean, what just happened?" He said, "What? I fall asleep or something. He said, "I was just talking to you and I fell." He said, "I must have been tired." But I've never seen him take a nap. That was it. He He fell asleep while talking. Did he journal it later? Did he put it in his journal that he fell asleep? I bet he's got it in there. I bet he can go back and tell you what day it happened on. He probably thinks I wonder if that affected my condition. He He should hire someone to take all his notes and transcribe them and put them into computer files so like that, you know, he could easily access things like in a database. like uh what was the day that I that I had constipation? He puts constipation in all the all the all the journal entries that have the word constipation will pop up, you know. No, he he uses that fiberized like it's a like king. He loves it. Yeah. He has a case of he has two cases of all time in his house. He he brags that he he gets he gets constipated like unlike these other body pills. I constipated like two days out of the year. Well, he's he's the my biggest advocate for fiber. So, all right. One more question. There's another good question here about okay Dave I would like to hear your thoughts on Phil Heath the brand compared to say champs like Ronnie Coleman and Jay Cutler I feel that Phil doesn't have the same star power accessibility and legend status as some of the other giants even though he is arguably the best bodybuilding best bodybuilder in our current times plus he has access to all the social media that his predecessors didn't have. Uh, so what's the take on the branding of Phil Heath? Well, his social media following is enormous in the millions. So, he obviously does have reach in our industry. He makes a lot of money. Uh, he's got a great contract now with Universal. Not Universal, with Ultimate. He's winning the Olympia. He's winning 400 grand every year from that. Um, he's doing very well financially. I think that the brand of a person really is not really determined until the person retires. And the reason I'm going to say that is because while Dorian was doing this thing, he really was just focused on training. It wasn't until after he was done that he became more accessible where people actually can understand the brand. And Jay Cutlet too. Jay Jay had a very long career, so he was very popular, but he does more marketing now for himself than he ever did. So I think your brand is really defined once you're done. It's like a president. You really can't define what a how a presidency went until after the guy is out of office already. So I I think that Phil Yeah. I think that Phil will always make money in our industry. I don't know. I think you'll find that when Phil retires that he's going to be way more approachable, personable type of bodybuilder because he's going to realize, hey, you know, I had this certain attitude while I was competing because I needed to I need to stay sharp. I needed to stay on top of myself. I needed to I didn't want to be soft. Now I could show you who the real he Phil Heath is. And and I and I believe that. I truly believe that. You know, I think that he has a certain attitude about himself because he he needs that to stay on top of his game. Well, I I think part of implicit in the question or stuck in that question is the idea that preocial media, you know, we would only have access to uh and this is coming from a thesis of Jay's essentially we would have access to, you know, a Coleman or a Cutotler or a Gunter or a Wheeler and it would have benefit Phil Heath via let's say Flex Muscle and Fitness when they were very, you know, Muscle Fitness was very pro bodybuilding when Joita was, you know, running the ship. And you would have seen all these stories, you know, as Jay would say, controlled stories showing only the positive parts, right, of uh Phil Heath and only the party the positive parts of uh Haney or Gaspari now with, you know, there's so much social media, everyone knows everything. Yeah. Well, yeah. You know, Phil gets caught speeding or whatever and people like, well, of course he's speeding. he's running from, you know, wolf or, you know, just the nonsense. Well, people go on online and they post, you know, my, you know, if they get into a fight with their spouse or their girlfriend or boyfriend, they go online and they and they air it online now. So, no one's even trying to hide things anymore. It's like, it's like how much more in your face can you get than social media. So, well, if you like these Ask uh Dave questions, you want to hear more, we do a TV show every Wednesday or Thursday called Ask Dave. You can listen to it on there. And uh if you don't want to miss any of our coverage, you can go to the RX Muscle YouTube channel and you can subscribe. Uh we've we're over 71,000 now, Chris subscribers. So we're we're rapidly approaching the 100,000 mark, which is my goal. And uh also obviously if you don't want to miss anything that's going on on the RX Muscle website, the best place to go is rxmuscle.com because that's going to show you exactly what the latest uh that's coming out is on the whether it be radio, TV. You know, it's funny. We've been putting Johnny has been putting the these radio shows up on the YouTube channel too as as just audio and it's been getting they've been getting a million hits on there too. So, we we have a lot of people who just tune into the YouTube channel. But then there's a lot of the originals uh dieards who subscribe to the uh iTunes feed uh or if they have an Android phone, you could subscribe to that feed and the the shows will be downloaded audio-wise at least the MP3s directly to your computer or your phone. I I just subscribe on my iTunes feed uh on the iPod store there, whatever it is, and I uh subscribe to the Heavy Muscle Show, and it every week it just downloads the show automatically. I don't have to even worry about it. And then when I'm in the gym, if I want to listen to me and you bantering back and forth, I can do that. Uh but if you want to if you like the Ask Dave questions, like I was saying, you can watch the TV show or you can go and uh join my app. I have a Dave Palumbo experience app. You can download it from your Android store or your iPhone store. It's $29 a month and you get access to all my articles I've ever written, all the videos I've ever written. Uh you get uh all your questions answered. Uh I answer questions every day on there. Plus, I take the best questions and I do an exclusive Q&A video uh once a week on the app. No one else gets to see this, only the app subscribers. And they're really good questions because the people on the app are serious about bodybuilding and they ask me some excellent, excellent questions. I'm I'm shocked at some of the questions, how good they are, and uh I obviously I answer those and uh there's updates on the app every single day. I submit updates. I have a partner who puts them up. There's workouts, there's diets, everything. You guys will love it. Um so check it out. Also, um what else did I want to say? Um all this housekeeping stuff. H what else did I want to say? I had another one more announcement to make. Oh, people keep asking about my next guru course. When the next uh secrets to becoming a diet guru course is uh I'm probably within the next week or two I'll be able to set a date. Um it's probably it's going to either be the end of March or or middle of April. Uh it'll be out here in Florida. I'm just waiting for my facility to be finished so I can make an official date, but it will be on my uh facility. Right at my house in the new offices we're building. Um, Johnny actually shot a day in the life of Dave Palumbo the other day. I still, he still hasn't edited it. I'm going to break his his chops a little when he comes over today for his birthday. And uh, people should, you know, this way you can kind of see what the what the warehouse is going to look like. It's actually way more advanced than than what it was in that video, but at least people can see an idea of what I do on a daily basis. And then, uh, once the warehouse is finished, we'll do another video and you can show what it's like a day life in work at the new warehouse. So, that's going to be exciting. Uh we're building out the new Arcs Muscle Studios and we got a lot of good stuff going on and uh I'm excited to see you Chris over at the Arnold Classic in two weeks. Uh next week will be the Arnold prediction show. You guys are not going to want to miss that. This whole week we have a lot of original programming from Jose Raymond interviews to uh predictions for the Arnold. Uh we're going to have Iron Rage. We're going to have Iron Debate. Chris, you better find time to make uh to do these prediction shows because uh I know you're on vacation, but we got to get you in there. Your opinion is very warranted in these cases. Will Cedric McMillan be able to finally win his Arnold Classic, his first Arnold Classic title? We will find out uh and we will analyze all that this coming week. For now though, we are out of time. Till next week, remember with Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts.