 How many months should you stay on your cycle of anabolics? I'm going to tell you after the break. I created Stacey's Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Stacey's Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RxTelevision, RxMuscle.com, this is Ask Dave, your weekly 30-minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Bodybuilding, non-bodybuilding, diet training, supplementation, it is all on the table as we go right into the questions. The first two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. First question, if I'm following your drug protocol for the year, how do I approach the time, PED-wise, when I'm not in the off-season, contest cycles, and after my eight-week clean-out? Yeah, you know, back when I started taking anabolics, and I was reading the Anabolic Reference Guide, which was written by Bill Phillips back then, which was kind of my Bible of the day. Nowadays, we have Bill Llewellyn's Anabolics book. Like I said, I don't know if you guys have read this and you take anabolics, you need this on your bookshelf. It's a great book. We actually sell it at DavePalumbo.com at a discounted rate. It's the Anabolics book. It has everything you could possibly want to know about anabolics in there. It's the book I wish I wrote, but I didn't have the patience to. So I take my hat off to Bill and I sell his book because of that. It's so good. But when I read that book back in the Anabolic Reference Guide, that is back in the day, Bill made it seem as though, you know, you had to do quarter cycles of steroids because the receptors stopped responding and, you know, the drugs didn't work as well. And so, you know, it wasn't really a toxic issue as a matter of like, you didn't stay on that long. But what I found through practical application, which is meaning using steroids, that yes, while they don't work as well after a month or two, because everything down-regulates a little bit, they still work. And we all know that. You know guys that never go off, right? And you know that I am a believer of going off at some point to reset receptors, but they work and they continue to work. The key, okay, I think is that once you start gaining muscle, okay, let's say you put 20 pounds on in 16 weeks, okay, or, you know, 20 weeks, whatever. If you stop taking them the day that you gain that 20th pound, okay, you're going to lose a lot of that because your body has not solidified those gains as being part of your physique. It's like, it's too new to your body. So what I've found is that the longer you're on and you solidify those gains, let's say I gained 25 pounds in, you know, 20 weeks I've been on, and then I stay on another month or another six weeks. That 25 pounds that I gained now has become part of what my body accepts as the normal weight of my body. In other words, it changes the set point of where I was before, which was 25 pounds lighter to now 25 pounds heavier, because I've now solidified those gains over the course of a four to six week period. So now it's comfortable for my body to set that weight as the new weight. So now when I take off or I go off of a cycle and I take an off period, I'm not going to lose that muscle. My body wants to hold that muscle. Now, if you don't eat right and you don't train, of course you'll lose it. But if you do, it's, you might deflate a little bit from being off the cycle, but you're not going to lose it. And there's, that's the difference. Whereas in the past people would do an eight week cycle, they gain, you know, 10, you know, 15 pounds in that eight weeks. A lot of it was water, obviously. And then they'd go off the cycle for six to eight weeks and they would lose 80% of what they gain. They'd be only maybe a whole three or four pounds because that was the only the real solidified gains that they really got. And so we found, and like I said, through experimentation in the nineties and early two thousands that you had to stay on for a longer period of time. It doesn't mean you have to take a lot of gear. It means you have to stay on for a longer period of time. I like to do, especially if you guys do national shows or pros and do purchase. I like to stay on for eight or nine months of the year and then go off for two months, two and a half months, end of the year and clean out and do that. So that you're consistently on, so that as you're making new gains, once you go into a contest cycle or a contest diet, you're solidifying those gains. You're not allowing your body to lose that muscle by coming off. And what I found is that the gains become more permanent. Obviously, if you're going to stay on for a longer period of time, you want to stay away from toxic compounds like a lot of oils and fast acting injectables. The long acting injectables tend to have very little toxicity on the body. And that's going to be something that you can do and sustain for a longer period of time. Second question again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo experience app. This one is about training is about the Smith machines. Some Smith machines are on a slight angle and some are straight up and down. What is the benefit of using a slightly angled one and which do you prefer specifically for squats? Yeah, I don't know what the what who created those variations. You know, I've said this before, but it warrants probably repeating. Probably no one remembers. But I recently I think within the last year I bought a a Siberian cat from this woman and I had to meet her at the airport and her last name was Smith. And she said that she's like, oh, you're a bodybuilder. I said, yeah, she's like, maybe, you know, my husband, she's like my husband, my her ex husband developed the Smith machine. He invented the Smith machine, believe it or not. So I actually met the wife of the guy who invented the Smith machine just for a little trivial side note on that. Now, why is it straight up and down versus some of them are a little angled? I don't know. I think they think the angled ones has a more natural movement. I don't really. I think they both work well. You know, I think because when you're doing presses on the Smith machine, the angle is more natural. I don't know about the squat aspect of it. I never really liked squatting on the Smith machine, believe it or not. I mean, it's easier because the machine stabilizes the weight for you. So I think a lot of people like to do that. But what I found is I would always hurt myself when I as I got heavier on the weights because it locks you into a position that you you have to be in. In other words, you're that angle that it gives you is the angle you're pushing from. So if you're if your biomechanics are a little off on your body, you're going to hurt yourself. Whereas when you're doing free weight squats, you can balance the bar, you know, in the zone that that's comfortable for you. And I think that that makes it more natural and you tend to get better leg development that way. So I was never a huge Smith machine. I like to like shoulder press on the Smith machine. I think it's a it's a safety aspect. And I think even benching is OK. But once again, when you bench on the Smith machine, there's a lot of it does. The machine does a lot of balancing for you as well. So you're probably not getting as a full development. Greg Kovacs only benched on the Smith machine and he used to put like seven plates, eight plates on each side. I don't know how he did it. It was insane. I've seen him do it in person. It was it was it was a feat to behold. And he had a huge chest. So obviously he was getting something out of it. But I don't really feel one way or another. I've used both. Sometimes it's good to mix it up because you're hitting a slightly different part of the chest. If you're doing bench pressing on it or if you're squatting on it, you're hitting a slightly different angle of the legs when the machine is like this versus this. But I don't I don't really know the rationale behind doing it other than I think, you know, everyone's always trying to make things better than it was before. Before we go to the rest of our questions, a couple of things we wanted to address. First of all, our friends at Titan Medical Center, Dave, have this week only fifty dollars off all their growth peptides. So that includes IDF1, CJC, but morellin, MK-677, maximum morellin, surmorellin, hexerellin and tesalmorellin this week only at Titan Medical Center. Yeah, our good friends at Titan have told me that the the growth peptides have been very popular recently and they've been ordering, you know, like double or triple the amount they normally sell. And so they they have a nice amount in stock. And so they're offering a little discount because they've I guess they got a little discount when they order it in high amounts. And so take advantage if you're doing any of these growth peptides, call them up. Tell them Rx Muscle Dave Palumbo sent you. They will give you A-50 dollars off per order. And look, at this point in time, you know, that could be your gas in your car because I I don't know about you, Sid. I just I'm spending over 100 bucks to fill my SUV up now. It's crazy. The gas prices. It's pretty bad right now. But on a better note, on a brighter topic, I guess, we're pleased to announce we're going to have a new sponsor joining us here at Rx Muscle. Now, this is a company that you had, I believe, first interacted with at this past Olympia. And you were so blown away. They make protein pretzels and you like them so much. And you obviously struck up a friendship with them. A good conversation ensued. And now it's official. They're going to be joining us going forward as a sponsor here at Rx Muscle. Yeah, I said I have a weakness for pretzels. You know, I love pretzels. Unfortunately, they're all carbs. You know how I feel about eating just a lot of plain carbs. I'm not really a big fan of that. But now we have protein pretzels. And Chris Power has made these things. They're really good. There's different flavors. I happen to like the cheese flavored ones the best. But the sesame seed ones are pretty insane as well because I'm a sesame fanatic. Whenever I get bagels, I always get sesame bagels. But let me, I'm going to do a little read for you guys because they are coming on as a sponsor. And I am really proud to say that I really love the product. You know, I don't like to take sponsors that don't believe in products. I believe in this product 100%. It's great. And I think they're doing a great job. If you love salty snacks but hate sacrificing your goals, I've got something new. You got to try Chris protein. These protein pretzels pack 28 grams of protein per 1.75 ounce bag and just six net carbs. So you can still enjoy a savory crunchy snack that actually supports your lifestyle and macros. Unlike soft protein bars and bland chips, Chris protein gives you that satisfying crunch. It keeps you full and fueled whether you're headed to the gym, running errands or just need something better. They're GLP one friendly plant based have zero added sugar on our seriously delicious head to Chris power.com and use the code Rx muscle at checkout. That's Chris power.com for high protein crunch. You can feel good about I can promise you, you will thank me. They're awesome. We want to address one more thing and this is species nutrition related. We have gotten a lot of comments and we did want to address this head on about the swell rate of the latest batch of fiber lives. We've had some mixed messages as far as the consistency batch to batch bottle to bottle as far as the new orders, the new bottles of new orders people have received. I wanted you to address this as far as the swell rate for the latest batches of fiber lives. Yeah, the first I, the person who actually said something was Nick Walker. Cause I, you know, I send them a case of the fiber lives. He loves it. And he was in the room with my very dear friend, guy sister, you know, who, who never leaves home without a case of his fiber lives. And they said, look different. And, you know, and, and obviously, you know, I told guy that it's, it's the same stuff and he uses it. And guy is my litmus test. You know, guy can knows when things aren't working, but what, what's going on is that we order so much. What are so much psyllium? Cause I mean, fiber lives is our number one selling product. We sell ridiculous amounts of it. And sometimes we, we clean out the, the, the manufacturer, you know, who, who sends us the psyllium. We buy the highest swell rate psyllium. We're the only ones who buy the highest swell rate psyllium, but there's different mesh sizes. So I guess you can some, if you notice most fiber lives on a regular basis is, is thick mesh. So in other words, when you mix it, it's like kind of, it kind of almost has a sawdusty consistency. Um, they make a finer mesh, you know, fiber lies that that's almost like, like powdery and consistency just by convention. I never use that one. That one mixes a little easier and it's, it doesn't feel like it's a, it doesn't look as bulky, but it's exactly the same swell rate. The swell rate is how much the fiber absorbs water wise, which is what gives it the, the, the, all the benefits, uh, on helping you move your bowels on a regular basis. So the swell rate is the same. The mesh size is different. So if you notice that it's a little thinner in consistency, um, you know, prior to mixing, that's the reason it's the same. The potency is the same. The taste is the same, but you know, it's like diet Coke. You know, I haven't, if I opened the can of diet Coke and it was in a bottle and it was red in color, I'd be like, what the heck's going on? This stuff's never red, but if it tastes the same, you know, it tastes the same. So yeah, don't, don't freak out. It's all good. It's probably just going to be one lot worth, and then we'll probably have the regular consistency just because like I like consistency too, but it works exactly the same. And, uh, you know, I appreciate all your support over the years. And I know people freak out because they love their fiber lies. It's still the same. I promise you that. And, uh, I just wanted to clarify that. I also want to thank everyone for subscribing to the day Palumbo experience app, because you know, uh, that's an app you can download from your, uh, your iTunes store or your Android store. And you, uh, obviously it's $29 a month. You get me as a coach in your back pocket. You get all my videos, all my articles I've ever written in one place, all my diets, keto diet, cyclical keto diet. All my drug cycles are in there. Everything you can imagine. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum in there. Uh, that's where I get these questions of the week from. I do a Q and a video just for the app members every single week. So it's a great, great resource to keep up to date on what's going on. Uh, learning everything is from nutrition, drugs, supplements. And like I said, we have a lot of members there who participate, ask great questions and support the app. And I want to thank you guys for that. Um, another fiber lives related question as we now go into our question, most of our questions from the YouTube community page. So if you go on our YouTube channel, the tab that says post that is pretty much now the vast source for where we take our questions for the show. Um, I recently saw a video real, uh, by Dr. Rhonda Patrick talking about microplastics and how obviously because it exists in our food supply that many of us, most of us have microplastics, whether we know it or not, flowing within us. She didn't mention fiber being a solution to removing some of those microplastics out of the body. And then obviously made me think about fiber lies. Uh, if you could talk a little bit more about the applications of fiber lies and the microplastics in your bodies. Yeah, I, I saw that real was, it was, it was a great marketing tool for me. That's for sure. Um, yeah, I didn't even, you know, I figured that, you know, usually heavy metals, toxins, you know, in the body. Fiber binds up everything, you know, and it's really the soluble fiber. Cause remember soluble fiber absorbs water and it absorbs anything that's water soluble with it, you know, and, and microplastics are obviously something that, you know, are a real phenomenon. Matter of fact, I've almost, I usually make this rice in these, I always talk about it in these bags. They come in these like little plastic bags. They're the boil bags. They're called. It's like minute rice. You throw it in a bowl, you throw it in the microwave for 10 minutes and it's done. Uh, but my microwave is, is, is, is tapped out. I don't know. It's 25 years old. It died. And so I've been, I've been boiling water in a pot on the stove. And I guess I boiled it too long and the rice absorbed all the water. And then the, the plastic around the outside of the bag of rice started melting into the pot, into my rice. So, but I didn't realize it. So I, I, when I finished and I, I took the rice out of the bags, I noticed I was eating pieces of plastic. So I'm thinking, holy shit, talk about my, this is macro plastics I'm eating, you know, talking about, but there's micro plastics, you know, theoretically in the foods we eat because it's in the water. It's in, you know, if you're using Tupperware containers, you know, if you're drinking soda with, you know, plastic, I think it's more prevalent when we're talking about like fat soluble type compounds, like oils coming in, in, in plastic. It's more likely to leash those plastics, but they're in our body. They're in, they're in the food supply. They're in the water supply. There's nothing we can do about it. And there's a lot of good research out there. And Dr. Patrick was, was pointing that out that soluble fiber that absorbs, you know, fluid is a great way to de micronize or de plastic size your body, so to speak. And so if you're taking your fiber lies on a regular basis, twice a day, you're probably taking a lot of micro plastics out of your body as well. And that just goes, you know, I never really mentioned that as a potential, I never thought about it. You know, I, I, you're taking heavy metals, you're taking, you know, LDL cholesterol, it binds up and pulls out of the body. It does all this stuff that you're not even aware of. You know, most people just take it because they, they can go to the bathroom well, and then they know that they're moving their bowels and then their stomach feels empty. But it has a lot of really good health benefits, not in addition to feeding the good bacteria in your colon and your small intestine. Those bacteria, the probiotic bacteria use soluble fiber as a fuel source. So you're feeding them essentially. And when you feed them, they grow and divide and they become more vibrant. And that's, and then when they actually do feed on the, on the soluble fiber, they ferment it and they produce short chain fatty acids. They go into the bloodstream, go back to the liver, and they actually tell the liver, stop releasing so much glucose, which lowers blood sugar as well. So they, they have, they really, really add tremendous health benefits to the body, more so than people are even aware of. And so I'm, I like to see articles and videos like this because it validates everything I've been saying all these years. So let's go to the rest of our questions. Um, last week on after hours, actually, we had a topic conversation about how the supply from China, the raws is affecting the global supply of gear. Right. So the question is, we'll all talk about supply of antibiotics, steroids, such as tests, say, Deca and so many others going to soon be unavailable, even for doctors and clinics. What would you recommend someone who is bodybuilding and living the lifestyle to do if they are unable to get real gears, such as steroids mentioned? Would you recommend them going off and taking a break or do peptides to fill in the blanks? So I guess that's, that's the question in and of itself. If there is a true, uh, shortage of steroids, can you use peptides to fill in the blanks? And if not, where would you go from there? Steroids are a hundred times more potent than the most potent peptide. I'll just say that. Uh, on a good note, however, I've never seen a shortage or disappearance of anabolic steroids from the marketplace. Where there's a desire and where there's a need, someone always fills that need. And, uh, after that show that we did where Larry's pointed out the fact that we're not going to be able to get raws from China. Someone sent me a, uh, a very long elaborate email and basically outlined, you know, that the fact that a lot of testosterone is made in the United States by some of these labs that distributed, you know, like up John and all these labs that actually sell it for hormone replacement. So it not, it's not that everything is made in China. A lot of stuff is made in China. And believe me, the marketplaces like India will pick up the slack and you're not going to have a lot. You might be harder to find the anabolics. Maybe prices might go up a little because when supply goes down, demand goes up and the prices go up. Uh, but that's just the way everything works. Right. I mean, we're paying more for gas now because theoretically it's, it's harder to get. I don't believe that, but that's the way the market goes. So if it's a little harder to get these at a box, they might go up in cost a little bit, but they'll still be available. I promise you that when they outlawed anabolic steroids back in 1990, they, they made it a controlled substance. Everything disappeared. A lot of stuff disappeared from the market. Because before that bodybuilders had prescriptions. They would just go into the pharmacy and fill the prescriptions because it was not a controlled substance. After that, it was impossible to get them. And now people had to start looking elsewhere. And that's really when I just started using anabolics around then. But everyone went to Europe, but they always find the place where they are and they find a way to bring them in. So I wouldn't worry about it. I, like I said, I've never seen, but I will say this. I'll give you this little bit of advice as a, as a bodybuilder. I always had two shows worth of anabolics in my drawer, in my sock drawer at all times, just in case we hit a point where it might be hard to find the drugs that you need. Always put away extra. So that if there's a six month period where you can't get anything, then it doesn't matter because you have enough to hold you over. Never just go week by week. I know guys that they're like, I can't finish my, my, my, uh, clenbuterol cycle for the show because I don't have any more left. I said, how can you run out in the middle of the show? Well, I only bought enough for eight weeks. I said, why would you do that? You know, why wouldn't you buy the whole 16 weeks? So you have it in your drawer and people just, you know, they, sometimes people don't have the money, but a lot of times it's just, they don't think about it. They're like, Oh, well the guy always has it. I'll just get more from them. Stockpile extra stuff. So you always have stuff available. So you never have that. Like, Oh, I got the nationals coming up. I don't have any drugs for the next eight weeks. That's a problem. Uh, we do get a lot of questions about Reddit. True tried. This question is about your own clients. Have you had any clients using Reddit true tried yet? And if so, were the results just as good or better than the usual? T3 cleanse stack. Hmm. Nothing approaches the fat burning qualities of clenbuterol. And especially clenbuterol combined with T3, you know, thyroid hormone. The best. Fat burning stack around Reddit true tight is not really a great fat burner. What it does is it restricts your appetite. And it enables you to diet hard and not cheat by eating in between meals. Because a lot of people are just weak minded and they just, they, they break down. They snack a little bit here and there, uh, especially on the women. And I'm not, I'm not saying this to be by, uh, to be sexist or that, but women tend to be, have a little bit less self-control on the diet than the men. They like to dig into the peanut butter jar, but it takes away those urges. And so people can stick to their diet better. It does have a slight fat burning direct effect as well, but that's not really. So I see the people that have the toughest time sticking to the diet. They get the best results from red and true tight. That's why you see these, these just fat like celebrities losing all the weight. They're fat because they eat terribly. So when they go on red and true tight, it kills their appetite. They don't eat at all. You know, they eat once or twice a day, which is not good, but that's why they lose weight. So red and true tight is really an appetite suppressant is really what I would classify it as. And it has, it has potential in use and bodybuilders who have trouble sticking to their diet. The people that never would cheat in a million years on their diet, those guys don't really notice much of a difference. They can take it, but it doesn't change. It's not going to change the world. It's not a direct great fat burner. It's a mediocre fat burner on its own. What its advantages is, is it takes away your appetite or makes you feel full longer. And that's the benefit of taking that. I don't particularly like it because it slows down the digestive tract. And I think that when you're working out real hard and you're trying to recover as quickly as possible, it kind of delays that a little bit. But when you're getting ready for a show, you can rationalize it because you're really not trying to grow at that point. You're trying to just maintain the muscle you have. So I think it's fine to use in that scenario. But you must, you must, and I'm not trying to give a plug to sell more fiber lyes. You must use a fiber supplement. And my recommendation would be to do fiber lyes twice a day. If you do not do that, you will become backed up and you potentially could have a blockage in your, in your small intestine or colon. People get backed up that badly. And then they have to go to the hospital because it really does slow down the transit of the, the transit time of food through the intestinal tract. And you do not want that as a bodybuilder. You're going to get distended. You're going to be uncomfortable and you're going to be miserable is what's going to happen. So make sure if you do use a GLP one agonist, like red or true tide or ozempic or Monjara, that you take a good quality. You don't have to use mine, but I would recommend using fiber lyes twice a day. This actually kind of flows perfectly into this next question. I know this question has been asked in the past. What causes professional bodybuilders to have the big gut stomach? I keep hearing insulin food, HH, what is actually causing it and how do you prevent it? Yeah. You know, it doesn't seem to happen to the young guys that much. And so I think a lot of what happens is you, you mostly see it in really big, you know, beefed up guys. And, and the reason is there's so much muscle in the midsection and you see it in guys that have shorter torsos. So when I say torsos from the chest to the lower abs, it's shorter. Whereas guys that have long torsos, like a Jay Cutler, you know, have a long torso. They're spread out more. So the, the distension happens when you have a shorter torso because there's less room for that, the muscles to go. And it also happens to be with people who have to eat a lot of food. So if you're eating, you know, massive amounts of food, cause you got a crazy metabolism and you're, you're growing huge from doing it. The stomach is always full. And I think what it does is it puts a stretch on the fascia. The fascia is almost like a connective tissue that holds the internal organs in. So it's not that your organs are getting bigger because, and they might get a little bigger when you eat an enormous amount of food, it stretches the, the intestinal tract and, and they get, they adapt by growing a little bit. Um, that, that stretching out of the intestinal tract is, will retract and, and, you know, and go back to normal when you start eating less, but you do get a little bit of an expansion of the intestinal tract. But the, what you're noticing is the stretch on that abdominal region. And like a pregnant woman over time, if you're, if you're that big for that long, you start getting that midsection stretched out. The fascia no longer holds all those abdominal muscles in and now if you don't pull it in yourself. Okay. On stage, it just kind of hangs out there almost like either an old man or a pregnant woman. And, uh, it's not that the, like I said, it's not that anything sticking out. It's just not holding in because that, that connected tissue has been overstretched. Probably due to the fact that you have a lot of food in your stomach at all times and you're eating massive amounts of it. Um, that's why taking fiber lies twice a day, which will keep the food and waste moving more efficiently through the intestinal tract will give you less. Distention down there and less bloating because you're not, you don't have as much food in you at all time. You know, when I was 300 pounds and I was eating, you know, you know, eight, 12 times a day, you know, I wasn't, I thought I was going to the bathroom a lot, but I probably wasn't going enough because of the amount of food I was eating. And it was, I was getting retention in my gut. And I would notice by the end of the day, I was so full and over bloated. If I had known about fiber back then, which I didn't in the beginning part of my career, I would have, I would have been taking it. It would have probably made it a lot, a lot less likely that I would have gotten that distention. But usually it, once again, it's from eating a ton of food, overstretching the, the fascia down there. And from having a short torso, you put all three of those together and you got a disaster, you know, waiting to happen. It's like the perfect storm. That's what I had. I had a short torso. I had to eat an enormous amount of food. And over time, I, that area got stretched out. So what I had to do is I had to, I found, I discovered fiber because of that. And so you guys can thank me for coming out with FiberLize because I discovered it because of my, my problem that I had. And I had to work on really, really vacuuming and pulling my stomach in from the side because the fascia was overstretched. It wasn't going to do it for me anymore, you know, as in the later part of my career. So, you know, luckily I was able to do that, but it, it, you know, definitely, you know, it definitely kind of can ruin the cosmetic. It's cosmetic and it, look, it happened to Phil. It happened to Ronnie. It happened to a lot of, you know, great body, Kai Green. It happened to a lot of bodybuilders and it's going to continue happening. It's, you know, especially when you're, you know, you're 300 pounds in the offseason. The guys that don't notice it as much are the guys with the very long torsos. And, you know, luckily for Nick Walker, he has a long torso because he has an enormous amount of muscle on his body. You know, Andrew Jack has a very, very long torso. Kai had a short torso. William Bonek, short torso. How to watch out. You got to, you'll notice the guys with the, with the problems on stage tend to have the very short torsos. Wanted to squeeze this one in before we go. Yeah. It's about eating drugs like Viagra. Do they actually help with workouts or is that just kind of bro sciencey? I personally would say no. I've, I've taken them. I don't feel a bigger pump in the gym at all from them. Other people I know tell me that they, they, they feel great in the gym from it. They feel a huge pump. They notice a difference. So I'm not going to foo-foo it and say that you don't feel it because some people do notice a difference. Um, maybe I have good nitric oxide production already. And so it doesn't matter to me. Um, but you know, the way I look at it analytically and scientifically, you know, you're producing more nitric oxide in the genital area, which is why you're getting better erections. Right. When you take the Alice of Viagra or Levitra, those drugs, when you take L-citrulline, which is what I have in our stimulized max pre-workout, you get a pump everywhere in the body. Okay. Because the citrulline gets into the bloodstream, it converts to nitric oxide everywhere. And the, the blood vessels dilate and you get a crazy pump in all your muscles. Okay. If getting a pump in all your muscles or getting nitric oxide released throughout the body was the key to getting an erection. Okay. Then taking citrulline or a pre-workout that had high amounts of citrulline in it or arginine in it would solve people's erection issues. But yet it doesn't. The reason it doesn't is because these drugs like Cialis or Viagra target nitric oxide release in the genital area preferentially. And that's why you, you get the better erections on that drug. That's why it doesn't make sense to me that you would get a good pump on taking a Viagra versus taking a pre-workout where you get the generalized nitric oxide release. So when people tell me, yeah, I took a Viagra, you know, I took a Cialis before the gym. I got a great pump. I don't, I don't necessarily believe them because a lot of those guys do pre-workouts too. I tend to believe that the pre-workout is giving them the better pump than, than the actual erection, you know, medication would. But try it yourself. You let me know. I don't see that, the cause and effect from that. That's going to do for this episode of Ask Dave. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss this or any other shows that we have on the channel. All new episodes of After Hours, as well as Heavy Muscle Radio recapping the 2026 Arnold UK, as well as the content that we have from this past Arnold UK weekend, including Jay Cutler, four-time Miss Her Olympia, interviewing Andrew Jack, as well as the team, Chris Cicito, Kamala Agarney, Chris Cormier as well. A great interview. If you haven't already checked it out, it's on the channel right now. Truly a unique opportunity to see Jay Cutler interviewing the winner of one of the biggest shows of the calendar year on our channel. An absolute privilege to have that on the channel. Again, subscribe below, hit the notification bell, and you're not going to miss this or anything that we have coming up. Obviously, over the next few weeks, we have Pittsburgh Pro, New York Pro. We're going to have loads of content, preview content, as well as weekend content on the channel, as well as on our Instagram, official underscore Rx. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadiq Faruqi. We'll see you next time.