I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations dosed for maximum results. and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit Expo. It's our third year in a row. And uh what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching Tasty Pastry. It's a low carb pop-tart. It's got 3 to four grams of net carbs. And we love this show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palumbo and today's a very special interview that I've uh been waiting to do for almost more than three years now. And after the death of Rich Piana, uh, someone who I considered a friend, even though maybe I didn't spend, you know, every minute with him, you know, we had a connection. We did interviews together. We saw each other at shows. We competed together back in the 90s, early 2000s. And, you know, after he passed, there was a lot of rumors. There's a lot of stories out there. And one of the people I wanted to talk to after that was his ex-wife or his wife, Sarah Piana. Um, obviously, she wasn't ready to talk at that time. and recently we've been texting back and forth and she agreed to come on the show. So, it's it's uh it's my honor to welcome her to the show today. Sarah, how's everything going over there? I'm doing great. How are you? Good. Where where can I uh what country are you in now? I hear you're not in the US right now. Yes, I am currently in Sweden. Okay. I came here to visit family and I'm absolutely loving it. Um, just being here in in Europe actually made me realize how much I missed Europe. So now I I always thought you were from Iceland. Is that Where were you born? Yes, I was born and raised in Iceland. Okay. But you're but you're of Swedish descent. Is that the idea? Uh, no. No. My uh dad has been living in Sweden for so many years. And my uh he lives here and my brother and sister live in Denmark. So I just decided to come out fly out here especially with the everything is going on right now in the world especially in America. So So are you like a true Viking? Yes absolutely. Let me ask you a question before we let as we get started. First of all, how did you and Rich originally meet? Because I don't really know the story of uh how you guys got together initially. Yeah. Well, we started talking on Facebook actually um and just started chatting and stuff and and it was actually first in between his uh relationship and then you know he got back with her again and then we didn't talk for quite some time and then we started talking again right in 2015 and then we just decided to meet up. So now when you say she was that when he was dating Chanel? Yes. Okay. So he was dating Chanel. broke up. You guys were talking. Then he got back together with her and then they broke up and and then cuz I I cuz as far as I knew he was dating her and then you were in the picture and then all of a sudden you guys were getting married. So how did you go from talking online with him to dating and then actually getting married to him? Give us that whole, you know, synthesis that whole story. So basically um we you know decided to meet up and go we met up in Texas right at the destination Dallas event. Okay. And uh we had been you know talking on the phone for quite some time and we just really clicked and everything. So when we met it was just kind of like we were like whoa, you know, and um it was kind of felt like meant to be, you know, we just had amazing chemistry and we had so much fun together, right? So um and then it just, you know, came up with, you know, my situation, me having um being on a student visa for all that time, you know, because I was living in Florida. Oh, you were? I didn't have Yeah, I was living in Florida for like six years before I met Ritz. Gotcha. And I was uh studying law and I was competing. I was doing great, loving life, you know, no trouble, nothing, you know, and um and when I moved to California and when, you know, we just clicked and he was like, "Hey, I want you to move here." All right. Let me let me stop you for a second because this is something that that I I think a lot of people know. You were in law school. How many years into law school were you? I was just on the uh first year. So, did you like law school? Yes, it was uh a lot of fun. But I just really didn't see myself though being, you know, there, you know, with all the debates and everything. You know, me being kind of like a shy person, you know, so it wasn't like you left something that you were absolutely passionately in love with is what you're saying. No, no, absolutely not. All right. So, um, but I still wanted to go forward with it because it was fun. I absolutely loved everything about it, though. I was like, you know what? I'm just going to conquer my fear and I'm going to be great at it, you know. Right. Right. So I imagine law school has to be expensive too. Yes. I mean when I was paying for example in college and when you are uh um a foreigner and you're only paying a tuition in college for example that's $10,000 a semester. Wow. It's expensive. It's crazy. Yeah. So it's even more when you go to a university. So Sure. Now, were you taking loans out or what were you how were you paying for that? Well, I got loans from Iceland. So, Gotcha. Okay. Student loans. Gotcha. All right. So, you're in law school. You you and Rich fall in love. He talks you into moving out to California where he is. You move out there. And at what point did you guys say, "Hey, you know what? Let's get married." Well, we were um I was going to go actually was looking at like Pepperdine in Malibu and and different schools there and I was going to continue my studying, but Rich was like, Sarah, I actually want you by my side at all times. You know, I really don't want you to be away. You know, I need you. I want you here 24/7, right? And he's like, you know what, and I know you need to be on some kind of visa or something to be able to be here, right? And so he was like, you know what? um I love you and I want to be with you like let's get married and I was like what how long had you been dating at that point maybe three months or something okay so it obviously was very soon but uh we loved each other very much and we really saw a future and um a possible family and everything you know so right yeah so we were like okay let's do it aside from the the obviously you were into competing and Rich was you know very well known in the industry and obviously kind of like a quasi celebrity in that sense. Um, what was the what was the uh what what what what was special about Rich that you felt that that you wanted to spend your whole life with him? Well, he was just a very caring, loving person and he had so much passion. He was so motivated and I could just see the impact he had on so many people. It was truly admirable, you know, like I really respected him and I looked at him like with stars in my eyes, you know, I was like, "Wow, you know, he's actually changing people's lives and, you know, he's so positive and he made me feel like I could conquer the world, like I could do anything, okay?" You know, so I was like, "Wow." And just the way he made me feel, we always had so much fun laughing and doing so many fun things together. So to me, you know, we were just like, "Oh, this is perfect." you know. So, so when you got married now, was there like a prenuptual, you know, that you guys had signed or anything like that? Yes. Um, I had already told him before that I have no interest in in anything. I don't want anything. You know, I'm not that kind of person. So, I I said, you know, if we do a prenup, yes, let's absolutely do it if that's going to make you feel better about the whole situation. So we did that and um and I was 100% fine doing that, you know, because I never wanted anything and still don't. Right. So, right. No. And you never got anything. Now, when that when he when I don't know know the legal ramifications of a prenup when when someone dies, what is the does the prenup have any kind of uh staying power? Does it does it have any effect on on the marriage? I mean, do you have to I mean, I don't know how that works. You know, I know when you get divorced, obviously, you know, the prenup goes into effect. What about when a person dies like like in his case? Well, like I said, I'm not so much 100% on all that stuff either. Um because I didn't go after trying to get anything like that, you know. I kind of just went into hiding like I don't want anything to do with anything. But um uh in in recent life that there has been all of a sudden a will that um he had talked about not wanting to do. Did he have a will when you when you guys were married? Did he have a will? No. Okay. Do you know that for we were talking? Huh? You know that for a fact there was no will. Well, that's what he told me. Okay. All right. So I I there's no reason that conversation, right? Okay. Yeah. No will. So And there was no will when he died. And now were you guys married? Because a lot of people, you know, online and you hear all this stuff and you had sent me some paperwork, so I know the answer to that question, but some people said you were divorced. It was an anulment. What what what give me that whole what happened there? So basically, um we uh you know, by Florida state law, you know, I am his legal spouse, you know, widow next to kin. Um, and even though people think, you know, they're like, "Oh, there was an old man." Yes. So, basically there, you know, I was, well, I wasn't served actually. It came to the house that I was staying at. So, like, and that's, you know, the person needs to be served herself, you know, right? Um, so the um there was all of a sudden an usually can't happen after a year or more. It's usually after a few months that that that when that's possible. And um so when I opened that and saw that when I um finally saw it um it was all very weird. Um and the dates were wrong and I could see that the signature did not look like his signature. So it was just all very fizzy. Um I didn't want to pursue anything or do anything. So I didn't do anything about it. So it kind of just went through and it it got you know done and but then um I um because I when you get ser let me just explain to people when you get served with an anulment we have we could actually put the enulment papers up there you sent us if you don't respond to the anulment it becomes it goes it becomes automatic after a certain time period is that how it works okay so but then what happened after that so basically um because um of all my knowledge and everything that I do know about Ritz and you know his ex-wife Jane and etc. I could see that it was not his doing doing this um and this is just me going on what I know personally and have seen myself. So um so obviously I was very frustrated um about that because I know that Jane never liked me. This is Oh Jane is Jane is Rich's first wife. Yes. Okay. Who who owns supposedly part of 5%. Yes. Okay. Mhm. And um and so she never, like I said, never really liked me and I was very frustrated and um I actually did get an attorney to overturn the anolment. Oh, you did? When was this done? Yes. When Oh, I can't remember exactly to be honest. After Rich's death, however, right? Okay. So, the enulment is overturned according to what you're telling me. There's no there was no. So, you're technically you were still his wife when he died. Okay. And um and that was not done by a malicious thing or anything like that. It was just because I was fed up with everything and Jane always having her fingers in everything. Why did they Why did they overturn it? Because it was because it wasn't done properly because it never you were never served. Is that is that the reason? Okay. Mhm. It was because of all the things that just weren't adding up and um and you know I I actually you know I sent you the uh analment so you I don't know if you looked over it or not but um everything says there basically how things were and um you know how everything was done and it's basically just that uh it was not done right you know um the dates and everything just nothing added up. Gotcha. And um it was just it was just not follow you know the rules were not followed. Gotcha. So the court of what was it? Las Vegas it was filed in. Yes. So because that's where you guys got married right in Vegas. So they they you but it was also because we were not residing in Vegas also. Okay. So there was a lot of factors that u made the jets be like this is not right. First of all, you know, who does this u getting a a merits anold when it's been a year or more, right? And u and then everything there's so many things that was wrong and not done right. So the judge was like this is not okay like you know I I'm going to overturn this. This this is not okay. Now also if obviously if if the enolment wasn't overturned you know technically you wouldn't have you know your your green card privileges I guess right because as his wife no I I would still have that so you still keep that even though even though the marriage would have been anulled you still would have kept that okay I wanted I wanted to let people understand this because it's important yeah had nothing to do with that you know um nothing absolutely nothing to do with that it was more like me being fed up with his ex-wife Okay. Now, what what let me ask you this question. Why why did Rich why was Jane so integrated into Rich's life still even while even though they were had been separated and he was in a relationship with you? He was in a relationship obviously before you with Chanel and even after you with Chanel. Why was Rich's wife ex-wife still involved with with his finances and and all that stuff? Well, it was just all very weird the whole scenario regarding that. Um, so basically when I moved in, Jane was living at the house. Yeah. And and um Yeah. And she was basically like his personal assistant that did everything. She was like the the third wheel regarding everything. She was I mean I do believe that she ruined our marriage. Um, he actually You think she was jealous? You think she was jealous that you you and Rich were together? Yeah, I I do believe so. Even though she would not admit it ever, right? Ever. So, um, it just sounds weird. Like I know that like there's no way my wife Amanda would would would put up with that. There's no way there's another woman living in our house, you know, that that's doing my bills and finances and stuff and running my companies. It's not going to happen. I mean, not many people would put up with that, you know. Yeah. So, basically, um, he had her move to Florida to, um, help with the company, just keep an eye on on everything, right? And, um, and it did help the relationship obviously a lot, not having her in our house 24/7. Did you did you know that she owned part of that company or did she own part of that company as far as you knew? Well, how all that went was um Peter Hike um owned half of the company and Ritz half. And before we got married, um I know that Jane was all stressed out about me taking the company if we would get divorced because she truly did believe that I was only after the money and the green card and all that [\h__\h] you know. So um she um so he changed the names. So instead of took his name off the half of the company and put hers instead. Um I did not witness anything regarding a financial payment regarding her owning half but more like well her name if her name's on the company she owns it right. I mean let's face it. Well like I said I don't really know much about all that stuff to Right. But I'm saying if he was dumb enough to put her name on the company, then she owned the company, you know, whether he liked it or not. I mean I mean right. I mean that that's that's on him right there. Now you had a prenup with him already. So why would they why would they think to be worried about anything? Because you would never be entitled to the company anyway. Yeah. I you know I don't know. Like there are so many questions that you know that I want answers to. You know I You think she You think she tricked him into doing it or or something? I mean, because that that's I mean, why would he do it? I don't understand why he want his name unless he didn't want his name on there for some reason. Maybe he owed Did he owe money to anyone or to the government or anything? Well, he had some back taxes. Yes. Yeah. I mean, that's a possibility, I guess, right? Yeah. Yeah. Was Rich, I said, was Rich bad at paying bills, huh? Was Rich bad at paying bills? Yes. So basically Jane was the one that um did everything regarding the finances. She had she was all the one doing everything looking over everything every day doing everything. I was not the one doing that. So you know like Yeah. So which is very weird. Now you I mean yeah and you sound like very a very intelligent person. Obviously you were in law school. You you would think that he would want you to be doing it as his wife. Um, I mean, my wife does all the finances and everything like that because, you know, I just don't have time. I'm like rich. I want to concentrate on the stuff that I like doing. But, um, did that bother you that you weren't involved in in, you know, the helping him with the run the business and the finances seeing that you guys were married? Well, I think it's more like um I was just bothered that she had her fingers in everything, right? Doesn't matter what it was. And um you know I I would have wanted to do more and take care of more and help with more but she was doing everything and so I kind of was just sitting to the side you know but I was obviously doing all the filming and everything else but it was just it was just a very weird thing from the beginning. Right. So why did you guys break up? You guys had this fairy tale marriage. You you had this crazy wedding by the way. I think it was at the Olympia yet in Vegas. I mean, we had it covered on RX Muscle. I mean, it was it was, you know, everyone knew you guys were, you know, this like fantasy couple. You lived went out to California. You're living the dream out there. At what point did it start to break down and did you realize this wasn't something you wanted to be involved? And what happened? What was the what would you say was the the main driving forces for breaking you guys up? Well, um, as much as it broke my heart to have to leave, um, it it took some time to actually be, you know, be able to leave, you know, because I I wanted nothing more for this to work. I loved him with all my heart and we were ready to start a family and everything. Um, so you guys spoke about kids. You guys wanted to have kids. Yes. So, how do you go from wanting to have kids with the with a man and then now all of a sudden you don't want to be involved at all? What happened? Well, so basically um it kind of started when um because he had um no um a lot of pain in his knees. So I know it's kind of weird to start from that point, but kind of a little bit of backstory. So um he had um a lot of pain in his knees because it was bone to bone. He had no cartilage. Okay? So he was in a lot of pain every single day. Um he started taking prescription um pain pills. Okay? And this had started a little bit be before I met him and he told me about it and he said I take one every once in a while if I'm need to stand a lot or stuff like that. He tried to have stem cells done but it didn't work. So he was in a lot of pain every day. So uh when he had those bad days he would have to take a pain pill right then with time it kind of just got worse and worse you know and that's a problem that happens with a lot of people. Mhm. And um it just you know got out of hand. Um he kind of started cha changing and being a different kind of person. Um we had a lot of arguments. It was um a very difficult time for both of us. Um were you arguing because were you arguing because you didn't like that he was using these pay meds or was it changing his personality? It was just a lot of difficulty. Well, it just um it makes you moody and um you just don't feel good and um this was just a very difficult time for both of us and um neither of us were in a good place. So um and I know there's been a lot of talk about all that stuff. Um but were you were you taking any of the pain meds too with him? Yes, I did. Okay. Unfortunately. Um but you know it is what it is. You know stuff happens you know people make mistakes and um and yeah so basically um when the situation was like that you know us working 24/7 it was very hard and um we were very stressed out. We had a lot of things to do. It was just a lot. So we were arguing a lot and often it felt like there was we never could meet in the middle or anything. Um, it was just very difficult and it strained our marriage a lot, right? And then obviously having Jane in there all the time too, even though she was not present at the time, um, it it didn't help either. Was she you think she was pulling strings and pushing buttons behind the scenes to make it worse for you? Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. Do you think that Rich when he was starting to get unhappy with you, you think he was confiding in her? Cuz that's that's the kiss of death once that happens, you know? Oh, absolutely. because you know they were always arguing like literally yelling at each other sometimes and I would be like geez. So um I don't know it was just very very difficult and obviously you know being in the the limelight like that and having all that pressure and you know I do know that you know Rich loved his fans more than anything you know he pushed himself very hard to be the best and he could not think about failing regarding anything. So just everything got out of hand and um it was just too much. So, um, you know, and you guys could even see, you know, at the expos he was starting to sit on the couch because he couldn't stand. It was just too much. And, you know, having to take, uh, all the pain pills and everything, you know, and it's just it just got all just too much, you know. So, um, like I said, um, you know, it just it kind of like because we were always like here. Um, did you Let me ask you a question because you know what? I I know cuz I I was running that whole lifestyle before I had kids, too, where I was traveling every weekend and it seems glamorous to people on the outside, but then you you you know, you get in a relationship with someone and then they realize, you know what, it's really not. The guy's really working pretty hard and he's traveling every week. It's not that fun. It looks like it could be fun, but it's not fun if you're there for the ride, you know? And and I understand that because I've done it, not maybe to the degree he has, but I've traveled every single weekend and I've been in relationships and people just were like, I don't want to do this anymore, you know. My wife is like, I don't I don't really like it anymore, you know. So, I could understand that. And obviously, you put drugs on top of that because he had pain and he was trying to, you know, stand at these expose for three days straight. I don't know how anyone could do it anyway, even without pain meds. So obviously it became a very negative environment for you and Rich wasn't stopping doing that. That was his life obviously. So when do you guys agree to separate? At what point? What year was that? Um it was 2016. Mhm. Um I left let's see in the beginning of August I think if I remember correctly. Was he okay with you leaving or did you have to kind of like you know get out of dodge so to speak you know? Well, um, neither of us wanted this to go this way, but I just felt like everything was just going out of hand too much and, um, and obviously I loved him with all my heart and I wanted him to be healthy and, you know, happy and feel good and not be so miserable. So, um, I felt that the best thing to do is to leave and remove myself um, from the equation. So, um I mean I was really thinking about about both of us even though it killed me, you know. I really left because I loved him. So, I know that's kind of weird thing to say, but um I just it was just not good, you know. So, were you worried that that Rich was that Rich could possibly die from all the the drugs he was doing, you know, the the pain meds for the for the pain? Yeah, I mean it's always a possibility, you know, when anything like that is involved, you know, it's it's uh it's a risk. So, um I you know, I just um made the decision. I say we're always fighting, you know, there's always something, you know, and and often I didn't feel like I I, you know, did good enough. So, um, even though I I was, but let's talk about that video because the video that that's out there with Rich in the hotel room that you were videotaping. I think everyone has seen that. We could put a clip up of it, but uh, you know, Rich looked like he was really out of it. I don't know if he was on pain meds or drinking a lot and you were filming him and um, it was, you know, it was a very disturbing video for a lot of people to watch, especially Rich's his fans and uh, you know. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. and just I I was I felt bad, you know, for both of you, not just, you know, not not just you or Rich. I think it was it was a disturbing. What What prompted you videotaping that and and how did that video get out there? So, basically, so let's just start from the beginning. So, this happened um at the Arnold, Ohio on a Saturday. Mh. And um um Ritz would always um take insulin and really carb before expose, right, to be as full as possible. and everything and you know everybody knows how dangerous insulin is but he you know always said oh I know what I'm doing and everything so um uh that morning when we woke up um obviously at the time there was pain pills involved so um he had woken up he was kind of like drowsy and but he was just starting to get ready and me too then he started like to nod off and I just started freaking out and um so I uh I called Jane and um she told me that she would come and um she told me to start filming it and I was like okay. So I did and um and I was obviously like everybody could see in the video I was very worried um and I was just waiting for her to get there right. Um I had no idea what would happened happen you know and um it just killed me seeing him this way. So, um, obviously this happened because his blood sugar was too low because of the insulin and obviously the pain pills didn't help, right? And when you get the problem is when you get really low blood sugar, you you kind of get goofy. You don't even know what's going on. It's uh, you know, and then the pain pills make it worse because it kind of numbs the effect and so you don't even know that you're low blood sugar. So, you might actually think that you're okay. So, obviously, it was escalating. Now, why would J want you to film this whole thing? Why would she even tell you to film it? Uh, and that's the thing. Okay. So, um so then he uh finally came up to to the room and um so we uh tried to give him some water, something to eat, you know, because just to get his blood sugar up, right? And had him sit down and everything. And um and then um I stopped filming and she she started filming on her phone. Okay. And um and then when he was nodding off um she started to slap him, okay? And and I was just like, you know, like what's going on? on. She was just like, you know, to wake him up. And I was like, well, is that necessary? And um and then, you know, he would like wake up and then, you know, nod off and she would do it again and again. And then she said, "Oh, I've been waiting to do this for so long." And me being like, "What was that?" Yeah. You know, like that's just weird. I mean, who would say that, And um and then you know finally he um he woke up and everything started feeling better and we told him what happened and he was like no you guys are lying that's not true. Wow. And we were like okay let let here watch the video. And he watched the videos and he was like oh my god I would have never believed this if you guys wouldn't have showed me the video. Wow. So, I don't know, you know, like I don't know why she wanted me to video this, but maybe it's, you know, something regarding their past. I don't know. Uh, him not deleting stuff, believing in, you know. So, you think you think maybe like Yeah, maybe he's done this before and that she wanted to prove to him that like that he that he he goes overboard. I I I don't know. But um but he, you know, couldn't believe it and was just like, "Wow." you know, and um and he was just really really shocked um that things had come to this, you know, just regarding everything. So when we came home that after the expo um back to LA, he was like, "Okay, you know, we're going to get our [\h__\h] together. We're just going to, you know, and and and that's, you know, what happened." So um I guess that was kind of like a wakeup call for him. Okay. Did he stop doing all those did he stop doing as many drugs after that? Huh? Did he stop using as many pain killers and stuff like that after that? Yes, for some time. Okay. But then it started again. So Okay.