There's two kinds of people in this world. There's hammers and nails. You decide which one you want to be. You have to be willing to do whatever it takes to reach your goals with no [\h__\h] excuses. I'm so tired of hearing excuses from people. I'm here telling everyone the truth. It it it honestly pisses me off, you know, because people are misled and, you know, people are hired to continue misleading people. And I'm coming out with it and I'm telling people the truth cuz I'm [\h__\h] tired of it. Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Yamamoto Nutrition. I'm Dave Palumbo and today I'm here with one of the most controversial men in our industry. Uh also a man that's dealing with a huge huge I guess you could say uh mind [\h__\h] so to speak that's going on in the in the uh bodybuilding world. A tape was released uh with some derogatory comments that he had made you know over 10 years ago. And you know, we did a lot of specials uh and a lot of shows this past week uh and last week on the person I'm talking about. Uh so I said, you know what? I want to get him here today. I want to find out the true story of what happened. The man I'm talking about, of course, is the Enigma himself, Rich Fiana in studio. Hey, what's up everyone? How you guys doing? All right, Rich, let's let's cut to the chase. Um we all know, we've seen your YouTube channel. It's probably one of the most popular, if not the most popular YouTube channel in the bodybuilding and fitness industry by far. More people talk about it, not just bodybuilders and people who compete, but guys on the street. I hear people in the gym talking. Everyone knows who Rich Piano is. Um, you've built up this persona over the last, you know, five or six years. You know, I'm almost envious of the way you built it up because it's it was so marketing perfect. Uh, and then last week a bombshell hit. Uh, an ex an ex of yours uh released a tape to a guy who's kind of become your nemesis, Mac Truck, who then released it on on his YouTube channel of a you having an argument with an ex and using some derogatory words. You use the n-word many, many times, you know, describing someone that was in the video. Uh, you called this woman many, many derogatory names. Obviously, you were visibly upset at her. Um, and a lot of people are up in arms about this, calling you a racist, a misogynist, the every bad thing they could possibly have. You know, they love to see the the rise and then the fall of the of the stars in our industry, right? Um, talk to me a little bit, you know, before we talk about exactly, you know, what transpired recently. Where did that tape come from? Um, it was about 10 years ago, um, which I stated, um, recently. I guess another tape came out saying it was three years ago or four years ago. And um I mean if anyone goes on my Instagram and does research, they'll see that I was with Chanel four years ago. Yeah. Let's let's let's Who's this girl first of all? What's her name that her name is Amy W? And uh were you in a relationship with her? Were you married to her? Because people are very confused by the Yeah. Yeah. Um No, it was I mean the truth to the story is I was cheating with her on my wife at the time. And which wife was that? What was her name? um my first wife. I'd rather not say her name just because you know, but um yeah, I was having an affair with Amy um while I was married and that's where it started. But yeah, she I mean people are calling her my wife and I mean, right, people don't know. That's why I want to get to But the crazy thing is no one checks anything. People just go on what they hear. You know, whatever they hear, they run with it. And you know, it's uh it's you know, it's uh there's a lot of facts that could easily be checked, you know, but so she's a she was a girlfriend essentially, right? This is what year was this? Like I said, about 10 years ago, so you know, whatever the math is 207. Yeah. 206 207. So you're you're you're dealing with this girl. Now, in the tapes that we heard, um you were very very upset, obviously. And look, we've all been in those relationship situations where we're all upset. We don't all say the things you said, but we're that I've seen people go crazy. I've lost my mind a couple times. Right. What What I guess precipitated that phone call that you made to her and said those things. Um it I don't believe it was a phone call. AI mean I like I don't have a lot of recollection, but I'm pretty positive that this was in person. It wasn't over the phone. Okay. Is so she was taping you and you didn't know it, right? And um the reason I would never say anything on a voicemail. I mean that just doesn't make any sense. Right. Right. So it definitely wasn't a voicemail. I think the reason for that maybe cut out the other person talking. So it just really they just put you in there and they they repeated it a couple times. It was not there was some you know funny things going on with everything you do. But you said what you said. So what what got you that I guess enraged? Uh, well, basically, you know, she I found out she was cheating on me with an ex-boyfriend and he was a black man. And so I was so enraged that I was saying whatever I could to just make her feel like [\h__\h] for what she did to me cuz I felt like [\h__\h] you know? So I was just, you know, I basically lost my mind, which I've done numerous times in my life, you know, not saying that word, but saying a lot of other words, you know. I mean, I've I've had arguments with girlfriends. I'm sure everyone has. I mean, it sounds like other people don't have these kinds of situations. No. I mean, look, I'm sure if another guy caught his girlfriend cheating, he'd call her [\h__\h] I think that that that's probably something that and that's acceptable. I think that the public would accept that word even though it's it's it's disrespectful. We could see that coming out of your mouth. Obviously, the nword is not something that we want to see come out of rich pianist because rich piano loves everywhere. That's what we want to believe. Yeah. And I do honestly. I mean, I've I mean, I've changed tremendously in my life just period, you know, from 10 years ago and from 20 years ago. I mean, if if people want to keep digging, you know, into my life and contact people from 20 years ago, they're going to find out, you know, criminal activities that I did, you know, and um, you know, all kinds of stuff. You know, I there's a lot of things in my past that I regret and I've moved forward and, you know, changed and became better. And that's primarily the reason why I enjoy motivating people and educating people and helping people in the industry that, you know, I was brought up in and I love. So that I mean that's that's why I do this, you know, because I've I've bettered myself and I feel so much better about myself as a person that I want everyone else to, you know, be able to make the same changes. Growing up, was that word used in your household? No, absolutely not. That this is the crazy thing is is growing up I Most of my friends were black. I mean, people are going to be whatever, but you I mean, I was wearing BKs. I was wearing Felas. People don't want to hear that you were friends with black people. Yeah. I'm just saying. I'm just saying the truth, you know, and that's the truth, you know, and you know, too short, you know, uh, new edition, you know, all I mean, this is what I listen to, you know, and this is the music I was raised on and, um, you know, this is where I came from. And the crazy thing is that I was raised in South Sack, you know, where my mom lives, okay? And I was raised mostly in South Sack. And then my senior year I went to live with my dad who's in LA. Okay. And he lives in a little town called Lacresa. And Lacresa is a primarily white school. Um pretty much at least when I went there. And um I showed up BK's Fela. I like the ready for the world hairdo like curly in the front and longer in the back, you know, and uh gold chain. And the the the kids hated me, you know. I had a big speaker box in the back of my car thumping the music and you know the first day of school I got in a fight walking up the ramp just to go to school. Oh, really? Yes. One of the football players started [\h__\h] with me because of the way I was dressed. Did you work out then? Oh, yeah. Yeah. No, I I handled the situation quite well, but but um yeah, I mean it was just it's crazy because I was, you know, in that situation, but I mean it was it was I was different than everyone else because coming from South Sack, you know, and then come to Locker Center, you know, they were, you know, polo shirts and jeans and Vans and, you know, just totally different. Uh, you know, now I know you got I know you have people that in your circle that are black people and you know um some white guys will use the n-word to address their black friends. Now, a lot of black guys that I've talked to said that that's unacceptable. Um, what would what's your how do you what's your relationship in terms of how you address the people that are in your circle that are black? I mean, do you use that word? Oh, I know. Absolutely not. Okay. Never. So, you that never comes into play. never because I know that if I got upset with an ex-girlfriend, I would scream at her and probably yell some of the stuff you said, but I would never use the n word because it's not really in my vocabulary. It just wouldn't wouldn't come to mind because I always find that when people get agitated and and upset, what's in their subconscious kind of leaks out of them? And I think that that's where people are having problems. They think that this is not an isolated incident. And since the second tape did did appear, it would it would assume that that's not the first time you've said that word. I haven't listened to the second tape. I don't know if it's part of the first tape, honestly. So, I don't know if it's part of the same thing or something different. I I haven't listened to it, so honestly, no. Um, but it's definitely not something I regularly use. And I've never used the word other than that particular situation. And I mean at the time when it happened um I mean if it was a Hispanic guy, you know, I'm not saying I wouldn't have said whatever, you know, or if it was a Asian guy, I'm not saying I wouldn't have said whatever at the time because when I lose my temper, I do some stupid [\h__\h] [\h__\h] you know? And uh you know, it's a problem I've had my whole life. As a kid, I had [\h__\h] temper problems. And you know, I lose my mind. I'm not saying it's an excuse. Right. Have you ever done any anger management? That when I lose my mind, I I lose my [\h__\h] mind, you know, and you know, it's just it's not an excuse. There is no excuse, but it's definitely not something that I've ever used or, you know, I mean, I've I mean, it doesn't it's anyone that follows me or knows me, I think, realizes that, you know, it's just doesn't make any sense. Now, obviously, there's going to be black people in our bodybuilding fitness industry watching the show. Uh they're going to see you at shows. Tell, why don't you address them? Tell them why should they forgive you for for this what they're seeing as almost like a knife in their chest. They feel like here's a guy who is a role model to me I looked up to. Um I I wanted to emulate and be like and then when I heard that it kind of like I don't want anything to do with him. Why why should they why should they forgive you and say you know what that's not who he really is. Uh I can look up for this guy because he is a role model. Um I mean it it was 10 years ago. I mean that was a long time ago and it's definitely something that has never came out of my mouth since then. Are you We're not going to see another tape and like two years ago you came up. Yeah. No, it's never it's Yeah. It's never came my mouth since you know that incident and it's not something I ever use and um I mean when I first heard it I my I just like couldn't breathe you know. I couldn't believe that was even coming out of my mouth and I couldn't even I was you know with Chanel and um I didn't even know what it was where it came from. It didn't even make any sense to me. And my first thing was, "That's not me." And then she's like, "That's your voice?" And I couldn't even believe that it was that was actually me, you know? So, I was I was asking her, I'm like, "Is there any way that someone could have took my voice?" And because I you know, you know, I didn't I didn't know. And then I went and started watching the videos and then I saw a video and I was like, "Oh." And then I remember the situation. I remember the incident, right? You know, I don't I didn't recall saying that, but I remember the incident. you know what happened obviously, right? I mean, and I'm not I'm not trying to defend you or anything like that or make an excuse for you, but I I can't I try to think back and say and think, did I ever say anything that I probably would regret? So, I'm saying to myself, what if something came back from my past that I didn't know was tape recorded? Um, in a moment of rage that I was, you know, arguing with whether a girlfriend or a guy or my dad or who know, I'm saying I wonder what people would think if some of the things that I said and I don't even remember what I might have said came up. And I think that that your worst nightmare is really what happened to you. Yeah. Something popped up that you didn't remember doing, right, that you but you did do, right? And it was so long ago and you forgot maybe blocked it out purposely in your mind mentally, right? Um so how do you deal with that? How do we get people to get past this? You know, are you sorry that that that was I'm incredibly sorry. I apologize and I meant every word I said. I mean it's like I said I feel terrible you know and I can't even imagine going to expose and you know all my friends you know that I've known so long and became close to how are they going to treat me how are you know and it's it's it's a very difficult situation and you know I feel incredible off a awful about the situation and I'm very concerned you know I mean because your reputation is important to you obviously you spent a long time building it up well definitely but I mean you know let's be honest I mean, bodybuilding, you know, the the top guys in the sport are black, you know, the top guys. It's always been that way from day one. You know, Sergio Olivier should have destroyed Arnold. You know, I mean, that's always been my opinion, but Arnold, you know, was smart and used other means, you know, against him. But um you know and to say something negative against you know the best people in the sport which is the truth you know just doesn't you know make any sense and you know I mean people that watch me they know who my favorite bodybuilders of all time are you know and every single one of them is a black man you know Sergio Olivier Flex Wheeler Kevin Levrone Paul Dlette Dexter Jackson I mean these are all you know Shawn R these are my favorite because I'm into the aesthetic physique you know I've never liked the blocky physique, you know, which is what I was genetically gifted with was having a blocky frame. Me too. And so I'd look at guys like Flex Wheeler and just be like, you know, amazed, you know, just the the way the the waist is small and the muscles, you know, fit together. And I mean, um, you know, and that's always been my thought. And, you know, the guys I look up to in the sport, you know, the most are all black guys, you know, and well, let's let's take it from a different perspective. This isn't something I'm I mean this is something I go look at my videos. You know, I've been saying the same thing for four years. You know, these I've talked about these same guys over and over again that these are my you know, top favorite bodybuilders. And you know, it's just it's it makes no logical sense to be involved in a sport that you know what I the best and the top people in the sport, you know, I'm going to be against that. Doesn't to me that doesn't make any sense. Like you know, they're the top of the sport. That's who I look up to. Are you upset that maybe people because look let's face it you you are a role model whether people want to consider you a positive or negative role model that's entirely up to someone that's another debate you know all together you're a role model for a lot of young kids out there you're a role model for a lot of just older guys I know like guys in their 50s and 60s they watch all your stuff and they watch your stuff before they watch my stuff so you are a role model in a sense do you feel that obviously that you might have let down some of these people that look up to you because because now they think well he's not really the guy thought he was. You know, you remember when the Mel Gibson tape came out and and everyone thought and there was your tape is nothing compared to that, but I'm just saying people were let down by Mel Gibson because they thought he was like Hollywood gold, like this is the guy I want to be and then they heard these racial things he said about Jews and blacks and everything like that. And he basically became persona nonrada in Hollywood. I mean, your tape is not to the extent of his is, but do you feel like, you know, man, I let these people down? Um, I it just I feel awful that people will think these things of me that are, you know, so far from the truth. That's, you know, that kills me because it's the furthest thing from the truth of how I really feel, you know, and um, you know, that listening to the tape, it's it sounds, you know, and I was, you know, trying to hurt this person any way I could. And there is a little bit more story behind the reasoning. Um, you know, it's it's uh what happened? Tell us tell Yeah. Tell us what happened during this whole relationship thing. You were obvious you said you told you were cheating on your wife with dating this girl on the side. Obviously, why would she cheat on you, so to speak? Was she trying to get back at you? What What happened? Yeah, it was it was a it was an it was an awful situation. And um cuz in the tape it sounded like you were just saying you were mad that she kissed some guy some guy kissed her on the cheek or something like that. Yeah. No. Yeah, it was more than that. No. Yeah, it was. Yeah. I don't know where that came from. It was definitely you know she I mean I saw her briefly and when I tried to leave and stop seeing her, she told me she was pregnant. And so I obviously didn't believe her. You know, I've heard that I don't know how many times. And uh in my younger days, I've never heard that, by the way. And none of them were true. Yeah. And so I she showed me the pregnancy test and I still didn't believe her. And I said, "I need to see you actually pee on the strip, you know, and she peed on the strip and it was positive." And I was just like, "What the fuck?" You know, and and um along and then she blackmailed me with that that if I leave, she's going to tell my wife she's pregnant and she's going to keep the B. I mean, it was just just like a [\h__\h] television show, you know, and it just got really bad. And um, you know, and during all this crazy [\h__\h] you know, this happened as, you know, a way to get back because Oh, so she really did cheat on you because I was, you know, didn't want to see her anymore and I was, you know, wanting to be with my wife, but she had this hold on me because she's saying she's pregnant, you know. And in the end, I found out that she she took she took HCG. And when you take HCG and P, it shows that you're positive. And what's crazy is that I'm a bodybuilder. And back then, I didn't have this knowledge. I didn't even I didn't know that myself. So that that's interesting. So that didn't even pop in my head. I was just like believed it 100%. And uh and yeah, it was I mean it was a crazy there was an you know there was supposedly an abortion that happened in the toilet and you know these are things to get me to come visit you know like oh my god you know like there's a picture of a dead baby in a toilet that's sent to me you know and saying that she's bleeding and she's going to die and this and so I run to her house you know obviously and you know there's no evidence like she flushed it you know it was just it's all just it was Oh yeah, it was just a crazy [\h__\h] circus of just my life at the time and I was just out of my mind completely and all this [\h__\h] you know, was happening and that and you know there's no excuse. I'm just right. So after um all this this these terrible phone calls that you guys had or whatever discussions and per and we don't know what if it was either taped or on phone or if it was in person, you continued to see her. Uh yeah. And yeah, which I don't know if she's crazy or you're crazy at that point because I mean obviously you said some pretty nasty things. You would think she would just say, you know what, I had enough of this crazy guy. Well, what happened is my wife finding out eventually, you know, ended that situ our situation. So, you know, I ended up going that way, you know, briefly and um and then when I ended that situation, I mean, this is just like my, you know, just crazy [\h__\h] but you know, um when I ended that situation, you know, she wouldn't let me leave. She caught me moving everything when she was at work and she came home, caught me right in the middle and she blocked the door, wouldn't let me leave. It was just this big held me hostage. And you guys say, "How does she hold you hostage?" Well, if I tried to leave, she got physical. And um so you don't want the cops being called thing, right? I wasn't going to have any physical thing going on, you know, just cuz I know, you know, the situation. And uh so I sat there for like seven or eight hours and trying to get out and run to this door and run to that door. And she, you know, just it was crazy. It was just like, it sounds like it sounds stupid, but it was it's the truth. It was a physical, as soon as I got close to the door, I was punching and kicking and, you know, doing whatever she can to me. And you know, I would just stop and you know, whatever. And uh um eventually I I got away. And how did you what how much how many like days, weeks after that? Yeah, it was Yeah, I I eventually um managed to push her, you know, like push her out of the way of the doorway when she wasn't paying attention and and get out without any kind of altercation. Yeah. And she made it look like there was an altercation. Oh, really? Trying to have you arrested? Yeah. And uh she scratched up her neck. She tore her clothes. She, I believe, pulled her earring out because her there's pictures of her earring out and went to the police. And um what ended up happening is that she text me later that night apologizing for the situation. Oh. Oh, she admitted that she did. Yeah. And there was like 120 textes apologizing that night and there was like 90 something phone calls. And so when that was presented, you know, to the court or it didn't even go to court. It was like they Yeah. I was just thrown out of court. You know, it was obvious that, you know, I have the text message of her admitting that she did and apologizing and begging me to, you know, come over back to her or whatever. So, uh, so here in lies the question now, but this this person has been doing this for 10 years. A lot of people out there know this. If if anyone goes to getbig.com, right, and looks up the thread, she put a thread up um probably I don't know how long, maybe a year or two years after we stopped seeing each other to try to destroy me and she just made up all kinds of stupid crazy this that's where this but she didn't release the tape. That's where all the PMA came from. That's where I have gluten implants. I have this is the one I have [\h__\h] in my dick, you know? That's why my dick's big like just all this crazy [\h__\h] And I mean it's it's just like all this stuff that's out there came from her. Okay. She's the one who said you had some kind of like uh synthetic stuff put in your arms. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Is that true by the way? Yeah. Well, I I put PM I had a bicep tear, so I have PMA in this arm, which you can probably see. Yeah. Yeah, I can see the little defect there, but Yeah. But um that was it. And she claimed I put it everywhere, you know. I put it in every body part. And um that's where all that came from. You didn't put it in everybody. No. Um, I'm actually was concerned about this because I'm glad I didn't because this, you know, as you can see, it's, you know, not too whatever slumping a little bit. Yeah. But anyway, um, yeah. So, um, so what why now? Why would she release the tapes now? If she had these tapes all along, how come they were not released online five years ago, six years ago, seven years ago when she first started causing all this problems? Well, there's there's a blog up that my ex-wife put up that I was cheating on with her. She put the blog up um basically the girlfriend did or the wife your wife did. My ex-wife put a blog up about her outing her. Okay. And showing all her felonies and all her DUIs and all, you know, breaking entering. You cheated on came to your defense in a sense. Well, she was obviously they see they were they knew each other. They were friends. So, it was just kind of a it wasn't wasn't a very good situation at all. Um, and that that person befriended her to get to me and get in it was just this whole scandalous crazy [\h__\h] Yeah. But, uh, you know, but I ended up obviously, you know, I ended up falling for [\h__\h] and, you know, doing stupid [\h__\h] that was some stupid [\h__\h] I did 10 years ago that I haven't repeated, right? You know, that was, if anyone watches the movie Fatal Attraction, that movie should [\h__\h] set you straight. Really? That's what it was like. Yeah. I mean, you watch that movie, that just set you straight. And that's what my life, you know, was about. And so, if we if we interviewed your ex-wife, would she wouldn't she would say you're not a racist? Oh, definitely. If you interview any any of my ex exes and you know the thing people are, she came out recently and said this was four years ago and everyone believes whatever anyone says, people believe it. The girl released the tape. Yeah. Okay. And if anyone goes on getb.com, they'll see that that article she wrote, the first thing she did against me was, you know, eight, nine years ago on get big. And she just I mean, she wrote literally the the thread is like 300 pages just on this just on her letter. Everyone I mean, it just was it was people want to people want to believe this stuff. That's you understand people like to believe sensationalistic craziness because it makes it's like exciting. It's like the Kardashians, you know, we want to know what the drama is that's going on with Rich Piana. My question is, why didn't these tapes come out then? This is This seems like this was the biggest bonanza she could possibly hit you with. And she held these tapes. Well, no, there's there's there's more tapes supposedly, right? Yeah. I'm getting I'm getting there's a middle person that's black trying to blackmail me. Really? If I don't if to not have her put more tapes on. Did you know that these you you might not have known what was on the tapes, but did you know there was going to be tapes released? No, no, I have no idea. How did Mac Truck, who obviously is is a person who's no longer a friend of yours, uh we saw the tapes with the whole scuttle you guys had at the LA Fit Expo earlier in the year, and he obviously has been getting receiving these tapes and putting them up, you know, for whatever reason. Well, she just contacts anyone that she thinks will go against me or is already against me. And so the people that have done videos on me, she's contacted all those people. There's probably 50, 60, 70 videos that have been done on this incident and she's already contacted all those people to give them more information and get them to make more videos. Not me. I didn't I didn't get any. But the but do you think there's worse videos out there that might come out? Um, well, I was the two videos I'm threatened with I'll just say it because they might come out. Yeah, you might as well. But the videos I was I was threatened with yesterday is uh a video of me doing a steroid deal. Okay. which would make you probably more popular, which is something I'm not going to deny. I mean, anyone that uses steroids has sold steroids sometime or helped a friend out or whatever passed you, you know, and 10 years ago. Um, and the other video tape was I overdosed on GHB. I was naked on the bed on all fours and I was throwing up viciously for like 15 minutes. And she videotaped this. This is what the This No, I don't know this. I was messed up on JP throwing up. But what kind of person videotapes you when you're dying? Right. But usually, you know, afterwards the person would say, "Look at how foolish you looked." And show you the video. No, no, that video. No. If there is a video, I never never knew about it. This is just a text I got yesterday. Okay. From a middle person. And what do they want? Are they asking you for money? What are they asking you for to just to not release these things, you know? I just, you know, just, you know, whatever. You know, well, what's whatever. I mean, they want money. That's the No, they don't want money. Yeah. Just they want like like apology and then uh uh taking the blog down and the blog the blog has nothing to do with me. The blog is uh my ex-wife's and it even says Oh, so she's mad that your ex-wife put up this blog discrediting her. Is that what you're saying? Yeah, but the blog was put up about I would want to say four or five years ago. I mean, the dates on it. Um it's easy to find, you know. Is there any potentially more racist type of no stuff that they have on you. I mean, I'm going to say no. No, definitely not. Um, but like I said, when this came out, I, you know, I was unaware that those words even came out of my mouth. The weird thing is I can't figure out why she waited so long to release these tapes. Maybe she came across it cleaning and found an old phone. And I mean, possibly. I don't know. I mean, I've done that. I've came across old phones and looked at the pictures and was like, "Oh [\h__\h] like look at this." You know, from like five, six years ago. You know, look, I did things in my past. I'm not, you know, sold steroids, whatever, you know. And um, you know, I always say to myself, you know, I I'm glad it came out. I'm glad I get did the jail time. It's kind of out, you know, I'm done. I don't really there's nothing left that anyone can come out with that that I did. I just know that. Um, obviously you said growing up, you know, you did some crazy things. You, you know, sold drugs. You, you know, you you hung out with crazy people. Um, do you ever like, you know, now that you're kind of past that and you're in like a like a zone of entrepreneurialship, you have a website, you make a lot of money, you have a successful nutrition company that you're a part owner of and you make good money from. Do you ever say yourself, what's going to haunt me from my past now? Do does that is that ner especially given this tape that was just released? Are you nervous about that? Does that bother you? Like skeletons in your closet? you know, I never was bothered by it because, you know, I'm so proud of what I've how I've changed my life so dramatically that, you know, I feel like I'm just on the, you know, on the good the good road, you know, and so I don't think about, you know, the past and so forth. And I never, you know, would think anything, you know, would come back, you know, or um but, um, you know, in my past there's a lot of bad stuff, you know, and I've changed, you know, incredibly, and I'm changing every day to be a better person, you know, and, you know, it's even even as far as the steroids, I'm just taking prescribed stuff now, you know, like it's it actually feels good to be 100% legal. Yeah, I know. I know the fact I mean you know you know when the steroids as a bodybuilder that we have in our house you know could be considered distribution when it's not you know it's just the amount that we take you know and any small thing could happen you know where you know and it's just having that you know knowing that you know that you you could possibly you know well you're a very high-profile person now everyone knows who you are it's like you're you got a target on your head you know so the normal person could have steroids in their house. A normal person could have other stuff in their house. They shouldn't have recreational drugs. If you do it, you know, there's a good chance that everyone knows who you are and that and you're talking about it that something negative could happen because of that because you are high profile. I'm sure that one of the reasons I got arrested back in the day was because I was so high profile. If I was a Joe Blow nobody, they wouldn't have even cared probably. So, do you remember that time when all the USA winners were getting popped like not too long after you won the USA's? Y it was like they were purposely going after Mr. USA just to make a to make a name. Yeah. To make a case. No. So that that you know that that's bothersome obviously and obviously sometimes it's not good to be too famous. And now you can almost understand why some of these stars in Hollywood say you know I wish I wasn't that noticeable. But you walk down the street let's face it looking the way you do everyone takes a everyone knows who you are. Right. I have to assume. Yeah. I mean I I enjoy it. I enjoy talking to people meeting new people and helping people. So, I'm still I'm still in a phase of of enjoying it. You know, I enjoy walking in a gym and people coming up and oh, you know, this video was great and it helped me with this and helped me with that and you know, you changed my life or you know, I watched a video on real estate, I went and bought a house, you know, this all this stuff that it just feels so good to feel that I'm actually helping a lot of people out there, you know, with the videos. And, um, I throw in some stupid entertainment, you know, here and there, but my main goal is to educate people. You know, in the beginning it was about the bodybuilding industry, you know, because um I'm sure you probably went through the same thing I did in the body industry is is seeing the gold at the end of the rainbow and thinking I'm close. And every time I feel like I'm there, I'm not even close to any gold, you know, and so I just wanted to open people's eyes up and let them know what what you're really getting into, you know, becoming a bodybuilder as a career. I think people appreciate the honesty that you offer on your videos and I think that they that's probably one of the reasons that they're attracted to you. For the people out there who might have a bad taste in their mouth, how can we get past this bad taste? What do you think is a solution? Do you have any ideas? Have you thought about maybe doing some uh I don't know, making some more positions available in your company for maybe some black bodybuilders and fitness competitors out there to show that you know you're not maybe that you are offering more opportunities because a lot of people say, "Well, no." And I and I know this is not true because there's one there's a guy sitting right opposite me who's a black guy who works for you but they say Rich only has white guys working for his booth. No, no. I have I have numerous black athletes and have, you know, and and I know you have, you know, and I mean, Mac Truck was, you know, was one of my favorite athletes at the time, you know, and we hung out for, you know, about three, three and a half years together, you know, pretty regularly. Trained together, ate together, you know, and we're friends, you know, great friends. At least that's what I saw. And I mean, if if honestly if I was racist, I don't know, you know what I mean? Yeah. I don't know why you would be involved with I mean I I you know and you know I I have Anyway, why did you guys why did he you break up the friendship um because obviously there's bad blood there now. Yeah, it's um he's very angry at me and I don't I never received a phone call in the beginning or you know anything like confront confrontation just directly to me like hey you know blah blah blah you know and you know work it out or talk about it or express his anger towards me personally you know which I think would have been good you know would you be willing to sit down with him now and talk it out or is it beyond that I I don't think I don't think that there's any point in it just by seeing you you know, the way he, you know, is reacting and the way he's being, it seems like there's no, you know, I wouldn't want to sit I would want to sit down with him and put because he's putting out a lot of, you know, hateful stuff. Yeah. I don't think there's any hope for anything, you know, so there's no reason to do that. Um, you know, I think whatever angered him, I I believe I I don't I don't really honestly I don't really know to this day why angry. I mean, I've watched some of his videos. I always believe that you can always you could always sit down and make the piece. There's always there might be some compromise involved. There might be some things that are unpleasant or uncomfortable. You don't want to go or he doesn't want to go, but there's always a way to sit down with a with a third party there and as a mediator and and make the peace. And you know, I I know that you're right now you're at a stage of your life where you're about peace. You're not about war. Maybe when you were younger, maybe when you were younger, you were, you know, but I know I'm at that level where I don't I'm looking for peace. I don't I don't need to I'm not looking to fight anyone. I'm not looking to, you know, to, you know, go to war with anyone, you know. I might expose things, you know, in the bodybuilding world because that's my job as a journalist, but I'm not looking, you know, I don't have any hatred for anyone. Even Steve Blackman, who I make fun of a lot, as you know, I would sit and have dinner with him tonight if he called me up and say, "Dave, meet me at drostanolone." So, I'm sure you're at that stage of your life where you just want peace, right? No, definitely. I, you know, I I just I love do making my videos, helping people, educating people, motivating people, and just sticking to good content. you know, that's going to help people. And that's all my channel's about, you know, and that's all my social media is about is motivating, educating people, you know, and that's that's all I'm all I really want to do, you know. I definitely don't want to make any enemies. I don't, you know, if people make videos about me all the time, and I very rarely make a video back, you know, I just ignore it and keep going forward. Ignore it, keep going forward. And um there's there's probably between five and 10 videos made every single day except the Boston Light one which was very good. I got to admit. Yeah. I mean I mean it's like that was good. I think even Boston Light will say it's a good one. Yeah. I mean, it was like I just I can take, you know, I can take so many, you know, so much hate and so much negativity and this and that and finally it's like God, you know, I just I need to just, you know, strike back, you know, and just rather than just sit there and take it. And that's that's not the right mentality, you know, and I've done that a couple times as you as you know to a couple people, but not very often. And I've learned that, you know, it's just let it be, you know, it's there's no point. Sure. you know, and I think most of it's done for views. You know, of course it is. Nowadays on YouTube, people will do anything for views. Anything. And that's just mindboggling. I mean, there's some things that I know that I I'm not going to, you know, be a tattletail and say whatever, but some of the things that have been done just to get views is just it's unbelievable. And the money YouTube is paying isn't really worth I mean, I'm just being honest. What do you What do you make from YouTube a month? Um, I'm I'm not supposed to say, I think, but I don't care, I guess. But, um, it it it's it's very random, you know. It's very random. Um, it could be anywhere from five to 15 grand a month. Yeah, that sounds about right. I was think, you know, I mean, you're not you're not making rich on it, but it pay some bills, right? Yeah. No, I mean, it's it's it's definitely, you know, uh I enjoy it, you know. I could tell you. I know you edit all the videos. Yeah. Yeah. We film them and edit them and do everything and I definitely enjoy it. And you know, when I go to expose, that's when I get to hear everyone talk about how much I help them. And it's crazy because there's so many people that, you know, they say I saved their life. You know, I was a drug addict. I was in a hotel and I came across your video and, you know, it just, you know, I'm just like, wow. You know, well, that's why that you you're a tremendous role model. Now, do you think that Matt Truck put those videos up because he's mad at you and wanted to get back at you? Or did he put them up because he's looking for views for his YouTube channel? You know, I mean, I whatever I say, I'm, you know, you know, is is the wrong answer. But, um, I I believe it's for the views. You know, I believe all of this is for the views. And obviously anything that if you go look at anyone's channel on YouTube and you look at their views and then you look at if they've done a video that has my name in it, you'll see that the views are like 10 or 15 times more than their normal views. So just doing anything on me is going to give you more views, you know. So if you look at, you know, that channel, you know, you'll see that, you know, there's a couple thousand views per video and then all of a sudden something about me and there's, you know, 80,000. Sure. you know, and so you know, you get a video with 2,000, you know, how many videos you have to make to make up the money you make, you know, with 180,000, you know. So, if Mac Truck were to reach out to me and say, "Look, I'm willing to sit down and talk to Rich Piano," would you sit down with? Definitely. Okay. Yeah, definitely. I mean, because I think that would go a long way to mending this this Yeah. I mean, perception of you, uh, this war with you guys. I'm I'm 100% positive he doesn't wouldn't want to do that, you know, but I would have no problem with it, you know, just because I don't see any reason to have this hate, you know, with anyone. I don't want hate with anyone, you know, it doesn't make any sense. It doesn't solve anything and uh, you know, uh, makes no sense to me. Let's take this negatively tinged um, interview that we've done, you know, because we had to address these topics and let's I know you like to have a positive Oh, here's real quick. Here's here's another funny thing is um so I see the first video posted on this event and you know and then I checked my email a couple hours later and Prophet Muscle sent me an email. He's another guy who hates you. Yeah. Sending me an email saying he wants to fight you. This guy, right? Did he challenge you to a cage fight or something like that? I think everyone wants to fight you. I don't know. I don't know. I think he challenged you to a fight. I'm not a fighter. I'm a bodybuilder. But everyone wants to fight me. Well, they see you have in the bag, so they think, "Well, he must be an MMA fighter, right?" Yeah. So, um Yeah. So, uh so, uh Prophet Muscle sent me a email, um basically saying that I have this video of you and I think I don't know if he showed a clip or something on the email and then he said, "I'm going to post it tomorrow morning unless you do an apology video on your channel to me, then I won't post a video." But what happened is Amy gave the video to both people. Oh, he had the same So he had the same video. Yes. And so what happened is this person posted it right away. And this person's like, "Well, I'm going to blackmail him and get him." So he lost all the views, but he posted right away. He lost like he got like four hours missed and then he posted it real quick, you know. So there must not be any many more videos out there because otherwise Profit Muscle probably would have posted it by now. Yeah. I mean I don't I mean there she's even posted uh videos of us having sex. I mean what female Johnny you have any of those videos in your porn sex stash over there? What female is going to want to post videos on YouTube having sex with a boyfriend from 10 years ago? I mean that's just especially usually the girl wouldn't want to show that. Right. Maybe the guy would show. I don't know what gratification she got compared to Yeah. Unbelievable. Well, Rich, let let's end the interview on a positive note. I want you to look into the camera. I want you to tell people, you know, how you feel about the situation. You know, if you're sorry or not, and then give us a positive message to take us out of this interview because you always seem to end your videos on a very positive note. Mhm. I mean, you know what I really want to say is I want to say I apologize to everyone out there and I feel bad that anyone had to hear that come out of my mouth. And um I you know, I'm all about all of us sticking together and being a team and being in this together. And if anyone goes on my Instagram and looks, you'll see that's one of my most common used hashtags is we're all in this together like a big family. And that's how I honestly feel about the fitness industry is that we all should be together. And um I think everyone out there that has met me in person would not have anything bad to say about me is my assumption. Um, and going on that, um, I just like to say that, you know, hopefully what happened 10 years ago, um, isn't going to affect the person I am today. And, um, I realize that what I did was awful and terrible and, um, it, you know, hasn't came of my mouth since. And, uh, I just want to apologize and hope everyone has a great day. And uh hopefully uh you guys will realize that that's definitely not the person I am. Well, that's going to uh take us to the end of another episode of Live with. Uh I hope you guys enjoyed this episode. I hope you guys understand that, you know, we all make mistakes in life and we all deserve to be forgiven. Uh Rich did this a number of years ago. He obviously has shown a lot of remorse. Um, I, you know, was a little taken back when I first heard it, but I I I think that he deserves the apology and I think he deserves the ability to, you know, to rejuvenate his reputation and I think he does a lot of positive things on his YouTube channel. Uh, he's got a lot of subscribers who believe in him and uh, once again, we all have skeletons in our closet. We've all done things in the past we're ashamed of. Um, I personally forgive Rich and I hope you guys will, too. Until next time, I'm Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com.