Can Nick Walker beat those three? And I think it's really hard. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here with Rich Gaspar. We are here at the NPC North Coast Classic Dean Caputo show and I figured I got Rich Gaspari here. He's a he's a legend in bodybuilding. I want to get his opinion. The men's open class has been really heating up. We got Arnold made the announcement 750 grand next year for the first place. You won that show in '89. What'd you win? 55 grand. I wish you wish. I bet you wish you had that 750. 750. Man, it's a lot of money. The Olympia is at 600 now. Probably will go up, I assume, this year. I think there's a competition between those two and Arnold I think zings them just to make, you know, just to make them rise up raise their prize money each time. If you had been competing in this era when you when you see this kind of prize money, would you have competed a lot more frequently? You think? I think so. I mean, it was difficult for me because I really had to prepare for a show. It wasn't just like I was genetically gifted. So when I prepared for a show, it took me a long time to get into that condition and I was known for being in that ripped condition and it wasn't that easy to be able to come in big and rips and do that several times a year. So it would have been difficult. I've done shows where I've done, you know, the Arnold and then the Olympia and then do the Grand Prix, but that would usually really put a lot of stress on. But that kind of money would certainly motivate you. I would definitely do it because back then in '89 55,000 was the highest prize money back then because be the year before it was 25,000 for first place. So 55 grand I was I'm going for it. Yeah. Yeah. That that was a nice paycheck for you. What did you buy with that money? I actually bought an apartment building with that money. You were smart. Wow. You were smart even back then. Yeah, I did. I bought an apartment building and I sold it several years later and made several hundred,000. So I didn't buy a car with the money. I actually bought real estate. You didn't buy a Rolex with it, right? No, I really Well, let's let's talk about this year because Derek Lungsford is going for something that's almost unprecedented. He won the Arnold Classic. He's a former Mr. Olympia. He just won the Pittsburgh won $100,000 there and he's going to be going for the Olympia. Something that no one's done, winning three shows at three different points in the year. Number one, what do you think about Derek's physique and what do you think about his chances of regaining his Olympia crown? I mean, Derek has a really aesthetic physique. I mean, the guys are frequent that looks at his his back is phenomenal. Nobody can beat him in his back. I he's a little shallow in the chest and it seems like he doesn't have that density for that area and that seems to be his problem area. I mean, he looked phenomenal like I was very critical like at the Olympia and Samson won. I felt he won hands down at the Olympia. But then when I saw the Arnold, I was very impressed with uh Derek's physique. He he improved it so much and he deserved that win to beat Samson, the Mr. Olympia. Um, seeing him at the Pittsburgh, I was only there to see pictures and videos. I thought he wasn't as good as the Olympia and I'm not sure it's it's going to be difficult. So, he went to that great shape at the Arnold. Then, he did another show and this is an Olympia competitor to then try to hit the Olympia. I know it's a lot of money and several shows, but I'm not sure he's going to be able to peak at the Olympia. So, I'm not sure about him. I know that he, you know, because of his aesthetics, his back, he's going to really be in a top three, but winning may be difficult for him. So, Samson took off this Pittsburgh. He did do the Arnold like you said. Hottie Shupin, we haven't seen him since the Olympia. He's going to be fresh, you know, when he hits that show. Um, in a threeman race, assuming those three guys are going to be the top three guys, who do you like and why? I like Samson. You know, he kind of reminds me of Lee Haney. Even though Lee Haney was my foe, you know, when I competed against him, he kind of reminds me of Lee Haney. When he's in shape, he's got to be in shape because if he's a little off, he he looks a little soft. But when Samson's in shape, I think he's a bigger guy. He can beat the other guys cuz they're smaller, you know, shorter guys. Do the judges give Samson a pass in a sense? Because, you know, you are the guy with the striated glutes on stage. All right. You see Samson, he's hard and he's tight and he's got such a beautiful physique. He's got so much muscle, but he's not Rich Caspar. No, he's not. He doesn't have that rip look, but but he has great aesthetics, great shape, and he's a tall guy, so he's very imposing when you see him on stage. If he is a little off, he can be beaten. He can be beaten by Derek. He can be beat by Hottie. Um, he may I don't know, like you talk about Nick Walker. Can Nick Walker beat those three? And I think it's really hard. You know, when Nick is in a show against like Derek, you only have two guys there and two great guys. And Derek wasn't at his best. And Derek wasn't at his best. And then you look at that show and then you have Hottie, you have Derek, you have Samson, it's Andrew, and then Andrew, you know, who looks also great. So those four guys, I see him in the top five, but I'm not sure he's going to be able to get past that top five. When you look at his physique, what do you what would you recommend that he do to improve or is there anything he can do to improve? I think he you know, cuz I had the type of physique cuz I was known for conditioning in that show. I think they should have let him beat Derek at the Pittsburgh. That was my opinion because he was in better condition. But then when you look aesthetics, Derek was better. Nick can only go so far because he doesn't have the best looking body. You know, he's got the varicose veins. Um, do you think that that really affects the judging decision? I I think when it gets that close, even those little minor things, I think they don't look at what's their strong points. they look at what do they have that's a weak point against other competitors. So when you look at those guys it's like a toss up. So even that little distraction can put him down a point which can end up making him come from third to fourth you. So that's my opinion. I think he's got he also doesn't have the best aesthetics. He he's a freak. He's like one of those freaks kind of fan favorite for sure. And he's a fan favorite. He's kind of like you know the freak on stage. So when people see him and he can get in condition and he's got that size, he's very impressive and he's a fan favorite. But to win Mr. Olympia, you not only have to have size, you have to have the aesthetics, the shape, the presentation. I mean, he has a lot of that, but it it's just this is like the best of the best. What does Andrew Jack need to do in your opinion to move into that hopper echelon top? I love Andrew Jack's physique. I think it's just a really aesthetic physique. I mean, he is a little older and I think it's going to get more and more difficult for him. I I mean, he may have to gain a little bit more mass, you know, because he's kind of this really tall guy, very imposing, and he needs to just gain another five or eight pounds of, you know, muscle, 10 pounds of muscle on his frame to really get against those guys. But he is another guy that that I think can really take the show. Everyone at their best, which we know no one's ever at their best. I mean, we never see a lineup where everyone is in the best shape of their life. But if everyone was theoretically, who would be win the show? You think Samson has it? Like I said, I'm a big fan of Samson's. I would give it to Samson because he's just a taller guy, beautiful physique, you know, aesthetics. Like I said, when I saw the Arnold Classic and I saw Derek, he was just overpowering over Samson. Samson came to train with you and said, "Rich, I want you to get me ready for the Olympia." What would you do to get him into that Gizpar shape? What does he need to do in your mind? I think he just has to get that dense look. I'm not sure how he trains. I train with a very, you know, is he not suffering enough? I guess that's the question. I'm asking, yeah, you suffered. You were a sufferer. I don't think these today's guys, and I'm I don't want to go against these guys. I don't think they suffer as much as we suffered back in the day to get into that rip condition. People don't get in that these top pros don't get into that rip condition. Well, we saw Hottie Shopen pretty good and Derek pretty good. He's the only guy that I see and I think we were talking about Hottie Shopen. Hottie Shopen is like an old school bodybuilder that is today. So when you see Hottie Shopen, I'm impressed from the front. He's unbelievable. He has that density that you would see back in the '9s. Is that is that from you think like hardcore heavy free movements? You think that some of these guys maybe are doing a little too much machines? Not that we want to get in trouble for that. No, no. I I do believe that hottie is a guy that uses free weights more so and the combination we were talking about, you know, when you use a free weights, use stabilizer muscles. Use some muscles with a machine that's one plane of motion that you can develop your chest. But when you're using a say a dumbbell, you're developing your chest, your inner chest, your outer, all different areas of the of the chest that you'll develop. That's different than using a machine. Now, I'm not against machines, but I do feel you need a combination of free weights and machines to make a great champion. I'm convinced that's what when people say what's the difference between the '90s and the and the guys today, the guys are bigger today and and they're just as hard, but I think it's the free weights. I think I think guys rely on I do believe it and I know we're going to have people with equipment companies telling us differently, but I see use a combination of both. Use a combo. And I think today some of these machines are great. The angles are great. You can really feel, but not exclusively. No, you can do, like I said, a a chest press with dumbbells, or you can do a row with a bar, which is way different than using a machine with one plane of motion. You use a Smith machine, you do a a bent over row. It's not the same as a barbell. Like I said, if if someone is that great, you're at that level. I would use a combination of both to become a champion. I do believe that Samson, he if he could just get that dense look, I'm not sure he can. There's certain guys that just don't get that look. He's got everything but that. Just like Derek doesn't have that hard dense front from the back he blows everyone away. You heard it from Rich Kaspari. We're gonna see a battle between Hottie Shupin up on that stage. Derek Lunsford, Samson Da, Andrew Jack, Nick Walker if Be Roose Tobani makes it. And we're going to find out if Rean Grimes wins his show today and he might be on that stage as well, but we won't know until October. Rich, great spending the weekend with you. And uh thank you Dean Caputo for bringing both of us out. Dave Palumbo with Rich Kaspari. We'll see you next time.