Robbie Robinson is alive and well. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're back for another installment of Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palumbo, joined by the technician Chris Aceto. And I am happy to report for once in in in a bunch of years that someone is not dead. Chris Robbie Robinson, the Black Prince, who's almost 80 years old now, legend in bodybuilding. His Mast's Mr. Olympia title is alive and well. And there was a rumor this past weekend that he had died. And you know, it's it's really the reason I'm bringing it up. Thank thank God because I really love I love Robbie. I've interviewed him before. He's a great guy. And what I don't like is on the internet if one person says someone died or something terrible happened, every other sheep out there grabs the story and wants to be the first person to put it on their Instagram and and and put it all over the place. And the funny thing is it's even people who have no one who follows them on Instagram putting it up. I see people posting on Instagram as if they're like the the voice of bodybuilding. No pun intended for our good friend Bob Chicro and and and they have like five followers and they're Robbie Robinson diet. I'm reporting it, you know, a good sort people. So people always text me and I'm sure you got some texts too asking me if it's true. And I said, you know what, I said I don't believe it because you know what? I haven't seen one credible person put up. You know, in other words, I the people that are credible who supposedly are friends with them are not putting up anything. And it was what really got people was that Rick Valente put it up. And Rick Valente also fell into that trap of grabbing it off of someone else's Facebook who put something up. And I said, Sid, don't post anything. I said, because I don't believe it. And I told everyone, I think it's fake. Uh because I I have not in other words, when someone dies, there's a lot of people coming out and saying, you know, that that they died. No one said it. There was no obituary. I said, "But someone changed it in Wikipedia and that's that's what really got people." And of course, who was right? I was right. Didn't I? Thank God. Well, it uh that's where we're living. People want to people want to leverage for followers. People It's disgusting though, Chris. Well, it's not surprising. I mean, what surprises to see? It it's Listen people, if you want to be a news source, you gota you got to confirm the news. I I'll I'll I'll give I'm gonna give TMZ a really big, you know, pat on the back. TMZ is the biggest gossip [\h__\h] app around. And they don't post anything unless they confirm it. Okay? You very rarely ever see TMZ report something incorrectly because they they corroborate their sources. And that's what I do. I called all the people I know who know Robbie. No one heard it. Um all everyone was quoting the same post on in on Facebook and I said just seems a little suspicious that a guy who's that popular he goes to Gold's Venice every day that not one person would know the truth about what happened. And you know what they were quoting? This is what they were quoting because they were saying it's obvious he had a heart attack. He had cickle cell anemia. I said the guy's had cickle cell anemia his whole life. I said he's 80 years old. Why did he all of a sudden die from the cickle cell anemia yesterday? I said, "That's the most ridiculous cause of death I've ever heard." So, you know, people make make [\h__\h] up and and it it's a shame. I I died a few times. I don't know if you're aware of that. Did you know that? Well, I know I know actually that you did die. I just didn't want to let everyone know that you were brought back life by science. Yeah. No, I No, I there was a couple rumors that I had died because back back in the 90s, you know, we would go out to Venice, California. So people don't understand there was no cell phones. So when you would go to the airport and get on a plane for 6 hours from New York to um you know whatever California and people would call your house because you had house phones and no one could get in touch with you and no one saw you at the gym. People would think you were dead you know and they wouldn't know you were in Cal even when you're in California. Everyone in California knew I was there but no one in New York knew I was there unless I told them right. So people would start rumors Dave died and it happened two or three two or three times and I wasn't the only person. There was a lot of other bodybuilders that this would happen to too. The rumors would would go and once again you couldn't text someone and comm and try to validate it. You had to wait till you came back, you know, to see if they were actually alive or not. Uh nowadays with all the communication that we have, it's a shame that that there was there's anything that that's misconstrued. There's there's too much. So someone says something and then it's a game of telephone. So when they say something, you text so and so, you look on this, you know, yeah, site or that site and yeah, there's like 500 people reporting conflicting information about Robbie's passing and then people just like make it up at the end. And you know what the funny thing is? Now people are are posting that he's alive. So now it gave people people don't know what to do with themselves. They don't know they have no real We have too much material to post. Most people have no material. So they have to only go on what the what the what's other, you know, sites are posting. So Robbie died, we'll post Robbie died. Oh, we'll post Robbie's alive now. And so they got they got two posts out of that. Well, Dave, had you posted it, everyone would have blamed you. We got it from Columbbo. Right. Right. Well, that's why I don't post stuff unless I posted it. We blamed him. Yeah. Over the years, we we've we've only made maybe one mistake, you know, and uh it was you know what the mistake was? was V Victor Richards died, but Victor Richards didn't really die, but Victor Richards let everyone believe that he died. That was the problem. And then he got mad. I said, "Well, Victor, I I texted you. All you had to do is text me right back and say you didn't die." I said, "When when when someone texts you personally and because there's a rumor out there that you died and you don't get back to them for a week, people assume that you died." Yeah. He didn't he didn't dispel it. He had to wait for his daughter to who that who felt so bad that everyone was saying that her father died that she had to get on there and say my father's alive. And then all of a sudden he came out of the woodwork and said, "Yeah, I didn't die." Well, how come he didn't tell anyone you didn't die? Because he wanted some headlines. You know, he was looking for headlines. So, that's that's that I was looking at I I have a funny thing to tell you, but before I did, I was looking at some I saw some pictures of Matt Grego. He looks amazing. Where did I see those pictures? Did we put them I think we had them on our site from where? Like from the gym or something? Yeah. Hold on. It was like No, it's in his kitchen. Oh, that's probably like the kitchen. The kitchen. The kitchen. I think that Yeah, the kitchen before the Olympia. The best pictures I have of myself are from the K. Why is the kitchen such a good place to do pictures sometimes? Well, the bathroom's always terrible. The bedroom's always terrible. Natural light. It's a great picture. He looks He looks like he's ready to step on stage tomorrow. And he's got the uh the Detroit show. What? A couple weeks still. Yeah. No, I think that's before the Olympia in the kitchen from the hotel. Oh, before Oh, that's an old picture. Okay. All right. He looks very de his side chest is very berry demay-ish. Yes. Yes, you're right. That's exactly. I was trying to think of who he reminded me of. You're right. He hits the intercostal and it's like razor blade intercostal. Barry had that. You're right. Barry had the long arm. You know what I mean? Similar pecs too and forearms. Yeah, that's that's that's exact. You know, I was trying to think of who you reminded me of them and you you nailed it on the head. Barry Demay. Barry Demay still looks very I wouldn't say I mean youthful for sure. I wouldn't say young because he can't technically be young still. No, he's got for his age. I ran into him a few years ago. I don't know where. Germany or England. Yeah. That's because he's got his hair still. He's got a full head of hair, too. Well, he's got muscle, too. He's still big. No, he's in good shape. No, you're right. He's in very good shape. He was always an athletic looking guy, though. I, on the other hand, have my hair. Yeah. Barely. You know what the truth is though, and I know if you went back to the gym and started working out, I guarantee you would look you would probably be look great in about eight weeks because you got good genetics like that. Look at your son's genetics. He obviously has your genetics and your wife's, but I'm saying he's got your ability to, you know, morph your body quickly. Yeah. Look at this. Uh, now you're you told me about Sasarati. Yes. The other day and I had I thought he disappeared. I thought he was retired. I didn't even know what was going on. And now you're working with him here for Detroit in two weeks. He's looking like a freak. What's What's going on with Sasarati? Give us the update. He uh is bigger than he's ever been and he's harder than he's ever been. He looks really good. His quads are freaky. His side chest is completely freaky. His head is even is even vascular. Yep. His side tricep is extremely impressive. He's got crazy back double, crazy most muscular. Um, you think he might be a guy to to be do some damage in Detroit? I think depend on the lineup. I mean, he should be right there to win it. I think he's going to be Yeah. You know, it's shaping up to be a good lineup, actually. You got Carlos Thomas, you got Zass, you got Who else is doing it? Keem. Is it Keem? No, Keem's not doing it. You said right. Keem's 420 right now. 420. Yeah, that's good. I mean, my point is that he's in he's in he's done a long a long prep. Yeah, his legs look like Branch Warren in that picture, right? Very Branch Warren. Have a branch resemblance to him. You know what it is? The resemblance is the skin texture. When branches Yeah. down, it's like a similar skin texture. Great. That grainy look, too. He's got Yeah. I I love guys that get conditioned like that. I think that's like that should be everyone should have to get that condition. Well, at least he's Persian so my my grandmother could prep him. I see that Phil Phil Heath was on the Jake uh Jay podcast on the J and Jay was asking him if he would uh if he's going to do the um Masters Olympia against Kai. Oh, he probably couldn't say no fast enough. No, he said he goes, "I'll prep Kai." He was I don't know if that was a joke or not, but uh Phil was Phil is like a like a dog or a cat. He is now domesticated. Once you get domesticated out of that mindset like everyone else, it never go back. No, it's hard to go back. And look, he was the best of the best for seven years. I mean, more than that, you know, it's it's like a boxer, Dave. You know, you you're programmed to to to fight and then you have like a three-year layoff and you could technically fight and probably demolish most people on the planet, right? But, you know, it's totally different than having fought without any breaks for years. And and same thing, bodybuilding. You take the break and you just Yeah. I used to sleep in and and like go out to eat and eat stuff that you never ate before and the whole nine yards. It's hard to restart the engine. Yeah. No, you're right. Here's uh Martin Fitzwwater 12 weeks out from the Pittsburgh Pro which is Jim Manion show which is coming up in uh in May. Yeah. Nine weeks giving away 100 grand first place. That's so Martin that's 12 weeks out from last year's Detroit Pro and then 12 weeks out from the Pittsburgh Pro. You can see he's significantly bigger here. Sure. He's got a lot less hair too. I noticed he's shaved his head since then. and he's got to be considered one of the favorites. Obviously going to be going up against Nick Walker. It's kind of like a rematch of last year's New York Pro and it'll be it seems like to be exciting. Now, what's going up? Manion's got a an expo there. I see they've been putting up a lot of um a lot of promotions for the show. Um I think they have a list of who's currently in it. Let's see where I had that. So, here I mean look at the headline the lineup. The headline the lineup is there it is. is, you know, Nick Walker and Martin Fitzswwater, which is a rematch of last year's bro, and of course, Kriso, well, I mean, just put that that aside, who's also a factor, but you know, Nick didn't get to do the Olympia last year and I mean, there's a lot of storylines coming out of the show. So, you got Nick Martin. Yeah. Bonac. Bonac impressive. who did great at the Arnold this year. And uh Kriso, who's coming off an injury, you know, he had a surgery last year, so he took off the uh Yeah, this will be one of the first shows, Dave, that the MC is also judging. Who's Who's that? Well, Bob Chick is gonna uh told Nick what place he's going to get. No, he he said he's going to give he gave me place at the Olympia. He didn't say the Pittsburgh. The good veto is in the show. So you you're helping him obviously goodto is great veto. Yeah. And Eric who's Eric Wood? I don't really know Eric Wood. Eric Wood's very good bodybuilder. I forget what he won. North Americas or blah. Yeah. Yeah. Good show for him to be in. Ted is doing the show. Yeah. Good show. Leandro Perez. Brazilian. Very very good. Another Brazilian guy. Yeah, he's very good actually. So we got AI mean we got a really good lineup at Pittsburgh. Emanions, you know, did the right. Look, I hate to give credit to you over and over again because it's like a broken record, but you put up the money and the and the competitors show up. You know, look, Nick could have done the Arnold, right, if he wanted money, but you know, and the Arnold gave away a lot of money, but he wasn't ready. And he said, you know what, the Pittsburgh has given me a lot a lot of money, too. I 100 grand is no Trump change. So, you got tremendous lineups now, you know, going into this Pittsburgh because of that money that they're giving away. So, I don't blame these guys, man. I wish uh you know, I wish they had this kind of money in back in the 90s. I mean, a lot of guys today would be set for life. You know, Flex Wheeler probably would never have to work a day in his life with all the shows he won back in the day. Yeah, it's uh it's making a statement. You know, first time ever having a show, $100,000 first prize. I mean, think of it this way. I think was it two or three years ago, the Arnold was 120. So, it's essentially money first year out of the gate, right? Years ago, you know, I always said I said to myself, you know, I don't know why Jim Madden doesn't hold a like a big open men's open show. Yeah. You've always and I I never got it and I thought, well, maybe you know what, he does he wants to give these other promoters a chance and you know, he doesn't want to monopolize, but you know what? he's got so many people who, you know, like him in terms of sponsors that he can pull in the big sponsor money and then put it up for these athletes. So, it makes sense for him to do a show, especially in today's world. Now, I think also the fact that his grandson Tyler is the vice president now is I think he's he's like, "Come on, grandpa." You know, let's let's do this. You know, I think he's adding new energy to the whole to the whole, you know, company there. And I think it's like, you know, imagine you asking your grandfather, hey, I want, you know, I want that toy that mommy and daddy won't buy me, you know, and then they're like, "All right, fine. Yeah, we'll buy it for you." That kind of thing. So, it has effect on that. Come on. You know, I think he's inspiring Jim to do a lot more things that Jim normally, you know, wouldn't be bothered doing because he's got a lot of energy and he's, you know, he's enthusiastic about it. So, this is great. Not only is there a show that's giving away 100 grand, but there's an expo being run by Bob Lurman, our good friend. So, oh, you didn't know that that he's running the Lormers are running the expo part, which obviously I have a lot of experience doing, right? Yeah. Yeah, it's And uh it's I think it's going to be a big huge show. So, I'm excited about it. Yeah, I'm gonna go hopefully. Yeah, I'd like to go, too. I'm gonna I gota I gotta book some rooms and stuff like that and look into that. Now, Nick Walker posted a uh an update at eight weeks out. Also, he'll be going up against some Martin. Let's pull that thing up. He's looking big in that picture. We don't see his legs here, but his upper body looks pretty big. What do you think? You think he's back to the size he had before he uh you know, before that last Olympia flop? You know, that where he dropped out. Closeish. Yeah, it's it's hard to say because you know what? He looks very He actually looks very lean after eight weeks. Yeah. Um so maybe I'm thinking to like, you know, pick prior to when he's eight weeks where maybe he's not as lean as he is here, but might be like a touch bigger, you know, splitting hairs. He It's hard to tell in update pictures, you know, too. Let's hold Let's pull up his legs here. Hold on. This is from leg day data. Hold on. Let me let me pull up his leg pictures because once again, you know, pictures don't tell the whole story because sometimes they too tell too much of a story. It's a it's a mirror picture. That was it was leg day today. What according to what he said? Well, I think they're about where they've been in the past. You want You want to get one of his Who the [\h__\h] are you? shirts. I think they're still available. They're still available. See, I like I like how he's doing the hack squats. If people look he has like I point my I always point my toes forward. I don't point them outward like that. But I like the wide stance where he's able to get down and really hit those adductors, those inner thighs. That's what gives his legs so much thickness and girthiness, especially when he stands from the side. So that that's really good form right there. And you see how he's controlling the negative on that. I love that. I think that's great great form. That's a that's if you want to watch someone know how to squat or how to, you know, hack squat, that's probably about the best form I've seen. Not many people get down that deep, Chris. And when you don't get down that deep, you don't get into those adductors and glutes, and that's a big mistake people make. Yeah. How he put his his reps. But, um, no, that's that's really good. Impressive. you got to get back to basics, you know, if you want to improve, you know, and he had some obviously some some muscle size issues. Maybe he was not doing the, you know, training the way he wanted to. Um Oh, this is this is the shirt. Oh, this this is the shirt. Who the Who the f is Bob? Eighth place. Yeah, I guess he was selling these shirts. Limited edition. Yeah, I heard he's um just shy of the Pittsburgh Prize money. Yeah, worth those shirt. You know what the funny thing is? And I and and to be honest with you, I can guarantee you if I put Bob and him in a room together, there would be no hard feelings. I I totally think it was an internet like war. You know, Bob and I have [\h__\h] battled on on the I don't believe that, Dave, to be honest with N I don't I don't think I you know what I I think there was a there was a couple digs there on both sides, but I I think that at the end of the day, I don't think there's any bad blood. It's it's you know what it is? It's not like someone's making fun of their of someone's mother or their daughter or their family. It's it's it's all professional [\h__\h] Come on. I I think there's bad blood, but go ahead. You do. You have better insight than I do. You know, I'm I'm very naive sometimes. Telling you there's bad blood, but go ahead. All right. I I believe you. I don't want to. You have better insight into human nature than I do. I'm I don't I'm bad at at that. Make believe world. There's bad blood. All right, I I have I want to I want to do a little rant. Okay, hold on a second. Let me just make sure I got everything in order here. Hold on. All right. Oh, by the way, let me pull this one thing up. Did you see my uh the the medal? I got my Borders medal. Did you see that? No, I didn't. What'd you get? So Tom Holman the our borders are Yeah. was very good friends with my friend John Fchon and um he uh sent me one of these limited edition. There's only a hundred made the borders like medallions and it says that you know it's from the border zar says United States of America on the other side it has American you know the bold eagle and everything like the seal the thing weighs about like feels like it weighs like five pounds. It's solid this thing. And uh he sent it to me. So I'm an official uh Do you have go down to the border or something? I've been deputized. Yeah, I can arrest the illegals now. You have you have to block the uh the people from entering with your new Mercedes. Yeah, I I I'm an official Borders guy. Thanks to my friend John. Thank you, John, for sending that over to me. And uh it was uh it was it was it was you know it was a very nice gesture. He's friends with him and he knows he knows that I like him. Over the border without Tom Holman works out. He's hardcore. I don't know if you know he's he really trains uh like like a bodybuilder, you know, he's he's into it. So he he gets he follows the bodybuilding industry and everything like that. So I think that's great. He's doing a great job. I'm glad Trump's got him back in there. And thank you Tom for that medallion. All right. So I here's my little beef now. I know what's gonna happen as soon as I tell this story. Aman Aman Kumar who works for me, my my main employee now runs species for me. He's gonna think I'm talking about him and I'm not. This is not about him. Although it could apply to him because he he works in the same office as me. You ever like have someone come and like I don't know if you had an office ever or someone comes and uses your house or even if you go to a restaurant if you use a toilet bowl of someone and you and you poop in the toilet bowl. Okay. Uh I I believe it's your the onus of your responsibility if if the poop goes any place other than into the water and gets flushed down the toilet, you have a responsibility to clean it up. Do you know what I'm talking about? Like if you like if you miss the toilet completely. Yeah. or if you splashes maybe like on the seat or if it gets like on the rim, you know, of course when I go to the bathroom someplace that's even my especially my own house, but if I go someplace else, I inspect. I lift up the toilet thing and I inspect to make sure that none of the that nothing that came out of me is is is any place other than down the toilet bowl. Does that make sense? Yeah. So, what happened? And if it is, I get the spray because usually people have underneath their sink, they'll have some kind of, you know, disinfectant spray or whatever. And I clean it, okay? Because I don't want anyone saying Dave pooped all over my my toilet seat, you know, or or made a mess in my toilet. I don't I just don't want that. It's it's it's rude. And I see it in bad. Now, people I obviously if you're in a restaurant, you know, there's not always cleaning supplies there, but if there is, I'll clean up the toilet, you know, because I I I feel respons. If you ever go to like the Arnold or the Olympia, the toilets are disgusting. I don't even know if people are sitting on the seats. I think they're standing about three feet away and they're just squirting the [\h__\h] [\h__\h] out of their butt because it seems like it's sprayed all over the [\h__\h] walls and everything like that. But normal people who sit down on a seat. It's your responsibility. Like I said, I'm not talking about you or mine. I know you listen to the show. Don't but you could check the seat too. It doesn't hurt. But that but I'm talking about in general just because I' I've had a lot of employees in the past and you know when I was in New York and I noticed that some people don't care and and they're very rude. I had a really bad employee used to work in my snake breeding facility and he used to [\h__\h] destroy my toilet. I had to I had to clean it like three times a day. So I don't know why people don't do this. To me I would be embarrassed. Wouldn't you be embarrassed to use someone's bathroom and then and then leave with with the thing looking disgusting? Of course. Yeah. that because you're a reasonably thinking water splattered on their vanity like when I wash my hands or just you wipe it down, right? You wipe it, right? Absolutely. Yeah. You got to clean up after yourself. I don't know. My good friend Charlie Arms used to say, he goes, "If you ever use a toilet in someone's house, sit down." He goes, "I sit down because you know what? I don't want to I don't want to get any urine any on any of the toilet bowl or anything like that. I do it as a as a gesture. You know, I'm not I don't want to people think I I live in a [\h__\h] back alley or something like that. He goes, "It's a it's" He goes, "Remember that." He goes, "If you go to someone's house, you sit down." He goes, "So, you don't splash anything." And he's right. I've seen people pee also and it's gets all over the place, you know, and they just leave, you know, you're not you're not in like the 7-Eleven, you know, or the gas station bathroom. If you're in someone's house, you clean up after yourself. But my my my kids have always commented from day one of at restaurants wherever we go like public, you know, someone goes to the bathroom, the first thing they come up tell everyone else, "Oh, it's really clean in there." You know, don't go to the bathroom, just wait. I had a friend who used to he would like a guy Sister Neato, he would if he went to the bathroom in a restaurant, he would clean the bathroom. It would look like like the cleaning woman that came or something like that. So, I would always go to the bathroom after him because I knew that the bathroom would be spotless. I You go first because I knew he'd clean everything. It didn't matter. He would It would be shiny. It would be better than your your house bathroom after he got through with it. So, but that's respectful. It really is. Especially for the next person who's going in there, you know. Of course, people have the worst habits, the worst manners I've ever seen. It's unbelievable. I've I've wanted to scream at people in the in the the bathroom at the gym. I've seen some people do some pretty nasty things. The worst is is a sporting event. Yeah. You know, you go to like a Celtics game or it's like the bathroom is just right. Oh, yeah. People are disgusting at those events. It's like the Arnold, too. Yeah. I got to show you this picture. I've been watching this, you know, this this girl on Instagram. She's She's AI don't know why she's that Why doesn't this girl compete in the Olympia? Why isn't she competing? This girl's the biggest bodybuilder I've ever seen. She got good shape, too. Oh, because I told you that those are those phone. She She It's photoshopped, dude. Oh, you think that's all all shocked and all filtered? She She competed and got smoked. Oh, she did? Oh. Oh, well, she's she's very good at whatever she's doing with her pictures. That's for sure. She's a freak. Yes. Yeah. Believe me, she is. You think Kim Kardashian's a queen of Photoshop? This is the You know, I was looking. Do you know what Kanye West pays Kim for alimony or child support, rather? Child, excuse me, child support. You know what he pays? Uh, think again. What he pays a month. And she makes a lot of money. So, 150 grand. Close. $200,000 a month. Not a bad guess. Not a bad guess. No. Very good. Unbelievable. Right. Yeah. It's crazy. Well, that's 200 200 grand. He's paying out the It takes him two months to pay have to pay the Arnold first prize money or that'd be two. Yeah, that's crazy. So, I thought he would get it. Who has the bigger income, her or him? Evidently, he does, right? Because I think they have 5050 custody. So he if you make more than the other person, you got to pay I guess you got to pay something. That's a lot of money to pay. And they don't care if he, you know, he loses his mind and and and be, you know, turns, you know, says he's a Nazi and then he loses his Adidas contract. He's still gota he's still got to pay the 200 grand a month. Oh my god. It's crazy, right? Everything's crazy, dude. Everything is crazy. Yeah. Yeah. You see this picture of Jake Paul in this airplane? This is This is This is what This is This is how I want to travel. Hold on. Let's pull this up. Travel the guitar like that. What is it? Yeah. It's like That's how Lee Priest travels. They always fly them in these crazy [\h__\h] What do you It's probably It's probably a private jet. Yeah, it's private jet. Oh, what is this girl from the speed skater? I guess she is. Like a You know what? You can make fun of these guys all you want. They're geniuses because you know what? They're obviously good athletes, but they're marketing geniuses. These guys made so much freaking money. It's unbelievable what they what they what they what they did. I call them the modern day Barbarian brothers. Like because you remember how creative the Barbarian brothers were. Good good point, Dave. It is a good David and Peter Paul would have had social media back in the day. They would have 28 million followers, too. And because they did crazy [\h__\h] and they and that's their whole their whole life was a real, you know what I mean? Because they would do insane [\h__\h] every single day. If they would have had someone filming it, it would have been the most entertaining [\h__\h] Instagram account of all time. Yeah. And everybody knew him. Yeah. Like in the sport of bodybuilding. I know. No, you're right. But they were they were they were they were legitimately they were big and they were artists. So, you know, now nowadays we have the trend brothers, you know, the trend twins, but the the Barbarians were. And I like those guys because I think they're creative, too. But this is a great picture. Hold on. Pull this up. This is Mike Catz's 1970s to current day 2025, where he received his lifetime achievement award from Arnold at the Arnold Classic. Probably it was the highlight. I think this was the highlight of his life, Chris. Yeah, it had to be. I'm I'm sure it's it's like, you know, I mean, it's a it's a prestigious award comes from Arnold. It was better than probably winning any show that he ever won. Even though better than when he won the Mr. Connecticut after eight years of trying. Yeah. When we when we open up the bodybuilding hall of fame, Dave, we will actually put him in there. Yeah. Missing the missing t-shirt that we found. The t-shirt has got to be in the Hall of Fame for sure. Yeah, even if we have to do a reproduction of it. Yeah, there it is. Mike receiving that award. You know, it's it's nice to be validated at the end of your life, you know, for doing great things. And I guess you Mike earned it. He he, you know, he's been around a long time. And Arnold didn't have to do that. You know, no one else would have acknowledged Mike Cats probably if it wasn't for Arnold. Yeah. No, Mike. Mike too, Dave. He promoted shows for quite a while. And he Yeah. In your area. Yeah. The Connecticut area. And he took care of guest posers, you know, like he treated them fairly with pay. And you know, I mean, he you don't have to have a guest poser at a bodybuilding show when he was, you know. Right. Right. it was add-on to give the show a little bit more payment value or a little bit more credibility and he probably make any more money. Maybe he did. He did because in those days probably did draw people. They they they but he didn't necessarily have to do it and I know people who he had different um and he treated him really well. If you don't like you don't have to like Arnold's politics, you know, all the time. You might not like the stuff he says out of his mouth. He's at that age now. He's 80. He don't give a [\h__\h] He says whatever he wants. It's like, you know, it's like talking to your father, your grandfather. Arnold has no filter anymore because he doesn't care about what's politically correct or not. He says whatever's on his mind. But you know what? At the end of the day, he does care about all the guys that he he he he grew up with, you know, that he was competing with the from the Le I mean, he did the Leon Brown tribute. He did uh my cats, you know, all these guys. I'm sure Waller will get it. Did he Did they honor Waller yet? I feel like they did somewhere. No, I don't think they I thought for some reason I feel like Waller got some award. I I think all those guys that he was in, you know, at Golds with originally will get awards from him and validation from him because he knows that no one else is going to do it. So, it's his it's his onus of his responsibility to to do it, you know, before he dies, you know, before his legacy is over. And uh the legacies um Jay interviewed Ed Connor for three hours. Ed's gonna be on the show soon. Oh. Ed's always a good, you know, Ed's a great interview. We've had him on many times on here and so comments. I said, "Well, you need like you need like eight hours because you just he didn't just go and go and go and go." Well, the difference between Jay having Ed on and me having Ed on is that Jay Ed loves Jay. You know, Jay was one of his, you know, discoveries, you know. Uh, he discovered me, you know, he had me at his house, too, but but Jay was a much much bigger prize. And so he's probably got more stories with Jay and that he can share that he, you know, that that Jay probably doesn't even remember, you know, because Ed has a a memory like a like an elephant. He doesn't forget anything. It's un Ed. Okay. So the three best memories in bodybuilding could be Ed, Jay, and Skip Robinson. Yeah. And Ed Ed seen it all because Ed was out there. You you could call Skip Robinson right now and give him any quiz on let's say Robbie Robinson and say, "Skip, what was he wearing in 1978?" Oh, he knows all that, too. Oh my god. Ridiculous. Ed will tell you what guys ate for the breakfast in his house. You know, true, true, true. Ed how many rolls of toilet paper they went through, you know. Oh my god. All right. So, here's um let's take a look at Terrence getting ready for Pittsburgh. Could he be the guy to beat in Pittsburgh? Yeah, he's very very very very very very good. You What's very deceptive though about Terrence Ruffin is that um alone he looks like no one can beat him. And for some reason when he's on stage with all these taller guys, he gets a little lost because I sometimes I I almost don't see him up there. You know what I mean? And so I think he'll do better in a lineup where it's maybe not as it's not stacked with as many, you know, these tall, you know, Olympia guys. That's why he dominates these these qualifier shows so well because the quality is never as good here. And then he goes to the Olympia and you got these, you know, three, four, five tall guys that he's got to stand next to and and and he kind of gets lost in the lineup in the shuffle. I hate to say it because I don't I don't think we need any more divisions or any more separations, but really there could be a toll in short class and classic and and and I think it would be applicable, you know, he would be the winner for sure, you know, of the short class, you know, time and time again. this guy. Yeah, he's just he is a he's an excellent bodybuilder. I've said it from the day that I saw him on the Olympia stage where he didn't make top whatever the first first year they had the inaugural uh classic Olympia. That was a while back and yeah, he's better now than he was then, but he's just put together in the right way. um that yes, I understand it's hard to go against taller people, but I don't think it's impossible at all. I think he's I think he's underrated, right? But you put him next to a guy like Logan Franklin who just kind of really I don't care what you I think he'd beat for Logan Franklin. You think he You think he beats Logan Franklin? Okay. Yes. He's rounder. Logan has a great shape, great traditional allah Wesley Visser's this nostalgic look body in terms of quote classic in terms of flow, genuine roundness all over shape, Terrence is better. Absolutely. Be interesting to see what how he's going to do with the Olympia later this year. That's no uh I'm not I don't mean to be like speak derogatory because that's not the intention about Logan. It's just how how strongly I feel about how good Terrence is when he's you know when he's the money. You've always been a big uh Rough Diesel fan. Yep. But when But Dave, I I know exactly where I was at the Arnold where I thought he looked like a he looked like a high school kid to me in my mind, like small. And And I kept on looking at him in the lineup and thinking like, well, what's wrong with him? Nothing. And then I said, well, he's too small. And then when they compared him to guys who are a lot bigger, it's like, okay, well, he's killing them. Yeah. think again I don't where he ended up you know he didn't end up obviously top five or I don't even think top eight but I just remember him distinctly being small and thinking this guy's way out of his league how did he even qualify to be here because I really wasn't following it was the first year and when they compared him to people who I thought could get smoked against I keep on going back to him and that's why I judge a show whoever I think like I keep looking back at like in a like in a comparison That's my Okay, I'm looking back because that's who I think I have first. And every every every time he got a chance against people who are bigger than him in call outs, I'm like, "Okay, I'm looking back at him." So, he's he's phenomenal. And I because I the routine is just I know like the routine is just next next level. Great poser for sure. For sure. Let's uh take a look at I I wanted to go in a little bit further with Good Veto because I think a lot of people don't really know much about Good Veto. Obviously, he posts a lot of posts on Instagram, but it's all in, you know, in Portuguese and which he learned in six weeks. But go ahead. Yeah, because he's That's right. He's um Russian. It's amazing. In six weeks, fluent. Now, this guy, I'm looking at his legs, Chris. Legs are like Jay Cutler's legs. They might even be better than Jay Cutler's legs. He's got a chest. You know, he's got he's got every body part. He really doesn't look like he has any weaknesses. A lot of people, myself included, I know you were included, felt he should have placed a lot higher last year at the show as he did. Could have won Arnold Brazil for sure. What's uh what should we expect from him? I mean, he looks like he's ready to go right now. expect improvements. The funny thing is I don't think he needed to improve that much. I think maybe his posing needed to improve a little bit. That's about it. He was great last year. Yes, he was. I think he's going to surprise a lot of people. He will. I think that he's I think he's you know, we talk about dark horses. Everyone wants to know who's the dark horse. I think this guy's the dark horse. He is. Especially going into Pittsburgh, you know. Can he Can he beat Nick Walker and Martin? Yes. I I think he can. I think he's going to give him a run a run for their money. I don't know what how it's going to work out, but I think he's going to be right up there with these guys. Those legs are freaky. Look at those. I mean, for your legs to look that big in spandex, like a short spandex that you got to have really good legs, you know, to do that. I mean, he's got, you know, massive quads. He's got the the really good adductors. They're really balanced tremendously well. You know, he's got calves, as Lonnie Teper would say. I don't know. I think he's gonna I think he's going to be a big surprise. I think people better watch out for this guy. That's probably an old picture, but I mean, that was probably from last year, right? And he looks amazing there last year. Yeah. And he's better this year. I That's a pretty That's a pretty I look at that. I think that's better than Nick Walker, you know, to me. Well, we're going to see. And I like Nick Walker's physique. He hasn't been on the stage against Nick, but he's been on the stage against Martin, right? And so, and he's been on the stage. So, he's, you know, Antonio Burton. So, he's he's been on stage with good bodybuilders. Yeah. But I think that, you know, he's got another year behind him. He's got a good sponsor. He's stable marriage and a child and also has um he trains with Petrolic um uh in Pacho in Brazil at least you know not maybe daily but you know he seems to be able to get the most out of people in a really good way with the training. So, um, and he's still got, you know, what, eight weeks to go and he's in good shape. So, yeah, he's in really good shape. A lot of, and a lot of these Russian guys, you know, have the weird, you know, big hips and and and the waist insertions are not good, but he he's really good. Yeah, he doesn't he doesn't have a typical, you know, Russian looking physique to me. Yeah, he's there. He's not boxy. He's got small hips. Yes, small hips. You know there for for leg development nothing beats small hips or leg rough diesel has small hips. Yep. You know if you saw his legs you'd say like oh small legs not that big small but he has small hips and you know they make that physique from the waist down. Yeah. Yeah. 100%. You know Jim Manion's calling in. I'm gonna have to call him back though because we have we're doing a show here. He must have read He must have He must have his Spidey sense must have been going off when we were talking about his show and so he had a wanted to ask me about it, I'm sure. So interesting. All right, let's see who's the next person I wanted to critique here. Uh trying to go through all these people because we got a lot of shows coming up, you know. Oh, they're going to come one week after another. It's going to be ridiculous. Yeah. No, but we have a lot of, you know, a lot of exciting, you know, so busy. It's insane, right? I mean, because it's it's crazy. And Sergio might do Vibo. Let's pull him up. Sergio told me he's trying to shoot for Fibo. He's looking freaking enormous, too. Yep. He's no spring chicken either. You know, he's got to be 40, right? I think he's he's Well, he's he might I think he's 20 with 18 years experience. He's looking really good. He looks great in that side chest. I'd love to see him qualify for the Olympia. That would be great. Yeah, me too. Because he's been off the state, you know, he's been out of the the picture for a couple years, you know, with all his little drama he had going on. Let's see what else we got here. A lot of rough diesel on on the line. I see. Well, the Pittsburgh show, Dave, at the end of the day is I mean, not to harp back on Pittsburgh, but you know, in my mind, my mind actually was It's funny. I I I coach Good Veto and I forgot that he's doing the show only because my mind got trapped into like coaching like know he's getting ready for Pittsburgh or whatever the show and but it didn't really dawn on me until you just like you know Martin is doing it and Nick and Nick and that is what a what a rematch of one New York. What a anticipation because of course Martin's phenomenal showing at the Olympia and and Nick's inability to do the Olympia and throwing good veto who definitely win some poses something that he'll beat them both on. Maybe one or two, I don't know. You know, the Nick um Martin battle reminded me of what? Remember when you you were there? Leavone beat the excuse me, Paul Deo beat Leavone at the junior nationals in 91 and then they went on eight weeks later to the nationals and then Levrone beat Yeah. You know, Paul and got his pro card. That's almost seemed like it was it was close. It was close with Martin and and Nick in New York. A lot of people some people thought Martin should have won and then he went to the Olympia and of course uh Nick wasn't there and Martin w up you know placing fourth. So that was a great you know feather in his cap. So we'll have to see what the rematch is going to be like but yeah there was there was by the way there was a death in our industry this past week. You know maybe people don't know who he is but I think he warrants mentioning Lloyd Red Lurel. Lurel 1960 Aaou Mr. Olympia. Did you know who he was? He had a gym. I think he had Red's gym. It was called in Louisiana or Florida. In Louisiana or Florida. It was a gym. No, I think it was in Louisiana. I think it was in Yeah, I think it was in my uncle was a bodybuilder. Oh, he knew him. Um, yeah, my uncle knew all the old time names. So, he passed. Hey, rest in peace. Good physique. One of the pioneers in our iron sport is gone. I'm sure I think John Hansen reported that bodybuilding legend show. Yeah, that's John Hansen. I'm sure John probably interviewed him too. And I see uh our good friend Lou Farigno was at my Now, a lot of people don't know that people think that the species gym I own that. I don't do not own that, but I um my friend Kyle owns it and his wife Lily and they have three species gyms. I let him use the name in in Texas and they had Lou Farerigno there. Let me see if I can zoom on that picture, right? Let me zoom on that. Yeah, hold on. So, Louie was there at the gym doing a seminar and everything like that. It was great. People said that they loved him. Lou Lou is amazing. What is Lou? 75 now. He looks so good still. That's why I said zoom it in because I just only wanted to see his hairline. Let me see. Yeah, his He's got better hair than you do. I think there. Oh, I know. That's saying a lot, Chris. He's got no wrinkles. No. No. And he let his hair go gray. I I was wanted to ask you that question. I've noticed that like certain guys, they hit a certain age and they stop dying their hair. And Jim Manion tells me he never has dyed his hair. His hair just has his hair just has that natural, you know, like darkness to it. It's a little light, but it's it's not completely white. Some guys stop dying their hair at some point and just let it go white. What What's What's the proper age to do that at? Is there a Is there a number? I notic Arnold's doing it too a little I don't think there's a number. I think you know a lot of people look good with white. It depends. Some some some people look good with all white hair, all gray hair. Yeah. But I noticed I is it is it you get to a level where you don't care anymore? Is that what it is? I don't know. My my my father and my my my uncle were always accused of dying their hair and they never did until like it was like 75 came and that just 1,000% not gray like silver like over over a two-month period both of them. Yeah, that's crazy. Yeah, the pigmentation just like changed like like on a dime. Oh, really? That's that's W. But they they had great hair, both of them. So it looked good, you know. They had full head of hair. Yeah. Well, you Yeah. You got good hair genetics in your family. This guy doesn't have this guy doesn't have great hair genetics. Tony Atlas, he sh How big does Tony Atlas still look? How is he that big, Chris? Still at that age. Instagram, you got to get him on the show because I know I got to get him back on. Tony Atlas is probably, you know, sometimes people you gota be 70, right? At least. Well, some people some people don't know when to shut up. They talk too much. And Tony talks too much. But he should never shut up because any topic it's on, he holds your interest. Whether it be he could tell you stories about bodybuilding for hours and you'd want to know more and then their stories because he was involved and he could tell you wrestling stories forever and as a bodybuilding fan you'd say like oh my gosh I want to know more the wrestling stuff than the bodybuilding stuff right and then the politics stuff he's very into politics and pop culture he has so much to say on every single topic that he's one of the few people where this is this is me listening to Tony which is I don't get to see him much and we live in the same town. Yeah. Sorry Tony because you're like an idol to people. Well, if you worked out you'd see him at the gym all the time. Yeah. But this this is me listening to Tony. He he was great on that Mr. McMahon Netflix special. They got him on there. He was Oh, was he? Yeah. Oh, he was great on there. They used him a lot in that, too. He was I didn't know because Yeah. Oh, yeah. He was great in there. He's a He's You know who who can say a lot and you want to listen to a lot too is who was the wrestler who was the governor? Oh, Jesse Ventur. Yeah. eight. He's Jesse times 10 because just the breath and the experience is he's a unique character. Dave, you you need to get him on the show sometime for a long insightful Oh, that would be I would that would be a great interview if I could land that one. Yeah, he'd be great. Jesse, no. No, Tony Anthony. Oh, Tony is on that. Oh, Jesse Ventura would be a great one, too, though. Yeah, I'm I'm writing it down. Call All right, call him. Give Yeah, give him my number or give me his number. I'm That's how respect how much I respect him. I'm like, I'll call anyone. It's Chris. Like, you know, because I know his story where he came from like rags, rags, rags to riches and then back down to rags then stable, you know. Yeah. I think I think he's still making money, right? Yeah, I think he's, you know, doing okay. his appearances and stuff like that. Like impeccable character. He's so sharp at his age, too. And he's I mean, he you could tell this guy is just a naturally big guy, Chris, because he to be that big at his age, that's just his body. You know what I mean? There's no It's not a drug thing. It's just that's who he is. You know, last time I saw him, Dave, this is how smart he is. I saw him and I think it was I had to go to the Y to get like my kid. I don't know, maybe they playing basketball and he was training. Yeah. And I was like, "Oh, there's Tony Atlas." And I looked over and uh he said hello. I was I had Dave I was staring at his shoulders and arms and I was come back like bigger than his head. Yeah. He He He winked at me and says, "Maging a little bit of demol." He's like a Sergio Oliva senior. They have like that same like like crazy arm, forearm like structure. Even their head structures looks the same. The width and everything like that. It's like their body was made for like bodybuilding. It's just So he read my mind that I was looking at his arms thinking he knew. He knew. Yeah. And he said, "Can you imag, you know, to make it to make me laugh, he said, "Can you imagine a little bit of debol?" Yeah. Which is what he what he was telling you is he's on nothing, basically. Yeah. No, that was him saying, "Yeah." And then, you know, and then get it out of your head. Get it out of your head that I'm 70s something years older. If you think my 23 and I'm taking deep ball at 73, get it out. Right. Right. Right. That's funny. That's very funny. He's right. He's he's a genetic freak. I see that Samson Dou was in the Brazil doing a little guest posing. Yeah, his arms are not as big as Tony's, but go ahead. Yeah, Samson's I'll tell you something about Samson. Samson's one of these guys that offseason or when he's all pumped up, like even when he's when he's not really in full contest shape, he's super impressive. Like you you want to see him on stage because he's just massive, you know? Yeah. And he's never really fat, you know what I mean? He he might be a little out of shape, but he's not he's never fat, you know? He always looked even at 340 pounds, he'll look good, this guy. So, the Brazilian fans loved it. I'm glad that Samson's doing appearances and stuff like that, making money. It's great for him. Very good. What I The last thing I wanted to talk about, let me just pull up here. I've been looking for I've been trying to come up with bars. I've been tasting all these different bars, Chris. Like like I've been trying to say like what's what's a good bar because I want to come out with a bar. But there's so many different companies out there and there's so many I' I've tried like every bar. Dave, you want what? I was so into bar. Ask Jay when you see Jay again say how many bars have you given Chris? He'd collect them like every single brand. He said it was Yeah. But I was like, "Right." Right. Say, "Hey, Chris, he has a bar from like every single company and I'd like eat them all at once." Yeah. Except most of the bars destroy my stomach. But uh that Robert Irvine's Fit Crunch bar was sold to Metrics. They paid a like a [\h__\h] like they paid like $70 million for that bar. For that that was he cashed out that Robert Irvine. The Power Crunch bars I heard were just sold. Those are my favorites. They're like wafer bars and they're made in Canada, but they just got bought out by someone, too. So, the bar market is like very hard and I and I won't come out with a bar unless I really know it. Like, it's like really special. So, it's it's pretty hard to, you know, to find a unique bar these days. And the problem is you have to be able to make the bars. So what happens is a lot of these companies like the reason why Quest was so was so I guess successful was because what Quest did was they built their own machinery to make the bar they wanted and so no one had the machinery. So no one can no one was able to compete with them for like it took six or seven years before people caught up to them and then they wind up selling the company for a billion dollars. So, and now Ron, the owner, owns the Legendary Foods, which is I just posted a little video on my story about their new flavors of uh their their tasty pastries, which are basically pop healthy pop-tarts. So, the food industry is tough to break into, you know, if you don't have connections and you're not willing to spend, you know, a lot of money into. It's all tough to break into supplements, foods. Yeah. You got to find a niche for yourself. That's you got to find something that that unique that you do that no one else does and then and then be good really good at that. So I my my battery is dying on everything. My phone, my All right. Well, we only have a couple more minutes. I want to just wrap up by saying we have a a special sale here on St. It is St. Patrick's Day. So all you all the Irish out there, you have a have a beer on us. And uh we're going to have a special species nutrition sale. We're giving 30% off the entire website if you put the coupon code lucky 30 in there. So, lucky 30 on checkout. You know what? Let me pull this up here. I got a little commercial plate in there. Lucky 30 will give you 30% off the entire website. If you spend $75 or more, I'm going to give you a free bottle of Testalize. That's our testosterone boosting agent. It also lowers DHT levels. It controls estrogen and it in doing so keeps your testosterone higher. It is uh Chris uses it. That's why he has such a good head of hair. Pre prevents all his hair loss. And I give it to teenage girls who have bad acne. It cures that. But you know I have I have an 86 year old guy Chris. He calls the office every three months and he gives me an update on his testosterone levels. And when he first started Tesla, his testosterone was 350. It it went up to uh 650 after three months. It's at now at 900. 900 after six months of using Test. Is Is he the Is he the former coach of the Patriots? He needs it. He's got a young girlfriend. That's right. Yeah, there he is. Bill Bich is promoting Test Lives. But yeah, we're going to be doing a one-day sale. So, it's only for Monday. It's from 12 a.m. after the show airs to 11:59 on Monday night and it's 30% off the entire website. Lucky 30 on checkout. If you got if you live in the continental United States and you spend $100 more, you get free shipping as well. So don't miss this special St. Patrick's Day sale. And it's the luck of the Irish, they say. Chris, aren't you Are you're not part Irish, are you? I I'm 5050. My mother's I thought so. Yeah. And my father's Italian, right? And anyone who's a byproduct of Italian and iron marriages know that they never ever fight ever. Yeah. It's volatile. Volatile. Yeah. It's it's like class of cultures. My fast my first wife was Barbara was Irish. So Well, there you go. So you know. Yeah. Yeah. And on that note, make sure you check out the cellcutrition.com. And we are going to sign off. As we say every week here at Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. Good night, everyone. Don't worry.