Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Monday, April 17th, 2017. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. These days, we just don't see too many guys who have that old school 1990s level of deep grainy muscle. But that's definitely not the case for our old friend John Meadows. This last Mr. The grain train himself was spotted gutting it through another one of his legendary back training sessions as he continues to inch his way closer towards his 2017 debut. When it comes to having that old school density and muscle maturity in the 212 division, Meadows is in a class all by himself. And if he can manage to get himself into the right lineup, he's absolutely the kind of guy who can create havoc in the top five. When you're a sports fan for long enough, you figure out pretty quickly that there's no such thing as a sure win because eventually even the best can be beaten. But in the brief history of the 212 division, there's never been a more sure bet than Flex Lewis delivering the goods on the Olympia stage. Over the weekend, some new photos surfaced of the fivetime 212 champion hammering out a monstrous offseason chest workout as he gears up for an unprecedented sixth straight title run. As far as his legacy is concerned, Lewis has already carved out a special place all his own in bodybuilding history. But if he can crack into that magical eight Olympia threshold, he'll put himself in the conversation as the best male athlete of all time. For anyone out there who thinks these bikini girls aren't out there busting their butts in the gym just as hard as anyone else, may I present to you exhibit A, Noi Alexander. Over the weekend, some new training footage surfaced out of the Alexander camp that showed the three-time Olympian crushing some trap bar deadlifts as she prepares for round one of her 2017 contest season. Last year, Alexander put together a mid-season run that was as good as anyone in the division as she reeled off three straight top six finishes. And if she can manage to get the ball rolling downhill again, I think she's capable of putting together a few wins and punching the ticket for her fourth straight trip to the Olympia stage. Don't let the fact that she's been putting on a promoter cap lately fool you, because Karina Namento is still one of the baddest women in the business. Late last week, some new training footage surfaced of the three-time Olympian smashing an early morning leg session and looking pretty damn dangerous in the process. Despite some taking some time away from the stage for the last year or so, Karina still looks like she could walk right out there and hand out master course lessons to some of these young girls who are still just trying to get their feet wet. And if she ever does decide to come back and throw down again, you better believe that she's going to be out there giving it every last bit of what she's got. I don't need to shake up my magic eightball to know that secondyear pro Robert Tims is going to do some big things this year in classic physique. After a pretty remarkable rookie season that saw him go from a relatively unknown amateur to finish the year as a top six Olympian, Tims is ready to come in and pick right back up where he left off. New progress photos coming from Team Menace show a noticeably bigger and scarier looking version of Tims, who's only weeks away from kicking off phase two of his 2017 program. Tims is one of those guys who looks like he has the potential to turn into a generational talent. And the fact that he's really only getting started makes it scary to think how good this guy could be in another few years.