Well, Welcome to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Thursday, November 17th, 2016. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. If you happen to be a bodybuilding fan in attendance at last weekend's Amateur Olympia in Moscow, Russia, then I'm sure that right about now you have absolutely no doubt that aliens do really exist. This week, some new guest posing footage surfaced of an absolutely extraterrestrial looking Ry Winkler, who doesn't seem to have wasted any time putting the pedal to the floor early here in the offseason. We've seen Rule come out and deliver some truly awesome performances in the past, but I think he might have actually topped himself in this one. When this guy is at the top of his game, he's capable of bringing a look that is truly something you've got to see in person to believe. And just as a true fan of the sport as I am, I'm still holding out hope that the best of Ry Winkler is still yet to come. I've never been a huge fan of people throwing around the term Colemanesque, but when a guy starts throwing around 185 lb dumbbells like they're nothing more than another easy warm-up, I'm not sure what else you can call it. Earlier this week, some new chest training footage surfaced of men's pro Ken Jackson absolutely crushing a recent chest session, cranking out 20 solid reps on the bench with some monstrous 185 lb dumbbells. At the moment, this looks to be far and away the best offseason of Jackson's career, who really seems to be packing on some quality size and holding on some to his pretty decent level of conditioning. With another few solid months ahead of him, Jackson has a real chance to retool his entire look. With a few minor improvements, I can certainly see he's capable of coming back next season and shaking things up. A few weeks removed from making his season debut at the Furrigno Legacy Classic, Ednikmatic men's open contender, Brandon Ray seems to be dialing things in. After showing up and essentially eliminating himself from contention back at the Furrigno, Ray seems to have gotten his mojo back and really started to turn things up a few notches. New progress photos released this week show a much sharper Ray who doesn't seem to be quite done with his contest season just yet. Up to this point in his career, Ray's Achilles heel has always been his inability to deliver that lights out conditioning on the day of the show. But with a few events still remaining on the IFBB calendar, he has a chance to come out and show the world what he's capable of. I've always said that a 100% Brandon Ray would be a very tough man to beat. And once that guy shows up, we'll finally get a chance to see if my prediction holds true. A few weeks after delivering his first top 10 performance of the season, our old friend Brad Row seems to be hitting his post show rebound in stride. This week, Rorow released his first set of postshow progress photos showing off a very crisp looking physique that's already managed to pack on 20 solid pounds. Back at the Ferrari, Ro put together his best look of the season. And slowly but surely, he seems to be continuing to add new wrinkles to his game and turn himself into a much more well-rounded athlete. From the front and side, Ro has what it takes to hold his own in just about any show he decides to enter. And once he can bring his back up to par with the rest of his physique, I have no doubt in my mind that he'll be capable of doing some pretty special things. Operation 2017 Takeover is in full effect for our old friend Kevin Jordan. Late last week, the Protein Poppy was spotted smashing a few sets on the Hack Squad as he prepares to take his game to the next level for next year's contest season. This year, the secondyear pro stepped his game up to an entirely new level and showed everyone that he hasn't even begun to start approaching his peak yet. And the fourth place look he brought to the Arnold Asia was far and away the best of his young career. Jordan's combination of size, shape, and aesthetics are truly impressive when he's dialed in. And with another healthy offseason to keep refining his formula, I have high hopes that 2017 will be his best season yet. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out iron maglabs.com. Today I'm Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.