It's a [\h__\h] nightmare. You [\h__\h] What I ran into here at Fivo Germany? None other than my good friend Roman Chris. We've been missing each other in the US. We missed each other. I had to come all the way to your own country to see you. Yeah. And we didn't even meet last year in Germany. No, you're right. I know. That was crazy. Yeah. But the trick of the truth of the matter is that you have been improving and improving and improving. You were top five last year as a Tampa Pro, which made a huge statement because you brought a look to the stage that was bigger and harder than we've ever seen before. I know you're one of these guys that makes small changes, but quality changes. Thanks, man. Yeah, that's right. Um, you know, I just do whatever I do best. Try to get coming in shape, not like some of the other guys. And, um, I might be smaller, but I'm working on the big top on the big part. So, um, I'll get it. Well, you've been gaining every single year. I know as you gain more and more, it becomes harder for you to gain weight because you have to eat so much. Yeah, that's right. That that's that's freaking true, I'm telling you. So, um, but whenever there's a problem, you know, I call you up, Dave, what am I supposed to do? Dave, can I eat McDonald's? Yes, go eat McDonald's. And, um, that always works out great. So, So, what have you been doing with yourself in Germany? Are you working anywhere or doing anything exciting? I'm just sponsored with Animal. Okay. And, uh, I started a little clothing line. Okay. What is it called? It's called Rexream. Like with an R and then Xream. Rexream. RX stream. So you copied you copied our H. Oh, Rex like King. Yes. Okay. Exactly. Rex, are people buying the clothing? Where's my shirt? I didn't have any 3X. I don't need three. I'm only 1X now. You might be 3X. Um I'm getting four. I'm working on four. What gave you uh what gave you the impetus to want to start your own clothing company? I just people were asking me why why don't you come up with shirts or something and I thought okay I get this question all the time so I'll just do it and people are people people are starting to buy it and actually make good money from yeah that's that's going pretty good and I also sell a little bit of animal supplements on the side also on the website the website by the way is wwwstream.net net and a ship that's nestled. Oh, that's good. Get all that. I'll have to go order something. Now, uh, what do you think about the comebacks of all these older bodybuilders like Flex Wheeler, Kevin Leon? You like it or or is it is it tainting your memory of what they were in their heyday? To be honest, I like it because I'm a bodybuilder at heart and I want to see them, you know, compete. And I think it's good for the sport also because it brings excitement. That's exactly what people are wondering about. Yeah. Can Roman Fritz today beat Kevin Leon today? Today? Yes. Yes. All right. That's a good very bold statement. I like that. Well, it was a pleasure. I want to just thank you on camera, too. Roman gave me a a gift for my son. Uh, a utensil set so he can eat like a civilized human being, not like an animal with his hands. I don't know if it might take him a couple years to get used to it, but thank you so much for that gift. It was a pleasure. as always, man. I love And you know what? Um I'm going to I'm holding you to the sushi dinner. Even though we missed it last night cuz our plane was cancelled, you still owe us a sushi dinner. Okay. Or maybe I owe you a sushi dinner. What was it? You're paying. Oh, I was paying. That's right. All right. My good friend Roman Prince here in Germany. Let's get together. Start a virtual riot. I'm talking burning buildings like peace and quiet. [\h__\h] the minds of the generations. We are ladies and quiet. It's a [\h__\h] nightmare. You [\h__\h]