We have a psychic here with us right now. We're going to find out what really happened to Ronnie Coleman and why every time I get a hooker, I can't clean the seats and my freaking car. Is it? I created species nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of species nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution week and a half. They just came out. Look at that. I love that. And we're back for another live installment of After Hours with the Wack Pack. I'm Dave Palumbo. And usually I have nothing to talk about and we just kind of wing it. But I have such a list of stuff. This could be potentially a two-hour show. I'm not sure, but we have some special guests. We have a lot of topics to talk about. And let's get right to it. Uh we have the entire Wack Pack here. Plus one who used to actually he right. He used to be a member of the Wack Pack. So I guess technically you're a lifer. So he's probably still a Wack Packer. He was an abusive also aka Nick the stick. Welcome to the show. Thank you Dave for having me and it's fun to connect with you guys after how many years has it been? A minute. How old you when I first got you working for us? Yeah. 16 or 17. Yeah. He was like he was like a little When did you have that giant subwoofer in the trunk of your car? Funny. I saw I saw you mentioned on last week's show and I actually have a very funny car now. I have I have a truck. Um, and it has a subwoofer in in the back. You like those subwoofers? Yeah. Those Italians from Long Island can't get away from I I have a collection of them in my shop I've removed from other people's vehicles. I I gave Nick I gave Nick the Stick the nickname Nick the Stick just like spontaneously. And at first he didn't like it because he thought I was making fun of the fact that he wasn't that big. But I said, "No, it just sounded good." And so then it became his his nickname and he started using it to he became like a club promoter. You remember that John? Yeah. And he would go to clubs and you and he would promote the clubs. He would give out flyers. Nick the stick is promoting this club on this night. And I remember posting posting on the forums Nick the Stick hosting uh Friday night crazy donkey. Yeah. Dave loved it. Part of they Dave loved it. But then the other part you would write on the post. Dave Nick, this is your personal promotion board for club. He was promoting his clubs on on RT. You got to admire his tenacity. I mean, yeah. So, he went from this like shy teen kid who was like fat when he was younger. We got him in shape. He was promoting like clubs and making out with chicks on on the dance floor. Remember that? There you go. Everywhere we went, we turned around, he was making out with someone like we literally watched him grow up. Yes. Yeah. Now he's a Look who's here. Mr. G. Can you hear the noise? I mean here here's George. Immediately immediately the camera into the brain window behind you. Yeah. Everything about his setup is completely wrong. Okay. Can you hear the background sort? Yes. Yes. All right. That's all I want to ask. These headphones suck. I'll come up. Oh, I thought that you wanted us to like The problem is the light behind you, too. It's like open the window. I'm at the Look, you want to see where I am the other direction away from the light? Yeah. Yeah. Well, it's a nice ceiling. Yeah. Don't have the light come from behind you. In front of that in front of that, you know, you're interrupting our flow. Why are you filming in the middle of MMA gym? I'm saying that's where I am, knucklehead, I'll come back on. This guy said, "You look like you're 92 today." instead of 107. That's that was a compliment for you, George. Anyway, in Georgia, Florida is George in Florida. Yes. Yeah. Wait, you're a psychic. You should know. I didn't know that. So, now hold on. I what I wanted to ask you, Nick. I I you know, I I've known you since, like you said, you're like 17 years old and you know, we kind of took you under you took you under my wing and we were I helped you out and everything like that and you and you worked for us and we were all friends and for a long time. I never knew you were psychic. When did this talent come out? I was just going to ask. I was just I'm psychic, too, cuz I knew that was you were just going to ask that. We we're we're just connected on a different level. That's So, I did have experiences seeing spirits and communicating with uh relatives that cross over from a very early age. As I got older, it kind of became overwhelming to me and I subconsciously turned it off. Right when I turned around 21 22 um I I realized that I had a lot of repressed memories a lot of stuff that happened in early childhood that I just repressed and when I turned around 2122 my mind basically just became strong enough to to remember a lot of the things that happened to me in childhood and when that happened it just exploded. Um what did you remember? Um a lot of stuff from childhood like childhood trauma stuff. Um, and when that came through, I started going to therapy and um, that's when I moved to Florida, basically. Is that when Greg tried to finger you? Like Freddy got fingered? Greg, did you try did you try to finger uh Nick when he was a when he was a kid? I never met him, but if I met him, I would have just think of the traumas you escaped by getting away from us. I don't think I met Nick. Did I ever meet you? I might have met you. No. Yeah, we met. I I think the only the only memory I have is it was me, Sean at and Jeff at the uh one of the New Yorkers like the Atlantic States or something like that. Yeah, because you do look familiar. Yeah, he I took him everywhere. He went everywhere. So maybe maybe I did finger him. I don't know. I remember I remember Greg telling me and Jeff because it was like when I first started working for Dave and there was the RX and DSplit and and Greg came over. I said, "Hey guys, you there's no problem. I'm friends with Dave. You know, just just remember I'm only working I do now." We were at a show and I was Jeff the producer was there and then I went over there and he was doing like Robbie Durant impersonations and stuff. Robbie Yeah, he was impersonation. He was probably impersonating Nick too. He used to do Nick Nick. Maybe I did finger. I don't I don't remember. I don't Maybe he erased my memory. I think Larry Larry erased your memory. Listen, Larry didn't er the [\h__\h] you pulled on last week, so don't give me that. We did not erase my memory. You You're the one who pulled the [\h__\h] I didn't do any [\h__\h] on him. You were breaking his balls. Oh my god. I do that because there's no tomorrow. I love Larry. Listen, Larry's the only one of us. We're all standing here. You're in shorts. I'm in a shirt [\h__\h] sweats. Larry, the real Johnny Bravo. Yeah, it's Johnny Bravo. Larry was Yeah, but you never know. Johnny, what's going on, brother? Text us if that's really you because guys name But um you know Larry's dress nice and [\h__\h] like that. He's over the nice shoes. He wore slacks. We're over here. You're wearing them big [\h__\h] size 18 sneakers and [\h__\h] You know what I mean? I have a size I have. Man, Larry is getting the finally out of that [\h__\h] suit. Larry, you have a size what? You can't stop talking about it. It's like it's like did you ever see my jaw is bigger than his? That's dude I could I could take Dave's shoe and sleep in like a sleeping bag. You got small feet and small hands. No, but listen. I don't have small feet in homes. I have normal small hands and feet that match like you know my height. But those are some That's what people with small hands and small feet say. They got proportional hands and feet. Michael Jordan's wasn't saying that. Michael Jordan was able to pal a basketball like like it was a tennis ball. Michael Jordan could palm your ass. Listen, Larry and and Larry gave me a cookie and and and Armont gave me a a bar. Well, you starved me. You forced me to eat that vegan. I stole your I stole your gallbladder from you. What? I stole your gallbladder from you. Yes, you did. Wait a minute. I thought you were taking Georgie gave him diabetes. That's true. Where is Georgie? Didn't come back. He's done round two. You know what? I have so much to talk about. I don't want I don't want to let me let Hold on. Let me let Nick talk first because first of all, because I wanted I have so much stuff on my list. I think we should attack the big elephant in the room first out of respect. Yes. I don't want to like you know hold back any uh any of his psychic you know stuff that's going. So what tell us explain the difference between a medium and a psychic because there is a difference right? a psychic. Basically, when I do psychic readings for clients, I have the client ask me a specific question. Now, when I say a specific question, I like a very specific question. Nothing like, "What do you see in my future? Uh, what do you see in my career?" You know, nothing vague. I like to nail down the specifics. And the process is all I do is I turn my thoughts off as best as I can. I just pay attention to the very first thing that pops in my head. Gotcha. Now, mediumship readings, that's when the client's loved one and spirit comes through. Someone a loved one, a family member that passed away. And that's a back and forth conversation that I have between. So, that's the difference between That's what your sister does. Yeah, it's my sister. She I think she does both, too, though. Do you do both, right? I do both. All right. So, let me ask you a question before you start with this this Mley crew here. What What do you think is going on with Ronnie Coleman? Do you have any any impressions? Anything come to you with regard to Ronnie? We know he's got a back some kind of bacterial infection. Does he have daughters? Because that's the first thing that popped out. Yes. All daughters. All his No. All three. Three. Young. Yeah. Young ones. Okay. Because I saw daughters around him. And the first thing I felt pain in my ankles. I'm not sure what what that means or not. Um he's having trouble breathing. Yeah. He's on I think he's on a it's in I think he's on a ventilator intubated. Yeah. I just see a vision in my head. He's having trouble breathing and I see his eyes are open so he's conscious but he just um like he'll sleep for a little while. Wake up. Sleep for a little while. Wake up. Yeah. From what we hear he's got some kind of a sepsis going on. Some kind of bacterial infection throughout his whole body. Is he in a coma? His ankles may be full of fluid. Induced coma. Yeah. Said his ankles Um, I see his dad next to him. I don't know if his Oh, that's not good. I don't know if his Is his dad alive? No. No. His dad in spirit. Okay. That's a good thing. Yeah. I see the physical features of his dad. His dad wears kind of um like these I don't want to say military, but military type of clothing the dad wears because I saw his dad standing next to him. Wonder if his father was in the milit. I don't really I never heard Ronnie talk about his dad. Did you? Me? No. No. Not at all. Just about his mom. You know what do you call those tan shorts? Khakis. Khakis. Yeah. Yeah. And his face looks similar to Ronnie, but his face is longer than Ronnie, if that makes sense. No. Um I don't think anyone's ever seen Ronnie's father. I don't think so. Interesting. That's interesting that that came through. You know, you think Ronnie's mom would come through, but Yeah. Really? Close to him. But but yeah, I mean it it's interesting that his father came through. I don't feel like I mean that that could be because of his father's, you know, not there. Not supporting him. Yeah. Well, his mom's not here either. His mom's on the other side, too. So Oh, I didn't know she Yeah, she passed a few years ago. When you mention the mom, Ronnie has a son as well. No, I don't think so. He's not from the LA Not from with with the last batch. No, I I think he's got all girls. I think maybe he's got some we don't know about. Yeah, because the mom mentioned something about a boy, like a young boy, and I'm assuming that that was Ronnie's son, but that message is not very clear to me. What I'm tuning into, I'm trying to see more. He's stubborn as hell, Ryan. Yeah, that's why that's why I don't think he's I don't think he's I think he'll beat this. And it's almost like he's well, it's this is an obvious thing for me to say because it's something everyone already knows. He's used to this. Like he's been here before, but that's what I feel like he he feels he's going to the hospital to take a nap and he's going to go home. Probably will. In his mind, that's what he that's what he feels he's there for. The women around him are are worried more than he is. Yeah. Ronnie, I don't think Ronnie has any Have you ever seen him stressed out about anything, John? No. He He's as chill as you can possibly be. And Steve Weinberg once said to me, he goes, "This guy will live to 100 because he doesn't have any stress." He doesn't see. What is this organ right here? Right side. Is that the liver? Yeah, liver. Okay. Could be his pink his gall. Yeah, maybe he's got a gallbladder problem. What about appendix? I I looked on chat GBT. It says Ronnie Coleman's father is Jesse Coleman. Jesse worked multiple jobs such as a truck driver, a laborer, a security guard to support his family. Maybe that's the uniform. I saw khakis tan khakis. Khakis. Yeah. Um and a baggy t-shirt. Yeah, that's pretty generic. When I when I tuned into um the right side, I felt some pain here. When I felt the heart, I felt like his heart is fine. I don't feel like he has any heart issues. But when I I felt the pain right here when I when I tuned into him laying there, he has he is septic, you know, that could affect the liver. Obviously, the liver tries to detoxify the body and that could affect, you know, his organs, too. So, maybe he's having some I feel like they're pumping him full, you know, which is another obvious thing. I'm trying not to state the obvious. I'm trying to go deeper, but I feel like the liver has something to do with he feels very dehydrated to me. If if his kidneys are failing, then his ankles will be swollen. And that may be why you were seeing the ankles. And that could be another reason why you're saying he's dehydrated because the kidneys that's all plays into the liquid, the water. And guys, if all the people in the comments could understand that no one knows anything what's going on with Ronnie. So, we're trying to we're digging around and we're speculating. That's all. We're talking to a psychic for for crying out loud. Yes. All right. Um, wait. Ronnie Ronnie wasn't working with I mean, was he? No. I guess that's great. It was a joke. Get in mean too soon. Too soon to leave. Too soon. Yeah. Let's wait till his case is adjudicated. I do want to put this out there. You know, we love you, Ronnie. We're pushing for you. We We send out our prayers, healing energy. Oh, I definitely love Ronnie. you're the greatest of all time. If anyone could can overcome this, you can. And what Nick is telling us completely makes sense from from a Ronnie perspective. Ronnie's just like, man, this is no big deal. I squatted 800 pounds. This is easy, you know, but everyone else is crying around him probably and worried that he's going to die. He's like, man, I'll beat this. You know, take give me a couple days, you know, go to the hospital, take a nap, and go home. You know what? You're you're right about one thing, though. I've been at dinner with Ronnie a thousand [\h__\h] times back when he was with Ali and all them [\h__\h] and he's never ever been in a bad mood ever. I've never seen it. I you know we used to go to Carfield. No. One time there was no barbecue sauce. No, bro. Brian Dabson told us a story where he [\h__\h] they went fishing and they caught like [\h__\h] a whole bunch of I I don't know if they're catfish or whatever the hell they were and he had like 20 something of them and he cooked them on the grill outside and Brian had a [\h__\h] phone call. So he went into uh this is Robbie Durant was telling me the story and he went in to you know go take the phone call at the gym. So he left a big platter of [\h__\h] cooked catfish uh out, right? And when he came out there were like two catfish left. One had a bite in it, right? And he looked over the bench and Ronnie was sleeping on a bench and his gut was out to here, right? And he said to Ronnie, "Holy [\h__\h] bro. There was like 20some catfish there. You ate all of them." And he said, "I left you two. and he said, "I can't I can't talk right now. I'm really full." And he just I've heard the story 60 times and it's still funny even though 60 times. You did good. Yeah, that's a bony fish, too. Yeah, I think it was cat. All I know is they went fishy. I believe it was catfish. I could be wrong. I'm always wrong about something. Look, you know, it's it's easy to get an infection. You know, I don't know what Ronnie's, you know, Ronnie's so like oblivious to like stuff because he's able to suppress pain that he might have had an infection in his body from God knows what. could have been from just stasis in his in his in his ankles because remember he's in a wheelchair and you know he probably just ignored it and it got to the point where it probably was overwhelming his body and and they probably had to bring him to the hospital to put him on IV antibiotics and you know when you get septic a lot of times they will induce a coma so that your body can heal itself quicker you know what I mean and not expend as many you know as much energy doing other things and that's I don't no one's releasing anything so I I have to speculate that's where we're At this point, Ronnie, he's in the hospital. He's sedated. They're pumping him full of antibiotics. And hopefully in a couple days, you know, his body will come around and it would make sense that one of the first signs would have been swollen legs. Absolutely. Because your kidneys and liver don't function well when you're septic, you know, but once the infection goes away, usually you're fine. If you ever see guys that are drug addicts, IV using drug addicts, like heroin addicts, a lot of times they get septic infections like that, too. their kidneys and and their liver will shut down temporarily until they get the infection. In a CA in a case like that, would they use a dialysis for a temporary temporarily if if it got if it was yeah that bad and they were in the hospital that long? Yes, possibly. Um obviously the the ideal situation would be to get rid of the infection as quick as possible and let the body naturally, you know, fix itself, get rid of the swelling. That just happened to Ben Asprin, the MMA fighter. He had AI heard they need a new pair of lungs, George. He got him. They think they think Jake He got both. They think that Jake Paul I think Jake Paul donated the money. He did. I saw the whole thing was freaking out about that. He eight days before that he was fine. Crazy. Yeah. I mean George, don't don't a lot of those guys get infections from the mats and stuff. Is that common or Yeah. That's why no that's why you got to cut your nails and everything. the cuts. Everything is everything in the in the gyms is is is uh wiped down, sprayed down. Every sweating non-stop. What do you What do you do when like a nasty dude comes in? Just like his hygiene's terrible. Do y'all tell him like, "Hey, this is not okay. He can't train." Good. He's not That's not going to happen. No, nobody comes in off the street here anyway and this place will can just come in and train. You came in off the street, didn't you? I was. No, you what I'm saying when you first got there. Well, yeah. When I first But I introduced first day. How do you come in? Through the alley. I mean, how do you Oh, you come in, but you but you're you're explaining the rules. They're very the rules of this. You have to take no shoes past the the front desk. You have to you have to put your feet u in sa in sandals on the side of the mat. Not on the mat. You can't walk with anything on the mat. You have to take your feet and put them in the in this uh like rough like rug like sort of like astroturf and then what before you go on the mats then when you go any cuts any stuff like that you can't you got to immediately stop and and come off the mat and it's cleaned up because that's exactly what you're talking about happening. I'm glad that I'm glad it's so there's such great hygiene that's 20 minutes out of my workout. If somebody's feet smell they can't work out. Well, how long does that whole process? very complicated. But the the coach one day was like he looked at my nails. It looked like like like from uh one of Bruce Lee's movie with the guy with the big nails can cut you. He goes he goes, "You got to cut those nails. You can't come." George, you haven't cut your nails in about 25 years. What about stuck under there from digging in the cookies? The best thing you could do if you have the time get a pedicure every so often. They they really do a great job cutting every Absolutely, Dave. I go I go in the ocean. I'm in the ocean every day. I mean to cut your nails, dude. You're not a cat. You don't scratch your nails on a tree to to wear them. You got to get You got to take care of yourself. I used to get pedicures and pedicures all the time. Yeah. I mean, I think all guys should know. I pedicure tickles so bad. I can't sit. I can't do it either, bro. And not do I can't touch my I got to say something. Touch my feet. Perfect nails for them. Because they wouldn't let you into place. You had you had to clip them. That's why. No. No. These are perfect. Look at that. You did a horrible job. They're too short. They're all For look for the amount of teeth. For the amount of teeth George has in his mouth, that's a really good manicure. Yeah. But you know what? Right. That's how you know he's not Italian. You got at least have one finger. He's only got three teeth. You know, that's why it's all jagged. It's, you know, he's got an uneven nail. Wait, John, did you did you count my teeth? You You seem to have more today. Did you put something in? No, he he has the front teeth. He doesn't have the back teeth. The side back ones. Yeah. No, between him and Jimmy that you guys could There's not 10. I'm waiting for the stem cells. Stem cells. George, I'm not gonna I'm not going to become wood like like George Washington had back. George, listen to me. Go to mean he'll give you some IB gain and you'll stop with that. It's too soon. Too soon. I'm just [\h__\h] around. You can't [\h__\h] around until the case is over. You got to wait. Once the case could damage his case, don't don't [\h__\h] around, man. You don't think the feds watch us? They got that guy dedicated to They're taking their time to watch every show. Oh, [\h__\h] yeah. They're watching us. You guys are uninformed because they just talked about it yesterday. where actually they're talking about legalizing IB, right? It is legal in the stand. Where the hell have you been? It is legal. You've been over this like 40 times. He doesn't listen. They just talked about it yesterday. I think it's the diabetes. Greg. Greg. What do you mean by legal? What do you mean by legal? I mean, you're free. No. What is legal? What? Hold on. Explain legal to me. What it means? Can you Can you against the law. It has to be a prescription means there's no law forbidding it. No, but they're saying now that they're they so you get so you can get off the you have to go get a prescription or anything. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You got you got you got using it right now more and more. What do you I mean explain it so that you I don't know what he heard. I want to know what he heard. It was on television yesterday. Holy [\h__\h] They It was on Fox News then Greg heard it. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. And what they were saying is that I think it was in Florida where they're actually starting to use it now and they want to start cleansing because they're saying not only does it help people that have chronic pain and they were talking about Oh, you know, wait, you know who it was? It was um a Texas uh like a you know, congressman or something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They were doing the Texas Ivan. He's talking about Marcus Latrell and his brother stayed at his house and they were so [\h__\h] up from the war because Marcus Latrell ran. I saw that video left his friends die. But uh that's neither here nor there. But they said he was so [\h__\h] up that they got they tried this new Ivy Gang [\h__\h] They brought him to a PTSD and it [\h__\h] rebooted everything. He said Marcus Latrell now doesn't even drink. He used a chronic smoker, chronic tobacco chewer. And he said it fixed everything. So now they're trying to come out with this whole thing that they want to start helping people that are drug addicts, chronic pain people, and all that. It was on TV. No, you're right. They've been doing it. I mean, why it, you know, wipes your receptors clean in the brain. It's crazy out there. Yeah, but they've been doing it under the radar. This is a guy who's bringing it where he wants to start. Yeah. Know he's aware. Yeah. This is a congressman. Yeah. He's big in the movement. They want to start a bill like making this [\h__\h] so we that that guy you were talking about he was like literally suicidal I saw the video was incredible. It was very moving and he and he had a session and then it it just changed his whole life and you know um it's it's a him and his brother Greg what you what Greg what you don't remember us saying is that in Colorado they made Okay. Listen, can you shut up for two minutes? It's legal now in Colorado, but when Amin was being charged with this crime, it wasn't legal, which is idiotic because it's legal now. But mean is a researcher. No, the point is that everyone knows that it has it has valid uses. Okay. So, he's being, you know, he's being unfortunately targeted because I know that government doesn't like that it's being legalized. You understand? Absolutely correct. Find that congressman. I mean, find that congressman. I will I want to say this so that everybody knows because there's a lot guy is Marcus Trump stayed at his house. So did his brother. He actually stayed there with his wife and kids because they were so [\h__\h] He said they could not stop chewing tobacco and smoking cigarettes and even that stopped. By the way, they documented that. They documented that session in a YouTube video that's available. I think that [\h__\h] was in the cookie that Larry gave me. I saw so much that last I was dying of malnutrition because Dave brought us to a [\h__\h] vegan restaurant. Okay. And it was in the vegan food. That's why you That's why you we've wiped your memory clean. Malutar for 15 minutes. It's like you spent the summer in Somalia. Larry gave me a cookie. I [\h__\h] understand Larry. I love Can we wipe his memory clean, John? I think Dioca would be great for Greg. That's Hey, Dave, let me wait. I'm actually [\h__\h] up. Can it help that? Let me say something really quick for everybody out there who doesn't already know this. Um, Andy did not die from Ibegan. The government's already ruled on that. That there was no death from Ibigane. So, anybody out there who wants to know, that's done. There was no death from Ibe. Okay. What was what was government ruled on it? They actually dismissed it and they erased the charge. Oh, good. Good. What was his cause of that? Don't talk. Don't I wouldn't say two [\h__\h] words about that. Yeah, don't say it. Yeah. Off the off the camera maybe, but can can I gain a racist? God bless God bless the family. That doesn't take anything away from their loss. And I want everybody to know that I loved Andy, too. And it's really sad. Andy was a great guy. Very, very good. Oh my god, that guy was a great guy. Is there anything is there anything that I gain can do to erase his his like of [\h__\h] Get rid of that. Dude, you Dave, you're asking. We wipe him clean. You remember when you were a kid and you play had that Etch a Sketch game, right? And you turn the knobs and it made the picture, right? And when you were done, you turned it upside down and went like this, right? And then it all disappeared. So basically, that's what we need to do to Greg. We need to turn him upside down and go like this and then erase everything. He needs and then reboot. Start over. Dave had a nice funny thing is Greg really has no He has no addictions. You have no addictions. You don't do any drugs, right? I have addictions to pro. That's the problem, Craig. That's the problem. We just figured it out. You won't do any drugs. You I know. It's just us doing drugs. Oh my god. I should I I want to know this. Seriously, how can you differentiate between recreational drugs and performance-enhancing drugs? If in my mind if you do drugs then you do drugs. There's no I love your mind. I grew up with a father. My father was a badass and he used to tell me that kid's the loser. My father made Italian wine with his father and my father never in his life tasted the wine that he made for his my grandfather who passed away before I was born. See he never tasted my father didn't like drinking. I like I like to be in control. I used to work in a bar, that strip club when I was 18 years old, going to high school. And I used to see people drunk. I saw a guy who won the Golden Gloves drunk. And every time he got drunk, he could never win a fight. And I I see I'd see him laying in the parking lot getting knocked out by [\h__\h] And I'd be like, "Dude, you have no idea you just got lucky." Because if that guy wasn't drinking, it it just takes away all your control. And I like to be in control. I I would ne I Well, I mean, there's especially people addict to the drugs. I mean people people are addicted to all kinds of stuff. I mean my friend the other day you you know he's not really doing real good right now healthwise. He told me a lot of stuff he was doing like it shocked me like my friend was doing all this stuff. It was not not okay like yeah just sexual deviant like really twisted stuff and I'm like man like and he's like was asking about because he's going through a lot of stuff. He's got this he got a weird disease from cattle and then um not from messing around with cattle doing anything but yeah it's a it's a it's a brain it's No, no, he was just having sex with disease. Is it what Libert has? No, no, no, no. But he was just telling me all this sexual stuff he used to do with girls and all this stuff and it it was just like uh you know I I was shocked he was telling me this and I was like dude that's in your past as long as you're not doing that in your future. You're okay. Just that was you know so everybody has their addictions. A lot of people don't talk about it. A lot of people are into some dark [\h__\h] you know dude I watch that you know Chris Hansen all the time. the same. Me too, dude. It blows my mind how many predators are out there. It It's just It's It's disgusting. The same age as the girls they're trying to pick up. It's just like, what's going on in their mind? They have adults, dude. There's so there's so many. If you if you ever Google or look up what who lives in your area, predators, there's so many. That's registered sex offenders. What about people? Watch this video, guys. Watch this video. I I got to I got to add something to that because registering as a sex offender, what things that can label you as a sex offender, you don't have to have have done anything to anybody. If you if you get caught urinating in public, you have to register as a sex offender. That's true. Watch this video, guys. Watch this video if you want to see some some [\h__\h] people. Botox is a procedure where Botox or any other brand is injected into the skin of the scrotum. This can help reduce excessive sweating in the area. It can also help relieve painful spasms and smooth out the wrinkles to give for a more relaxed, fuller appearance in the area. The scrotum houses the testicles and the testicles produce sperm. Under the scrotal skin is the darto muscle. The dartos muscle is a smooth muscle, meaning it is involuntary. It is for thermal regulation. When it's cold outside, it contracts and when it's warm outside, it relaxes to give the optimal temperature to the testicles for sperm production. When this area is injected with Botox, this muscle relaxes. It reduces the appearance of wrinkles and it can make the area appear larger. Yeah, she's woke. She's trying to [\h__\h] her. I I would I watched this the other day. Dude, the thing is like you lose all credibility when you make a video like this. What? Who wants their nut sack? Who cares about wrinkles on a ball sack? You are one of the only plumper plumper testicles. No, I got plump testicles. I don't I said you're the one of the only people on the panel who's ever used a needle down there. So, you're Yeah, I have. I have too. I did the cab. I think you're brave, man. It doesn't even hurt. It doesn't even hurt. It don't even hurt. You can't feel it going in. It don't hurt. No, I don't want anyone injecting any penis or my trying. I just had to try. She's just on there trying to be outrageous, saying crazy [\h__\h] just like the gahawk do [\h__\h] No, no, no, no. She was a No. That was a legitimate doctor who was She does it. But she's wearing a pound of makeup and all that. I don't care. Greg, it's a legitimate procedure that people do. For what reason? I don't know. They don't want their ball sweat. People get know that's going to get hits. Who e injects their nuts or That's for someone that has like profuse sweating. Botox works great for people have peruse sweating like on the armpit. Like Yeah. Like on their armpits. Yeah. Not on your testicles. That's ridiculous. That balls. No. No, I don't. I don't get you Botox. I do. I do Botox every three months. Yeah. There's so much to your balls, do you? No, he does it to his head, right? I Right up here. Right here. You changed something to me. Oh, there's your camera. That's why here and on on the sides of my eyes and right up here. Did guy, did you hear what happened to Rick Collins here? Yeahick. Rick Collins has been telling me for years he's been he wanted to do jump out of pl airplanes. He was doing tandem skydiving. He's like, "You should come with me." I'm like, Rick, I have no desire to to jump out of an airplane. And you know what? With my luck, the parachute wouldn't open up or something like that. I am not if if I die because I jump out of an airplane, the parachute doesn't open up. It's the stupidest [\h__\h] reason to die. So, you see a man cutting the ropes. He's been doing this. He did his first solo jump the other day. I I thought this was a joke. I didn't even know it was true. And the parachute didn't open. He pulled the reserve chute which then caused the other chute to to deploy and he he came down very fast. Thank God by the grace of God he's alive in the mud. That's cuz he's the original toxic avenger. Did he break both legs or one leg? He landed in a swamp in the mud or some [\h__\h] Yeah, he landed he landed sugar planes if you don't have to. If you're in the military, different story. Let's see what he said. And the rumors that have been I told you yesterday, Dave, whenever you Russell, I mean, as a few of you know, I recently had a crash landing during a 14,000 ft solo skydive in central Florida. Long story short, I lost arch stability, tumbled, regained the arch, then lost it again. I couldn't properly deploy the pilot shoot, and the main canopy did not deploy. I pulled the reserve, but then surprisingly, the main parachute opened as well. My positioning when I deployed the reserve caused the risers from the reserve to damage the main lift web so that the entire parachute container was deemed not airworthy when it was sent back to the manufacturer. I had an uncontrolled landing, leaving a rickshaped crater in the deep mud of what appeared to be a recently irrigated sugarcane plantation. My adrenaline was so high that I got up and I actually walked out of the field unassisted. I'm surprised that the skydive center didn't call 911. I suffered various broken bones, torn ligaments, spent the next five days in a trauma center. But miraculously, my body will apparently heal itself quickly, regenerating its own tissue like Wolverine. I'm already back at Bev's gym starting PT on my knee today. Any skydive that you can walk away from is a good skydive. Thank God. Thank God he's I hope that's his last sky. He said it is. It is. He sounds like he's reading from Ernest Hemingway novel. He must be suing them or something like that, John. Oh, yeah. He didn't say he didn't say one time. They didn't call 911. He speaks Rick speaks so well, man. He's a lawyer, John. I know, but I'm telling you that was that was that was magic right there. He never even said, bro. He trained in my gym in the 80s and they filmed the toxic adventure all the time. The whole crew was I know you told that's crazy. Greg, you've told us this story 47 times. Avenger, John, don't you in a gallery. Get him on some gain. Wipe them clean. I'm telling you. Don't wipe them clean. Like you don't have to hear these stories anymore. Don't wipe. John, don't you ride a bike? John, you rode a You ride a motorcycle, right? Several of them. Yes. Okay. So, you know, like FAD got in his accident, right? But you've been riding all your life. When these bigger guys, like I know Fad's still, he's retired, but he's still a big dude. He's like 250 plus. Yeah. When they get on a bike and go on those long rides, isn't it different for someone that size that hasn't been doing that all their life to like to take that risk? Because I know Quad's pretty banged up, you know? What? How about Eddie Hall? Eddie Hall Eddie Hall rides the canyons like on a crotch ride. He's like insane. I don't I don't know how that bike moves him but um yeah big look and the motorcycle is weighs between depending on you know what size bike you got between like 350 and you know 800 or 1,000 pounds depending on or even and more the big hogs are even even heavier than that. So, you know, it takes a lot of muscle the heavier the bike is to move it around to, you know, muscle it around a little bit. But, um, it for on long rides like that, it's you got to be on a very comfortable cruiser to anything leaning forward. The pressure on your wrists is is insane, especially, you know, you got a big upper body and um it it's it's rough, man. Bigger dudes have a hard time on on a long road on long trips for sure. God bless you, man. Yeah. What does anybody know what happened? What what what what what the cause of the accident was? I don't know. Yeah, I'm not sure. But he's he's he had some neck surgery and he's he's definitely on healing. It's the way to healing. A lot of times you're on a twisty road and it's always someone crossing into your lane. They cross. I think it was a means fault. Life is dangerous. That's I mean that's what we're learning. I mean Fouad uh Ronnie and you know it's just a lot of stuff that can go wrong. Rick Collins I mean that's why Greg I'm staying with you in Alabama. Yeah. But you know, life is d life is dangerous, but without it, you're dead. Yeah. I mean, any one of us could die tomorrow from whatever heart attack, anything. So, every single time I get on a motorcycle, I think this is it. This could be it. Every single day, Elizabeth, no. Yep. Exactly. Red box. I love that. But you can't you can't stay inside all day and not live life. You know what I mean? So, you do you do what you love. I mean, that's why I masturbate. One more one more story guys before we get to uh Nick and that is Lonnie Ter received a lifetime achievement award which is more than overdue about [\h__\h] time. Holy [\h__\h] That's awesome. What do you got to do around here to get a freaking lifetime around this side of the stage gentlemen that you know you've been my friend for so long and I want to read you this uh this is from us and to you and this this is a lifetime achievement award presented to Lonnie Cher for the West Coast Classic in appreciation of your decades of of dedication passion and impact to the women's of bodybuilding. Your voice and heart have helped shape this court and inspire generations. Jam is gonna present that to you and thank you for all your years of hard work and dedication. It's great. I mean, Lonnie, for those of you who don't know, Lonnie Keeper was the first guy to make MCing exciting. He gave everyone nicknames. He gave me Jumbo Palumbo. Yep. And when he announced you on stage, like I remember when I did Junior Nationals, that was the first time he announced my name. It was like I felt like I was like like like a celebrity. He he it was so powerful that that that that announcement that you knew you had arrived and it makes the competitors feel special. And he was the first guy to really do that where he he knew all your history. He knew where, you know, where you competed before, what shows you won, what the nickname he gave you was, and and you know, what you had coming up, and, you know, who who you were married to, who who you, you know, how many kids you had. The guy was like an encyclopedia. And he changed really the scope of how bodybuilding was was was announced at these shows. And nowadays, we got, you know, guys like Bob and Sid and and some of the other great MC's all followed in in Lonnie's footsteps basically. Is he okay? He didn't seem too too good in that. I think he's got a little bit of a of a of a movement disorder, you know, like like Dude, I've been in gloves with Lonnie Tfer. I could tell you some great Lonnie Keeper stories. Oh, I'm sure he didn't he he go to the sound factory with you. I'm not going to say too much because I had he gets very pissed, but just trust me. He actually called me Mini Quadzilla back in, you know, the issue with Arnold Schwarzenegger in 1991. I was natural back then, by the way. And uh you know where he's on like the the the Terminator was a black cover with almost like a cartoonish look of Arnold in there in there. He put me in there in his column thing and he called me because I was under the lights with Bob Bonum, Kenny Kessle, you know what I mean? And I was dropping the draws and my [\h__\h] legs were jumping, bro. And I was n Mini Quadzilla. Ask him. Mini Quadzilla. Said you called I got the magazine still. You guys all seen that guy Bodybuilder Dancing. Of course we all seen it, right? I don't know. Yeah, you s wanted me to bring that up. What do you think about that? I mean, I think that's totally disrespectful and that's it. It makes the It makes the sport the whatever we want to call bodybuilding show. Let me play it. Let me play it. Hold on. Back the Asian bodybuilder that did the same thing. This guy's a pro, right? This was a pro at the show, right? No, he's amateur masters. Oh, wasn't he amateur? Okay. Masters complete. I can't play the music. Sorry, guys. I mean, he dances the whole time. Not one pose was even hit. No, that's actually a video. He actually does some posing. Is Is this something a gay man would do or not? Let me ask you a question. Yeah, they don't judge the posing routine. So, who the heck cares what these guys do up there? Why are people getting offended by this? I don't know. He's not even good. I've seen But he's at least he's in shape. I've seen some fat guys up there hitting poses that people I mean let him do what he wants. That was when they start when they start judging the posing routine then I'll be the first person to say this was not Do you remember you guys remember Chris Duffy? It was rumored that he used to take a bunch of acid and ecstasy and that's what he would get on stage like that. Probably on Ecstasy, but who gives a crap what he does? They're not judging it. So you know what that's it's It's almost an FU to the judge is like, you know what, you're not judging this anyway, so I'm going to do whatever I want up here. You could you could look at it that way. This is what more people start doing this stuff, though. This more people start doing this [\h__\h] then it makes sense. You know what? It's more entertaining than watching stuff. I mean, but at least if if you're going to dance, at least be good at it. You know what I mean? I'll agree with that. He wasn't a great dancer. I think that I think A mean gave him some of that IB game. You're right. That's what it was. Bottom line is I'm not going to judge the posing round. You could do whatever you want up there, assuming as long as it's not indecent. You know what I mean? He wasn't I think it could hurt you if if you do. But it doesn't hurt you because they don't judge the posing round. John, by the way, John, you're right. A guy did die once. He he he was opposing. He was a guest posing. That's right. Oh, I saw that. landed on his head. He was walking forward and he tried to do a backflip while walking forward. I I believe he slipped or Arman, I'm not sure, but he landed on his neck and that was it. Yeah. Maybe maybe he should take a few lessons from Kai Green. I agree with the the peanut gallery. Now, I want to get to Nick because uh you know, if you guys in the comments or watching the show don't want to see any psychic readings, leave. I don't want to hear any comments. You don't like it, don't watch the rest of the show. But I want to go to Nick because I brought him on here because he's got a very good talent and I want to see what he picks up that listening to the show. Nick, have anything has anything come to you from any of the people watching or or you know or on the I got a headache. Hold if you have a headache after the show's over, you know, it was a good show. That that's my my metric, you know. Okay. So I got um well let me tell you about my reading style is a little bit different. So a lot of people they a lot of psychics or mediums they just start saying stuff. My personal way that I like to do it. I like to start off with the client asking me questions and then people their loved ones kind of show up that way. That way the client in my experience is more open because they want the reading. It's it's more difficult if you're trying to force information on someone that doesn't doesn't want a reading and and not everybody's open to it. And you know that's that's okay. It's not for me to to push it on any. So I'll start with who wants a reading. I do start with a mean first. Um okay. So I can only see myself here. I want to see a mean. How do I You want to see? Okay. We got to do all this. Okay. Okay. So, um, somebody got some I'm gonna mute you, John. I mean, George, because you there's noise coming from you. Okay. Is there any questions that you have to start with? And then I'll tell you the first thing that comes up and then we'll go from there. Well, I have this case, you know, and uh I'm uh going for sentencing on September 16th for the distribution of this stuff called Ibane, which I'm sure you've heard of several times. Don't give me too many details. Because just give me the He wants to know if he's going to jail for the next 20 years. That's what he wants to know. There's there's some there's some issues with the with the with the place that did the testing for this and we're Don't give me Don't give him details. Don't give him details. Something popped into my head before and this was um I wrote down the third. I'm not sure um what that means yet, but but the third I think is an important date upcoming just in a few days. Um I see I see one guy and I see his face pretty clearly and he's wearing these glasses that look like transitions. Um as to be I have to be careful what I say here. As to be someone on the case that does not have one of your opposers. Would that make sense? Maybe. Um I get a pee. Okay, here's what I see. How do I word this? Okay, so the the people that are prosecuting you, I feel like there's this one guy that really has a hard on for you. Um, but the higherups are not as motivated as him. I And I feel like he wants to really It's not about you. He wants he wants to get this he wants to bring you down as a way to advance his own career for selfish reasons and he's really [\h__\h] pissed off this guy I know what you're talking about. I can't say anything but you're right. The people that and I'm seeing three people that he reports to, if that makes sense. They don't care as much as he does. And he's just really angry. And I think that he's gonna push and push and push. I just don't see it going well for him. I think he's gonna phys his own anger is going to be okay. I'm seeing a woman with him, so I'm assuming he's in a relationship or married. I'm not sure if you know this or not. Um, so some of this information is hard for you to validate because you may not know, but I feel like in his own personal relationship, he there's a lot of fighting. He's just an angry guy. He's He's frustrated. He's not where he wants to be and he's using this as an opportunity to try to advance his career and I just don't see it going well for him. Good. That's good news. You like it? Excellent. Um I feel like he's going to have a few small what's going to look like a few small victories like things over the next I'm not sure. I'm not getting a clear message on a time frame, but I'm feeling like there's going to be things are going to look oh, you may get a piece of bad news and it's going to be looking like, oh, they made this move, but then it's just not going to it's not going to turn out for him. That's what I'm seeing. Good. All right. Thank you. Good. You're welcome. Nick, what did you see about Larry? When we first came on, it was Larry and I and he's like, and he showed me a piece of paper. He wrote my name on it and Larry's name on it. So that's what that's being Dave. I got information from you came to me last night. I'll get to that. I I did ask my relatives to talk to you. So yes, your dad came through. Um now I know I never met your dad before. Um but I've heard you talk about him. So some of the information people are going to say, "Oh, that's obvious. He heard it on the show." So I want to when I get to you, I want to try to zone in on your dad. see if he can speak to me. But I'll speak it. Go ahead. Go. Go ahead. Go. You go with me first. Um, prior to the show, five minutes before the show, I wrote down these notes. I wrote down quick thoughts that pop in my head. I have no idea what they mean. So, I put Larry. I wrote down dog. White dog. Oh, wow. Um, and then I We all know that. Okay. Is the dog Was the dog white in color? brown and a little bit of white. Okay. And I felt like the dog was a boy. So, was this a boy? Yeah. Okay. Um Okay. Now, I'm picking up on the dog. The dog always sat Did he always sit near your lap? Were you working? I'm see I'm seeing the dog sitting by your feet often. He stayed pretty much near me wherever I went. Yeah, cuz I'm seeing him sitting by your feet by This would be um I'm seeing me again. I want to see Larry by my right side. I'm seeing I'm seeing him sitting by you. Um no, I mean he was 130 pounds, so couldn't really sit in my lap or anything. To your right. To your right. By your side. To your right. I'm seeing him sitting by your feet. Is the dog telling you anything? Can he speak? Dogs communicate, I mean different than people do, but they communicate to me with just sensations, feelings, facial expressions. Um, I'm just seeing him constantly following you around. And I'm seeing you specifically, and I know the background right now is uh uh not the real background, correct? But I'm seeing you where you're working in your seat, and I'm seeing him sit by you. And I'm seeing when you would get up to work, he would almost sometimes stay there and look for you and wait to wait for you to come back. If that makes sense. Because I'm seeing him sometimes when he was lazy, you would get up, walk out of the office, come back, and then he would just be waiting for you there. Remember when he was snoring, Larry? He was by your feet and he was snoring. Yeah. Did he do that, Larry? Would he say it? Wait, maybe maybe Well, he would lay depending on where I was, he would lay on a couch and just not move even if I went somewhere. I think the dog was telling Nick that Larry was snoring. Possible. Okay, I'll I'll read the the other thing that I wrote down. So, I felt the message from your dad come through earlier. So, I'm I'm assuming your dad is in spirit. Your dad has passed on, Larry. Oh, yeah. Mhm. Yeah. And when I sensed your dad, I I I felt that he had some regret towards you. What I wrote down, I don't want to read exactly what I wrote down because it may be a little too deep, but he gave me the sense that when in your younger years, there was regret that he was not there for you in your younger years. But he don't know what's that. I mean maybe in certain circumstances. I don't know what he what he thought. He wants you to know that he's there supporting your endeavors now. And what he gave the sense that he gave to me that he was not there for you as much as he wanted to be specifically in your younger years because I felt a disconnect between the two of you. And after that was the part that I wrote down for dad. After that, I wrote down sister. I'm not sure what that means, but that's that's all the information that I got for sister. Um, do you have a sister, Larry? I have two sisters. Okay, let me I'm sorry. Go ahead. Two half sisters. Two half sisters. Okay. The younger one, I'm sensing both. And I'm not sure what the message is here, but the younger one is shorter than the older one. I can't I can't honestly. They're They're both about the same height. I I don't know which one is shorter. Okay. I'm seeing both and I'm sensing the younger one is shorter and I would say more stocky than the older one. Probably. Yes. Okay. Now, your sisters are both here. They're not passed on. Yeah, that's correct. Okay. Okay. The connection that I feel I'm sensing some emotional pain that you have specifically with the younger sister because that's the one that's coming to me. I'm sensing the older sister is kind of more neutral. Would that make sense to you? Probably. Yeah. Okay. I'm not sure what the reason or the message that I'm being shown this, but but that's what I'm picking up. I'd like to have you ask me a question and then see the first thing that pops in my head. It could be related to your dad, your sister, or any other unrelated issue. Could he make a statement instead like, "I didn't steal Dave's client. Did Dave just put that out there? Larry, unless you don't unless you don't want to know anything. If if you're if you're good, then don't you don't have to say anything. But if you want to get some more information, I mean, he he I guess you got to open up a little bit is what he's saying, you know. So, what would my what is my father thinking now? The first thing that he showed me was him with a dog. Your dad showing me him being outside a lot. Did he work outside? Because I'm She's showing me him being outdoors. Was he an outdoorsman? Um, I mean, he did sports a lot. So, okay. He did a lot of sports. Larry's Larry's like the most closed book of everyone in this panel. So, we have we don't know anything about him. So, this is I have to be honest. We know we didn't steal your clothes. This is interesting. Yeah. They're cracking this nut, right? Well, I have to be honest when I'm sensing a message clearly and when I'm not. And I don't just make stuff up. If I don't sense anything, I don't sense anything. I do sense Larry's father here. Um, but he's just not much of a talker. Just like Larry. That's [\h__\h] My father's not much of a talker. No. Now, now you're correcting me. So, let me let me tune in. Let me tune in to see. He's showing me him moving around a lot. He's not sitting still in one place. When he was here, was he constantly moving? Uh, he was active. Moving meaning, did he change locations where he lived, Larry? Oh, I would say yes. Yes. Okay. Okay. What he's telling me is he had he had when he was here on this earth, he had issues with staying like the home the security of the home was difficult for him because he did not have that growing up. So his coping mechanism was to escape. That's what he's telling. I don't know if it was escape. I think this when he got older, he uh you know, we was depending on my brother and myself to take care of him. So, we would kind of bounce back and forth between us. For depending on the situation or the timing. Yeah. To be honest, I'm not I'm not getting a clear connection to him. So, Do you want to ask him anything, Larry, while you got him here about anything else? I think the main message that that your father had that was clear in the beginning of the reading is that he said that he was regretful when he was younger, when you were younger, for him not spending enough time with you. That message was very clear for him. So, that's the uh that's the message that he wanted you to know today. Well, I think he did it best he could. It was not his fault. Um, I went to prison, so that's my fault. Not not anything to do with him. What about when you were younger than prison coming from him? He takes some of the accountability for that. That's the point that he's making. He's taking some of the blame for that. Well, I guess if you consider that I wouldn't listen to anybody. Yeah. And he did tell me you're going to go to prison or be dead. Keep saying that. No, he he was the same way. That he wouldn't listen to anybody either. Probably like that. True. Yeah. Apple doesn't fall far from the tree. We all become our parents. That's what Oh man, I feel bad for my kid. I'm nothing like my father. I can tell you that. You don't drink or do drugs just like your father. Yeah, that will we haven't come but his personality was totally he's mentioning okay he's mentioning your mom now and he's again he's taking a lot of accountability for things that he felt didn't go right and he's saying the relationship between him and your mom was very difficult. Um, that's true. And he's saying that's part of the reason why he wasn't he wasn't as present with issues with you. After he crossed over, he's saying he could have there's so much more that I could have done, but I just wasn't ready at that time. Um, he was dealing with a lot of I just feel like there was a lot of fighting between him and your mom. They just weren't getting along. Yeah, that's true. Was he in a wheelchair at some point? No, but he had Parkinson's at the end, so he had a really hard time getting around. I He was in his 80s. So, okay. Now he's Now he's showing me running. He's showing me himself running. So that's his way of letting you know that um he's not, you know, he's not in that state anymore. He's very proudful of the fitness that he had in his younger years. So he wants you to know that he's still holding on to that. He's still very active now. He was a professional handball player. I see him running with like running shoes on possibly. Yeah. I don't know about running like long distance, but he he was a professional handball player, so he was moving a lot. But we did ride bikes a lot. Yeah. Do you remember the type of shorts that he would wear? Jeez, that's a long time ago, but just I think regular just like gym shorts. because he's showing me the type of shorts that he would wear and they're those shorter type shorts and I see him running and playing sports. Not long distance running, but I see him running playing sports. That's his way of letting you know that he's very right now he's very active. And is his legs hairy? Uh, not no hair. Well, I guess mine are. So, Larry, you have nice you have nice legs. The heroin was kind of getting me turned on a little bit. When that girl told me about Dave's ass, I said, you know, Dave is a [\h__\h] He just sits on it because she goes to me, I'm a lesbian. I like girls. She was [\h__\h] around. Oh, sorry. Sorry. I don't want to hijack this [\h__\h] That's okay. He has one more one more message that now he's coming through clear. It was hard for me to establish a connection. He's bringing up the sister and I wrote down sister. Sometimes I write things out. I don't know, maybe they show up later in the reading, but I think the message of your younger sister, the one now he's mentioning the younger sister, he's saying that to be patient with her. He would like to see you guys get closer, and he's saying she's saying that she has anger issues. Probably true, but I haven't talked to her in years. He's saying to He's saying to, okay, he's not the type of person to say, "Okay, go call them." He's not pushy, but what he's saying is he wants you to consider some form of communication with with the younger sister. Or if not communication, he's encouraging you to view her um more gently, knowing that basically what he's saying is take it easy on her. She's got a lot going on. She's not. She's very reactive, if that makes sense. He's here with us now. Larry. Larry. Is that a mask of Greg's face? Greg, you're [\h__\h] up the flow here. I'm sorry. Stop. Stop. Stop. Greg, you're about to get muted. Give him some AD AD ADHD meds, please. Give him some eyeball gain and be done with it. Everybody, let's all do it. to me. Give it to me now. Dave, that would be a [\h__\h] show and a half. Oh yeah. But all of us doing eyeball gain at one time and filming it. Go. We all celebrate, right? Holy [\h__\h] Can you Can you imagine just wiping if if we can wipe Greg's brain free and then we have to like start fresh like No, we don't have to participate. We'd have to like, you know, go on a journey together in the afterlife, you know, follow Greg around and like tie him to a tree and [\h__\h] We got to do all of that, Larry. All right. Stop. All right, that's that's all I got from from Larry's. I'm sorry. All right. All right. So, Larry, I know some some of that was clear, some of that was not clear, but I hope the parts that were clear hope that helped that. So, okay. What else you reading? Okay. Who's next? You want to know my father's name now? Yes. Well, I Here's the thing with with Dave, your reading is tricky because obviously very well. Yeah, you do. Um, and I I've heard you talk about your dad years ago. I don't remember all the details. Um, I did ask my dad to talk to to to come through today because you told me last night that it's good to talk tell your relatives the night before. So, let's see if he gives me anything that I I talked him about. We'll see. He said you're a schmuck. Yeah. Okay. Now, here's the here's the here's the funny part that happened last night. And I was going to tell you last night, but I figured save it for the show. So I emailed you what was 11 12 o'clock at night and I said you know for mediumship readings it's good to encourage your loved ones to come through because it helps you know a more clear connection. So when I asked your dad to come through right away he started talking to me and he started he started lecturing me he was talking he was talking with his hands a lot was like okay okay this what we very assertive I never met him I've seen pictures and stuff but he was talking with his hands and then he said okay you're going to do the show tomorrow this how it's going to go like he was helping me prepping me for the show organizing it for you yeah and He handed me a book. I don't know what what's with him. And I don't know what the book was. My father was always handing me books when I was a kid because he was an English teacher. So he's always g me books to read. What What does he call Dave? A nickname? What? What? What name? What? What did he call Dave? The first image that popped in my head when I saw that was uh this doesn't make sense. He probably called him Dave. Let can you let the guy talk? I'm sorry. Don't ruin my reading. Larry's like, "Thank God it's all me." I'm not getting a clear answer on that. I saw a monkey. I don't That doesn't make any sense. Just Just do your reading. Don't Don't listen to these guys. Okay. She said, "You got to ask questions. I'm asking questions." You can ask questions. It's fine. Sometimes I have an answer, sometimes I don't. But I just I rely on them to talk to me. Okay. So your dad's name, this was not me picking this up. I remember you speaking about your dad. Your dad's name is S. Yeah. Right. Okay. So now I'm directly asking S, would you like to come forward? Do you have a message for Beach? He talks very fast, unlike Larry's phone. He talks very fast and it's hard for me to keep up. Um, he's talking about your kids. Okay. Um, is he a ball buster? Yeah. Oh, yeah. He'll break your ball. Oh my god. I hate ball busters. Very fun. Oh, he's very fun. He He likes to dominate the whole group. Like if he was on the show, he would he's like Greg basically. Yeah. Dominate the whole show. He doesn't want anyone else talking. He's here now. David. David. He's teasing you about Okay. How do I He doesn't have a filter either. Um he's teasing you about the stress that you get from the kids. Um like like it's payback. But see these are generic things. We got a new dirt. Like Dave used to masturbate a lot when you shut up for two minutes. Muted microphone. Okay. What he what he's saying is he's saying when you're with the kids. Yeah. And he's specifically mentioning, if this makes sense, he's specifically mentioning two of them that stress you out more than the because you have three, right? I know that you have three, but he's mentioning that two of them stress you out the most. Okay. And he's saying that when you're with the kids, you spend a short amount of time with them and then you're off and then you're good. So he's saying, "Yeah, Dave can handle him. Small doses. He's good. He gets stressed, he goes in the corner." That's no comment, Dave. I mean, are we close? Is that Well, yeah. I mean, blown away. Are you bewildered? You're saying that that you can you can handle the stress of the kids in small doses. When they're around you too much, they drive you they drive you nuts. I gota I gotta interject here. That that's that's true for everybody. Yes. Yeah. I think it was implies that I'm only I you know, we don't get I I get them 50% of the time. So, I'm not getting I'm only getting them in, you know, every other chunks. Yeah. Yeah. But during that short period of time, do you get stressed out because it's not even that long? No. But you know how it mean it's like being with your All kids are stressful. All kids are Are two of them worse than the other one? Yes. Yes. Wait, Nick, I want to know, will Dave ever apologize to Larry for what? Shut up. I'm gonna mute you. When it's your turn, you could talk. Grace got to go in the timeout box. Oh, you can't read me. He's showing me the house that you had in New York now. And I'm not sure why. Okay. Did he live in the house before his passing with you? No. Maybe showing Is he showing you his house like my my childhood? He's showing you the house that I used to visit. Oh, I don't know. He loved that house because you know he liked the zombies. He brought he brought me to that living room. Yeah, he's mentioning you cooking me. Okay. Yeah. He brought me to that living room in the kitchen. He's mentioning you cooking egg whites and oatmeal. Did you Did you Okay. When he was here, when he was Did you No, he's saying that he did. He was not a a good cook. He was not a good cook. Correct. I don't know. He I think he was all right, but I think he didn't like it. But you know, he was he was all right. Because he's saying that you cook better than him. Definitely not. I'm a good cook. I'm just I'm I'm I'm a more of an order. Go out and eat drostanolone. I'm I am good. Dave can call takeout faster than salt. So I'm reading Dave right now in my crystal ball. I'm I'm gonna read Okay, he's bringing up some personal stuff about your and I know this from watching the show. So, I want to be clear with the information that's coming from me and I have to discern my own memory and my own thoughts. Um, he's bringing up your ex-wife. Okay. Which one? Which one? The one that is the mother of the Okay. of the kids. All right. In this show, you got to be specific because we all got a collection ex. Okay. He's saying that you you're too hard on yourself with the whole situation that happened there. Okay. He's saying that there's nothing else that you could have done to to keep that together. And he's going into more detail. Um he's got your back no matter what. you know, he he's the type of dad where with any situation that happens, he's going to have he's going to have your side no matter what. But he's making it clear and he's saying that you really did put a lot of effort into holding that together and you weren't met halfway. That's what he's telling me. It's pretty true, Dave. He's putting his hand on your shoulder. Is that something that he would do when he was here? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. You know what I'm talking about when I when I see him doing this? What? What? Let me putting his hand on your shoulder. Yeah. I think he's just Yeah, he's Yeah, that's my father was was an affectionate person. So, yeah. He He's got your back. That That's That's what he wants you to know. And he's going into more detail about your ex-wife, but I'll share that with you off camera. Tell me off the air. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I'm respecting you. I'm respecting your ex-wife. Um, okay. I'm going to get water. I'm trying to get to your mom and now he's not stopping talking. He's Greg Valentino. Okay. Give up the room. You won't give up the room. Nick, are you are you hearing voices in your head? I don't hear I I just I'm not saying like you're crazy, but is that how it comes through? You're hearing these voices. Yeah. Crazy. Just here's the perfect way I can describe it. You ever and this has happened to everyone. You ever somebody pop in your head and then you get a call from them five minutes later? Yes. That's how it happens. You just tune it. You you're got you're honing in on don't distract them. I mean, okay. The key is to quiet your thoughts and then you just pay attention to the it's it starts off very very subtle, but you pay attention to the subtle nature. That's why sometimes and it depends on the medium and the psychic. Some some days you're going to be spot-on crazy accurate. Some days it's more challenging. It's just a practice of meditating and quieting your mind. Nicole said that Dave sim similar Nicole. Okay. Your dad mentioned something about the water. Okay. He's showing me Dave. He's showing me an image of you where you currently live visiting water. Yeah, we just we just went Yeah, we just we just did some stuff with the kids. Okay. He wanted you to know that he's there now. He's showing me. Okay, I see the kids and but he's showing me there was one point and I'm seeing a body of water and there was you were completely alone and this was recently. He wants you to know that he was in that moment with you. Do you know what I'm talking about? Where you you were alone by the water, not with the I'm gonna I'll tell you because I was thinking about this. You were coming on the show last night and I I swim at night. So, I was in the pool and I was swimming. I was thinking about my father. I said, "I wonder if he's going to come through and this in this reading." So, maybe that maybe that's okay, that makes sense. Okay. Okay. He wanted you to know that he was with you in that moment. He spends a lot of time with you. He has a thing for animals as well, but he's teasing you. He's saying, "Yeah, not as much as you." He likes animals. He liked your hobbies with the animals. Now, I know this about you because I know that you love animals, but he's saying, "Yeah, he I I like that Dave has this thing with animals, but he he's into it more than I would be." Yeah. My father wasn't into the Yeah. Yeah. He's saying that you're more into it than him, but he I had to beg them for for for pets when I was a kid. Yeah. He's supporting your hobby with the animals and he's teasing you, saying that Yeah. You He's obsessed with animals and I'm I'm not as much. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. Okay, I'm going to put him aside for a moment. I'm going to bring through your mom. Now, I'm going to read you what I wrote down and then I'm going to try to tune in to your mom. Your mom is not as strong of a connection as as your dad. Um, when I tuned into your mom, and I wrote this down earlier, I wrote down that your mom is shorter in stature, shorter than average height. Would that make sense? Yeah, she was pretty tall for a woman actually. She was about 5'8. So, I don't know. And I wrote down uh emotionally distant. I felt that your mom was emotionally distant from you. And then I also wrote down, and this doesn't make any sense to me. Um because you're Italian and we don't have white hair, but I wrote down white hair. I never knew my mother with white hair because that doesn't make sense to me. But she was and and she's Jewish anyway. My my mother was Jewish, so it wasn't that was the Italian side. My father was the Italian side. So, I don't know. and she was she wasn't emotionally distant. So that that doesn't maybe it's someone else. Okay. When I tune into this person and I'm I'm pretty sure that is your mom and I I could be off on this, but I just saw an image in my head and I saw this um last night as well. I saw an image in my head of of of this person. I'm going to say it your mom because that's what my gut says. And she was talking very um her speech patterns I saw very clearly. She was speaking in a very slow soft tone. Not a loud person. You're speaking very slowly. I'm seeing someone short in stature. So maybe this is a a grandmother or another I think I think it it sounds like my my my mother's mother. My grandmother because she had white hair. Yeah. Okay. So white hair. And was she shorter in stature? Shorter than my mother. Yeah. Okay. Now your father's coming in again. Okay. So he's confirming that this was his mother-in-law. So that's my Yeah. My mother's mother. Yeah. My she was I was Yeah. I was the you know in the Jewish religion the boys are the you know can do no wrong. Your dad's saying that she was a handful to deal with. What? What? What? Father, what mother-in-law and son-in-law have a good relationship? I don't think it's fine. That's true. Okay. I'm I'm trying to tune in to the to to this woman, the grandmother, but she's not giving me a very to be honest, I'm not I'm not getting a very clear message from her. Okay. I saw her talking very softly to herself and I felt like um when I did tune into her I wrote down emotionally distant. So I felt like she was emotionally distant. I thought that was towards you but that could have been that she was emotionally distant to uh to her daughter which is your mom. Yes. Yes. I think that that I think that's accurate. Yes. Not to me. Yeah. It was her ability to just connect. Like she had I'm sensing um how do I say this? Not a psychological disorder, but um just emotionally she wanted to open up but she just couldn't. If that makes sense. Yeah, that makes sense. Okay. The end of her life. I'm sensing that she had like she was very confused towards the end of her life. like she wasn't all there. Now, I know that's easy to say for an old person, but I'm getting a sense of almost like at the time of her passing, she was very alone and stuck in her own head, if that makes sense. Yeah, she was in hospice. She had she had cancer. She like was in there for a long time. So, I think they you know, they had her on a lot of pain meds and stuff like that. So, she was a little wacky. Yeah. Same with my mama. Yeah. Pancreas. Yeah. And I think with the with with the issue of her being emotionally distant, she's wanting to correct that. So, she's acknowledging that and wanting to make amends for them. I think that's why that piece of information came Yeah. She wasn't She was very emotionally open to me. She I think it was my my mother that she had a problem with. Yeah. When you said that, I saw an image of your mom. No, I never met your mom. I've seen photos of your dad. I've never seen photos of of of your mom. I heard the name Barbara. That's not your mom's name, is it? No, that's my ex my first ex-wife. Yeah, first ex-wife. Barbara. Oh, that's my gallbladder's name. Okay. When I tune in to your mom, did she have not did she have shorter hair like right here? Okay. Now your mom popped in the picture after I communicated with your grandmother. Now now your mom's coming through. You see that? It's funny how that works sometimes. Sometimes like you brought up your mom and then boom, she comes through. It's almost like you you have to call them forward some. Gotcha. Well, I'd love to I'd love to hear anything from my mom. You know, that's because I my lost my mom when I was 14. So, you know, any my father I I had more of a relationship with obviously because he lived till 88, but you know, my mom was, you know, passed early. I see your mom now. Your mom was and I'm not sure how well you remember 14. That's not that old. Um that's not that young of me. Your mom is a very uh high energy person. I'm sensing that right away. Um her brain is very fast, very intelligent person. Yeah. Yeah. She was very um Okay, I'm sensing that she when she would get either like she's giving me Okay, let me put this into simple terms. Your ambition that you have and your ability to work non-stop, she's taking some responsibility for that. Okay, seeing that that that comes from her. her decision decision makingaking ability is really fast, which is not a a traditionally uh not a traditionally feminine trait, but she's she's tough. She's giving me the sense that she's tough and strong. Yeah. Now, she mentioned the name Barbara. I'm not sure why she mentioned that, but I'll get to that in a second. First, I just I just want to describe her. Okay. Um, she's very proud of of of the work that you do, guys. I gotta go. This is brutal. I'm a Christian. I'm a Christian. I don't I don't You can go. Don't worry about it. It's okay. I No problem. Peace out, guys. Have a good later. And that's no problem. You know, this is not everybody's cup of tea. I get that. I told people if they don't like it, they can That's why we did this other stuff in the beginning of the show. Yeah. Okay. Where was I getting back to? Okay. So, with your mom, she along with your dad, she's Okay. No, she's correcting me. She really likes your hobbies with the animals. She really likes that. Okay. So, she's arguing with your dad. They're arguing with each other. She's saying, "I was the boss. Your dad's saying he was the boss." Now they're arguing with each other. She was the boss. Yeah. Okay. I wanted to say that. Your dad doesn't want to hear that, but that's the impression that she's giving me. She's stepping forward saying, "I want to correct him." Okay. I am really like um I'm really impressed with her ability to to think and process. like she doesn't when when she's making decisions in her life and I'm not and I'll try to ask her what her profession was, but I'm getting the sense that there was very very fast no overthinking. You know, most people in business they or just in life we overthink um her decision making ability and ability to process thoughts quickly um is is I'm very impressed with. Yeah, she had a very high IQ. Simple way to say it. Yeah. Because okay, so she that's why she brought up the animals. When your dad was teasing you about the animals. Yeah. Um your mom was correcting your dad saying no. I like that he does that. Okay. Now she's giving another message about the divorce and I'll keep that short. But she's saying just keep pushing forward. Okay. Just keep pushing forward. You're getting you get she's saying you get your toughness from her. Definitely. Okay. Now, this brings me and she's bringing me to the last piece of information and this is what another piece. This was a dream before I emailed you about getting the show. I had a dream and you popped in my head in the dream. I get crazy dreams all the time. And your mom is telling me to talk about the dream. So in the dream you were at the gym or somewhere and I was just viewing and you were flexing your chest like in the mirror at the gym or training specifically your chest. Okay. I'm not sure why but it's very important that I mention chest. And the impression that I got is I got some issues going on but I'm making the best of what I can. and your ability to focus even when there's a shift storm. Your ability to focus on the positives and keep pushing That's your that you get that from your mom. So that's what your mom wanted you to know. That comes full circle. Okay. I would agree with that. Yeah. My father's not wasn't isn't the tough one. Yeah. That's that's the last piece I got. All right. Okay. Anyone else want to ask anything? John, you want to ask some questions? Yeah. Get back here then. Greg, you want to ask a question? Would you like to talk to your mom? Uh, I already talked to her. She [\h__\h] went on the back of my Stop [\h__\h] around. Do you want to ask him about your mom? Nick, where where where are where are these where are the people? Where where is was his where is his dad right now? He means is he in heaven or another world? I mean I don't I yeah I mean you know yeah where is he? That's the same question. So that that the question and I don't have all the answers. I I would describe it as I know a little bit more than the average person. You know once you open up yourself psychically you realize how much you don't know. You know I like I feel my stepson all the time. you know, and he he passed away and but but I don't like and even like I feel like he's in this happy place and and and it's just he's he's no longer sick. He's just good. Did he um I'm sorry to cut you off. Did he often wear baseball caps? Yeah. Okay. Did he leave the fridge open because he's showing me the refrigerator and it being open. Did he often sit around the fridge and leave it open? Not. No, we we didn't do that at all. Maybe it is with his dad. I'm showing an image in my head of him sitting by the refrigerator and the refrigerator being being open. Like him sitting there. Maybe with his dad. Okay. They they eat a lot of fast food, so there was never anything in the fridge. I'm seeing a dark I'm seeing Okay. where you live now. I'm seeing a dark room and the only light on in the room is the refrigerator. Do you go to the refrigerator late at night? Dark? No. You're You're probably seeing my son's place. Okay. I saw an image place. I saw an image of a kid with the fridge and the fridge being open. He does that all the time. My son does that all the time. Okay. I had to tell him stop. Shut the fridge. Shut the fridge. That's That's the message. what he's saying. Why Why aren't you validating? Well, I was I was fixated on Jaden. But do you know, but you guys realize and and I you know that some people would say every one of these answers are generic answers like what kid doesn't. Now, if the kid told you something like, "Dad, do you remember the time we [\h__\h] went to the Yankee Reds game and you said the Yankees were going to win?" And you know, then you might be like, "Holy [\h__\h] how would you know that?" You have to like like like we'd have to know something like you know everything that you said. Ask him ask him a question that that I just want to know are these people in heaven basically. No, I'm not put I'm not No, I'm saying Greg, why don't you ask Nick a question about something that like your mother or your father might have said to you and see what what comes out. Well, they thought I was a momo, so he would probably, you know, I got I got a great question that would go ahead. Okay. All right. Here. Come on, John. Um, I got to think of how I could word it so it's nebulous but still informative. Um, my dad fixed something and air conditioner. No, fixed something in on me. It was there was something wrong with me and I don't know what that means. There was something wrong with me health-wise or at least I tested for this malady. Correct. I was I was I this this bothered my father a lot and and I don't want I don't want to get too specific so you can guess it. So, um I want to know what if if you can tell what it was, what he did, did he have any hand in it? And and I can tell you and and I'm not joking around. I can say it. I'll I'll write it down on a piece of paper and hold it up after he says it. Do that. Do that. Greg of what I think. What I think and I only know you didn't tell me anything, but I have an idea because you said something to me a long time ago. You never mentioned your father, but I have a feeling it has to do with what you told me a long time ago. Okay. So, when you write it down, what what came to my head was you had to get something surgically removed. That's what came to me. No. Can I say it now? You're dead wrong. Can I say it? Yeah. He helped you lose weight because you had a weight problem as a kid. You were real fat. Okay. I was [\h__\h] wrong, too, but I'm not a psychic. Well, well, you could you could off-handedly say that was true because he called me into the family room. He was watching ABC's Wire World of Sports and the Olympia was on and as soon as I got into the living room, it was Sergio Leven was hitting a crab shot and I just remember his ears disappearing and I said, "That was [\h__\h] cool, man. I want to do that." And I was like a fat, you know, 11 year old kid. So, in in in an off-handed way, he introduced me to bodybuilding and that is what saved. So, I'm right then. You could say, "Greg, you're right. You didn't see what your ailment was." Yeah. No, I I I want to know what Yeah. What was what was wrong? What part of my body was affected? Okay. So the question is kind of like you know showed it. It was not generic info. So you had a a physical issue? Yeah. Correct. And you believe that your dad helped that go away? I'm I'm thinking he might have. Yeah. Okay. And and it wasn't that he beat the ugly out of him. Rather, Nick, why don't you just see if his dad comes through and says anything? How about or what part of my body it was what kind of problem it was. Why don't you just see if your father has a message for you and maybe that'll come through. There we go. That'll work. You were circumcised as an adult. Okay. I saw the the first thing I saw is your dad, right? As an adult, right? Um and all I'm doing here when I'm being quiet, I'm just trying to quiet my own thoughts to get the thoughts out of my I'm quieting Greg right now if you Yeah, that that's that's my process. Sometimes I'll stare at an object. I just try to clear my thoughts. Um, and sometimes I'm dead on accurate and you know, sometimes that's psychic. Sometimes we're just off. You know, that's that's that can happen, too. Um, when I tune into your dad, he's he's giving me a personality type that's very similar to you. And he's telling me his love love language was being a hard ass. I'm sensing like he's a very Okay. How do I How do I say this? You remember uh Law and Order SVU, Detective Stabler, that old show? No. You remember that show? No. Okay. Sorry. I only I only knew the first one. Law and Order. Law and Order was the only one I knew. Okay. He's given me the personality type of him being um not to discuss emotions like he's he's tough. He's not he's not a very uh emotionally I'm not an emotional communicator if that makes sense. That's the first thing I picked up on when I sensed his personality. He was a psychiatrist. So I think that he's in tune to emotion but he was not an affectionate guy. He was he was not he was not very affectionate, you know, like holding babies. Wait, can I say something? I'm getting like he's very factual logic based. I'm I'm like he would not he would not be seeing psychics when he was here. I don't think that he would believe in that. At least while he was here, that's not something that he would entertain. um actually that he he was he was hired to help with a case with a missing uh person that was um absorbed into the there was remember the Greg you remember the Mooneyies up upstate New York Sunyong Moon yeah he was trapped in there yep yep yep he was he was the guy was trapped in there what was your question exactly Nick you asked I was just saying when I when I tune into him, I'm getting more of a logical, factual, solid type of personality. Oh, yeah. I told you he was a psychiatrist. Of course. Wait, can I just say one thing, John? On Okay, you're diverting. You're diverting. I want I want to go get back to that. Yeah, I want to get back to what I'm trying to do is establish a connection to John's father and see if I can get that question answered. Um, okay. He's showing me the relationship between him and your mom. He's mentioning your son, which I know you have a son. Okay. I'm trying to divert his attention back to when John had a physical issue. I'm feeling a sensation in my left leg. Okay, that's not it. Then I'm I'm not getting a clear I'm not getting a clear answer. Okay, that's cool. What was it, John? Out of curiosity. Um I used to test I used to test positive for uh hepatitis C and in my blood work and I after my father that bothered my father. He used to send me studies and stuff on an interfuron therapy and [\h__\h] like that. And um and after he after he died, I went I f I was changed doctors and I found this doctor in the in in Fort Lauderdale that specialized in um HIV and and uh hepatitis. You got to go to them, you know, in those days to get the scripts for for juice, you know, so and get your blood work done. So anyway, I asked him, you know, I told him about the hepatitis C and everything. He ordered this huge panel. They must have t I I was laded after I gave all that blood. It was like 12 tubes they took out of me. Wow. And when they when I got had went back to my follow-up appointment, the doctor said, "Are you sure you tested positive for hepatitis C?" I said, like numerous times. I was denied life insurance because I had hepatitis CO positivity. He said, "Dude, there is nothing nothing in your blood work that shows you had even the slightest cause to doubt that you had hepatitis C. There's nothing. No leftover, no education, nothing." So, I'm thinking, you know, dad fixed it. That's crazy. I mean, it was a doctor, right? I mean, so you know, so I have no no sign whatsoever on blood work. The test change. It was lab error. Do you? What's that? You don't think it was lab error, do you? No, multiple times. Because he No, because he did I think may have been lab error the first times, but he That's what I mean. The first time. Yeah, it could have been, but it happened numerous times. It wasn't just one. Wow. Interesting. It happened probably four times. Wow. That's right. That's what I was saying. Maybe it was the type of tests for some reason. I don't know. Before we Before we wrap up, Greg, you want to ask any questions to Nick? No, I'm good. I I I'm only playing with you, Nick. I you know No, no. I'm saying you don't want Do you want to You want You want to ask anything about your mother or father? What about your sister? Sister? No. I mean, I don't know what the hell I would ask. Why don't you ask about your sister? See if your sister Let's see if she shows up. Okay. What about my sister? Okay. Ask them more. Okay. Ask them more specific question. Yeah. Like what? Like uh let me think. Uh what's what sport did my sister play? Yeah. You're not quizzing the guy. Ask him like something about you want to know about that that maybe you didn't have a chance to ask her or something. Uh where did my father hide the money? I like where you're going with this, Greg. I like where you're going with this. No, I'm kidding. Uh, oh [\h__\h] I don't know what the hell I would ask her. There's a lot of things I would ask her. Do you have a Do you have a big family? Uh, not really. I mean, big, you know, like extend like Yeah. You know, like I took care of nieces and [\h__\h] like that, you know, who are like daughters to me, you know, because I help raise them. The sister you're talking about, is that sister on dad's side? No. No, it's my sister. It's my real sister, you know. It's my same mother, same father. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. But I'm saying like, you know, uh because I I'm trying to locate the person and I felt like there was a lot of people. Um that could be a lot of guineies. Is your sister here or your sister's passed? No, my sister's dead. I think so. I mean, they buried her. You think so? Sorry. I'm so I'm sorry. God forgive me. James, forgive me. I just said her name. No, my sister passed away. And I was close with her, so I'll give you that much. Greg's relatives like, "We have nothing to say to this guy." Feel like you're stuck. We're completely mortified by him. You're stuck with him. We're We don't want to even take ownership of him. Yeah. Okay. One piece of information I'm getting is that you guys were close in age because I'm not feeling a big age difference. Yes. That you're 100% right. Actually, we were My mother was pregnant with her six weeks after giving birth to me. Wow. Holy [\h__\h] Those That's what you call Irish twins. Irish twins. Irish twins. Right. And we're not even Irish. We got no Irish in us. So, that one's right. Were you guys Oh, okay. I'm I'm picking up on her now. Were you guys similar in I'm getting similar in everything. Similar in personality, similar in height. Um um were you guys similar in would you say you were similar in personality? Like you guys were very uh you don't think in personal cuz she's not like [\h__\h] up like me. Like everybody in the family like even my son's like dude where'd you get this guy from? My father used to say tell my girlfriend I don't know what you're seeing him because I'm nuts. But uh I wouldn't say but but in height you know I'm like I'm 5'6 she was like 5'5 you know so she wasn't you know for I'm short for a guy but she was not short for similar similar in height similar personality. Yeah she was not short for a girl even you're saying she's not as weird or messed up as you but right she's saying that she is but she's not as vocal as you. Would that make sense? I don't know. What do you think, Lucia? She Yeah, but she's not [\h__\h] up like me. She had a filter. You don't. That's She definitely had a filter. Yeah, she had a filter. You don't. But she was almost protective over you to not show you certain sides of her craziness. Like she had she had she respected a boundary. Um she was um you know she was definitely more uh like you know she's more grounded like than I would she's saying that she was what okay she's saying that she was your rock but she wasn't hiding like a crazy side she was like a she was extremely smart and she was a phenomenal athlete by the way but she was very very smart you know what I'm saying like whereas I'm stupid I was going to say before I should have said it before you mentioned it I was getting that she was athletic tomboy very athletic. Yeah. But you never know if you saw her, she had a bikini body, but if I showed you pictures of her, you'd be like, "Holy [\h__\h] she was hot." Like, everybody look, my sister would wear a bikini even when she was dying and she had some body on it, like a Barbie doll, you know what I mean? And she would, you know, she was she was a state uh all state in in field hockey. She's on the wall in the high school, you know, and track. She Let him do the talking. Oh, sorry. I know I'm giving you too much now. You got to get all this. I know. Now, now I I can't say anything that you said. Obviously, I got to ask her for different different information. Tell her to stay away from a mean though. If she was saying she was saying that she's your rock. That's what she was saying before. Um I I would say in a you know, I guess to an extent, you know, uh you know, she's saying that she was okay. She's not taking all of this uh ownership saying that she was your rock in the sense that she's responsible for keeping you grounded. She's just saying that out of the in the sibling relationship, out of the two of you, she was more of a rock. 100%. She was very um very protective over you. Very protective. She protective instinct. And she's saying that she would do things to protect you and not tell you about you. like things behind the scenes that you wouldn't even know about that she would do to to to look out for you. Very protective over you. She definitely she definitely did [\h__\h] for me, bro. Let me tell you. She got me she went when I got arrested, she went down there and [\h__\h] went right to Jannine Piro's office and she was like, "That's this is not going to stay." I mean, my sister was really good. She was a top businesswoman. You know what I'm saying? She's she was a badass. Let him say it. towards the towards the end of her life. I'm getting the sensation here and it feels like it's difficult for me to breathe. Would that make sense to you of how she passed? Um uh I mean I don't know if she had trouble breathing but she was in bad shape. She had a telling me that at the time of her passing it was fixed. Like there was a sickness leading up to it but at the time of her passing she's saying once I left I was out of the body. Boom. I just think that everybody like that's kind of generic only because everybody as they're dying is almost like gasping for breath. Uh I'm not I'm probably not supposed to tell you how she died, right? No. No. I'm just getting a sense that towards the end towards the very end at the time of her passing it was very it was very a very fast passing. I'm not getting the sense of a lot of suffering. I do see illness leading up to it, but um she's telling me when I when I did leave, there was no pain involved. I was instantly gone. Well, I can tell you this. Uh she was like, she's a legend over here where I live. But her suffering was greater than Jesus's suffering. I mean, Jesus suffered for so many hours on a cross. That girl suffered for she had a cancer that you die within the first year, you get it. And she lived 11 years with her doctors brought other doctors down just she was a marvel. I'm just 11 years. Yeah. 11 years. How many organs they took out of that girl and she still would walk around in a bikini on a beach? You would not even It's unbelievable. I can show you pictures. You'd be like, "Get the f." She had pictures a week before she died. She was swimming in her pool. But she was in the like, you know, she went away bad. You know what I'm saying? Like she knew she was going to die. She told us, you know, listen, I'm going to die and it's going to be all right. You got to let it go. She was Yeah. So, she was at peace with you just said that already. She was giving me the sense that she she was mentally strong and she doesn't want anyone to feel bad for her passing. Oh, yeah. We knew, you know, we all we actually felt good when she passed because she was like sick. Final message, Nick, for Greg because we got to wrap this up. That's all I'm getting from her. I know. I appreciate Nick. He had a question about what happened. Um, what happened? I will share a brief dream that I had. So after my my father passed a few years ago and um he visited me a few times in dreams that were very vivid and the most vivid dream that I have with him after he passed was um he told me at the time of his passing that the first place he went to was a field of grass. And he said he can feel the grass and he can smell the grass. And I turned and asked him I said, "Oh, so on the other side it must be real. it must be real on the other side. And he looked at me and he said, "It's only real because we perceive it to be real." And that was his answer. So this whole reality we live in now, the other side, they're one and the same is just solid here because we perceive it to be solid. Um, that's my theory. That's what my father told me after his passing. Like I said, I don't have all the answers. No psychic does. I just have a tiny glimpse, maybe a little more than the average person. Um, but that's my theory on it. We're all in a virtual reality uh simulation and uh it depends on where our attention is is focused. I think that's really what dictates what we see and feel and experience. But thank you Nick for joining us and once again thanks everyone. Not everyone not everyone's into the the whole psychic readings and that's fine. But you know hopefully you guys enjoy the beginning of the show. Nick if people want to get in touch with you for readings how do they do that? just on Instagram, Nick Paladino. All my links are there. Just Nick Paladino Instagram. Thank you so much. And guys again next week for another installment of After Hours with the Wack Pack. I'm Dave Plumb. We'll see you next time. Later, guys.