All right. Always a good time catching up with the champ. Ronnie, as we all know, you've got your own signature series now, the Ronnie Coleman signature series. You've got a booth right over here where you'll be, of course, for the rest of the uh event. So, if you get a chance, you can stop by and say hello in person to the champ. But, how's the business going, man? How's the uh business of bodybuilding? Oh, everything's going pretty good. Uh just having having a good time here today. uh trying to sign as many autographs I can and meet as many people as I can. So, as soon as I get done here, I'll be right over there uh doing what I do, do best. I'll hold that microphone right up, Ronnie. You got to get the bass in the voice, man. You got to do your best imitation of me. I think your mic is better than mine. Here, you here. Try that one there, champ. How's that one? Yeah, I think this one's a lot better. Ah, the Yeah, that's a that's the bass microphone. I just happen to have it. But uh well Ronnie, talk to me about uh the business of bodybuilding off the stage as opposed to on the stage. Obviously, as we all know, eight Mr. Olympia, a Hall of Famer, you'll go down as not even arguably, in my opinion, the greatest bodybuilder of all time. But of course, we can always ask the fans, is Ronnie Coleman the greatest bodybuilder of all time? Folks, well, I'll just say like this. The uh business of bodybuilding is a whole lot harder than competing on stage doing doing it that way. when I was competing, uh, I I I think bodybuilding was came kind of easy to me cuz all I had to do was, you know, pump a few weights, uh, do a little cardio. Pump a few weights. Yeah. Yeah. And get on stage. Now I got to travel all over the country. I got to make two and three appearances a day. Uh, I sleep about maybe one, two hours a day. Uh whereas when I was competing I was sleeping a good six seven hours a day. So it's a whole lot harder and you know I'm I see I seem like I'm all on my own now. Whereas when I was competing I had you know somebody to you know help me clean the house, somebody to help me with my cars, somebody to help me with my diet, my nutrition. Now it's just me by myself, you know, going signing autograph for 3, four hours at a time, leaving one appearance, going to the next, flying to one country, going to the next, uh, getting about four days at home and, uh, about two months. So, it's a lot of hard work. It's a lot of traveling, and I'm having fun. Well, Ronnie, when you say uh, you know, pump a few weights, you know, getting for it. We all seen the unbelievable DVD and many of the other ones that you put out, I I got to say I think it's more than probably pumping a few weights. You had a whole lot of weights going on there, but um, all that stuff comes at a cost, Ronnie. I mean, obviously, as many people know from the magazines and of course your various interviews. Um, injuries have taken their toll. I mean, you've been no stranger to getting into the hospital, getting some work done, some nerve problems. uh give me a short laundry list of of some of the things you've had to deal with uh postc career from all that heavy lifting over the years. Well, uh it it's nothing real serious, but I've had about uh three surgeries. I had uh two back surgeries and one neck surgery. My back was like decompression. Uh my neck was uh uh what's it? I forget where my neck was, but it wasn't real serious. Uh, but after all my surgeries, I was back in the gym about what, 6 weeks later, hitting it hitting it hard again. So, I'm still hanging in there, you know, just just a little just a little hiccups here and there. That's about it. Well, Ronnie, your attitude always is the best when it comes to these things. You don't really take anything too seriously. Always in a good mood, always got a smile on your face. But Ronnie, I want to take just a few minutes uh to get back into your bodybuilding career. Uh, take me back to 19, not 1998, but 1997. You're on the Olympia stage, but you weren't the winner in 97. Take me back to that date and what the results were in 97. 97? No, Flex Flex wasn't even there. Uh, he didn't do too good. Judge Steve Weinberger giving some uh some flak to Ronnie up here. He had you in first. You're right. In 1997, uh, that was a bad year for me. 9 97 was, uh, the year I placed ninth. Uh, I thought that was my year to make the top five because the year before that I placed six. And, uh, it was always just my goal to place in the top five. And 97 was a bad year. Uh, uh, in 1997 at the Iron Man, uh, I went and I I thought I was going to be doing good in that show. And I got beat by by Lee Priest. And uh I'm like, "What? Where's this thing going? How can I get beat by a midget?" Uh I went on to the Arnold Classic and uh Lee Priest was there again. I thought he's going to beat me again. So when I went back to my room, uh I told Vicki, Vicki sitting right there. I tell, "Hey Vicki, uh I think I had enough of this uh bodybuilding stuff. I I think I'm going to give it up because, you know, things are not going you good for me and I got this job police department. I'm real happy there. So, I think I'm going just give it up. And Vicki looked at me and she said, "Boy, shut up." And she always talk to me like that, you know, cuz she know she get away with it cuz she'd have beaten the crap out of you back to her. Yeah. And and I thought about it for a minute. I like, damn. Yeah. You you got a point there cuz if I if I if I give up bodybuilding, I lose my free membership to the gym. So, uh I got right back on track. And when I went to the Olympian and got nice and I, you know, I didn't even consider, you know, giving up cuz I had already tried that once before when you know at the Arnold Classic. So I like okay I just go on and uh get back and get ready for this tour and see how it goes. So take me back. I mean you were going to give it up at the end of 97. You were going to retire and and move on. No I I like I said I already quit you know at the Arnold Classic when uh Lee Priest was getting ready to beat me again there. you know, he had already beat me the week before and I'm like, man, I I didn't think bodybuilding was like this. You know, I thought I was going to be a lot better. And when you got somebody like 5T uh on a good day, 180 lbs and you know, you are 5'11 uh all of 250 and they beating you, you just can't figure it out. So, you know, well, we got like maybe this is not for me. Well, I got to give uh Lee Priest some things. For one thing, he did model for our uh Europa Man trophy right over there in front of the podium. So, you can at least thank him for that one. But he can't ride the bumper cars, but he was a pretty good bodybuilder. Obviously, we're going to kind of fast forward to 98. Now, you didn't give up. Obviously, you came back better than ever. You come in 98, but 98 was pretty much gift wrapped for a man named Flex Wheeler. Yep. Exactly. Uh pretty much uh Flexi already won that show. He was he told me uh he didn't even train hard. He he go to the gym uh work out for about 30 40 minutes and go straight to the strip club. Matter of fact, uh he he he was he was so sure he was going to win. Somebody had already booked him for a guest posing right after that show and paid him, I guess, Mr. Olympia fee, which was $10,000 at the time, to our guest pose at the Mr. Olympia, which was coming up about 3 weeks later after the show. So, uh, you know, I guess it was a different story once we got to the stage, though. Things changed. Ronnie, there's, uh, you're on stage in 98. There's two men left and it's you and Flex Wheeler. What was going through your mind right before the big announcement came through? Well, what was going through my mind is, uh, I had finally accomplished my dream of making it in the top five in Mr. Olympia. Uh, you know, I finally felt like I had arrived. I finally felt like all those days of hard work, you know, working eight working eight hours at the police department, getting off from work, going doing cardio after work, doing cardio before work, working out before work. I finally felt that that was all paying off because I had finally realized my dream of making the top five. Of course, I never I never thought in a million years that I would win that show because, you know, like I said, no, I hadn't said it yet, but the reason why I got into the sport of bodybuilding because Brian Dobson gave me a free membership to the gym. So, I never thought that uh it would go as high as it went, as far as I took it. Well, for those who are bodybuilding fans and you remember back to that time, there were some pictures uh that came out in the magazines. Obviously, the internet wasn't going too nuts back then. Um, there's a series of photos that kind of show the sequence of the announcement coming. Flex kind of turned his back at one point and kind of put his finger up, you know, kind of waving it off and there was a lot of interpretation at the time as to what that was, if it was disrespect to you or if he was just not pleased with the decision or just emotions at the time. How did you take it, Ronnie? No, I I I think uh you talk about 99, Mr. Olympia, but uh I don't I don't remember too much happened after they announced Flex Wheeler in second place in 1998. You know, uh after they announced him in second, I kind of collapsed a little bit and I was down for the count for a little while and I went back and I saw I saw the uh tape when they announced Flexing second. I think he kind of reached down and and pat me on the head and you know, I was down for about another couple minutes. Then I see Chris Camille come over and do the same thing. And then uh I think about maybe a minute or two later, Vicky Gates come on stage and pick me up off the floor literally because I I had tried to get up. I tried to get up a couple times and my leg just didn't seem want to work for me at the time. But I think once I saw her, I got a little energy like, you know, I'm being rescued and I was able to get up off the floor. So, thank Vicki. Thank Vicki for Vicki for always picking you up when you pick me up. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I need that help. Well, Ronnie, we hear all the time people debate the alltime question. Who's the greatest of all time? These type of things. I always think it's kind of an unfair question because you've got different eras of bodybuilding from, you know, Larry Scott obviously right up until today's champ of Phil Heath. Um, so very difficult. I know Steve Winer putting up a eight number. It just kind of says it all. But I got a different question, Steve, because that one's debated forever. My question is, if we take all the Ronnie Coleman's from 98 and all eight Olympia victories and we line you up on stage from every year, which Ronnie Coleman wins, which year of the of the Ronnie Coleman victories beats all the other Ronnie Coleman's. Well, I got to go with the first one. That was the one in 1998 because that's going to always be my favorite one. And that's the one that uh pretty much shocked me. And that's the one that I never ever in a million years saw coming and never even dreamed about it. And I still go back today and I still watch that film and I still get tears in my eyes from that one. So that that that's got to be the all-time favorite for me. So So 98 Ronnie Coleman beats all the other Ronnie Coleman's. All the other Ronnie Coleman. 2003. 98 is the year. All right. Steve, you got a pick on that? Uh huh. No. Well, you can argue that one all day long. One thing that can't be argued, Ronnie, is obviously one of the greatest all time. Ronnie, I mentioned Phil Heath, your current threetime champ. He's looking to make it four in a row this year. Now, nobody has done four in a row since Ronnie Coleman. So, Phil Heath obviously putting himself in elite status this year with a with a victory, which of course he is hot on the tail and showing no signs of slowing down. Give me your impressions on Phil Heath at this point in his career. Well, I think Phil looking real good now and uh from from looking at last year's Mr. Olympia, I really can't see anybody giving him any challenge right now. Uh he's kind of like in a class all by himself. Uh I I see uh this guy uh Big Ramy. I think he's going to once he gets his muscle maturity behind him, I think he's the next guy that's going to challenge Bill Hugh. But I think that's about maybe two three years down the road. And that's an interesting assessment, Ronnie, because I picked Big Ramy myself as potentially a guy that could give Phil trouble. People find that interesting because they're expecting names that we're familiar with. Kai Green, Dennis Wolf, Branch Warren, uh, you know, Sean Rooden, a guy that was working for you for a little while. Um, and the rest of the hosts are the guys that have kind of been towing the line for a little while. Um, I'm with you. I think Big Romney presents something different, and I think you have to be different than Phil Heath to be able to try to beat Phil Heath. But does Phil have to come in off for somebody to beat him at this point, or can somebody literally present something that gives the judges something to look at? Well, I think anything is possible, but uh just looking at last year's competition, uh I think it I I I find it very very hard for Phil to come in off because I remember when I was Mr. Olympia, you know, that that was my sole purpose for living. You know, that that took first over everything. So, you always trying to for me, I was trying to get better every year and I was trying to put on weight and I was trying to be different from last year. So, I was always 1,000% focused when it came to Mr. Olympia. So, I I can't see Phil coming in off. I can see him not coming in at all, you know, from a real bad injury, but as far as coming in off, I just don't see that happening. I So, so for me, I just got to take that off the table. Well, we mentioned Big Ramy. Now, Big Ramy burst on the scene last year at Steve Weinberger's New York Pro show in New York City, and he made quite an impression beating the very impressive Victor Martinez, who was coming back from various injuries and other things that kept him out of the limelight for a while, but he showed up in shape and Big Ramy showed up at about 276 lbs and, you know, kind of destroyed everybody. Now, we've got once again, we're one week away from the New York Pro. Uh Big Ramy not going to be in it this year, I understand, but we've got some new superstars on the horizon and Juan Morell and John Delar Rosa. Uh and we've seen some uh some new talent coming up. What do you think of the new class of bodybuilders that we're seeing, Ronnie? Well, I think uh John Delar Roa uh he's one of my favorite one real looking guy, real real nice looking guy. I think it's going to be a real tough competition between those two, but I thought Big Romy was doing that show because I know he had to re-qualify. So, we just have to wait and see how it all all pans out. Those are New York guys and and they uh kind of like they kind of like kind of remind me of myself the way whether they train real hard and real heavy. So, we just got to wait and see who comes in shape, who looks the best on that day because I think they've already both competed this year. Yeah, they've both been on the circuit for two or three shows. So, uh, but they'll both be in their backyard of New York City. And of course, as we all know, the New York crowd is always crazy and and a great crowd to be in front of when it comes to bodybuilding. One thing can be assured, the the real winner of that show will of course be Steve Weinberger, who's promoting and putting it on. Uh, so that New York Pro will be sold out once again for those looking to catch some good IFBB action. Uh, definitely be online at MD and the rest of the various sites as we'll be doing playbyplay and uh, up-to-date information and to see how that unfolds. Steve Klo, another new name in the mix, who won Brazil just a few weeks ago, won this show last year, another one of the new and also Justin Compton, another name that comes who actually won the uh Orlando Europa uh just about four weeks ago. So, we we got some great new talent uh coming up on the horizon, Ronnie. And we seem to, you know, obviously you're an eighttime Mr. Olympia. Uh Lee Haney before you, Arnold obviously before him, and now you got Phil Heath at hopefully four for him. Where does it get harder, Ronnie? Like I mean, does it obviously winning the first one's going to be the most emotional? Um where in that eighth did it get either easier or harder to defend the title? For me, it was hard every single year because not only did I have to, you know, work out, had to do all this traveling, but I worked a full-time job for the police department. So, I was always busy and I was always doing something. So, I just had to have every all my priorities and check it out. I had to, you know, be 100% focused on everything that I was doing because, you know, when I go to work, you know, people are trying to, you know, take my head off, trying to kill me or whatever. And you know, I'm I'm just out there trying to help them out. But I was always 100% focused on what I was doing at the time. If I was at the at the job, I was I was 100% focused on that. When I was in the gym getting ready uh for for the show, I was always 100% focused on that. But for me, you just being focused on what I was doing at the time and and what whatever it is I was doing, that's where my head was. Ronnie, I'm going to bring us to the present day. We're here in Dallas. Another great Europa competition here. Branch Warren from right here in Dallas, Texas on the stage yesterday at the prejudging. And Branch hasn't had his best year so far this year. But Branch kind of comes from that same old school that you do. And I talked to Branch yesterday. I said, how important is this potential win for you tomorrow? And his reply was, "Let me tell you how important it is." He says, "I have no intention on going to the Olympia if I have to point my way there. I want a victory. If I'm not good enough to win an Olympia qualifying show, I ain't good enough to get on the Olympia stage. What do you make of that of that kind of an attitude from a veteran like Branch Warren? Well, I think Branch had to have that attitude because Branch is a guy that has placed second in Mr. Olympia. So, he was second in the world at one time. So, for him to have to qualify is is something different all in itself. So, he's in a in a in a category and and he's uh somewhere that he's never been before in his career. And it's like you say, if you can't win a show like this, you know, you you you don't really need to be on the Olympia stage. So, this is a absolute must for him. So, branch back is up against the walls, though. I think this is one of the most important days in his career. And I'd be remiss, Ronnie, if I didn't make a note on that. That not only are you correct in that assessment, but how important is it mentally for Branch Warren to get a victory here and kind of reestablishes this team again, you're talking about a guy who was second in the world and now has got to qualify and get back to that Olympia. Is it a mental thing? Well, I mean, I'm quite sure, you know, it's probably the most important thing on his mind right now and then it and it should be, but I don't think it'd be the end of the world because Branch Warren is pretty much real well established in the sport of bodybuilding. So, you know, this this is not going to make a break his career or break his life cuz he he has a great he's had a great career in the sport and he can always go on and do some other great things. So, so all he has to do basically, you know, Branch has been there before and he's done it. So, he know what he had to do. So, all he all you got to do now just just do it. Well, Ronnie, I know you're uh busy with the booth and and obviously your business uh as you'll be making your way back over there. Ronnie, we have any uh we have any show specials for our uh great audience that came out here to hear you speak today. You got to have something special for my people over here. Yeah. Uh what did we do last week? Last time I I was uh at the Orlando show, we gave away I think you gave them all free products. free T-shirt. No, we gave a uh we actually gave a free T-shirt to whoever had the best Ronnie Coleman imitation. And the guy who came up who actually won, Ronnie said was so bad that he gave him a free T-shirt to never do it again. So Ronnie, nobody can imitate you, buddy. I mean, all the uh Now, you actually have t-shirts with your some of your sayings on it, do you not? Yeah, I I I do. But I I I think we do that same thing. I I think uh we give a free T-shirt to anybody who can guess uh what I got my degree in and how I graduated and where I graduated from. I actually know both of those, but I got enough t-shirts, man. So, plus I know you personally, so all right, you got it. Anybody that shows up at the Ronnie Coleman booth, free T-shirt if you can guess what he majored in in college. Uh what what level what status level I graduated? What honor what what honor uh status I graduated? Oh, what honor status? Cuz I was going to say I know the college, but so we're we're going to make this a little tougher here. In what year? Oh, what do you mean in what year? Come on. I'm trying not to give it away. Give some t-shirts to the folks. You guys want some t-shirts from Ronnie? Don't let the people down, right? They got to work hard for them, though. Can't give them away. They're going to send Vicki after your ass is what they're going to do. Then you got some real problems on your hands. Don't do that. Well, Ronnie, I know you got to get back to work. We really appreciate you taking some time out of your schedule to answer a few questions and bring the great fans here in Dallas. Ladies and g gentlemen, eight time Mr. Olympia, Ronnie Coleman. Yeah, buddy. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Give me my mic back. All right, that was Ronnie. Mike, Ronnie, always a good sport. Great story. Like I said, folks, he'll be down to this booth, so be uh feel free to stop by, say hello to the champ, and try to get a t-shirt out of the the freaking cheap Mr. Olympia. Like, he ain't got enough t-shirts, right? All right, folks. We are just about ready to go. Normally I do this during the intro and all that, but while I got a captive audience, we've got the color guard.