This is Dave Palumbo with RXGirl Training. We are here with IFBB Bikini Pro Dana Malatin. We're going to be doing a little of Dana's special boot camp training here at Body Dynamics Gym in Philadelphia, PA. Welcome, Dana. Hi, Palumbo. Thanks for having me. Palumbo, you call me. I like that. That's cool. That's cuz you're half Italian, right? You can say that. Yes. Now, you're a Jersey girl, isn't that correct? Yep. Typical Jersey girl. You grew up there? Um, I was raised in the Bronx and then I moved here. So, basically, yeah, I grew up here. Oh, you you're you're from like a tough area, huh? Yeah. I'm a tough girl. Tough chick. Um, let's talk a little bit about, you know, your contest history. Just so in case our viewers out there don't know, you know, who you are, we can update them a little bit. Talk to me a little bit about how you got into bikini to begin with. Um, I started working out in 2008. Um, and my boyfriend at the time was the trainer and his friend was in the bodybuilding industry and said, "You should try to do um, they have the new amateur field and it's called Bikini. You should do a show." So, I basically walked around. They showed me what to do. Two guys were showing me what to do and I What? I said they taught you the walk out basically. Yeah. So I didn't do very well on stage but um so MVPC Atlantic City I did in 2009 in September 2009. I basically decided 14 days prior. So um I didn't really diet or anything. Um I did that in September and then 7 days later I did the NBC Team U and I turned pro. Was that a surprise to you? Yeah. I I really honestly tell the truth, it happened so fast. I got into it so fast. I really I didn't even know what pro meant. I didn't even know what my pro card was. Really? Wow. Don't tell too many people that get jealous. Well, now there's a community on RX. That's right. It's out there. You've let it out to the public. Um, so you turn pro. You don't even know what pro is. Uh, now that the next year comes around and and you got to start competing as a pro. All right. you turn pro like so easily, but now you get into the pro ranks and you you have trouble. Tell me what happened. Yes. So then um I decided to do New York Pro and I came in ninth. I don't remember how many girls. Um wasn't too happy with my spot, but um they said that I'm too hard. Well, first of all, my stage presence I'm probably the most outgoing person you'll ever meet. Soon as I get on stage kind of freeze, so my stage present isn't that great. But they also say I'm too hard. to lean. I have veins in my arms, but I can't in my legs, veins in my arms. You also have very good abs. I don't know if that means anything. Yeah. Yeah, they're a little too defined. They kind of I think that's I don't know what they're looking for, but I think they're just looking for on the side. Now, do you think that uh this is just a genetic trait that you have? Born with abs. I mean, I literally have a picture of me as a little girl in a bathing suit and I have a six-pack. So, yeah, I have the genetics. I just have a very muscular body type and there's nothing I can really do. I know you got the the German and Italian genetics playing uh playing in your favor there. Yeah. So maybe you need to uh maybe you need to what what do you do? I mean at this point you got the body for bikini. You obviously earned your pro card relatively quickly. What are you doing now to try to get the physique that they're looking for on stage? Honestly, I love my body right now. I don't want to I don't know what I adjusted to what they want. So, basically, I would have to I would have to stop working out completely and get on stage. That would be what they wanted. 3 years ago, before I ever started training, that's what they're they're looking for, I think. Um, I was softer. I still had a muscular build, but I was softer and I didn't have so many cuts in my arms and shoulders. Um, so I think that's what they're looking for, but I don't want to change for that. So, I'm not all I do basically is um I do a lot of like boot camp workouts, plyometrics, um stuff you'd see on like PX90. I always change up my routine. I never do the same thing. Um I do cardio plyometrics every day. I do about 35 minutes of that. And then I just go around the gym and just make up my own little circuit basically. Basically, anything you do is good because if if you do too much, you obviously put on muscle and then that's not what they want obviously. Yeah. I I don't ever lift on my legs. That's what, you know, I have big legs. I have a bigger lower body. So, I never lift my legs. Um I just stick to like biometrics and I do my butt and quads and that's it. Well, I see you doing some pretty crazy leg uh raises for uh your abs and uh I can understand why they're so welldeveloped. You're pretty strong in that capacity. Uh talk to me a little bit about, you know, what shows you you want to do this year or are you going to even do any shows? Um well I did the flex bikini model search last year in um at the Olympia and I came in second. So the last was about 90 girls that came in second. So I kind of want to stick to doing just bikini shows rather than um doing the IFCV. I I mean I'm thinking about doing a couple shows. Maybe the Orlando will be my first show, right? I'm going to try it out again. I have to work on my stage presence and um but I just I'm not going to change my body for stage. So if I do good, I do good. If I don't, I don't. Different judging panels judge differently, too. So I mean, you can't you know, you might have done bad at one show and then you go to another show and you do well. So Oh, yeah. Jacksonville Pro, there was 18 girls. I came in 16. Yeah. And then and you were better in New York. So I mean it's the different judging panels. And then the next show I did was the um Europa and I came in six. So yeah, it's Yeah. What kind of a diet do you eat? Are you strict or do you eat like junk food? Um for the most part I eat really clean throughout the year. I look like this all year long. I never My body never changes. I don't ever gain weight. I don't ever, you know, get thinner. So um like if I'm on stage I'm 107, but I normally weigh like 110. So you know I'll, you know, I will eat desserts for about a week or two. Basically, I, you know, I do my six meals a day. Um, a lot of protein and I I just I cheat a lot, though. But when I cheat, I make up for that in the gym. What What do you call a cheat? Red velvet cheesecake is my favorite thing in the world. Oh, so you'll you'll eat cheesecake. You'll eat junk food then. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Like chips. I love I like desserts. So, I mean, I have chocolate in my drawer at work. Really? Oh, we have some uh healthy chocolates uh that they're that they're selling on our website now on the RX sponsor. Really? Yeah, they're they're sugar-free chocolates. They're really good, too. Yeah, but they have a lot of carbs in them when they're sugar-free. I have 90% cocoa. Ah. Oh, you do like the real dark chocolate then, huh? Yeah. Better for you. Less sugar. Gotcha. Yeah, these are sugar-free though. But yeah, you're probably right. Some They have a couple dark chocolate pieces, but they also do some other stuff uh as well. Um, so if a guy wants to get to your heart, he's got to buy you chocolate. Is that the idea? Red velvet cheesecake. Really? Red velvet cheesecake. All right, remember that guys out there. Don't uh don't forget this vital information we're providing you with. Uh, so you eat relatively uh clean all year round, but you you do give yourself a cheat meal occasionally. But when you then you say you work it off in the gym, maybe you shouldn't be working it off. Maybe that's the problem. Maybe that's why uh the judges are thinking you're too hard. But my thing is my upper body is so lean, but if I start eating really bad and I don't work it off at the gym, I'll gain it in my lower. Gotcha. Now, I'm sure lose. It's It's a Yeah, I'm sure there's girls out there that have the same problem. So, uh I mean, what what have you found the solution is? You know, maybe you should just eat more good food. I never I've never lifted on my arms. I just started doing it about 5 months ago. I just started lifting. Um, I basically just stuck to doing like boot camp classes and um, cardio. I just started lifting on my arms a little bit and my shoulder caps are getting a little bit, you know, more defined and my biceps are getting a little I had very like stringy arms with a lot of like muscle tone but not actual depth. So, my arms are a little bigger now, but I just don't that's not going to help with bikini. I basically have more I'm in between figure and bikini, I think. And you don't want to go to figure, right? No, no, because you I want my butt getting bigger. Okay. So, you like you like your body is what you're telling me. I like my body right now. Yeah, that's good. At least you're comfortable with it. That you know, some people aren't comfortable with their body. You like your body. That's good. Now, what do you do uh professionally? I'm a makeup artist. Okay. I actually my regular job I manage 60 women and then um I'm a professional makeup artist on the side. Wow. So, you're used to telling people what to do? Yes. Okay. And you're probably good at it, too. I bet I'm a slighter controlling. Yeah. To add that to the list. Uh when you consider the red velvet cheesecake, um let's talk about some hamstrings right here. Uh you know, no one's going to deny that you have a very good booty. Okay, we're watching it right here. Um do you attribute that to anything or just genetics? If you told my mother or my sister, you definitely say genetics. Um, but I mean I think piometrics help. Okay. I mean I it's not it's not from working out but yeah not genetics. Okay. Okay. But you know so the butt is genetic but you definitely work it to to bring to increase the muscle 100%. I think my pio that I do all the time I do I do pio and cardio every day like five days a week. I think that that definitely helps a lot. Now way do you do these pio outside or inside? inside. Okay. I have these programs that I kind of um made up a bunch of programs where I on the treadmill I get off the treadmill and then I do pio or when I do my circuits I do pio. People at the gym think I'm crazy when you run around like a lunatic basically. I literally run around like a lunatic. Yeah. And how long do how long do these workouts last? Usually I do my cardio pio for about 35 minutes usually and then um and then I'll do some circuits probably like an hour and a half I'm at the gym for. And do you ever have any other women that like follow you around and try to do the workouts with you? No, I get asked all the time, do you train? And you know, do you compete? Do you train once a day? I get that at the gym. um process. But no one you don't have like any training partners that might like you know accompany you through my mother. My mother's my new training partner. I'm actually training her. Wow. How old is your mom? 52. You wouldn't everybody think she's my sister? You never think of Wow. Really? Now, can she keep up with you? Yeah, she can. She looks good. That's that's that's cool. You know, that's uh good. My dad's 81. I got him in the gym and uh he's all he does is complain. So, I guess I guess you got a good deal going on. Um, you have the same muscle tone. I mean, I have the same muscle tone as her. Arms are exactly the same. Yeah. So is my dad, but he's just 81 years old now. I see what I can look like in another 45, 50 years. Uh, let's talk a little bit about um cardio because you do you are lean. Do you even do cardio? I do. I do. I do 35 minutes a day on top of your plyometric crazy workouts, right? It's basically like I do pio with the cardio. I I jump off of the machine, do plyometrics, jump out, run. Gotcha. It's all incorporated into one workout. And how long does the workout take? About 354 minutes? Yeah. Okay. So, that's not too bad. So, you're in and out of the gym. And how many days a week do you do that type of a workout? Four to five days a week. Really? Okay. And uh would you recommend that other women try this or is this something just just specific for your body, you know? Uh, no. I definitely recommend if somebody wants to lean out, I think that's why my, you know, I'm really lean, my upper body. Um, not only genetics, but I think that it's kept me really lean. Um, I mean, I feel like I'm going to throw up every time I get off when I do one of my programs. Now, I'm watching you. Uh, you're setting up the the ball here, the uh whatever you call this ball, the physio ball, the Bosu ball. Bosu ball and you're balanced on one of them and you're doing these crazy crazy ab exercises that look very very very difficult. Explain to me what is this called on the ball I'm doing it. Yeah. Yeah. You're pulling your knees into your chest. Oh, that's for your whole abs. It's not called It's called Dana's abs. Everything I do is just I I just make it up as I go along. Well, it looks great. So I don't get sick of anything. It looks difficult. I don't know if I could do it. I think I would probably like break my arm or something. You have to balance yourself with the ball. Yeah. That's why it's good for your core. Gotcha. All right. Well, you seem to got it. You have all the questions answered uh in this interview at least. And hopefully we're going to get to see you on stage a little later this year. Did you say Orlando? Maybe. Orlando. Yeah. I actually I'm going to the Arnold. I did um another bikini search. It was the Rockstar Bikini. So, I'm one of the 12 finalists in that. Um, so we'll be at Sushi Rock doing a photo shoot runway show on Thursday night at the Arnold and then you'll see me on stage giving awards at the Arnold. No, that's great. You're lucky. It's great that they let you guys do these model searches even though you're pros. That that that's cool. I think Yeah, it's working out better for me then. You'll make Yeah, you'll make more money doing bikini modeling for certain. True. Yes. All right. Well, for now we are out of time here. I'm Dave Palumbo here with Dana Malatin RX girl training.