It's a [\h__\h] nightmare. You over here at the Gat Nutrition booth with Sadi Khik, our old friend here. Now, uh, you know, you the first time I met you and I interviewed you, you had this long, luxurious hair. You still got a good hairhead, but you're you're very very buzzed now. Yeah. Well, I noticed you were eyeballing my head before we even started the interview. I like your hair. I'm jealous of your hair. That's something of my thing. Um, yeah, I did have long hair. I got short hair. Big deal. It's just hair. Which do you like better? I have no preference. Uh, the ladies, this is the classic Ezekiel look, though. The ladies tend to like the shorter hair better. I like the longer hair better. So the women it attracts a different type of woman. They want to know what happens. They want to know what happens when you pull it. And you know it can't I can't disclose that. So that's for another interview, guys. Now you did everything that could pretty much be done in men's physique. You were second at the Olympia. You won the Arnold Classic. You switched the classic. A lot of people said, "Ah, he's never going to do well at the classic Olympia." You proved everyone wrong. you you kicked ass, okay, at this past Olympia. What's now the game plan to come back and win the Olympia? Cuz I know that's what your goal is. My game plan is to come back and win this [\h__\h] Um I'm not How do you do that? What do you got to do to do that? I just need mileage. You know, last year I trained 5 months for the Olympia. I trained I trained 5 months. You remember you interviewed me here. I was like skinny fat, you know. I wasn't even like big enough, you know. I didn't even think I was going to get big enough to compete. Um, what I did in 5 months, no one's did it. Now I have another 12 months on top of that. So, you could tell already, you know, I'm just denser, harder, I'm more leaner on the offseason. So, I'm finally going to be able to compete with these thicker, bigger guys. Now, you always trained heavy and you always trained intensely. I see you in the gym. What changed to enable you to put on the mass that you did over the last year? The rest day. Uh, I was training twice a day, every day, seven week. I was overdoing it to stay small for men's physique. Now I take every Monday and Friday off from the gym. I train for 1 hour and I get home, I recover, I refeed, and that's it. I train 5 days a week now and allowed me to grow. The sleeping was what allowed me to grow. The supplements are the same, the food is the same. It's just the rest. Well, what are you doing yourself? I know you used to love being in the gym for 3 hours every day, didn't you? Uh, I love it, man. I love going to the gym. It's hard. You know, at first it was hard, but now you see the progress. You know, I saw myself getting thicker and harder. So, you know what? I just forced myself to sleep. Um, living a bodybuilder lifestyle. Eat, sleep, train. That's all I do. What did you weigh last year on the Olympia stage? Uh, 200 on a dot. And what do you think you'll weigh this year? Prediction. Well, the weigh-ins is 210. I'll probably be maybe 216, 217. Sucked down. Yeah. Sucked down. Last year I I went on a scale with all my clothes on and I I was still underweight with all my clothes on, you know. So, a lot of people, they don't realize that. You know what I did? I was a smaller guy. I came up I was the men's physique guy and I competed with the bodybuilders. So now this year the playing field will be even. Any warm-up shows are right to the Olympia. Right to the Olympia. Right to Olympia. Well, that's the goal. When you when the goal is to win the Olympia, there's no reason to distract yourself. There's no reason, man. You know, I'm not one of these guys that competes for money. I don't need the money. I don't need the fame. I just want to achieve my dream and be Mr. O. That's it. Love it. Thank you, bro. Good seeing you. Thank you, brother. City Kic here at the Gat Nutrition Move. Let's get together. on a virtual riot. I'm talking fantasy burning buildings like [\h__\h] peace and quiet [\h__\h] the minds of a generation and ladies and quiet. It's a [\h__\h] nightmare. You