Chris Aceto with RX Muscle standing here at the Tampa Pro in the 212. I just ran into Sammy Elhadad, the uh the one and only. You know, Sammy is actually one of the more dangerous 212 guys out there. Very overlooked. I already told you at the Olympia last year, especially when you go back and look at pictures because sometimes the Olympia goes very quickly and you realize, well, maybe I didn't look as good then. I'm sure, right? You went back and looked at pictures and what did you see? Uh, you know, I I thought, you know, at the end you would respect the judges word and how where they they placed you, but I looked at myself. I said, you know, I I I I should have placed better. Yeah. Where So, this is obviously a qualifier. You you want to get back on the Olympia stage. Uh, uh, yeah. I I got to go with the gold here. And then how can you lose? because the I I say that this way because certainly you can win and my expectation and I haven't seen the lineup so no disrespect to everyone else but you've won lots of shows before you've been in the Olympia you've beaten great bodybuilders before um uh so obviously you have the ability and the tools to win the show how can you lose I guess would be uh you know that I never comes off I always come on sh I I I never messed my condition but this time I I added more size. Like last time I was 204 and this time I'm 29, which is surprising. People expect you to be in the open almost, right? Because then they're surprised that you only so uh because the small joints and muscle bellies that we have, but this time I would deliver a nice package on stage. Uh um there is a new faces I never competed with before. They are pretty good and they will give a nice show as well. Yeah. Uh anything you have to say to your fans back in Qatar? I mean, or or in a anywhere, the entire Middle East. Well, I I thank them all for, you know, still believing me. Uh, you know, we are not young anymore, but still, the more they say that you've done, I prove them I'm not done yet. It's because I have very strong fan base and followers um in Instagram, Snapchat, uh, everywhere. So I thank you very much for that because you really we don't say it just you know as a as a common word that we use it. No, without you guys we cannot do it. Without you the show cannot be done because you the one which just promote the show. Thank you very much Christo with Sammy Alhadad. Like I said the most dangerous I think at this show for sure the most dangerous guy up there. And I'm sure when people saw you said oh he was like me said oh Samy's in the show. The difference is 212 guys say oh Samy's in the show. So best of luck at the show. Let's give a good show. Thank you very much. Really appreciate it.