Friends of sports, good morning, good afternoon, good evening, wherever you may not be watching. We're here live from the studios of arrexmosle.com, this time with a live show, but completely different because it's unfiltered and in Spanish for all those people watching us in Latin America, all over the world. This is Johnny Styles speaking, everyone knows me on social media and so on.  Hey, we have here live and in full color the first Mexican woman in history to reach Mr. Olympia, so to speak, in the figure category.  Uh, everyone's asking us to interview her and contact her here and there.  So without further ado, here we have Miss Sandra Grajales.  Sandra, greetings. Hello, greetings to all my RX friends. Tell us , thanks, in Spanish. Tell us, how are you feeling?  How do you feel? Very well, very happy, excited, well, because I am the first Mexican in the figure category to qualify and win a professional show, right?  In other words, not by points, but by winning.  Uh, thank God I was able to win the Venda Murray Classic in Norfolk, Virginia and I'm super happy and already counting down the days until the date arrives. It's good, it's very important to let people know that the reason you're told you're the first is because you're the first competitor who, to get to the Olympia, won an open show, that is, you won a professional show, and it's not the same to get to the Olympia because you won a show, but because of points, which is something different, it's something new.  So let's get started. First of all, a lot of people know you and a lot of people don't know you.  Well, I've known you for several years, since you started out and all that.  Tell people a little bit about your beginnings, how you got into the world of bodybuilding, and so on. Well, I started lifting weights, not because I wanted to compete or anything like that, but like any normal person who goes to the gym, to change their body, to improve. And I really started to like it, and I 'm one of those very tenacious people. I mean, if I see changes, I keep going. I mean, I started to fall in love with this sport until people started asking me, "Why don't you compete?"  And me, well, I had no idea about competing, I mean, I do it because I like it, as a hobby back then. Now I make a living from this, right?  Now I'm dedicating myself to this 100%.  And well, I actually started in the bikini category. One year I competed in the bikini category, but my legs were already out of proportion for what the judges were looking for. In other words, the bikini profile was thinner, and I had worked a lot of time to make them bigger, and what I didn't want was to have to go back to having to slim them down to fit the bikini profile. So I decided to take the break or the necessary time to be able to change to the figure category, and that's how I got to this category. I had before continuing in the field you started like a bikini. Did you have anyone who had already seen the magazine?  Had you looked up what the figures looked like before? Or at that moment? Uh, yes, at that time I went to a national competition, I mean, I remember perfectly, that I went to the national competition as a bikini competitor and I came in fifth place.  I mean, I really looked at the parameters, I mean, the one who won first, the second were thinner than me and I said, "No, well I don't fit into this category anymore." But back then, the body types here in Mexico were still classified as having a harder face, or being more muscular.  So I was saying, "Wow, but I don't want to get like that either ."  It was like a dilemma until I contacted Oscar.  I spoke to Óscar Alejandro Domínguez, who is my current coach, and he told me, "No, look, in the United States they qualify differently and in fact the standard is already being adjusted here in Mexico and that's how I decided, I said, well, okay, I'm going to try it."  And that's how they convinced me, right?, that I didn't have to be too manly, so to speak.  So, what changes did you make in your training after you decided to enter the sport?  Because we knew you already had your quadriceps well formed.  What changes did you make to gain the muscle mass you needed?   I'm training the upper body more, focusing on building muscle and adding width to my back, and making my shoulders a little bigger because they were developed, but still small. I was somewhere between wellness and fitness, so to speak.  Everyone knows that I like the wellness category. Yes. It wasn't a figure or a bikini, it was more like something in between.  So we focused more on composing the upper part and lowering the proportion of the legs a bit because everything has to be aesthetic and harmonious, and my legs stood out a lot, especially the vastus lateralis .  So I exercised, in fact I started training my legs very gently so as not to continue stimulating growth, and so I lost part of the vastus lateralis, which still stands out, but everything else was bigger .  There's a saying that goes, "The best things come in small packages," and you're petite, you're tiny, but you definitely have a whole package and you have so much to add to that body that you 've had today.  Uh, so with your body, you've never finished lower than fourth place in your competition history, which we can say started in 2014, right? Yes, that's right.  Yes. 2014, 2015, and 2016. That's right.  Many people think that maybe they're lucky, maybe they know people, maybe it's politics.  Many people don't know the work it has taken you to achieve what you have. Tell people about your evolution in this sport.   Well , I started, well, I took a year off, well, it was like 6 months practically without competing, that I dedicated myself more to developing the upper body to focus on the figure category and then I arrived at my first event as a novice, the novice category, the Ferrocarrilero, I think it was in 2015 and I won it, I mean, I never imagined winning it, right? I arrived, I won it, and then the following week it was the junior competition, the Mister Mexico Junior, and I decided to do it, because I had already won the other one and I entered as a qualifier and I won it. Well, sorry, there were no qualifiers because I was a junior, but I won it and then the qualifying event for North America came up and I won my category and that's why I was paid to go to North America and where I finished in fourth place.  You came in fourth place. Uh, I wanted to take advantage of this because that was the other, the next question.  In 2014 you came in fourth.  So this year, the following year, last year, 2015, you came and I remember you blew everyone away , you not only won your category, but you won the overall. How did that great goal feel ? Oh, well, I didn't plan anything that happened to me, it was all so spontaneous.  I 've worked a lot, obviously, on diet, cardio, and training. Many people tell me, "Oh, it's because you're so young, that's why."  And I'm left thinking, "Oh, so if all the ones on the podium of figures were there, they would be 20 years old, I mean, if it were based on age."  And on the contrary, I always find that I am one of the youngest, so there are those from 30, 35 and up who are starting to stand out in this category.  In bikinis there are indeed smaller ones, younger ones, and the smaller ones stand out , obviously, but it's not just age or genetics, it's everything.  It's a combination of factors.  I mean, if it's my age, if it helps me, then of course it does.  But this is also the discipline I've had since I started going to the gym, I mean, I've never stopped, I've never stopped, I mean, I've trained, I compete, I rest on the days you say, "Ah, today I get a free meal, whatever."  And the next day I already want to train again.  I mean, it's like continuing to improve, continuing to be enthusiastic about improving, and of course it has been difficult for me. You won, you won North America and then you go and live the good life, as we say, and you decide to do this pro debod here this year, now in 2016, in the plan you had, what was your goal this year to reach that first place?  What was your goal? Well, my goal, we were talking about it before my debut, was to see how the judges would judge me, I mean, if they liked my profile or how I compared to the others in terms of quality, right?  In other words, that was what I was missing, that was what I needed to improve.  Uh, we never focused on saying, um, you're going to debut and you're going to win.  In other words, it was more about seeing what position they could fit me into.  We were eagerly hoping to be in a top five, weren't we ?  Or we even said, "No, well, at least a top 10."  We've never been this far up in the top three, have we?  after finishing in the first two events, which were in Sacramento and then in Miami.  This was indeed a surprise to us, that two different judges gave me good scores in different areas of the United States, where the parameters are supposed to vary .  That's when everything changed, because we had already accumulated six points and we said, "Well, we have a chance to equalize and qualify this year."  That's when I decided to do two more that were planned, which were for Tampa and San Antonio.  I mean, Norfol's was like a bonus, we said, "Well, you're at 100%, you're good, why don't we push it?"  And so we're going to see another opportunity to make yourself known, to see if we can accumulate more points.  I never imagined winning it. On Lenda Murray's show, when at that moment, you know?  Tell us, when they called you that first time, they put you in the same place and didn't move you at any point, tell me what was going through your mind. Oh no.  I didn't know if that was good or bad. Well, something must have been going through your mind because if there's one thing you have going for you, it's the confidence you show on stage, and many girls should learn from you, because mentally you might be terrified, but you don't let it show.  the opposite.  You walk onto the stage and you look very confident, and the moment they stopped you there in the middle of it, what went through your mind?  Tell me. So I said, it's my time to pose well.  It's time to show what I've got .  In other words, I'm not going to get frustrated because what if we want to teach more later and end up doing the poses wrong?  So I said, I'm going to do the poses I know I have to do.   I've practiced them a lot and then in the moment you kind of forget about the nerves and do what you have to do, which is to pose, and I was very attentive to my number in case there was any change.  I always learn my number and this one, and when I saw that they weren't changing it, I said, wow, I guess they didn't move me anymore.  And I'm telling you it's a double-edged sword because you don't know if they're going to change you in the end, I don't know, in the final or never, I'm never that sure until they actually reward you. Having won and hearing your name called as the winner of the event, that was already a goal you had in your mind, you wanted to do it.  Did you expect me to do it so quickly in your first year as a professional? No, I never imagined it. No, I mean, neither no, no.  I mean, it didn't cross my mind to qualify for the Olympia this year.  It was one of my goals, I mean, to be a pro, to one day be able to qualify, but I never imagined it would be so soon, much less winning a show.  It's the same, and this one is by points, but I don't know if it was something like that, it caught me by surprise. Well, this year in several weeks, in several days you're going to be in Las Vegas and you're going to be next to Nicole Wilkins, Watts, Candes, all these girls that we've talked about and it's a dream to be next to her. Are you mentally prepared to arrive and feel like you're by her side? Wow.  Well, I think that on one hand yes, but on the other hand no, because I don't know what the magnitude of the event implies. Exact. The first thing I want to tell you is that when you get there and see the scenery, you're going to be blown away . But everyone has that question. So, Sandra, how does she feel inside? Well, I'm calm, I'm excited, very excited.  I can't wait for the day of the event to arrive.  I think about the hairstyle, the makeup, the bikini, I mean, making sure everything is 100% perfect so I can give 100% on that day, because maybe we wo n't make it, I mean, we have to be realistic, maybe we won't be in the top five, but I will do the best job I can, exhausting every detail, every possibility, and I think the nerves will hit me when I'm there.  Yes, you always get a little nervous, but something you really touched on is that you get all the details right—the hairstyle, the swimsuit, everything. And I want you to briefly mention something else: ever since I've known you and seen you in competitions, you've always looked very professional, well-dressed, and well- groomed. What's your opinion or message for the girls watching this video? What message would you give them on how to project themselves as professionals? Yes, every detail counts.  I mean, I've realized that the judge, well, yes, he's going to rate you, obviously mainly your body, your muscles, your symmetry, your whole package, but in the end, everything counts because your hair, your personal grooming, you know, that you look feminine, pretty, confident, you know, the runway walk, the poses, everything counts.  The bikini, the color of the bikini that suits you, because sometimes there are colors that are very opaque, that get lost with the paint.  So, you need to see which color suits you best. Um, also the type of hair, I mean, I feel that wavy hair looks better on me than straight hair, and, for example, my hair is always wavy, sometimes a little tighter , sometimes a little looser , but always looking for what suits you best in the whole outfit, I mean, from the bikini, to the earrings, I pay a lot of attention now that you're going to Olympia. What is the training strategy that you and your coach Óscar from the Woman Team have agreed upon ?  So, what's the difference in terms of training?  What have they done differently? Uh, the cardio sessions we've seen so far, apart from the ones he's evaluating, I had two cardio sessions a day.  This, if I 'm already ready this week, since he told me that we'll remove the afternoon one.   So that?  So we don't arrive so worn out.  So, right now all I have left is to maintain it and it's just the dehydration process, the load, so it's just a matter of holding on for the last few days.  So, he didn't tell me that the second cardio session wasn't necessary , so I'd be more at ease, I mean, I'm at the point now, it's just a matter of finalizing the details and that's practically the difference, that is, we remove one cardio session and keep the carbohydrate intake very low.  Mm. I've seen photos, people, that you haven't seen, and it looks very, very good.  It looks really good.  So let her eat pizza, let her eat burgers, whatever she wants. Anyway, Sandra, we already talked about training.  Now, in terms of nutrition and food, what changes have you made?  Do you think that during the year they have maintained a consistent diet in terms of fats, carbohydrates, or have they had to make any changes? Uh, yes, we've lowered the carbohydrates a little more. Ah, in previous events, I think because my body responded faster, there was less wear and tear and we maintained a certain amount of energy, but right now they are very low, so to get back to giving that push, we lowered the amount of carbohydrates during the day, having one high day a week. and you feel comfortable in today's sunshine.  We see that you are full of joy, you don't look tired, you still look happy and you should be happy because you're not just going to any old show, you're going to the biggest show of all.  So we see you look good, I mean, you don't look tired.  There are a lot of people who complain a lot, but oh well.  Let's go to one of the tough questions. How does Sandra Garales see herself representing Mexico this year at the Olympiad?  Realistically, we all want to win, we all want to get to the top, but realistically, where would you like to see yourself?  What would make you happy? Wow, well look, in a top 10, a top 10 would be wonderful for me, I mean, being among the top 10, but there's always, there's always that expectation, and I've realized that since I started I've had those expectations and they've been increasing, so I don't know what to think anymore.  If they wanted you, if you wanted to be next to any of the competitors you wanted, and not just for a photo, who would you want to have that photo with in that lineup? Well, it could be that I was in the middle of the Tor Nicole, for example. Think in blocks. We had Nicole on the RX M show with Dave and Dave asked her the following question.  I'll do it for you too.   Do you think that nowadays the category of figures is being exaggerated a little in terms of musculature?  Do you think the musculature is being exaggerated, or do you think there's still a not- so-clear line in terms of muscular maturity?  What do you think of the current state of the figure category ? Well, compared to Olympia. Well, I don't know Toria Watts live, but I do know, for example, Sydney and John who was in Miami, and it seems to me that the scheme is very similar, right?  The prototype is very similar and I didn't think it was very muscular; it's more the shape, that is, it's the look, it's the structure they have with a small waist and big shoulders and a broad back, that is, it's more about quality.  I see that they're really emphasizing muscle quality, meaning that you have the right percentage of body fat for a physique, because I've also seen them penalizing competitors who already have striated buttocks, so that's definitely women's physique. You are, you are short in stature and at the same time, and I have told you this personally and when you do a shoot, we are seeing that you did a shoot right now on screen we are seeing you did a shoot and you are very sexy, you have your sexual side and sensuality.  Hey, on the street, when people see you in Mexico or the United States, do you think they see you as very muscular when you walk down the street? Yes, when we go to the mall there are people who stare at me, there's all sorts, there are people who stare at me like, what's wrong with her?  And there are others who look at you with admiration, you say, "Wow, wow, this girl works out , right? Or something like that."  And there are people who have even asked me for photos in the moo and I'm like, wow, it's so cool that people are starting to like athletic bodies, because before it was really demonized that only men could lift weights, but there's all kinds of people .  People will always tell you that those who don't like muscles look masculine, but people who know about sports will love them.  So that's it .   I'm not sure they're going to ask for it. Throw yourself a double bicep curl right there so we can see you.  Throw it away.  Uh, you've never, ever been curious to cross the Women's Physics line. No, you've never been curious. No, do you like it?  Do you like the figure?  No. Yes , I really like the category.  Yes, but we know you like to train hard.  I mean, do you like heavy training?  No. Yes, yes, yes.  I like to feel that I made an effort, that is, to feel the fatigue in the muscles, but physically it would be like, wow, having to arrive even tighter, maybe a little more muscular in the arms, that is, yes, certain areas would have to be worked on even more. Sandra, we know you're young and you're here at your peak.  Uh, a question a lot of people want to know, I don't know, maybe ask you in person.  Hey, have you considered having a family yet? Well, like my husband, I mean, it's Oscar, I mean, he's my coach.  We have the same dreams, that is, we share the same goals.  He is very excited about Olimpia.  Me too.  We're already planning for next year, what competitions we'll have, and all of that helps us plan a future in line with our goals. So, I think right now my main focus would be on staying in this whole pro thing and constantly improving my level, and there will be time for that later. But yes, you would like to be a mother, right? Oh, of course, right?  Yes. Okay, now let's get to the question. Have you already planned in your mind what you would do after the Olympia game? No, well, yes, it depends on how I place in the Olympia; we'll see if there's a chance of doing well in the Arnold Classic Pro. Exactly.  I'm going to put you in the ad.  If Arnold comes and invites you to do Arnold Madrid, Barcelona, ​​Asia, or the one in Colombos, would you do it?   I think so. You think? No. Yes. Why not? Yes, exactly. Okay, Sandra, we know that you have people who support you and people who know you're not alone, who have helped you get to where you are today.  Hey, I'll give you this space to thank him. Oh, well, I want to thank my family who are far away from me, but who are always checking in with calls, and I also talk to them through Escape.  Uh, now my other family that is part of me, I mean, Oscar's family, who are the ones I interact with more directly because they are here in Chihuahua, my family is in Veracruz, so they support me with the diet, if they know we are going to come to eat, well, they make me the chicken without sauces like that.  And so, goodbye for allowing me, obviously he is first on the list, for allowing me so many blessings that even I had not expected.  Well, the truth is I really believe that he has helped me from the beginning, and whatever limitations I have, he helps me overcome them.  And obviously the main one here, the coach, my trainer and husband, that is, I mean, without him I don't think I would have progressed so quickly.  Because?  Because he trains me personally every day, because he keeps an eye on my diet, my cardio, any changes in my body, because he's right there beside me. Then, we adjust whatever is needed and there's no more problem.  And because of his understanding, obviously, because he wants to go to the movies and I'm all tired, he says, "No, we'll stay in and there's no problem because he's been through it, he was a competitor too and he knows what this whole process involves."  Well, obviously my Facebook and Instagram fans, my followers, everyone, with their comments motivates me every day to give it my all because, even though I don't show it, the tiredness is there , I mean, there is tiredness and all, but thanks to their support we are still here, giving it our all, and also obviously to my sponsors, Bango Deportiva and Limitex, who are giving me the financial opportunity to support me with travel, flights, and hotels so that I can go and compete.  Well, I did five events this year and now I'm going for the sixth, the biggest one, and there are several.  Then, the greatest of all. Yes. Uh, since we know you're married to Oscar, who was a competitor and is also a coach.  Um, is it difficult to live with someone who is involved in that environment? No, no, no, not at all.   In other words, it's difficult to live with someone who also lifts weights.  No, there is no fight between you.  There are days that are unbearable.   No no.  It's just that both his character and mine are very tolerant.  We're very tolerant and very calm, aren't we?  If you see, for example, when I'm really, really tired, I just shut down and I don't really talk, but I don't argue with anyone. I mean, it's like I mentally prepare myself to know that it's part of the process and other people are n't to blame. And he's not arrogant at all, and I've never heard him yell. I haven't heard him scream either, so the day he screams we'll run away. Well, yes.  I do yell a lot in North America . Well, we know at the last minute, we wish you all the best.  Well, we'd say a top 10 would be good, a top eight at least would be a little better, God willing.  Uh, there are many judges who speak very highly of you, there are many people who have met you this year and as I say, the theme of the show has been that you are small, but when you are up there you battle with the biggest.  So, from all of us here at Alex Mosle, we'll be there in Las Vegas watching you and supporting you 100%. So, best of luck, thank you so much for the interview, and Johnny, thank you for switching everything to Spanish, for giving me the opportunity to make myself known in the United States, on social media there, which is very important for me to open more doors and continue making myself known.  And thanks to RX Musle in general for considering me , well, I mean, thank you so much for the interview, I'm very, very grateful. Sandra, for people who want to contact you for training or photo shoots, where can they reach you? On Facebook, my fan page is Sandra Grajales and Figure Pro. On Instagram, I 'm Sandra Grajales Baj and FBB Pro. And on Facebook, you can also find me on my personal page, Sandra Grajales Figure Pro. Well, there you have it, live and in full color.  We would like to thank CTEC Nutrition.  Visit sitecom for all the Stech brands that have so many products that you enter the page and you don't even know what to choose because there are so many products.  Thanks to them we will be covering the Olympia and we will be covering the Arnold, which was moved from Madrid to Barcelona.  So, that's all folks, thanks for being here with us from Sandra Gajale, this is Johnny Stus with rxmosle.com. Stay tuned all this week as we'll have J Cutler and the entire panel discussing what's going to happen at the Olympia.  So before I leave I have to ask Sandra.  Sandra, who do you think will win Olimpia this year?  Of the children. Ah, this one about men. Who do you like?  Give me the top three, the three that you think you like the most up there, the ones you'd like to see win. Ah, in men or women. Tell me the men first. Oh, I don't know. Oh, no, well tell me the girl.  At least in bikini women physic.  Tell me. Well, for a bikini I'd like Ashley, I mean, I feel like she's perfect for the category.   Do you like muscular bikinis? Uh, athletic.  Yes, yes, yes.  I'm sure we'll have Ashley in full color too.  And Women Physics. The Women Physic.  I think Juliana will do it again. And also the Toria. Okay.  There you have the prediction from the same competitor.  But people, if you want to follow Sandra, follow her, she's on social media and all that.  He's super humble, a really good person, and he never says no to anything.  So you'll see her in Las Vegas, we'll be there, we'll interview her and all that .  So from us here at Mo, thank you very much for your attention. Thank you. M.