Dad, where was he? Was uh for another episode of Iron Debate results and nutrition. I'm your host, Lee Farooqi. Glad you can join us on this Thanksgiving week and no doubt many of you prepared to get your Thanksgiving festivities underway. this past weekend, the NPC Nationals, the big show in Miami, scores of athletes walking away from South Beach with their pro cards. And that is going to be the gist of this show this evening as we first go out to Boston, Massachusetts, and join the man they call affectionately the Boston Mess. There he is, Jose Raymond. Jose, how you doing, my friend? I'm fantabulous. How you doing? Now, Jose, right off the bat, you have to explain what is resting on your head. This is my sleep mask cuz I I heard So, not a wig. It's not a wig. It's my sleep mask for when Tad the Diet coach speaks. Take a nap. Nice. You So, shots fired already. Jose saying that Tad and his mere words are going to put him to sleepless. We join him out in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The man they called the diet coach, Tad Eno. Tad, what do you have to say about your opponent coming into iron debate with a sleeping mask? I don't know. It's maybe that speaks to something about his blind vision. I'm not sure. Oh. Oh. You know, there are people watching right now for the first time ever. They're thinking to themselves, "Tad the diet coach fired a shot? That's so not him." Joining us in studio. I love him. Sorry. It was wasn't much of a shot. He's he's gentle. That's about That's about as abrasive as Tad is ever going to get as we go in studio now. The man with the final word, Dave Palumbo. Dave, you had an opportunity to see the NPC Nationals to cover the whole show and what a long and and tedious task it is covering so many athletes. But for you as somebody who's been around the sport as long as you have, it's got to be a very satisfying feeling watching all those athletes walk away with pro cards. Actually, the highlight of my weekend was watching um Jose Raymond drinking chocolate martinis. Uh that was really the on Saturday night after the show was over. That was the highlight of my weekend to be honest with you. I just do I do want to wish everyone a happy Thanksgiving however because I know Thanksgiving is coming up this weekend and uh I know everyone will be gorging themselves on Thursday and then on Friday we'll be paying the price. Um I will be going for a bike ride in the morning. I've been going bike riding even in the freezing cold nowadays. I'm going to bike ride Thursday and then I'm going to I'm going to gorge myself as much as possible and I'm going to I'm going to periscope it like Dennis James does. You know Dennis James periscopes when he's eating breakfast. I'm gonna Periscope my turkey dinner. I think you know at huge 285. If you're already on Periscope, you're gonna see a lot of Dave's Periscope videos. We did one last week. Now, this was supposed to be almost as a joke. 15 seconds quick little Hey everyone, it's me Dave Palumbo on Periscope. And then it turned into a whole tour of the office. It turned to a whole tour of his life. It was a 50minute marathon on Periscope. Let's get to it. Our first topic of debate and when we talk about the NPC nationals, the big story, the big name to come out of this weekend was that of Sergio Oliva Jr., the son of the legendary Sergio Oliva Senior. He came out with the top prize in overall winning the bodybuilding title. Here is the question. Was he in fact the best bodybuilder down in Miami during the NPC Nationals? You had strong competition from Eddie Braammanis who finished second. Many were raving about Serge about uh Rasheed Oldacre who came in fifth. And when he was announced fifth, there was a whole cascade of booze reigning down in the arena. So Tad, we're going to go to you first on this one. In your opinion, Sergio Olivo, was he truly the best bodybuilder in the show? Well, I mean, the judges saw it that way, but I I I can see the argument, but I don't think so. I think that I in the prejudging, I thought that Eddie uh Eddie Breamontes was was better. Um, at the finals, I thought that Rasheed Alder was better. Um, he was uh so thick and so massive. Rasheed came out and I was just like, where the hell did this guy come from? I don't know what happened between the between the the prejudging and the in the finals, but whatever the case was, he did something right. Uh, so I thought that they should have rejudged it. That's what I thought. Um, but I understand that there's, you know, Sergio comes with a lot of fanfare. Uh, he comes with a lot of, um, a lot of momentum. Uh, he I thought he looked a lot better at the USA's. Um, I thought I was more impressed with him at the USA when I saw him there. Here, I was I have a problem with some of his posing. He doesn't I mean, yeah, he's got a great name and he's got a lot coming from his father and stuff and but by far his father had a superior physique. Um, he I I think he's got some issues with his He looks a little blocky, tiny bit blocky in the waist. Uh, maybe it's the way he poses. I'm not I just didn't think that his I thought his posing was wasn't very good. Um, that show it didn't show his body the way it could have. Um, but the way the way it played out, I thought that he was probably second or third. Um, that's what I thought. Jose, you were sitting front row center. You had a great look. In your books, did Sergio Leva Jr. come in first? Absolutely. He was I got no horse in the race either. Um he as as Tad mentioned, his posing was a bit distracting. Just going through the compulsories. Um there was some weird issues there, but in no way was he better at the USA's. You got to be smoking something. He was uh he was way heavier, softer at the USA's. He was the best version of himself that he's ever been. So was Eddie and so was Rasheed. But you could have Rasheed winning the night show and you could have Idi Eddie winning prejudging and still have Sergio winning the show because with the two combined, he had the most consistency, the most points. And when he came out for his posing routine, he was the one who put on a professional posing routine. He uh he made the adjustments that he needed to. He fixed his color. He got a little drier, a little harder, and uh in my opinion, Eddie faded a little bit. Eddie was um a little apprehensive with his routine, wasn't aggressive. Uh Sergio was the only one who went after it like a champion and and wanted it the most. Now um Rasheed was too too far behind to make up that many points to leaprog everyone. I too had Rasheed one or two at the finals, but it wasn't enough for him to leapfrog Sergio already. So I think uh the judging was exactly where it should have been. And uh yeah, I don't think it has anything to do with his name or anything like that. I I loved his posing routine. I loved his his energy and uh the way he went after it. So I was happy for him. What did you make of of the rest of the field? Now, of course, we've mentioned the names of Rashid Oldacre, Eddie Brackammanis, and you know, the word that was being tossed around for Rasheed Laker was Coleman. And I'm going to give credit to our producer Johnny Styles. And that's a word that's a term that was echoed throughout the industry. You also had Jonathan is Irizari coming in third. Mark Arthur Derushe coming in in fourth. What did you make of that top five in general? Me I thought they were great. I thought it was good. Uh Jonathan was a little small compared to the rest of the guys. He probably definitely should have dropped down and he would have won no problem. uh in the heavies. I think his from the front he was sharp, looked great. From the back he needs a little more back size and definitely a little more condition. Um Rasheed is the next great thing. Like uh once he nails it, he could go to any show and be dangerous cuz he's not only big, but he's got great shape, great great balance, and uh he came out of nowhere. I never seen him before. He was pretty awesome. Um that that was the best Eddie I've ever seen as well. Um it was a good feeling to see these guys because that's a new crop of guys. They're going to be very good and uh very competitive in the next few years. Go to Dave on the final word on this one. Sergio Oliva Jr. walking away with the top prize. Dave, did you score him as number one as compared to a very rigid field? And do you feel as if the name had any part to play in this? I I agree with what Jose said. I and I analyzed it myself. They they did not rejudge the the night show. They should have and I agree with Tad in that sense. They they should have I think the crowd would have gone crazy if they would have had those guys out there again. I think that they wanted Sergio to win. I think that he he did enough to win and they didn't want to put Rasheed next to um Sergio at the night show because there would have been a discrepancy there. And if you figure it out, you know, if Sergio comes in first or second at the prejudging, probably was a was a tight second, I would say, and he comes in second behind Rasheed at the night show, he's going to win on point. So, the right guy won the class, but I think the placings are off. I don't see Rasheed any worse probably than third place. He probably should have been second um in the final tally. And I'm saying that, you know, honestly, obviously I work with the guy, so I'd love to see him win, but he was not at his best at the pre-judging. He was holding some water. He we dried him out for the pre for the night show. I think that that's why they do have a night show uh uh judging to judge classes when people change a lot. And so they could have rejudged it like they did the light heavyweight class. They chose not to. Didn't change who won. Uh, I think that everyone really and myself included wanted to see Sergio win just because of the name and he delivered. Look, and he he's not delivered at other show. He didn't he did not deliver at the USA. They could have given him the show there if they wanted to if it was about name and it wasn't about name. So, I think the right guy won. Uh, it's a it was a feel-good show. Uh, Sergio obviously has the name and and I think it it just makes it kind of cool to see a former Mr. Olympia son now as an IFBB pro. Dave, you think you can nail that pose? Can I nail it? Can you nail it? I got bad shoulders. I don't think I can get my I don't think I can get my arms up. Chris Aceto did a pretty good job nailing it. Shawn Ray told Sergio that he hit the victory pros wrong and that uh Sergio told Shawn Ray, I hit it the way I want, not the way my father wants or my father did. So, I thought that was a good answer as well. Of course, the entire contest gallery from the 2015 NPC Nationals available on rxmuscle.com. entire coverage sponsored by our good friends at Results Nutrition. We move on now to our second topic as we now go to Holly Pisaric. She was another name that really made waves 18 pounds, the lightest woman in history to win the women's bodybuilding overall. Now, when you think of the fact that she's only trained for one year and between four divisions in four weight classes, you had less than 25 competitors. This ushers in the conversation again, and I know it's one that's been battered around now for the better part of the last two years, especially with women's bodybuilding sort of being casted aside from the Olympia weekend. And that is, is this not only the end of women's bodybuilding as we know it? But is a solution a possible merger between women's bodybuilding and physique just given the fact that Holly Pasar 109 pounds is smaller than many of the physique athletes. So Tad, we'll go to you first on this one. Where do you stand on this? Well, uh, to the question of is women's bodybuilding done? No, I don't think so. I mean, um, this I think they just perhaps this is, uh, I mean, she certainly was a deserving winner. Um, I think it's just a new uh perhaps a new look that they're really that they may want to push for women's bodybuilding. For whatever reason, they were impressed. Um, she had nice lines and stuff and she was and she definitely was a great competitor. I I don't I didn't really see her winning the the overall. That wasn't how I would have had it if I were if I were judging that. Um and uh and I did I did judge it. So I didn't have it that way. So I didn't really have it that way. I mean her cl her her class maybe uh certainly but not not you know not the uh uh but not the overall. I don't know what uh I mean I don't know if size I'm not a big fan necessarily for women's body of just size. I think there needs to be more than just size. needed more attributes in place and size and she seemed to have many of those but I kind of still had somebody else who was a little bit more full or a little bit bigger in in her place. So, um I'm not sure what it speaks to. Uh it's it was a little confusing. Some a couple of the the winners were a little confusing. That that one was one and then of course the men's physique division was Tad just to your point and you just said it that you would have had somebody who was a little bigger, a little bit fuller. Again, we repeat the fact that she's 108 lb smaller than what you would have typically spent in a women's bodybuilding division, but furthermore, smaller than what you would see in the physique division in most cases. So, just off that and you in your capacity, what exactly would you have to judge by in this kind of a scenario? Well, there wasn't AI mean, the women's bodybuild there was uh not a huge depth of field. So you uh so you know there was it wasn't like there were tons and tons of uh of women uh you know but what does that tell you again to the to the question what does that tell you with the lack of competitors and the fact that your winner is generally a lot smaller than what you would expect in that division. Yeah. I mean she did have nice balance and uh I don't think you have to work out for age and age and ages to have to be a winner in the sport. Um some people get away with far less but uh in her case it's obvious. Um but uh I thought you know like um uh I think uh I mean there was each one had their issues some each one each one of the ladies had their issues. So so I think sometimes you have to pick the best of the bunch and this in this case it just happened to be that that she had the the overall best qualities for women's body. I don't think it's it will be hard for for them to choose. Uh so like the for instance like some of the large some of the larger women the the light heavyweight or the lightweight winner was just too um uh too small or the uh I think what was her Nicole or middleweight the middleweight winner she was too small. Um and uh but the heavyweight winner you know you know a little a didn't have the same attributes. I I think in in general probably moving forward when you look at when you look at Holly's physique um if she adds a little more size she'll probably make a better pro than the others. Uh perhaps that was part of it. Um I I headed a little differently. So um but uh I think it's I mean she's a justifiable champion and amongst that field. Uh but women's bodybuilding it seems as it's dwindling quite a bit especially in the wake of the popular. So you so you don't see a possible merger between women's bodybuilding and physique as a possible solution. I mean again this isn't opinion. These are facts. The the overall field has dwindled down and we're talking about a a 108 pound champion. So you don't see a possibility or a possible solution for a merger here? I don't know about a merger, but I certainly see those those women who are who are typically in historically been interested in women's bodybuilding to be folding into women's physique because it is a lot more popular. Um, and it seems to fit they seem to fit the same kind of criteria, the same kinds of attributes that women really get excited about who are excited about women's bodybuilding. They seem to be excited about women's physique phys physique for the same reasons. Uh, they want to be harder. They want to be more muscular. Uh but they still want to be feminine and they still want to be it's hard to be feminine with some of the women's bodybuilding classes that are so big. These ladies come out so large uh at some of these contests and it's that's a little hard to swallow for a lot of ladies who want to be in that class. So they end up falling into women's physique when they could have easily just a couple years ago been women's bodybuilding. Um so will it fold into it? I don't I I see I mean that's hard to say. Uh I think there's still women there's still a there's still a place for women's bodybuilding. Um, but it certainly seems as though that from a popularity standpoint, from a competitor standpoint, it's not growing. It's not staying flat. It's actually shrinking. It seems that way. Let's go to Jose. Jose, where do you stand on this as far as just what you saw this past weekend with the dwindling number of competitors in the women's bodybuilding division and the fact that your overall winner weighed at 108 pounds. What does that tell you for the state of women's bodybuilding? Well, I was there. I watched it and I also went back and looked through all the pictures after you told me what we'd be discussing. Um, I think the writing's on the wall. I think that says it all. This little girl had she was cute. She had she was fit. Um, she had a nice little package, but most importantly, she was probably the only natural bodybuilder there. She had a natural look to her. Um, the rest of the other girls had, you know, I don't want to offend anyone, but had that harsher look to them and the look that they're basically trying to say we don't want that. And, um, I would have probably had her third in the overall if you're just judging bodybuilding. But um from what they're trying to um bring moving forward, that was a message saying we do not want um big freaky chicks out there. We don't want that and we're going to pick this little girl who's fit and looks, you know, like she would have been a average bodybuilder in the 70s, you know, fighting with Rachel Mccleas and something like that. But um in no means was she even in that category, but um that is the writing on the wall. And as far as merging, that's a good word to use, merging the two classes together because you're going to have um bodybuilding girls winning that can fit into that physique category. That's how they're going to pick. um uh like like a that girl Susan Smith from from from last year. She was the overall national bodybuilding champ and in my eyes is one of the best physique competitors now and should and could win any show out there. Um so that's what you're going to have. You're gonna have not a girl that looks like a bodybuilder of yester year, you know, the last few years, but more uh of the physique look. Well, and you also have only in total in the show, there was only 17 women bodybuilders. So, out of 17 women bodybuilders, she just happened to come out on top. So I think it I don't know if it necessarily speaks to you know coming in like f you know this division folding up but uh for this particular this particular you know this particular contest it's a small field to choose from. Okay, Jose. Hold on a second. Jose, what were you eating before you uh proceeded with the sleeping mask? His words. You don't want to know. It's a fried peanut butter and jelly sandwich. It's pretty incredible. Well, I'm glad you brought that one point as far as a message sent by the judging panel as we go to Dave now. Dave, what did you make? What message did you think the judging panel made by awarding Holly Pasaric at 108 pounds? Um, before we get to the topic of a potential merger, well, I first want to say, you know, Holly Pasaric is an amazing story because she not only was only training for a year, her husband had a liver transplant like halfway through her diet and and he wanted her to continue going. I know that uh most people would just have dropped out of the show. So she and then her grandmother died like a week before the show. So this I mean this girl really overcame a lot of obstacles. I mean it might be the most amazing story in the history of women's bodybuilding. I mean what she won. Having said that at 108 pounds um I've been saying this for for a year now. I don't see a difference between women's bodybuilding and women's physique anymore. I think I could have taken a third place women's physique competitor, put her in the bodybuilding division and she would have won the overall. Uh that's just the way I see it. Um, so to me, merge the the or merge the two divisions at this point. You'll have a couple of freak shows, you know, that that that don't fit. They'll get weeded out, you know, or they'll downsize or they'll just won't do it anymore. And you'll have women's physique and that'll be it. And then that'll feed the the pro division. And the truth is, the only really good bodybuilders that are left are in the pro division and they're all over the age of 40. So, at some point, they're going to retire and that's going to be it. let them have their little their their pro shows that that Wings of Strength are sponsoring at this point. But I don't think there should be a pro an amateur division anymore. We're not When you get 17 people in the entire, you know, women's bodybuilding division, you're not getting quality. I'm I put Susan Smith, who was one of my clients who Jose Raymond mentioned before, in bodybuilding last year because I knew it would be easier for her to get a pro card in that division. I knew she was a woman's physique competitor, but I put her in there purposely. And you know what? would do that again because it's so easy now to win your pro card in women's bodybuilding because the numbers are so low that it's not it's not even fair anymore. So, merge the divisions on the amateur level, keep the pro division. If some of the women's physique pros want to go do bodybuilding, then let them go do bodybuilding. But at this point, it's it's it's not viable anymore. And I think that they should remove the women's bodybuilding. It it's it's it's silly at this point. With that, we go on to our third topic. And talking about new divisions and divisions created out of necessity on the men's side, you're now going to have classic physique. Now, of course, the big domino to fall a couple of months ago was Sadique Hanzic making the announcement that he in fact is going to be competing in classic physique. And Tad, we're going to go to you first on this one. Given the evolution of the men's side and how you had to create a new division that many have been calling for, including Dave, for quite some time now, that that was a division of necessity between bodybuilding and physique. Do you see classic physique eventually supplanting men's bodybuilding the same way that women's physique eventually supplanted women's bodybuilding? No, I I don't see that. I still think there's always going to be a hardcore community that really wants to see, you know, the extreme uh at least the extreme as you can get for men's bodybuilding. U you know, men's physique, this this was really created because some of the men's physique competitors were just getting a little large and get and they wanted to be more like bodybuilders and they were looking more like it and they want to downsize men's physique and and so where do those guys go? uh you know the guys who are a little bit a little bit bigger they act some of these guys show up at the you know you go over to the nationals and the USA and any of these big shows and you go and some of these guys look like bodybuilders you know they and to be quite honest like when you look at the distribution of how many guys come in shape the higher percentage of the guys men's physique players are in better in better shape than the bodybuilders at most these shows and so and and so you get these guys who are pretty large uh for men's physique and not really the direction that the organization probably really wants that division to They don't want these guys looking like bodybuilders with horn shorts. So, they create another division. It creates a new uh a new opportunity for these guys to really fit into. And I think it's a smart move. I think it's good for promoters to make more money. And and it's also good for competitors to be able to fit more cleanly into another division. I don't think it'll supplant bodybuilding. I don't think anything will merge. I think that you'll just have another division that h that's just one more sort of halfway more halfway in between mark between men's physique but guys who want to actually hit some poses and actually want to be in a little bit better a little bit better overall sort of shape in terms of their balance and and symmetry and be able to hit some poses and look more like a bodybuilder because a lot of the guys when you talk to a lot of physique competitors a lot of the guys I work with they really consider themselves more like bodybuilders and not physique competitors I mean in down in their heart they'll say they're a physique competitor but they really kind of bodybuilders idling is what got them into the sport. Um, but physique is what they competed because that's where they they feel that they fit the best. Well, well T, let me let me ask uh in another way because you did bring up a good point in the sense that there's always going to be the crowd uh that follows bodybuilding that wants to see the bodybuilder. So that point is well taken, but I guess you draw a parallel. First of all, when you look at the necessity, when you talk about physique and you talk about classic, two of the buzzwords that are always used, aesthetics, conditioning, aesthetics, conditioning, and you know, that's kind of the look that, you know, grew about uh getting this new division. thought you mentioned it in the sense that fans are always going to want to see the bodybuilders, but when you draw a parallel to the women's side and the number of competitors uh that you saw a sharp decrease in numbers in competitors for the for amateur division in women's bodybuilding, this does open up the gateway to the aspiring bodybuilder, the aspiring competitor saying to themselves, you know, maybe I want to look more like the classic physique guy than a bodybuilder. Do you see that kind of an effect potentially taking place where you have fewer competitors entering the men's bodybuilding division because of this? I think you're still going to have guys who I don't think it'll shrink the men's body weight as much as it'll shrink the men's physique. Men's many of the men's physique guys will that want to be they're going to that's where they'll fold into. They'll fold into classic physique because they're not big enough to be bodybuilders that in their mind but they but they're but they're in that in between mark and they have a better shape because they're men's physique competitors. They have smaller waist. they have more better aesthetics as long as they have some legs and they can hit a few poses. And many of these guys want to hit poses. It's very apparent when you see them up there. They're flexing. They're hitting a couple shots on their individual routine on their individual presentations and uh they want to. So, I think it'll have a deeper impact on the numbers for the men's physique, which is what it was intended to do in the first place uh and then it will on men's bodybuilding. I mean, you're always going to have some people in bodybuilding who are going to say, "Oh, this is a better division for me uh because they're smaller or whatnot." Uh but uh but not but because the weight and height restrictions, the weight restrictions per height, I think it's still going to it's going to affect the men's physique more than it will the numbers more than it will the um uh than it will men's bodybuilding. Jose, I want to go to you. You being a 212 competitor. So again, we're talking about bodybuilding and now a new division in uh classic physique. We're talking about men's physique now. You coming from a 212 perspective. How do you see this eventually playing out with the classic physique division coming into the fold in this next upcoming contest season? How what kind of ramifications do you see it having uh potentially upon the men's bodybuilding division? All right, first of all, let's not get it twisted. Every one of these guys that starts training as a kid or teenager, they want to be as big as possible. They're not they never start training with the idea to look like Jason Poston. They start with the idea to look like He-Man or The Incredible Hulk. That's what got them started. Nobody wants to look mediocre. They want to look awesome, you know? So, it is I'm not saying those guys don't look awesome, but they want to be as big as they can. And guess what? They are as big as they can. And now they've made a division for those guys who can't get big, but look great. So, um there's none of them that are training to be um to fit the criteria of men's physique. That's just where they end up. Um, and to be honest with you, there's plenty of those men's physique guys that take more supplements than Olympia bodybuilders, you know. So, it is what it is. It's not like, oh, I'm just going to train. If I wanted to, I could look like Ronnie Coleman, but really I'm going to look like uh, you know, Poston or or Sadi. You know, it's not like that. So, uh, I think this division is going to flourish. I think it's going to be awesome because um there are guys that have great physiques but can't get big and it gives them a platform. It gives them a platform to pose. As Tad said, a lot of them, every one of them when they take a picture, they're doing a front double bicep, you know, they they want to do that. And um some of them have good legs, some of them enjoy training legs, so it'll give them an opportunity to show that off. and um where they may not have been winning physique shows, it gives them the hope of winning somewhere else. Well, again, I'm going to draw another parallel to the one that Dave brought up about his client and you know, now thinking about which division you want someone competing in or again you you said it, no one grows up, teenager, young 20s thinking to themselves they want to be a physique competitor. They all want to be as big as possible. When you look at now, we just come off NPC Nationals weekend and you have athletes now with their with their selection of divisions to enter in. Do you see this as maybe having a ripple effect in figuring out, all right, you know what, I think I have a better shot at winning a pro card in this division and out of that, do you think that that might have a negative effect on the men's bodybuilding division given that there is a new division now? No, not at all. I think uh bodybuilding has its hardcore fan base and the ones that that that can make it are going to still do bodybuilding or that think and hope they can make it are going to still do bodybuilding until they get sick of banging their head against the wall and then say, "Hey, I'll try to fit into this division." Jesus, what the hell was my sneeze? I'm sorry. You're getting him sick, Jose, from over the internet. I know you guys are all sick. Sick all weekend. It was seismic. Got the whole studio going. I was trying to hold that back, but I think also due to the weight the weight height restrictions, you you're going to have a limited amount of guys that can actually fit that criteria. So, it's not going to affect, you know, the the top top bodybuilding uh crew, but there might be a few guys that could fit in in the lighter divisions. Um, you know, let's face it, you're not going to have too many 5 foot 10 light heavyweights turning pro. So, they're going to fit in 510, 190, and that that division was meant for them. But, you know, the majority of the light heavyweights are between 5'4 and 5'7. Um, so that that they're still going to be there. Dave, you have been talking about this division over a year now as far as the benefits of having a classic physique division. Do you see this as a division that could eventually supplant men's bodybuilding? Well, Jose said it best really. I mean, everyone trains because they want to be huge. I don't care what people say. They're all liars. When I when I first started bodybuilding, I wanted to look like Rambo. Uh, and when people would say Arnold's the best, I'm like, I don't want to look he's too big. He was only too big for me because I knew I I couldn't achieve that. So, I had to take steps. Once I looked like Sylvester Stallone in Rambo, then I wanted to look like, you know, Schwarzenegger. And after I look like Schwarzenegger, I wanted to look like, you know, Dorian. So, it is a progression. Usually, not everyone needs to go to that utmost level, but let's face it, the guys that have good genetics, small waist, they're not going to waste their time with bodybuilding. They're going to go into classic physique. They're gonna get their pro card in one or two years of of of competition and they're going to use that as a stepping stone to get to the pro ranks of pro bodybuilding through classic physique. It'll be like a minor leagues almost. I guarantee you I guarantee you you could put my money on it. As much as I as as as honest as I was when I said that Sadi Hodzik will definitely do classic physique, I promise you Sadique Hzik will do men's open bodybuilding in the pro level at some point as well because he will grow out of the classic physique division and he will want to go to the next level. I know that in his mind, even though he won't admit it, he'd love to stand next to Phil Heath on stage or Shawn Rhoden and those guys and I think he will. And I think it's good and it's not bad for the sport. It's good for the sport. It might hurt the amateur level a little bit because you might get more guys doing classic physique. On the pro level, you'll probably have better pros because the symmetry will be better, the proportion will be better because guys will be worrying about how big their waist gets. They'll be worrying about their symmetry and proportion and they won't be growing too fast. So, I think it will have a a very good effect on bodybuilding, at least at the pro level. That brings us to our fourth and final topic of the show. Again, you're watching Iron Debate on rxmuscle.com brought to you by Results Nutrition. Another RXMuscle broadcast and another topic with the word guru. Seemingly the word that has permeated the entire bodybuilding industry and really took a head back at the Arnold Brazil with guru wars that came about between Chris Aceto and George Farah. Well, we talk about the era of the Guru and whether or not this is towards the end of the Guru era. When you consider just this past weekend at the NPC nationals, you had over a thousand athletes. This is a growing sport with thousands of athletes across the nation, across the globe. And you're talking about one class of coaches, which the gurus, the wellestablished um like Dave, like Chris, like the Honey Ramos, like the Chad Nichols. And then you have the new and upcoming class of coaches and there seems to be a lot more of them and there seems to be a lot of them you can find on Instagram and that seems to be the one that poses the biggest threat I guess to the class of gurus. So, uh, Jose, we're going to go to you first on this one. With the proliferation of coaches or air quotes out there right now, do you see the guru eventually going the way of the dinosaur? Uh, no, not at all. Because the word guru suggests uh something special, someone something a little better. Um, you know, when when they came out with a Honda Civic, it didn't do way with MercedesBenz. You still see Mercedes-Benz, but there's a ton of Honda Civics out there. And that's what you're going to have. You know, you have a lot of people that can Yeah. help people, but they're not very good or or don't really necessarily know what they're doing. Every bikini girl that, you know, wins her first local show is now a coach. So, yeah, it doesn't make it right that she's any good at it. They're still going to go to Dave. They're still going to go to Chris. And but, you know, the only difference is Dave, Chris, honey. They can only take on so many people. So, there's still going to be thousands of people that need help. then you're gonna have the lower echelon people. Um, and you get what you pay for. Someone offers you a, you know, a prep for a show for 300 bucks, then don't expect to look very good. That that's the way it is. Um, so no gurus will never be gone because uh I know if if I want to be serious and compete at the highest level, then I need the the highest and uh uh best coaches. And I'm not going to get that from a local level physique competitor. I'm going to go to Dave, Chris, um you know, Chad, and Ted. Ted, you yourself um obviously one of the more established coaches in the industry. Where do you stand on this with so many new coaches, air quote coaches that are out there right now uh with the growth of the sport? Uh do you see this as something that could eventually threaten that upper echelon uh class of prep coaches? No, I mean I agree with Jose actually. I think that uh whenever when you look at coaching uh you you're going to always have um a lot of people because this the the whole reason why these why many of these all this proliferation of coaches is even there is because of gurus because you know they this is something they they can they want to aspire to um they want to make this this industry their life this is one way they can do that um I think that it's one thing to get to have somebody that can help you it's another thing to have someone that can lead you beyond beyond beyond where you want to go or or and and quite frankly Um, in my mind, what makes a guru special and and what you why you want to call somebody guru is experience, plain and simple. It's not just that they've is some some of these I mean, has won anything. Even dieted for anything? I don't know. I mean, the guy's kind of like a like a little weeble wobble, you know? I mean, I like him, but he's a little weeble wobble. I mean, like, you never expect walking down the street to see that this guy can, you know, can prep people and work with some of the best guys in the world. And but yet, he has experience, he has knowledge, and he has the kinds of expertise that is needed. Um, then you got guys who are like Jose said who win a show or get second place or third place or whatever they qualify for for whatever and they think they can coach people and and while they rightfully can help some people, it's not the same. So, I think there's always a place for for gurus because it's like um uh I mean there's lots of life coaches, there's only one Anthony Robbins. I mean like you know if you want to go if you want to be have I mean people like presidents and things like that have hired him to do that. stuff and I would consider him like a guru in his in his arena and there's does it does that make his position obsolete? Absolutely not. It makes actually validates it even more. So I think that there are a lot there is a a higher proliferation of coaches. But I think in the end of the day I get so many people that come to me and they say I worked with so and so and so and it didn't work out. it didn't work out. And so then they come to me and they have a much better experience and they and the overriding truth is that well I've just been doing it for over 20 years and working with people over and over and over. And so you have AI have more of a knowledge base, more experience to be able to draw from to be able to solve problems and quite frankly um sometimes some personality styles just don't match. So there's always going to be a need for a variety of of different kinds of coaching because some people quite frankly can't afford it. This is a sport of resources whether people want to realize it or not. If you don't have it, then you're probably not going to do very well because, you know, unless you're just extremely gifted um or or lucky, but uh for the most part, you need to have some of those things in place. And so, coaches kind of represent a lot of that in to a certain degree. The best you, like Jose said, you want if you want the best, you're going to have to pay for it. And that's kind of the, you know, you get what you pay for in life. And gurus tend to be a little bit on the higher end of things. And some of these coaches are going to Yeah. They're going to a lot of the new competitors will be swayed by a $300 prep cost, you know, because they because that's what they can afford. And I I can see and that's that's valid, but they're going to eventually want to graduate if they're good enough. They're going to eventually want to graduate to something better. They almost always do. At least the good ones. Dave, we're going to go to you for the final word on this one. Now, not to steal your thunder, but the last time we broached this subject, you brought the example of somebody that came in for a consultation with you. You asked them for what their last or current prep coach gave them and it was basically a copy paste of something that you had given to somebody else. So you'd be the perfect man to answer this question as far as gurus versus the new age of coaches which seems to be really by the tens of thousands now so easily readily available on the internet. I equate the gurus to the Jedi in Star Wars. you know, uh, they kind of lost relevance at some point once science took over. Um, but they still have some kind of an aura about them of being above everyone else. Now, once again, I think Tad nailed it when he said it's an experience thing. A lot of the gurus out there have a lot of experience, but they don't really have that much knowledge in terms of the science of how this all works. So, you know, I started holding my secrets to becoming a diet guru course. I've held it three times now. We're going to be holding it again December 12th. There's still two spots open if people want to sign up at dave Palumbo.com. And I teach people the science of of nutrition, the science of how to write a diet, the science of offseason, the science of supplements, the science of what your body needs, the science of how to manipulate performance-enhancing drugs, how to do last week of prep, detoxification, sight injection type stuff. This is all stuff that that has become like kind of like um like folklore that no one really ever defined and wrote down. And the reason I did this at this point in time is for this very reason because there are a thousand people at nationals because there are 10,000 people competing across the United States and maybe a 100,000 across the world. We need more coaches. But we need coaches that know what the hell they're doing. I can't help every single person out there. Just like Chris can't help every single person and Tad can't help every single person and Hani can't help every single person. You could pay me as much money as you want. I can only I can only do so many diets for people. So, we need more coaches that are educated. And there's no one educating out there. So, I took it upon myself to create a course where I'll educate people. And I think that moving forward, if we can teach the science, I think with experience, you'll get instincts and you'll get you'll get these people will get better and better. You can't just say that everyone else there sucks and only this 10 people are good at contest prep and everyone else is screwed because you can't either afford us or we don't have any room for you. We got to teach a new generation of coaches how to do it the right way. And if you're really serious about being a coach and you want to make a living and you can make a good living from this, way better than you can training people in the gym. I advise you to to look into my courses, you know, find out when the next one you can avail, you can come to and and make the time and come out there and learn the science of how to get people in shape. And I promise you, I think this is good for everyone out there. It's good for Tad. It's good for people like me. It's good for, you know, the industry. The promoters are doing well because we have a lot more people entering shows. But we got to teach people. We have to educate them. And that's what it's really about. It's about education and spreading knowledge. That's going to do it for this episode of Iron A. Before we go, Tad, we're going to go to you first. Of course, you being so active uh on the social media circuit and uh being very interactive with your fans. A message for your fans before you sign off. Thanks. Thanks for following. Um happy Thanksgiving and I hope everybody has a wonder wonderful Thanksgiving and I you know me, focus on positivity, focus on love and compassion. That's all I have. Jose, you brought the sharp opinions. You brought the mysterious meal that you're eating and you brought the blindfolds. Your message to your fans. I'm going to enjoy one more week. I leave for Cabo on Thursday. Happy holidays. When I get back, my prep starts for the Arnold Classic. I'll be documenting it the whole way. So, at least one video a week leading to the Arnold on my YouTube channel. And uh just follow along. Watch me turn from a meatball into a machine. And uh it'll be fun. Excellent. Tad Jose, we thank you so much for joining us. Excellent job on Iron Debate. Dave, wait. I have the final. Hold on a second. Dave, let's go back to you. Final word, your message as we sign off. This is not David. This is I am the one and only the greatest guru of all time, George Farah. And I will say Jose, you call me off the air because I have all the secrets. I will give you the secrets I give to the rock and I will make you the 212 champion because I have the secrets. I am the only guru and do not estimate underestimate the power of the dark side of the guru spectrum. That is it. I get the final word. That's going to do it for this episode of Iron Debate. Reminder, tomorrow 400 p. p.m. We are back with Ask Dave. We had to take a hiatus last week because of the NPC Nationals. 400 p.m. 30-minute question and answer with Dave Palumbo. Tomorrow 400 p.m. Ask Dave on rxmuscle.com. The replay is going to be available in minutes on YouTube and on rxmuscle.com. For our producer Johnny Styles, I'm Sadique Foruki. Have a good one.