自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自自 So it's really cool. But yeah, I had Andrew winning in Classic. I thought it was really close, actually. It was closer than I thought it was going to be. I thought Mike was really going to kind of just blow it away. But Wesley held his own. But I agree with all the placings. And I think tonight it's going to be Andrew, Brandon, Martin. So you see Brandon beating at Boston right now? Yeah. Why is that? I think in bodybuilding, you get judged that day, right? But you also get judged on your previous shows. Even though they say they don't want to, it does happen. So Brandon being technically worse and Columbus and coming in better and Martin kind of being the same, they should reward that. But it's a two-day show, so tonight is going to be really the big difference. Did you enjoy seeing the showdown of Mike Summerfield and Wesley? In a way, would you say it was almost a classic kind of... I think a little bit more exciting at this show because there was that rival. Yeah, and I think a lot of people, too, were upset for Mike when he didn't make weight. I mean, we're upset for him as a person. But also as fans of the sport, we wanted to see them go against each other. So being able to get that again, honestly, it was probably more exciting than the Open. Do you think, you were watching the show as a... Yeah. Like, I was sitting in the front row and I was thinking that maybe almost the classic guys had much more detail than some of the, like, quite some of the crazy striation, right? How come they could get much better striation and detail than some of the Open guys? Or do you agree with that? No, I would disagree completely. Because to tell me that Mike's glutes are better than Derek's is not true. And especially when you have people who weigh less. That's like telling all these skinny guys that you're that have abs. That they have better abs than a bigger guy. Or, like, a fat chick with tits. It doesn't count. So that's not the best example because Mike is super shredded. But it's a testament to making weight. The level that he had to make weight. I bet every pound of fat was gone off of his body. And that's what we saw. We probably saw the most shredded Mike ever. But would he have looked like that if they didn't push him so hard to make weight? We don't know. But I think that's what happened with Urge, too. I think when Urge was in Classic, it's so hard for these guys to make weight that they have to get completely shredded inside out. And then maybe in the open, they can kind of be a little bit more relaxed. They're not going to be as shredded. But it's really just what you prefer. You know, do you want guys to just be inside out shredded? Or sometimes a little bit fuller and a little bit more kind of old school look? It's just really whatever the judges want, honestly. Cool. And who do you think surprised you the most from the open? Brandon, for sure. Because I saw him when he flew in. We're staying at the same hotel. So he just landed. And he's just super chill. He's saying hi to everybody. And before I went up to my room, I'm like, all right, you know, did you come by yourself? And he's like, yeah, he came by himself. No coach, no friends, no wife, no spouse. And then he dropped the bomb of his bags being lost. And we really had a really good conversation because my biggest problem is I let a lot of little things detour me big time. If I would have lost my bags, I would have been losing it. And I would have added so much stress to myself. So I really thought Brandon was going to come in good, but not better than Columbus. So that was the most shocking for me. What about for you personally? So what are you excited about for the future in terms of your goals? What's your next move? Look at our players. Yeah, I mean, this injury really was, even though it only takes me out five weeks, it was a tough hit because I was doing the best I was. And starting with a new coach, Dom, we've just really been finally figuring out my body. I've been doing shows, honestly, and kind of just placing at like 85, 90 percent. But I've never been my best because at the end, that last minute stuff, my body goes into shutdown mode. So finally to be with someone who's trying to figure me out from the inside out, I was the most excited about it. I was going to do New York. But now with this injury, I honestly, I don't know what show I'm going to do because I've never had a surgery before. I don't know the rehab protocol. I want to do a show this year. That's my main focus. But I'm also not going to be an idiot that gets back into the gym too soon to try and jump into a show that's going to qualify for you for next year anyway.