Yamamoto Nutrition, proud sponsor of RX Muscle. Visit yamamoto nutrition.com. Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Yamamoto Nutrition. I'm Dave Palumbo and I'm sitting here in studio with a good friend and IFBB pro Sheila Black. Welcome to our humble abode here. Thank you. I love it. It's cool. We we I've been dying to get you here now that I moved to Florida. I'm a Flidian. You're a Flidian. We're both transported from the the north where it's cold and now we can actually uh you know just kind of chill out in the the beautiful warm weather. It's warm. That's right. It's always warm. Sheila, you you had a terrific run last year. Um you're like I always call you the comeback kid because just when people think you're out, you know, you disappeared because you kind of like hide off in the offseason. You just came back with a vengeance. You won Tampa last year. you were second at the World Championships and uh you were knocking on that door. You know, this year a lot of people thinking you could be the favorite going into the Rising Phoenix World Women's Bodybuilding Championships. Yeah. You're going back to Tampa to try to get win number three there. Yeah. How's things in your life now? Very calm and content. I like to hear that. I know. I know. So, uh it it took me a while to get here, you know, so it's really nice to say. When did you turn pro? What year was that? 2008 nationals was in Atlanta, right? So, and that's, you know, that's that's quite a bit of time. It feels like it was just the other day, but really, I mean, and it took you a while to do it. It wasn't like an easy run for you. Nope. Because um the first time I ever did it at nationals was like 2000, but you know, that was just me kind of coming out cuz I won a couple overalls and uh up in the great north, the west. And then you see how all these women, it was deep. That was back when it was really hardcore in the in the nationals. I remember when you first came out, all I remember is your routine because you always had these amazing routines. 2006, they allowed me to they finally put me in the top five to perform and it was to and I was like, "Oh my god, who is this person? Where did this come from?" You know, I knew you still needed a little refinement to your physique, but your presentation was tremendous. Where did that artistic flare come from? That that that willingness and that love of performance? Um, I I would think ever since I was a kid, it was even before I was probably like even going to junior high. Um, you know, we had MTV during our time. Sure. And we had Solid Gold. Okay. We had, you know, Soul Train, we had all those, um, dance sites that they were on TV all the time. So, um, you want to move like that, you want to feel like that, be agile. So, you would would you emulate that? Would you practice doing those kind of things? All the time. All the time. I even danced with my cousin and um so hitting junior high we had modern dance you know it was kind of cheesy stuff but I actually took it serious so even when I went home I practiced and practiced the stats the pota berets the sachets and the transitions you know and then coming into high school uh we all took it together us girls there was um probably about six of us that were all through junior high and going all through high school and uh I did um modern dance with a woman named uh Tina Matson and She was my dance teacher. When she retired is when I stopped joining up with the classes just because she was more of a muscular dancer. She was very powerful, not skinny, scrawny. She was always telling me um to express and I would always bring something different to the dance room. And one year we were competing uh who had the best dance and she called me out for the best the most frenzy dancer and I had like you know 10 people in my dance. So I literally choreographed all that and I was in 10 dances. What what are we watching here? You remember what show this was from? This is 2006 Nationals. This is one of the first times you were posing on stage international stage. Um this is after the USA when you guys all saw me out there. So this is the following one and this is actually when I met uh online on MySpace was uh Justin Woody and he he wrote this song that I'm actually performing to. Oh yeah. You use a lot of original music too with you. Not only do you use original dance, but you do original music which makes it even more unique because no one's ever heard the music you're using. And that was always kind of like my motto, you know. Um it's it's fine, you know, like I love Enya, I love Enigma, I love Yanni. And sure, uh sometimes I do want to bring it to the stage because you guys would be familiar with it. It's very easy to choreograph to, move to, and it makes sense with bodybuilding with bone and joint with all that movement, you know. So in my mind, when a bodybuilder is performing and performing to music, it has to make sense. So it's very theatrical. It all ti ties in and ropes in together. And then when you present it to the audience, it makes sense to the audience. It feels good to us to watch it. Yeah, it does. I I I love to watch it. I can't I want to never want it to stop when I'm watching you. You got to think of this. Clear back in the 1980s when Lee Labrada would talk about what his performance was going to be on Olympia. To this day, if I need to feel confident, if I'm feeling insecure, unsure, I have to bring up his stuff again to listen to him talk. And it's almost like a self reassurance what you're bringing to the stage. You need to feel positive what you're bringing to the stage. We are professional uh sport here. And you have this audience buying tickets to come watch you perform. So I'm asking myself as Sheila, if I was sitting in the audience watching me, how would I feel? Right. Well, your your routine is about as close to Diana Dennis as I can think because Diana Dennis was the Sheila Black of the 80s and 90s and then you kind of took over in her footsteps. And I think you you went even beyond what she did because of the original music and the interpretive aspect dance that you had involved in there. Yeah. Um she we actually um done similar things and and I didn't know everything she did. I think I I did a um a guest performance in um the states. Mhm. And I believe it was uh Brad Brad and Elaine Craig. Sure. Okay. And he asked me if I'd ever seen her dance on the bench. And I said no cuz I did one similar to that at the at at uh some show. It was a Frank Bowen show I I did a guest posing at. And I started researching. I'm trying to find this. And then I found the one that she did with the spiderweb, which was awesome. Yeah. So, she has these different unique ideas, you know, and um I I I call it abstract art. And um and either you're going to get it or you're not. And sometimes also though um even if you don't get it, it's still it's still entertaining. Well, I mean, Oxana Gina in the fitness division, sometimes I you know, people say, "Oh, she's got a great routine, a bad routine, a good," but it's all what she's trying to express. And I think people we we try to we try to put our own desires onto other people's routines. So some people might like your routine, they may not like it, but it doesn't matter because you do it for yourself. Right. Right. Well, um the thing is when uh you see me I uh do certain movements in my routines. What I was trying to do while I was growing up in the sport and even as pro is that I was trying to get signature poses that I would always have in my routine so that even if somebody didn't know my name, that Sheila Black routine. What's a signature Sheila Black pose? Um, I would say it's the reverse archer for the leg pose where I am doing that. There is that one. Um, the other one would be my water wheel which I did at the Olympia. When I come down, Sean Ray said it was something like a bicycle. It's like it's not I imagine my water wheel. He He's an expert in everything, but he's an expert in nothing really. When I um go up into the shoulder stand, I do the splits. I call that my tree of life. Okay. And when I bring it back up and bring it down, that's my angel. Ah, see I'm learning something now about your routine. Who do you feel uh in this? Let's do women first. In the women's end, who do you like really look at? And I mean, we mentioned Diana Dennis, but other than her, who do you look at and say, "Wow, that's a great poser." None today, but back when I was growing up, um Shelley Bey was phenomenal. Yeah, she was good, too. She was very good. And so, she was deaf. She couldn't even hear the music. Yeah. She would feel her music. And so, I knew this at at a young age. And so, I was really inspired by her. I'd read on her. I would try to measure, see if I'm going to be 5'6 tall. and I'd weigh myself going, "Okay, she's 160 lbs now." You know, so and she was Oregon, so she was my um my my idol, you know, her and Tracy Lopez. And you may not know Tracy Lopez, but if you talk to Stan Effort, it was his girlfriend and I was very young. And I found out that she was in Eugene. So Sher and I would drive. I mean, I was an insecure kid, but literally we knew where she was at really and we would get on a machine cuz she'd be right there. And I still have a photo of her from a magazine I've had since I was 19 years old. Still crystal. I found it in my stuff when I was back home last year. So Tracy was another uh form uh our height within 55 56 and um she won like I think it was like I don't know if it was a North Americans or Jantanas. It was back then and um I Stan and Tracy came to our gym. I was working for my first bodybuilding coach, Jake Grabo. And uh we're going back over 20 years ago. And uh so it's funny, it's that long ago. So I would pay attention to her and I'd pay attention to Shelly. So um but on that I basically paid attention to guys when it came to posing. Who did you like in the men's division? Who do you think was what some of the best pose? Give me your top three. Um the best performers um will always be for me um is Lee Labrada. There's nobody as sharp as him, as powerful as him. the transitions, the endurance, the creativity, the music. I could go on. Um, when it came to if you like drama, right, then you would like Bob Paris, right? Um, if you like a little bit of drama and power, it would be Kevin Leone back in his time. Okay. Yeah. But Kevin was a good pos. You know, he was very into himself. What? And I'm not saying an arrogant way. He knew he would look at himself, but he knew it was there. And he said he never prepared a routine. He would wing it on stage. But what it was was that he's familiar with himself. Right. Right. He does practice posing, but he may not have roped things together to he just went out there and did what his heart felt, what he felt most confident with. You're not going to go out there and pose a pose that doesn't look good on you. You're going to put out there what looks best on you. So, you think those are the top three? What do you think about the the modern guys that are like, you know, the Melvin Anony's and the Kai Greens? Um, uh, Kai is will always be, um, one of the top in the world of, uh, being articulate and, uh, and there's moves that he does that people would not be able to duplicate because they're his for his body type. And, uh, um, and only a choreographer would pin that point that out. You're not going to the stage the way he does it. And it looks so like a spider and every muscle. He knows what what you guys are seeing cuz he's practiced it and he can feel it and he has that tempo with his music. So he's becoming one with his song. So um he will always be the the most incredible but to match their body that um when they're presenting their their their uh statue way I should say from a as from a bodybuilding standpoint you're talking about not just from a dance standpoint. Yeah. I I I'm going to cut that out portion out. I would look at Cedric. Cedric. Okay. Yeah. Cedric. Is that how you say say his name? Um, he's very beautiful to look at and he loves to perform certain poses because he knows it looks great on his dynamic frame, right? He hits very unique poses, too. And because he's quiet and sensible but yet strong about it, he has our attention. We are with him and that is a performer. When a performer is doing that, that it's that energy that engages with the audience and we're with him. So he does it beautifully because there are you're right there are people out there that have like technically good routines but they don't connect with the audience and is that something you can you learn to do that or what why would someone not connect with the audience? Because um it's the energy and it's because you're not connected with yourself and your music. Interesting. We are all made up of energy. If you are comfortable with your song and all your movements, the audience is going to get that and they're going to feel that. It's like Zayn Watson. This will be my new favorite pro in the world is Zay Watson. I watched him. I said, "You just stole everything." Really? Because this is a man that nobody knew just like me coming out of nationals. Nobody knew me. We interviewed him, by the way. But good. Good. Um, but he found a song that his heart connected with, his soul connected with. So, he obviously worked on it every week and he found the poses that worked best for him and he roped it together to sync and make sense with his song. and he came and displayed it and represented himself very well at the Arnold Classic. Now, Arnold created this posing round that's gets scored in the men's open in the 212 at all the Arnold Classics now. Whether they keep it or not, who knows? Okay. Um, do you think that's good for the sport? Would you like to see the posing count more? Yes. Okay. Because um, number one, that is what's going to uh, it's like going to a dance show, a ballet show, and if all the dances suck, would you want to be there again? No. No. I I find it very boring. There's Zayn's routine you were talking about. Yeah. Incred. And he starts smiling because he knows he's nailing his his routine when he's uh doing it. And so um he was very fun. I enjoyed watching him perform. He practiced very hard. Is this the the Arnold's show? Yeah, this is the Arnold. Yeah. Okay. He kind He's a second generation bodybuilder. his his parents both competed, you know, which was uh I I find we're at that stage now where we're seeing kids of parents, you know, even Labrada's son is going to be competing this year. Um Sergio, Sergio, right? Yep. So he had um a very athletic body right there that he spent a lot of time to get into that. And that's right here. It's like an old school Lee Labrada, right? That and that's very you can see he's comfortable with the pose. A lot of people don't look comfortable on stage. See how he's lunging and transitioning into the lunge into the hip movements. Um, and he has that foot back there. He's going to transition to the front. He practiced his footwork. A lot of people do not practice. I tell people you pose from the ground up. Yeah. AB. That's I was always that's what I was always taught too. You got to pose the legs first and then and get your feet positioned. So, what would be a simple bit of advice you can give to someone if maybe new people out there are watching this and they're saying, you know, everything Sheila is saying is ringing true with me, but I don't I don't know how to go about this. So, what where do I start? You know, how do I start learning how to So, when I was young, um let's just say I knew I was going to compete when I graduate from high school. So, every day or every weekend, I'd be down the gym and I would grab all my mandatories, okay? I would find a song that I could post to. And what I would do, I would rope from one movement, go into another movement. The transitions are what's learn to move fluently like water. Okay? And uh hold your pose when you get there. Boom. go again. You know what? It doesn't matter what you're doing. Just keep going. And every time you stutter, just let it go and go to somewhere else. So, don't worry about making mistakes. Right. Because when we as an audience, when we're watching movement, we don't know that there's a mistake. Right. Right. Right. Right. Just keep flowing. You'll find that cue. And that's part of dance. We we will also um know if we miss that queue, we keep going. We might have a grin, improv, get back into it, you know. Do you And now I I know because I've sent people to you, but do you enjoy teaching other people how to pose? Now, when I'm not prepping, yeah. Um because I I what I do is that I study their body alignment. Mhm. I watch how their body language is. I watch how they move into like say I ask them, "Give me a front double bicep. When you in the double bicep, I want you to go into a back double bicep. How would you do that?" That's what I asked them. Okay. Okay. And what does that determine for you? Um, if they stuck, they don't know their footwork. Okay. So then I start working with their feet. Ah, okay. And so everything's feet. And so it's almost military. And also they're going, "Oh my gosh, next they get it. They get it, you know, and then then we'll come back to the beginning. Okay. Front bicep pivot to the back to a back double bicep. Pivot back to the front. You got to just start from the like baby steps." Yes. Yeah. So I I I lad them up. How many sessions does it usually take to get someone to be a good poser? Obviously practices after that, but u there's only one that I can really recall and that would be Alejandro Gerodto. He hired me last year and he must have hired me twice a week. Wow. Two months into the show and they messed up his music and he came back again earlier this this last year and he actually did keto and he's like I think my legs look like Sheila's and he did. He he did a great job but he got to execute his routine. He's just used a different song. But he came back over and saw me at least four more times. And I'm like, you know, the routine, but it wasn't just about that. It's the fact that he was tired and he knew that he would hit it and hit it and hit it. It's a workout. It is a workout. You're going to feel like crap. There's times you're going to say, "I don't want to do it." That's when you need to do it. Right. A lot of people are lazy cuz at the end they're tired. They're hungry. They don't want to practice. And too bad. And you're right. It shows it. It is part of your job. When you said, "I want to be a bodybuilder." You're also saying that you're going to practice, you're going to stretch, you're going to pose, you're going to pose, you're going to pose. And how many people really do that? Very few. And it shows. And that's what's killed the sport. It ain't women's bodybuilding dying. It's because you ain't posing. That's what's killing it. You're right. You're right. You're Look, I've been saying it that the entertainment aspect of the sport has gone down the tubes over the last 15 years. People just stand up there. They don't You could tell they haven't They don't They have no endurance. They can't last more than 10 minutes up there. And they can't even They don't even hit the poses to the music. This is something else. I I'll tell them like an exercise, okay? Cuz we all have stretching exercises doing like sets of three of this way and this way. Well, do this with um posing. I would uh have a song, cut it one minute, pose for one minute. That's one round. Take a take a 45 second break. Do it again. Interesting. Okay. And then when you actually know your routine and have your song, or maybe you don't know your routine, but you know the song you're going to cut, get that two-minute segment, put it um record it five times in a row. And the good thing was now with phones being such good video cameras, I mean, anyone could video themselves. I remember when I was practicing back in the day, there was no video cameras. There was no internet, we had to just wing it, you know, and hopefully the person who was helping us would would give us good feedback. Do you know that I still cannot watch myself through a camera that I literally do not know the look of my routine until I buy it? Really? Mhm. That's crazy. Because I have only learned for so many years by feel. So, you don't even do you look in a mirror though when you when you practice? Um, I'll do that, but sometimes um fortunately, most of my apartments have always had a signed glass door. I look at my silhouette. Right. Amazing. So, let me All right, let let's let's get to the meat and potatoes of what's been going on in your life. Now, you've you've had a rough couple years, right? You've lost a person you were dating who died. Another very good friend of yours just recently, a good friend of mine, too, Vinnie, uh, passed away as well. Um, these are, you know, major emotional, I guess you could say, damage that happened to you. And yet somehow you were able to channel that that pain and make it work for you and make you even a better bodybuilder than than anyone ever anticipated. Talk to us a How do you overcome grief like that and and and these terrible things happening and how do you stay positive in in light of that? Okay. Um, I'm not going to lie. I was in so much pain and shock. Um, I I I think the only person type people that could relate to it is if they lost their lover, their husband, their boyfriend. And it was unexpected. Okay. It wasn't like I knew he was dying. It just happened. Give me a second. Um, first of all, no matter what, I work out. Fortunately, I had really close friends, so we're always working out. I had so much anxiety, I couldn't tell you what I was doing in the gym. It was just getting through my day, right? And my sister being by my side, so I'd eat. Your twin sister, by the way, who looks just like her? Yeah, I have a twin sister. Um, when I realized that there are different levels of depression when you lose somebody and anger, it's an anger that I cannot describe because you can't you have no control what happened. It can't be fixed, right? And um people get mean when their son dies and there's a lot of things I went through. So um dealing with family you're talking about. Yeah. Um I was basically locked out for the funeral. I didn't get to be at my own boyfriend's funeral. Um a jealous mom, you know, hateful, bitter, but the but the club would keep me close, you know, and he he was in a bike getting Yeah. with the Reapers. Yeah. He was a a sport bike uh club out here. Mhm. But uh they would stay close, but I just told Awal, which is his biker brother, I remain very close even to this day. And I I realized I can only handle one person. I don't need an entourage. Mhm. And I realized that I'm learning something new about myself. This is going to be very hard. And I realized he died next to my bed. So there I was walking over this path every day. And I would call up our friend Vinnie, you know, and I started getting I started suffering a lot more. And uh Vinnie and I always talk about boxing. and I hadn't done it. And so I hired Josh Refery. He was at Cultist Gym. It was actually a friend of Dave Batistas. And I came up to him, wrestler Dave Batista. Yes. Yes. And this kid is a professional MMA fighter. I came up to him. I said, "Uh, here's $500. I don't want you to know me. I don't want you to know what I'm good at." I said, "Just know I'm in so much pain and my ADD is all over the map. I cannot focus. Bleed out my pain." He said, "Okay, let's go." He didn't ask. He didn't show me sincerity of nothing. Did you even know anything about boxing when you got into it? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. My twin sister was a a boxer over 20 years ago. So you knew how to hit throw throw punches, kicks, but I just hadn't been doing it, you know. So that was the way you kind of vented your emotional pain that and um if you've never worked on a speed bag, this takes a lot of focus. Okay. The moment your focus goes off, you're going to mess up. Mhm. So that's when I knew that's how I was measuring my uh focus u my healing, my mental healing. Then I was grabbing magazines. Folks, if you have issues with anxiety, um allowing so much negativity in the brain, your mind and your mind's constantly repeating it and repeating it, I suggest um the word brain resilience. Um this is what I started working on. What is that? Brain resilience. Basically, um even scientists today have a hard time understanding the brain, how we as personalities react, okay, to certain traumatic situations or even if we don't for introverts, extroverts. However, I wanted to be able to walk down the street and block out all the noise. Mhm. Knowing that I had to walk 100 degrees weather and the gym was a mile away and I was going to execute my show. That's right. You had no car. You give up your car, right? I purposely got rid of my car. You got rid of a car and and you were walking everywhere. I remember that. You told me. I I said this. She's crazy. But but it was great cardio for you. It was great cardio, but it was also me to know me, not care about what you're driving, not care about who has what, who's lost what, who's gained what. It's very liberating to give up everything you got materially speaking. I don't even to this day, I don't own furniture. You don't? I have my living room. I want I got my mirror, my mirror, my desk, and I'm all Uh-uh. Because I haven't still I still haven't dealt with clutter. To me, furniture feels like clutter to me. Unless I have a big space, I just don't want it. And uh I don't need it. I just I don't need it. I don't have kids. Anyway, so uh the brain resilience. If um if you feel that you need to take your beautiful car down to the grocery store and you're only a mile and a half away, stop your mind for thinking that. Put up the keys, grab your backpack, go for a walk. Quit thinking about it. That's what I mean about brain resilience. Quit thinking that that is you have to have that car and you have to drive all the way down there. No, you don't. Right? So what enjoy life when you do that, right? So what do you you just kind of live for the day? Is that what you do? Live for the moment. Um live for live for the day. Live for the moment. In other words, rather than worry about what you're going to do in a week from now because you got to go here, you got to go there. Just say I'm going to go for a walk and I'm going to worry about what I'm going to do right now. Um no. Um I actually every day was pre-planned mentally. It was. Okay. Yeah. Cuz if I don't Is that important to structure your days? Yeah. Yeah. It it is. Otherwise, I feel like uh disconnected. I feel disconnected. I have to write everything down. And I've been writing everything down since high school. Really? So everything I do in a day is on an erasa board on my refrigerator. Okay. So this also might help you also for some of you who think you're you're not accomplishing. Organize your thoughts. Organize and feeling of accomplishment. So every day in this square I put down what I executed. By the end of the month, this thing is fat, right? I boxed, I kickboxed, I danced, I pose, I was bodybuilding. And where do you get all this energy to do all this? Is is this still from the channeling of all the pain that was inside? Um, you know, uh, I had to do it to keep myself. Uh, um, here's your boxing. We got some little clip. That's me, Sebastian, right there. That's in the beginning of him and I learning each other. He's showing me how to swoop. Yeah. Boom. Boom. Is there a certain dance aspect to boxing, too? Looks like he looks very, you know, creative. He actually had to put bands around my ankles because I love martial arts and so I would get in a martial arts. He's like, Sheila, that's No, no, no. He was your feet kept moving this way. So, no, that kid is an incredible coach. She's very good with network. Yeah. So, you decided, hey, I'm gonna I'm gonna even though I just went through this terrible loss, I'm going to do the Tampa show. That was uh bodybuilding is my life. Now, hear me out. I literally raised myself to the MPC and the IFBB. Me, my parents didn't put me in this. Nobody in my family probably could care less what I was doing, but my twin cared. And um and to me, it was the safest spot in the world for me, you know. Um, it gave me direction, structure, and the discipline I needed. Um, healthy discipline, you know. Um, so, uh, what was the question again? You got to back me up. You, you went through this terrible loss. Um, you channeled this energy and you got getting ready for the show because a lot of people thought you were never going to be able to do this and you came to me and I said, I think you could do it because I, you know, I thought you were in striking distance. I didn't know if you would mentally be able to focus on it, but I knew that you had that I don't give up attitude. So, yeah. No, no. I wanted my life back. I lost me, my spirit. Um, again, like I said, it it was um I was so mad at life because like when my mate died, we were not we were arguing and what's really wicked is that I think it was like 3 months before that, he was telling me about a friend that died on his bike and him and his wife were fighting and she had never got over the grief because this guilt and next you know it happens to me, right? You know, and so you're mad and you're power. I felt like the reason why I wanted to walk so much is so that I could center myself. Energy is energy. And I would um when I'd be feeling negative, I'd apologize. You know, it's like, okay, that's not what how I want to be. I want to be strong. I want to be like a tree. I want to branch out goodness. And I would um I wanted to keep certain people um that I found very strong in my life within arms reach. John being one of Naples, Janet Sman, she's a cancer survivor and she's in her 60s. She's somebody else. She makes all my jewelry. Mary Christine, who's been in my life for 17 years. So, I have strong people who've had pain, who've had losses. And so, that therefore, you're not doing this self-pity thing. Poor me. Um, they made it. They're very strong. They're very successful, and they're beautiful people. They're so pretty. And I'm like, you know why they're so pretty? It's their aura. Yeah. When they're happy. I'm not talking about, you know, the people on Instagram doing selfies. I am talking about beauty when people are successful and they're achieving and they're happy. So, um, I wanted that and I I don't want to die like this. If I was to die tomorrow, I'd have been so unhapp feeling so unaccomplished, you know. So, um, I got into bodybuilding because I knew that I just like a like a student in school. It took me time to get to get where I needed to go, but I knew I was going to get there. Well, I mean, you're one you're one placing away from being world champion, which would be the Miss Olympia, I guess, now because they don't have a Miss Olympia. I mean, it's the same title. um the world champions next this year going into the Rising Phoenix which I believe is September 9th. Uh the defending champion Margie Martin won't be there. Yeah, she says she didn't have anything more to prove. She only won twice, but who knows? I was like, okay. So, but it's going to be a very competitive show. Obviously, there's a lot of there's $150,000 in prizes for grabs. So, that's a nice incentive. It's probably a bigger incentive than any other women's sport out there. But it was definitely bigger than the Olympia because they actually even started taking money from our purse and I um they even took even more in the year that they retired us in 2014. Yeah. It was not a big purse like it used to be. They kind Well, they got all these divisions. They got to split it up, but they shouldn't be doing that. Why why be taking from our purse? You know, that's where I never understood and they're like, well, there's not enough sponsors for you guys or whatever it was. however they but the wings of strength people have really put a lot of money into the sport women's body end of things the bear bear clause you know this is protected you know so um because that was that my other question and and I didn't have anybody to talk to about but I I think I was asking Melody I said you know at the Olympia they would take our prize money and give it to the bikini there she goes oh no no no that's not going to happen here trust me it's not going to happen here okay she knows something I don't know because I I was just curious well I think it was was it 75,00 000 or 50,000 first prize and then a $75,000 Jeep on top of that 65,0007 whatever it is. Now, if you won the Jeep, would you sell it or would you keep you actually have a vehicle to ride around in now? Um uh and I and I believe that um they have a contract that you you sign for like you keep it for at least two years because it is a promo truck, right? And uh the champion should be driving it to shows. Well, yeah, but you've been walking around everywhere, so I'm thinking maybe you know you might not want to drive everywhere, right? Um, no. I I actually, you know, I I have a future plan and I was just telling Amanda, your wife, about it, but uh we'll talk about later, but I um it would definitely um I would definitely use it for promo shows nearby. What's this? Oh, sorry. Sorry. Anyways, I forgot what I was saying. I got distracted. The truck. Okay. The truck. But no, um I wouldn't just let it in in the parking lot or anything. No, I it's um What would it mean to you to win this this world champion title? I mean, how would it change you as a person? What would it mean after all the years of hard work and all the dedication and sacrifice? Because you have made a lot. I don't think it'll change me in a sense. What I would be hoping is that the platform I'd be setting and um would you do something with the title? Because it seems like all the people won from Iris, as much as I love Iris, to Margie, no one seems to do anything with this title that they win. They just kind of wait till the following year and compete again. Would you do anything like in the old days where the where the champions would go around and be ambassadors to the sport? Well, that's why I was kind of confused about Linda Murray's job. Okay. So, um because they have her as our ambassador, but if you look at her page, everything's about her. So, I don't know. I I would look at her and Melody's what was kind of going on around the show, but in my mind, like nobody cares. Well, I think the champion should be the ambassador to to the sport. Margie, she's all about herself. Well, yeah. I mean, I don't I don't you know, I don't know her personally, but no one's doing anything to promote the sport. The only person that I found that was an incredible um uh I would probably team up more with Melody because she's very she loves the um social media. I am like the opposite. I'm too busy working to be the best or choreographing. I got other things I want to do. And but do you think it's important if you do win the championships to to set aside time to be someone who maybe financially for young girls like yourself when you were coming up with this? Dave, I would have extra money to do it. That's true. And the thing is, you know, even though 50 grand to some people isn't a lot of money, for someone like me, it is and I someone who has no furniture in the house. I live small, you know, and so um I would definitely um and and I'd probably go to the drawing board with strength to say, you know, what should how can I do this where it's not going to drain me too much energy, but yet it's given enough back and my face is being shown around um maybe go to different gyms, put on some um posing um clinics or whatever. I would actually feel more comfort, you know, I would feel more comfortable doing that. You know, I I've put up posters before, but it's almost like everybody scatters like cockroaches. The moment I stop promoting it, next thing you know, they all start coming around. Well, as as the the the world champion or Miss Olympia, whatever you want to call it, I think you would have more clout, too. I think people would say, she's the champion. I think we want to hear what she's got to say. Yeah. Um, so, so to say that it would change me, no. Um, I like who I am. I'm always going to be an underdog, even though I'm pro. I don't forget where I come from ever. and uh what it means to me in the sport. I know it's sport, but it's also artwork to me. Of course it is. It's a it's a beauty pageant. It really is. I mean, when you think about it, it's a it's a pageant where you have to perform multiple rounds. One of them being muscularity, but the other being, like you said, art artistic interpretation. And and here's the thing, and I don't care who takes how anybody takes this. It's just like what we're saying before we turn on the camera. if we collided the the the classes and actually, you know, got rid of women's bodybuilding and it became physique. Do you think that will happen? I think it'd be healthier. Yeah, I do. And I'm not talking about bodywise. I'm talking about this I think they're close enough here that this this thing that's happening this this it's creating chaos. It's creating this, you know, havoc like they're trying to get rid of us. Nobody got rid of anybody. What Bob Citrillo did, he fabricated a physique class that would bring back women's classic bodybuilding to save us. Not to get rid of you. He didn't use bug spray. None of us did, right? Okay. I don't feel insulted. Yeah. You know, and and so, oh well, you know, I'm 10 pounds everything BFD. You don't do what I do on the stage. So, a lot of these girls can't compare themselves to me. you I I think you're saying what I think you're agreeing with what I have been saying all along that I think that that we're so close now in uh I mean here's some pictures I just put up we're so close in women's physique to bodybuilding the physiques have basically come together and I think we can combine the classes and make one miss olympia again call it women's physique whatever but it could be called the miss Olympia and I think that the people can are close enough in in in the way they look now where there isn't this big split anymore I got a lot of physique women that follow my work. They're even trying to do my routines. Okay, these women are building up. They're dieting down like us. They're getting grainier, more vascular, more details, which is why I love bodybuilding. Wasn't like just for the size, but I love conditioning. Sure. I live for that. I love it. So, um, you know, to me it wasn't about being the biggest in the world, you know, and I think, you know, uh, that's almost like an insecurity of somebody. Well, I think you took a lot of people said you didn't have what it took to be Miss Olympia and now you're one well you're one spot away from proving them wrong and saying f you in their face because let's face it well you took a physique and you maximized the tools that you had. You perfected it with the posing excellence that you bring to the stage and professionalism and you just didn't give up. People ask me what's the secret to success in bodybuilding? I'm like don't quit. Right. Right. If you quit you'll never make it. No, that was a um it's a mindset. Okay. Don't think I never took 11th before and don't think I never taken 16th. And don't think I never came in off at a show and my own heart broke. I broke my own heart. If you really want to be better, um you'll hire somebody that scares the [\h__\h] out of you. Okay? You know, I I I was you stood in your own kitchen and said, "Sheil used to have goo on your ass." Okay? That's like, you know, you having that interview with Alicia Young and you going, "Girl, you could have still gotten leaner." It stings. But if you really want to fix it, go fix it. Right. You got to hear the truth. If you're not willing to hear the truth, and you're never going to get and you think you're doing a lot of work, but you're not. And I think what really opened my eyes was having four days, what was it, three or three or four days I had with Dr. Michelle Neil? Oh, yeah. Remember Michelle? She flew me out to her home. And this is somebody that was serious who wanted to perform better and be a better poser. Her living room was cleared. We had a yoga mirror. I was with her for a couple days. Yeah. She's an awesome I worked with her. Yeah. For And that was disciplined and I was looking at her and um I was just inspired to this day. That is who the woman that's in my head. I haven't I haven't talked to her in a long time. But she she should have been a pro. She should have won the USA, you know, and they they kind of they screwed her over that one year and a few times actually. So uh but yeah, she was a perfectionist professionalism, you know. And uh you know that's somebody that was still doing schooling, working and breaking up her routines, her training. And so that's when I went, "Huh?" And when I went pro, I broke mine up in threes, like doing 45 minutes, 45 or an hour, an hour, hour. So it wasn't like, you know, a couple hours here and a couple hours here. She goes, "Oh, so there's the only way I can do this, you know, because she would come home from work, busy schedule." Yeah. Yeah. And so I'm I'm gonna do the same. M and that last it it it fixed that last four weeks going in when I went pro and everybody thought I was being prepped by I went no and cuz I still was she's the one that was pushing me on the mega fats. Sheila, you got to take these supplements. She was we were both in I had her into doing a lot of fats. You know, she was into very health and I was still kind of scared and then um when I uh I hired John in it was late of 2009. Romano, right? Helped you that one year. He had me go strictly um keto and I didn't even have a vegetable in my diet. I remember one day going, "John, my diet's really brown." He goes, "I told you have vegetables." Sheila went, "That's okay." I was like, "Ah, whatever. This is fine." And so, um, the good thing about you is that you you you're a machine. So, if you tell you to do it, you do it. You know, here here's the thing. And John may or may not remember, but, uh, when while we were prepping me. And if I He didn't hear from me. Rockstar, where are you? What are you doing? I'm all I'm doing three hours of cardio now cuz this is what you got me doing. Okay. Just make sure you're not changing your diet. Oh, listen. Listen. you know, and we because he said, "I never worry, but I know you're never going to cheat." Uh, well, it was his experience back in with Shel or Tony Knight. He goes, "I used," he goes, "I'm used to having athletes here where he can keep an eye on them underneath the scope." So, um, but then, you know, of course, he calmed down with that, you know, he didn't need to I didn't need to check in all the time. And just when he told me to have photos, blah, blah, just like what you do. Um, and then when was uh I think the internet was getting to me and then that's when he kind of yelled at me. He said, "Stay off the internet. Get the hell out." you know, it's tough to do that because you want to go see what other people are doing and uh you got to just kind of get off and if I was doing it, you know, it had been about what I was going to be projecting out there. So, my twin was helped out with that. But then he would get in my ear on that phone and he say, "This is your pro debut. This is going to be the most important [\h__\h] day of your life." That never left me. I was the whole time. Him and I were already a month out from New York. You and I had the same favorite movie, which is Rocky. So, I mean I mean you respond well to those kind of like, you know, Yeah. rah rah rah speeches. Yeah. Yeah, I do. I guess. Yes. It's like that under the gun feeling. And so, uh I I just jump right in. So, anyway, um there's a a lot for the mindset, you know. Um well, it seems like you're in a good place now. We got Tampa coming up in uh the beginning of August. Yeah. Then you have the Rising Phoenix World Championships, God willing, you know, coming up in September. And it's a big year for you. And and like I said, I think that next year there's going to be a big change in women's bodybuilding and physique. And uh I'd like to see it merge. And I'd like to see, you know, I I think so, too. The champions from bodybuilding compete against the champions from physique. It's going to increase um the comp competitive field again. Okay. because now um it's only been the same women lately, you know, in women's bodybuilding because it just kind of got like the Well, no new people were going into bodybuilding. They were going into physique. Well, yeah. Um I I know that, you know, Tim and Jake started a new one for the Chicago Pro. It's for the European people. I guess you can earn your pro card here. Oh, really? But the thing is that, you know, here's the other thing. During our our time, it was difficult to earn your pro card. Absolutely. I had four weight classes to overcome one pro card. Yeah. Oh god. Yeah. And um I must have now in bikini you can come in second and get your pro card. Yeah. So no during our time was very difficult and but in my mind if I see this happen with physique uh and bodybuilding women bodybuilding and they collide us they might have to do a separate class again lightweight and heavyweight you know open it. This might not be a bad idea. I don't think so either because we've had the same division, right? But, you know, I think no matter what with women's bodybuilding physique, I think the federation is always going to have to kind of dance a little bit. How about a height class? How about a tall and short class? Okay. Having a height and and weight kind of like you with the men's uh classes. Yeah. I was thinking about that the other day, you know, and so keep it more proportions. Yeah. So the women don't think I have to be so huge, you know, to match up. And I don't even know why they started thinking like that. Cuz Andrea Oh, no. No. Was it Andrew Blet that was a lightweight? She was shredded to the tea and she was hot as heck and she got the Olympia, right? She won the lightweight Olympia that year. I think she lost the overall to um Julia Bergman, maybe or no, was it Valentina? No, they didn't have an overall year that she won she won the lightweight and and Valentina won. It was a a one-year like trial they did and then they did an overall I think right after that when Juliet Bergman came back. But there's a lot of history there and I don't want to throw it out the window. I think that it's interesting and if we could see the two classes merge together, it would make the sport even more interesting. Um I I feel like that um because I love female your your your girl Maria. Um she's at my gym. Oh, which one? The the tall black lady. Oh, yes. Yes. Yeah. She's Redmond. Yeah, Maria Redmond. She's going to be really good. I want to just ask you a question about Dana Lyn Bailey because Dana Lyn Bailey won the first Women's Physique Olympia. Whether you agree that she should have won or not is irrelevant. She did a lot of she did a lot of good for promoting the sport, okay, as an ambassador. I mean, she's probably one of the most well-known people in the entire sport, period, women's sport, across all divisions. Um, do you think that that's important to make the sport more acceptable to the public to have someone who's a champion, who's willing to be a social media darling, who's willing to take time out of their days to hold seminars, who's willing to go on the road. Is that is that important? I know what my opinion of it is. I want to know what your opinion of it is. Probably to an extent. Yeah. Yeah. I think it is because it educates people. It's like when you win the Miss America pageant. They they make you go all over the place to be an ambassador to the Miss America pageant. Yeah. You know, but her diet looks really simple and her training. She's flat and dry and Oh, that was the beginning of the sport. That was when it first came out. It's evolved quite a bit. I don't know much about her. It's evolved quite a bit. I just I um she's not competing anymore either. So, but uh she was one of She wouldn't want to. Not she was one of the pioneers. She was actually I remember she was the first pro in women's physique. She won the junior USA. So I mean she whether you like her physique or not it doesn't matter what she did for the what she did for the popularity of the sport I think was was immeasurable. Well the thing is um uh it's what women wanted in the first place you know so it was that shows you how many women in the world wanted something a place to go. Mhm. So the moment um she was the champion, women went, "Thank God." Yeah. Because this is feminine and that's not scare me and that's doable for me. And so next you know you got 100,000 women going for it. Sheila, I want to wish you the best of luck in in Tampa. Obviously I'll be there all way all along the way. And of course at the World Championships and uh how do people if they want to get in touch with you for posing, you know, instruction or anything for that matter? What's the best way to reach you? Facebook. Um, it's funny. I think sometimes it's like word of mouth. They'll approach me. But, uh, I'm not approachable when I'm prepping, right? So, you don't want to be bothered till after prep's over. What I tell everybody, I'm seasonal. I'd say from fall straight till spring, fall, winter, and spring. And people make a mistake. They get you, I'm two weeks until my show. That was [\h__\h] You need a lot of time with them. the best thing to do. You don't have to be shredded to learn your routine or get a routine or learn to pose. So, do your routine in the offseason is what you're saying. And then you'll be ready for the contest season. All right. Well, that's very wise advice. And well, it's like Bill saying, you know, um you don't do an open bench lift, you know, um that you can barely do. You do one that you can, you know, do puke and sick. Well, it's the same thing about posing. You should be puking sick and tired of it. You should be able to do it blindfolded, backwards, forwards, doesn't matter. It should be, you shouldn't have to think about it. Mm-m. And the only way that can happen is if you do a tremendous amount of practice. And I learned the hard way myself like that, too. It's got to be second nature. If you're thinking about your poses, you're never going to be a good person. When you and Colette would come out and do a guest posing, how many times you two rehearsed that? Oh, a million times. Yeah. And I did and I did the routine a million times around the country. So, it it was I didn't think about it anymore. I wasn't I was even nervous when I would go out. I just did it. So, and that's when we got going, it's like that you become this character that you're presenting. Yeah. Cuz I watched a few of yours. went. Okay. So, speaking of performances, you practiced your ass off, too. And I wasn't a good poser. I just was entertaining. That's that's how I am. No, you were a good poser. You want to know why? No. Why? It's because you studied the poses that look best on your frame. Yeah. Right. I had a That's a good poser. To me, that is a good poser. I'm a student of the sport is what I You know, so when a when a person, a male or female understands their structure and finds the posing that matches their structure and you keep executing it, that's how you own it. You're right. So, the one with you extended out with your arms out doing your side chest, that is yours. My copy of that's yours all day long. She knows she's good. The girl is Sheila Black. She I call her the Rocky of Women's Bodybuilding. Check her out in Tampa and then at the Rising Phoenix Women's World Championships in bodybuilding in September. I'm Dave Palumbo for another installment of Live with