This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com in the Iron Asylum with Shelby Starns and we are here at Royal Oak Gym and we're going to be doing a little leg training and uh Shelby, welcome back to Iron Asylum. Thanks Dave. It's been a while. What a couple years now. Yeah. Yeah. We used to do these all the time with I think we used to do like two a year with you. Maybe maybe more. We did like every body part. And uh I don't know if I I don't know if we've been at this gym yet. I think we were at Highland Park Powerhouse. Yeah. Yeah, that's usually where we are. We're usually at the uh the the hardcore Mecca out there in Michigan. And this is kind of a little more low-key for you, but uh do you train people at this gym? I don't I don't train anybody in person. Um but this is actually Royal Oak Royal Oak Gym is kind of becoming the new hardcore mecca. I mean, nothing nothing will ever replace powerhouse Highland Park, but Royal Oak Gym has a lot of a lot of competitors now. And it's also really big with powerlifting and strong men. I didn't know that. Competitors, stuff like that. Yeah. When you The state of Michigan has a lot of hardcore bodybuilders still in it, which is great. So, you just still see a lot of good bodybuilders coming out of Michigan. A lot of other state like you go to California, everyone's like men's physique, classic physique. There's no bodybuilders anymore, but uh the cold states still seem to be Midwest. Midwest. Yeah. ing the bodybuilders. Let let's talk about you a little bit because um I've had you on the radio show last year after your top five pro placing and you know you told me something you changed kind of uh the way you do things kind of like you know you kind of coast offseason wise. You probably uh you know you're trying to really preserve your body at this point as you're getting older and then kind of you you gear up for one contest a year, one or two contests a year and you kind of just give it your all. And we're kind of in that contest mode right now. Talk to me about what you're weighing and uh how your body composition changed from last year to this. Yeah, you know, you know, postcontest everyone's always, oh, I got to get this rebound and I got to get huge and make all these gains for the next year and whatnot. And that's I know that that's not, you know, that that's maybe good if you're 20some or, you know, kind of kind of new to the game and need to add a lot of size. I realized, hey, I'm not really adding a lot of size. I don't need to put my body through that stress. So for me, the offseason is a time to detox and focus on health. So I keep my body weight down. You know, right after a contest, I keep my body weight within maybe five pounds of contest weight for the first month or two and then maybe another another couple pounds for the next month or two. You know, on stage I'm around 200, 202. At the very end of the offseason, I hit I hit a peak of maybe like 215 or something like that. So it's not, you know, not not much higher. And then once I start getting into pre-contest, you know, start gearing up a little bit, um, my body weight shoots up. You know, I start eating more. I actually once I start pre-contest, like 20 weeks out or 18 weeks out or something, I'm eating more and doing less cardio than I do in the offseason. In the offseason, in the offseason, I eat pretty low calorie, you know, no carbs on my off days. Training days are maybe 200 grams of carbs or something like that. And I do 20 minutes of cardio a day, but I'm trying to keep my body weight down. Um, yeah, you got you got to do that. People don't understand, you eat too much, you can't get rid of the muscle, you know, the muscle just wants to increase, right? Um, and then pre-contest, it's almost like I go into an offseason, you know? I mean, I'm I'm 10 weeks out right now and I'm still eating more food and doing less cardio at 10 weeks out than I was in the quote unquote offseason. But but but but my body composition is changing, you know. Absolutely. It it's the irony of ironies because initially when we first start out, we we can't do enough to put muscle on and then when we get to a certain point in our career, it's like we can't lose the muscle, which is which is a nice thing to to go through because it's easy to preserve muscle and you don't have to do crazy things. Now, obviously, people know you as a uh you've really made a reputation for yourself doing some contest prep for a lot of people, gotten a lot of great people in shape. you got some pro wins under your uh under your belt with some of your clients now. Uh the irony of the whole thing is that you and I have still continued to work together throughout and and that just goes back to show you that everyone needs a coach and a second eye to look at them and I I always enjoy working with you because it's a it's a very analytic process and it's a scientific process and uh we both learn stuff about your body along the way. Betty, it's better for my clients that I work with you because otherwise I'd be driving myself nuts trying to figure all that out, you know, or just or just constantly secondguessing myself on all that. I don't I don't have time for that, you know? I don't I don't want to waste the energy on that. So, do you uh now that you work with so many people, once I started working with a lot of people, I I I didn't want to compete anymore myself. It's like almost like gh I'll just live vicariously through them. Do you ever say to yourself, you know what, I had enough of the competing. I I'm done with it. you know, I just at this point I just want to uh I just want to just work with other people. Every every year I go through that. But then you get you get the itch back. I mean I I mean I love the lifestyle. I like to train and I like to to diet and you know I like going through the yearly changes and and you know everything's at a different at a different rate now because like we just talked I'm older and I I do things differently and I'm not you know I'm not making these you know 8 pound muscular gains from one year to the next. I don't look at it like that, but it's still cool to see for me. And I mean, honestly, since I've been chilling out, my placings have improved. You know, I got my first pro show, I was in the third call out. Second pro show, I was in the second call out. And then last year, my third pro show, I was in the first call out. So, I I mean, something's something's improving. I think I think a lot of it is is posing improvements, um, presentation improvements, coming in a little bit fuller, you know, presenting my physique a little bit better, you know, muscle maturity maybe a little bit to a to a certain extent. And the right lineup sometimes helps also, you know. Oh, yeah. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. I I I you go do the Arnold Classic or whatever and I'd be in the the last call out or whatever, but choose the right show and uh you might squeeze into the first call out. No. Yeah. I mean, every year I'm like, you know, when am I gonna when am I going to hang up the posing trunks or whatever, but I I keep on figuring out ways like every year I reduce my consumption. You know, I I I every year I I taper things back a little bit and see what what I can get get away with and still accomplish, you know, a pretty decent physique or whatever. Now, you and I haven't discussed this at all, but I I'm going to bring it up right on the air here. Um, you know, now with the advent of this new classic bodybuilding division or classic physique as they're calling it, um, do you ever think to yourself, hey, well, you know what, I can go down in size a little bit more and and maybe I can do that because that's, you know, I don't have to be as big. I don't have to worry about being outmasked by guys. I have a small waist. You know, does that ever like, you know, like the the whole Darham Charles appeal, you know? I don't have a physique like that. And I would look I my my flaws really stand. I would have to drop 30 pounds. Oh. Oh, you Oh, you would have to lose that much? I didn't realize. I mean, on a on a pro stage at my height, I have to be like 170, I think. Oh, Now, you'd never be able to do that. I didn't realize that. Right. I mean, that's what I was back in 2009 when we did welterweight. Remember that. That although you probably could do it if anyone could do it, but it probably you'd look, but I look terrible. Yeah. It would be unhealthy. It would actually not be healthy. It would be unhealthy. Plus, I would look terrible. Yeah. I look better. I look better filled out. you know, my flaws my flaws get hidden as I look, you know, as I'm as I'm fuller or whatever. So, you know, two 200 or so on stage is is good for me. I'm not going to be a guy that's ever going to struggle to make 212 or whatever. Sure. Um, you know, that's not in my cards, but 200 is I, you know, I'm okay. Like, I'm AI'm a smaller 212 competitor, but I can kind of hold my own or whatever. Now, I'm watching you um do some leg extensions. uh you put a a rubber band on the uh apparatus. Tell us what that's doing for you. Well, it just adds tension at the top. You know, I mean, a leg extension, a leg extension is more of a contraction movement. You're focused on the contraction, especially if you're holding it holding it at it at contraction like we are on those reps. Um, and you're a little bit more vulnerable at the bottom. Uh, you know, the stretch position of a leg extension, it's a little bit more vulnerable on your knees. So as as you're as you're kicking up, as you're extending your quads, the tension gets higher and and then you hold that that contraction there. So I mean, we use bands here and there with a lot of different movements just for for the same purpose. It's adding it's adding overload at lockout, adding adding overload at at the contraction. It's uh it's something that powerlifters do a lot. I don't you know, I'm not going to say it's some magic thing that's going to transform your physique, but it's fun. It's a little bit different. You know, it's a different stimulus. You know, if it if it keeps you having fun in the gym, why not? It's you got you know, people get bored in the gym very easily and there's not that I mean, there's not much variation you could really do. I know people do some kooky stuff, but the bottom line is the the basics build muscle. And so, I mean, if you could modify the basics a little bit and make them a little more entertaining or interesting. Uh, I used to like I I I loved and I hated training with this one guy when I was coming up. His name was Doug Wentz. And the reason I hated it was because every time we went into the gym, I never knew what we were going to do. and and I couldn't mentally prepare for it. So, it was it was I was out of my comfort zone, but it was also great because I didn't know what we were going to do. So, it was always like a new challenge every day. Like it was like it was like he was my personal trainer almost, you know, that I that I Yeah. without having to pay him, so to speak. He was my training partner, you know? Right on. Yeah. Our workouts, we never do the same workout twice in a row. It's always something new and we're always using different equipment. And who are you training with in this video? I train with Bill Tokco. Um he's uh he'll be doing Junior USA's this year. He's uh he's a real good friend of mine. He's 47 and he was the n 1987 national skateboard champ. Holy mackerel. He was I mean he used to do Yeah. halfpipe uh all you know crazy stuff. He lived out in Venice and trained at Venice, California Golds. Used to hang out with Phil Hill and all those guys back in the day. Wow. That's that's old real old school. Well, the legs are looking great, Shelby. Yeah, I I I love getting your update pictures every week because you seem to get better every week and and bigger and and that's uh encouraging for me. Most guys I get see them getting smaller. You're improving and getting bigger and and kind of growing into the show. And uh what what what are the uh what shows do you have planned for this year? Let the viewers know. Uh probably just Chicago. It's it's uh it I like the timing of Chicago. It's early July and uh it's within driving distance because I hate flying to a show, right? Just the the added stress of, you know, bringing all your stuff and flying with your food and all that crap. So, probably just Chicago early July at the same weekend as team team universe. And then after that, I I I stay I stay busy with my other clients. It's hard for me to do a a bunch of shows if and stay stay on top of everything. So, well, best of luck obviously on stage. I'll be rooting for you. That's for sure. And uh this this year we got to get top three. That was the uh the goal we set last year and I think you're going to accomplish it this year. Uh watch out for Shelby Starns in that 212 division at the Chicago Pro. For now we're out of time. I'm Dave Palumbo with Shelby Storms in the Anosado.