All right, we're here in the Healthnuts with Logan Palumbo. This is your first Healthnut video. You're going to show us what you like to buy here with Daddy. Daddy David, we're going to see what we pick up here at the Healthnuts store. What do you like? What's your first most favorite thing? Bug, what is it? What's the most favorite thing? Anything. You're doing the smiling. He's doing the smiling. All right, let's see what we got here. These are the pick your own nuts. I think I'm going to go with organic pumpkin seeds. I haven't got those in a while. I'll have to get a bag of those. I'm going to go this these are my favorites right here. Uh I love the figs. The organic golden figs are good. Uh there's another there's the organic bananas, too. I don't know if you guys have ever seen these. You probably have. They're they're like brown. They look like they're spoiled, but they're not because they don't put any preservatives in them. Those are the ones you want. You don't want to get bananas that have look like bananas probably have a million sulfites in them that will cause cancer. You don't want those. So, and what else do I got here? This cacao. I don't know what else I'm going to get here. I'm definitely getting the pumpkin seeds and the figs and maybe the apples. I also like the apples. The organic apples also are brown. Where are those? Let me see if I got Oh, there they are. See those? They're brown because they have no preservatives in them, but they still taste delicious. And let's walk around. See what else we Um, the organic fruits. This is what I like to get. My coconut smiles. They both little smiles. All organic raw dried coconut. I'll get a bag of those for sure. And I'm looking looking. And if you see, there's my apple cider vinegar. I got to get a bottle of braggs with mother, which is important. That's the pulp. It helps you stay alkalinized. Also takes away all the acidity in your body. sugar. And then I come over to the cold section here. And there's a couple things I pick up. I know you guys hear me talking a lot about Bubby. That's my grandma Bubby right there. Bubby sauerkraut. It's fermented sauerkraut. It's got live bacterial cultures in there. Good probiotics for the colon. You know, you can buy a probiotic, but you know what? With Bubbies, you're going to get billions and billions of colonies in every little serving, every little fork full of stuff. That's the best way to go. Now, I don't like dill pickles or I would try her kosher dill pickles, but I don't like dill. I only like half sour. You guys know that I've already done a video on that. So, not going to do that. Now, there's one more thing that I like to pick up here, too, while I'm here. And I don't see it in a lot of places. It's also another probiotic, but it's made with uh actually that's not the one. I usually use the coconut one. I use the coconut key here. I don't know where it is. I have to see. I have to look for it, but it's here. I promise you. And then I go and I look at the the I guess they could say the fresh food they have, which I like. Let's go over to that section so you can see what I might pick up a little snack while we're here. Although I have Taco Joe's waiting for me. Mandarin is here. Looking at some stuff. This is great stuff. Kale and quinoa salad. Awesome. Awesome. Look at that organic raw zucchini pasta. Alfredo. Probably skip back to the cheese. But I do love that avocado salad. Can't go wrong with that. Avocado mixed with all kinds of beans and stuff like that. Tremendous. Love it. Hey, that's what this is all about. It's all about being healthy. And I'm Dave Palumbo here showing you the health. Say goodbye, Logan.