Welcome inside the RX Muscle Studios for another episode of Ask Dave, better known as Dave, brought to you by, as always, by species nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm your host, Sadiq Farooqi. Glad you can join us on this Wednesday, September 21st in the year 2016. our first show back from Olympia weekend and what an experience it was as we now bring in Dave Palumbo. Dave, a jampacked Olympia weekend. We landed Wednesday night, left Sunday night, and I think it's safe to summarize it by saying it was literally work, work, work, work, work. And I and I took something home with me, a [\h__\h] nasty cold. I I I never get sick. The only time I get sick is when I go to the Arnold or the Olympia because there's a thousand people touching you and shaking your hands and taking pictures with you. And I got it. It got me. I I I almost went two years without getting sick and this year I got sick. So, um, but yeah, I had a great time. And, you know, sometimes the best day of the whole Olympia weekend is the Sunday after, you know, we didn't go home till the we took the red eye home at 10:30 that night and we got to spend the whole day, you know, visiting people. We went to the city athletic club where our good friend Jay owns that and obviously Iris Kyle and Heda Yamagishi have the the body cafe in there. We got to see them. We got we saw all the photo shoots with Phil Heath and Jose Raymond and Flex Lewis and all the athletes were there. So we got some pictures with them. We got to talk to everyone. Uh I saw Bruce from Quest there. It was like a reunion. And then we went before the airport. I want to get some food for the plane. And where we stopped? We went to Lissa Rice's protein house. And we got Lissa Api happened to just walk in there when we were in there. We saw some other bodybuilders in there as well. We got some good food. And so, you know, even though the Olympia was really what we went for sometimes, like I said, the day after because all the work is kind of done and it's like, but yeah, you're right. We didn't stop from the moment we got there. Starting Wednesday night, uh I ate, you know, I ate pizza almost every single meal because every time we got back to the hotel, nothing was open except the food court. And uh I mentioned that on my radio show and and I got an email from someone who owns a pizza place in in Vegas and they said next year when you go there we'll deliver pizza to you guys and we'll keep you well fed. Sweet. So that's awesome. And I love when uh I forget the name of the pizza place. I should have written it down. But uh I love when people or listeners and fans of the show help us out when we're on location. It it means a lot to us. But uh just ultimately Dave just if you can give a minute summary of the weekend that it was and just some of your initial reactions. Obviously so much of the show going into it was about the comeback of Kevin Levrone and then of course the deep lineup that we were going to have in the men's open class. Of course Phil Heath winning his sixth straight stand out. Uh some controversy in the other department in the other divisions uh including classic physique which you're going to make a video on later on. just your light impressions about the weekend that was. Um, I became uh my my prediction that Kevin Levrone would win ruined me because Levrone never showed me his legs and I and I did that whole video last night if those of you haven't seen uh with the my impressions of the Levon appearance. Now I hear Kevin's deciding he wants to continue going on and I I knew that would happen. Uh Kevin's hooked as we all get hooked and I think he says, "Well, now I can bring my legs up." So, I think Levrone up there was still a great great um I guess moment when we saw him posing, you know, under the lights on the big stage again. So, all the fans love that. Phil Heath bringing one of his most dominating looks to the stage. That was another super highlight, I think. William Bonak placing fifth, which no one expected, was a huge moment. Uh Flex Lewis repeating as champion obviously has to be up there as well. Ashley Cwasher losing the bikini Olympia title to Courtney King. That was that was the only upset of the of the reigning Mr. Olympia or Miss Olympia. And then of course the first ever classic physique Olympia where we saw Danny Hester controversially defeat Arash Rabbar. And I'll give my analysis of this later in the week. Obviously I've been friends with Danny for many years and he's was competing from before I was competing. He's been competing for four decades now since the 80s and uh obviously it's great to see him as the champ but I don't necessarily agree with the decision. And I think Arash Rabbar uh really deserved that. Which I speaking of Arash Raar, Juliana Malik Carney, which for those you don't know is his girlfriend who won the women's physique Olympia, she got this big glass trophy and it must have weighed like 40 pounds this thing. And she dropped it on his foot and by accident, not purposely. And his foot got split open. He had to take an ambulance to the hospital. He has the same shoe I have on. The same injury, just like I almost chopped my foot off and something fell on it. He has the same injury with the same stitches. And when the interview comes out that Johnny shot Saturday night, you'll see us our feet next to each other. We have the same shoe on. So uh that was uh that was you know that was Arash's week for you. You know losing the Olympia and then cracking his foot open. And uh you know Oxana Graina obviously winning the fitness Olympia you know again uh you know I've been predicting she was going to be Miss Olympia. Now she's Miss Olympian dominating as we knew and Latoya Watts same thing. You know we predicted she'd be Miss Olympia one day and she's just won her second Olympia. So, uh, you know, defeating Candace Lewis, who was really good, pushed her to the limit. Nicole Nicole Wilkins had to settle for fourth. So, there was a lot of, you know, a lot of excitement. I thought the competition was great. Everyone was in shape. I thought Robin Shank put a great show on. I think, uh, it was very professional looking. Uh, I enjoyed myself. Uh, you know, we had press seats, so it was a lot more enjoyable to watch the show that way. I didn't have to walk around like I didn't belong there anymore. So, overall, I thought the weekend was great. Obviously, The Rock announcing that next year the Olympia would be on CBS Sports uh is an huge announcement, too, and I I hope it comes true. So, again, if you want to see all of our Olympia footage, our Olympia videos, interviews, analysis, it is available right now on rxmuscle.com and the rxmuscle YouTube channel on rxmuscle.com. Click on the menu item contest coverage Olympia. You'll see our full line of videos. We start today on the muscle central forum on rxmuscle.com and go to Sean Corrian. Dave, at what level would you recommend a client starting using your SEO protocol and what is your protocol? Do you have a set level of muscle size and density required before you think SEO is worthwhile? Also, any tips on growing calves as mine are very stubborn and genetically my family isn't blessed with them. Well, he's talking about sight injection oils, you know, sight enhancement oils, if you want to call it that. And as you know, um, and I've done a inter I've done a video on synthol specifically. There's only two products that are legitimate products on the market. One being the Chris Clark synthesized pump and pose, which is the original, and then there's painless pumps. And I sell both of those at Dave Palumbo.com because I believe in both of those products, and there is science behind them. Um, how you do it, and I've told people this before, I offer my services. If anyone wants to know the protocol that I recommend so that it doesn't look ridiculous, but that it looks good and natural and and that you get some nice results from, you can you can email me at huge285ol.com and I will send you the protocol. Uh I have protocols for to be honest with you, arms and calves work the best. They respond the best because they're small round muscle groups. Shoulders work well. You can't don't you can't overdo shoulders. I have a protocol for shoulders. I have AI even have a protocol for chest which is a a mild protocol. And I have a what do I have? What did I lie about? That's it. So, chest, delts, calves, and arms. You shouldn't be doing quads, okay? Quads don't look good. They get lumpy looking. Uh, you really shouldn't do lats either because they're going to look kind of lumpy. I tell people to put their regular gear in their lats. So, um, if anyone has, you know, wants to know, you can send it to me. It's hard for me to give you like instructions here without showing you diagrams. So, send me an email and I'll send you the the protocol. Let's go to the trademark. Dave, you guys did an incredible job covering the O. Thank you. and we thank you for that compliment. Uh, two questions. The first, we'll ask this one first. How much lean muscle mass can you gain from Anavar? And how long of a cycle should you be on with it? And is PCT needed? Well, women can gain a lot of, you know, women can gain a lot of lean muscle on anar because their receptors are much more receptive than men's are. For men, it's kind of weak. I mean, probably guys could put a couple pounds of muscle on with it, especially if you've never done a cycle. you could probably put five or seven pounds of muscle on, but once you know start cycling, Anavar is really weak for men. For women, I really re that's the only thing I really recommend that women take because it's the only thing that really has no side effects. Women could put on, you know, five, seven, 10 pounds of muscle on anar and easy. So, um, you know, dosages vary obviously for women five to 10 milligrams a day is enough. Some women will go up to 20. I don't think you need that much, but guys, 20 to 30 micrograms milligrams per day. So there is a there is a difference but once again anavar more taking more and more and more of it is not going to make you grow better. It's just going to make you feel sick because anavar can kill your appetite a little bit. Uh it's a little it's very mildly liver toxic because it's oral, but it's it's it's kind of uh compared to like anol to anal. It's kind of like taking M&M's as I always like to say, you know, it's not really that bad for you. As far as PCT, you really don't need it with Anavar if you don't go crazy with the dosages. It doesn't really suppress your natural testosterone production. So, it's unnecessary, but you know, it doesn't hurt to take a little HCG after you after you do a cycle of Anavar. His second question for men for men that is. So his second question was based on his current progression. Where do you see Dallas Macccarver a year from now? I put a picture on my Instagram. I don't know if you guys saw it of Dallas the day after the show and uh Johnny should have the picture. And he looked like an absolute freak in the gym. This kid is so big. Um his his frame is big. He he looks like his his bone structure grew. I don't know. You know, sometimes when you're young, growth hormone will make your grow bone structure grow. I don't know. He's he's like they call him big country. I I guess he like maybe he's from the country. I don't know why they call him that. But this this kid looks like he should be bailing hay. I mean he's just enormous. Even when you see him in the lineup, he he's about 6'2, so he's taller than everyone else. A lot taller. Most of the guys are only like 5'9, 5'10. He's a lot taller and he's very wide and he just sticks out on stage and he's impressive looking. You know, I think he needs to bring his legs up to match that upper body and he can use a little more back, but I think in two, three years he's going to be a dangerous competitor. He's got that pole dlet structure almost. You're watching Ask Dave on rxmuscle.com. Let's go to gct 2000. Dave, hate the show. Thinking about using clenbuterol to help fat loss. Will this up my anxiety? If so, will it get better while using it? Sorry for all the sniffling. I have a mucus running down my nose. Uh, no. Uh, the question was clenbuterol, right? And anxiety. Cluterol really doesn't cause anxiety. You know, when you first take climbutrol for the first two weeks, you get a little shaky and I don't even know what causes that to be honest with you because it's not really a stimulant. It won't keep you awake at night. Um, it does it I think it traumatizes the nervous system a little bit, but after two weeks you could take a clamut and fall asleep. So, I don't think it's going to make anxiety worse. Um, obviously I don't know how bad your anxiety is. So, but I haven't seen it like make I think once again get through the first two weeks and and the way you get through the first two weeks is take a half a tab. Take take 10 micrograms twice a day. Get used to it. Once the you get used to it after two weeks, then you can up your dosages and you shouldn't have any problems. Let's go to DA or Deja Cassid. Dave, your opinion on pre-exhausting a muscle. Example, doing 30 reps of hamstring curls before squats. The burn in the hams is real when squatting. Also, overload tricep before close grip bench and so on and so forth. pre-exhaustion, okay, really is doing a like a shaping or concentration movement to give the muscle some fatigue so that when you hit the main movement, you know, like if let's let's say dumbbell flies or or cable crossovers before you do bench press, it doesn't mean you should do 30 reps. It means you should just do that exercise first. So, if you do if you do normally do cable flies at the end of your chest workout, do it first. still stick to your eight to 12 reps or whatever range you do for those. Use good good weight where you can really stimulate the muscle. Don't go insane because you don't want to fatigue the muscle too much and then go to your uh main movement like bench press. You know, sometimes people do leg extensions before squatting, that kind of thing. It doesn't mean you should obliterate the muscle so that you can't even move. It's a pre-exhaustion so that you when you get to the main movement, you don't have to go quite as heavy and you can still get the same effect out of the out of the movement. That's what pre-exhaustion is. You know, someone uh just on another note, someone sent me an email and saying, "Look, you recommend three sets, two warm-ups, and a main working set for each exercise. What if I did four?" I said, "How about you make your third set, which is the working set, so severe that you don't want to do a fourth set." And he said, "You know what? I never thought of it that way." And the truth of the matter is too many people when you have too many sets, what you're going to worry about more is what's the next set? What's the next set? You shouldn't want to do an X set. Do less sets. Put more intensity into it. Let's go. We got a couple of uh Kevin Leavone related questions. We'll take the first one from Stan B. I'd rather listen to George Farah's Secrets in Egyptian Arabic while submerging in the bath of a Okay, getting a little too uh descriptive there. Anyway, I would like to know what the response was when Kevin Leone walked out onto the stage. It was hard to hear on the stream what the response was. Was it like a standing ovation or was there a bit of a silence due to the leg size? Leavone is a legend and a champion in my book. Hope that he had a recognition. Yeah, the the fans went crazy. You know, they did go crazy. He did his routine and there was like a stand at the end when he I think he talked in the microphone a little bit. They all everyone stood up and uh the press conference, you know, people gave him a standing ovation, too. So, uh I think people really loved having him there. It added a level or layer of excitement to the show that it just never is there. Uh, and you know, even though he didn't look like we all wanted him to look, I think people still got their money's worth, so to speak. Just the fact that he was there, just to see him up on the stage with everyone. That's what we wanted to see. You know, will he come back and look even better? I don't know. I don't know what Levrone is capable of. I guess he's going to try. From what I understand from the interviews I've seen that he's done so far, he is suggesting that he will come back in 2017. We're getting a lot of questions about that. So, your feeling, Dave, you want to confirm it right now? If you had to make a pick, will Kevin Levrone be back at the 2017 Olympia? I think he might be back before the Olympia to be honest with you. I think he might even consider doing the Arnold. Uh, I think he feels like he didn't have enough time to train his legs. He only had eight weeks because he had some kind of a knee injury. I fear that once he starts training regularly and not and you know getting back to doing what he doesn't do all year round, which is train all year round, I think he might start getting more injuries, especially at 52, especially because Kevin trains heavy. Um, let's see. I mean, I don't think Kevin would come back again unless he thought he could do some serious damage. I think he's really pissed off that Phil Heath kind of like was dissing his legs a little bit on stage. I know people were saying, "Oh, Phil didn't do that." Phil did. Phil gave him a few jabs on that. And that's all right. that that's good for business. You know, if if it inspires Levrone, it lights a fire onto him to train harder and come back better, hey, it's great for us fans. So, um I don't think it was disrespectful to Kevin. You know, Kevin put it out there that he was coming for these guys and gunning for him and Phil's like, "Hey, I'm here. You know, take me out." So, uh I hope Kevin comes back just for the sport, you know, but if he can't come back better, then he should he should just retire again. Patrick's one has a followup about almond milk. said last time you said that it wasn't good for you because of the vegetable oil contained. He wants to know if you have a similar or different opinion if it's organic almond milk. All organic means is that it's grown the the almonds are grown in organic conditions meaning no pesticides or or fertilizers that are artificial. It has nothing to do with the ingredient list that they put in the almond milk. So that's a big misnomer. People ask me about organic eggs or organic fruit. It just means pesticide free. doesn't mean that there's that the actual fruit or the actual egg is better for you. It's not like an omega-3 egg which has uh you know omega-3 fatty acids in there because they fed the chickens flax seed. So don't get confused by the term organic. All organic implies is that there's no pesticides or fertilizers used and I don't even know if that's I don't even know if I believe in it but you know that's what they're saying it is. Let's go to our Facebook page. Last time I got a bit of a tongue lashing we didn't take any of the questions from Facebook. So we'll do that now. Let's go to Simon Johansson. Dave, I wonder what your thoughts are about Mint. Simon from Sweden. You know, speaking of uh you taking Flax, Sid, I I've noticed that you were a bit of a celebrity at the Olympia. Uh a lot of people were coming up and actually asking to take pictures with you. Is that was that a strange uh phenomenon for you? It was actually, but in all honesty, it was humbling and I appreciate it. Um, I I think the coolest thing, Dave, now that we're on this point that I got from the fans, you know, during the Olympia, during the Olympia Expo, is that many of them came up to me and said that two months ago, I hadn't even heard of you guys, but now I'm hooked. And they love the fact that we're giving them information on a weekly basis. They love the fact that we have so much pre-Olympia content that they didn't even, you know, know what to do with it. Many told me that, you know, they were backed up for days and days trying to catch up with all our interviews. So, that was cool to see that, you know, not only are people aware of what we're doing, but the fact that, you know, they're consuming what we're putting out. And again, I put this in the forum last night. So, if you are on the Muscle Central forum, if you're not, go there register now. Uh, your feedback is what drives us. So, if you tell us, look, this is what you want. You want this guest on the show, you want Dave to rant about this, Dave or John Romano, you want thoughts from Dave, John, or Chris Aceto on a particular topic, let us know. I mean, this is why we're doing this. But again, it was great to see uh the turnout that we had, some of the feedback, some of the fans that we met. It's humbling. It's flattering, but it it continues to drive us to produce quality content for you. Also, you know, in the last four weeks, we've gotten 15,000 subscribers to our YouTube channel, and I you know, I put out the the uh the call to arms, guys. Subscribe, subscribe, subscribe. If you watch this content, then you must like if you like it, subscribe to the channel because I wanted 50,000 views. Uh 50,000 subscribers. We got that. And now we're past 60,000 already. And you know what? In another thousand, we'll be we'll have more than any other bodybuilding and fitness media website out there. So, I'm going for 62 63,000 right now. After that, we're going for 75. And I want that 100,000. So, we I get that silver button plaque on my wall. And, you know, because I know we have the fans out there. I know we have the people who love the programming. You know, if I like a programming on YouTube, I subscribe to it to let the people know. So, guys, do that. Now, the question was mint, which is seems to be a question I've been getting a lot. Mint is methyl nor testosterone. That's what it stands for, Ment. And uh it's a compound that doesn't aromatize, you know. Uh and I think that it doesn't uh excuse me, it doesn't convert to DHT. Excuse me. It does aromatize. The interesting thing about mint is that it's very anabolic. It has a strong anabolic effect. Obviously, um that's desirable. Now, I don't know a lot of people who have used it, but I I did interview that guy, Anthony Hughes from enhanced.com, and he seems to be selling it. I don't know how he's doing it, but he's selling it. I guess not for human use on his website, and he uh is a big advocate of it. He claims that it works great, and he feels really strong on the stuff, and he's put muscle on it. And so, a lot of athletes been asking me about it. I guess in theory, it's good. I mean, if you have hair loss issues, you know, and you don't want any DHT, it's probably a good compound to try. I don't the dosage is about 100 milligrams every other day that people have been recommending. Um so in that sense it's like kind of like Masteron or or or Trenalone. Um give it a shot. I mean I I guess if if you get a good source of it, it should work theoretically on paper. I don't know anyone practically who's used it. I've never used it because it's a relatively new compound. It's it's talone is is the actual chemical name of it. Not to be conf confused with Trenbolone. It's talone. So try it out. Let me know. Give me your feedback. You know, I I think it, like I said, it sounds good on paper. Let's go to our YouTube questions right now in the chat room. Let's go to Mark W. Hate the show more than Stevie B hates paying employees. Given how well Rammy looks Saturday, do you think he will be the one to dethrone Phil next year? I think he will be the one to dethrone Phil when it happens. I don't know. Um, I thought that at the night show on Saturday, he pushed everyone in that lineup really severely because he was nice and full. Prejudging, he was flat. Okay. And I think that hurt him, especially being a big guy like that. It just ruined his shape. When he's full, he looks round and he's and he's very dangerous. Uh, I think he won the lat spread poses front and rear. Definitely won the side chest. So, I think he's a dangerous competitor and I think his mindset is good and I think he found a great coach in Chris Aceto. So, I think next year he could be a super dangerous I I predict he'll win the Arnold Classic in March. Is he going to confirming that he's going to be competing at the Arnold Classic? I don't know, but I'm I'm putting it out there. That's my next prediction. I'm going from Levrone winning the Olymp to to Big Ramy winning the Arnold Classic. Let's go uh let's go back to the YouTube channel, Johnny. We had another question. Let's go to that uh the Simple Dude one. If it's calories versus calories, calories in versus calories out as far as weight loss goes. Why do some people have trouble getting lean on high carbs assuming they are in deficit? Because calories in don't equal calories out. They equal that in in a machine. Humans are not machines. They're dynamic, you know, they're dynamic uh beings. Uh everyone's metabolism is different. It's dependent on hormonal makeups in the body and and hormonal environment. Uh remember high carbs, okay, stimulate a lot of insulin release. insulin is a fat storage hormone. They've done studies where they've given, you know, obese people, okay, three three different shakes to consume. So they basically say to these obese people, don't change how you eat, okay? Add these calories. And one group is getting whey protein, one group is getting moltodextrin, which is carbs, and one group is getting, you know, like soy protein. And invariably every time they do this experiment, the group taking the moltodextrin get fatter and the waist circumference increases. The group taking this soy protein, nothing changes. And the group taking the whey protein, uh, they lose weight and they gain muscle. So foods have a drug-like effect on the body. Scott Connelly from the original inventor of metrics called this nutrient partitioning. Certain foods were positive partitioners, meaning they cause the production of or the the laying down of muscle at the expense of stored body fat as the fuel source. and other foods are negative partitioning agents meaning they they they tell the body um store fat. Okay, carbs, sugars, saturated fats are negative partitioning agents. Okay, essentials good essential fatty acids, lean sources of protein, okay, fibrous carbs, these are are positive nutrient partitioning agents. So the more positive partitioning foods you put into your diet, the more food you can consume and still build in muscle and burn fat, the more negative partitioning foods you put in like high carbs as this person suggests, the more likely you are to store body fat. Um, you know, if you also if you if you think about it, if you give if you give the same person, okay, the same diet and you change one variable, the only variable is you give them predinisone, okay, what will happen? They'll get fat. Okay, why would they get fat if you're not changing their calories or or the food that they're taking in? Well, because predinisone tells the body, it's a negative partitioning uh drug. It tells the body store body fat. That's all it does. And the same calories in that same person, okay, on and off the predinazone will be completely different. So, we're not calories are really irrelevant. It's macronutrient profiles. Let's go to Danny G9. Oh, we'll go back. I'm sorry, Leo. Let's go back to the YouTube channel. Get me wipe my nose a little more, Johnny. MCO 88 Fedor. Dave, is drinking orange juice after workout with supplements really good or not? And why? You know, I haven't had juice to be honest with you since probably when I was in the hospital, they gave me some apple juice. But I I Juice is like the worst thing. It's the biggest waste of calories. It's just sugar. Even even fresh squeezed juices, you know, coming from fruits, it's sugar. It's pure sugar. I don't put juice in anything. When I mix my protein shakes, I mix them with water. Now, if you're looking for extra calories because you just your metabolism is ridiculous, that's a different story. But I think they're a waste of calorie. I would rather eat some starchy carbs than have like a sugary juice. We'll take one more from the YouTube channel or let's go. Okay. Uh Johnny's going to display the next question. Uh Go City, your opinion on DMAA. I know a lot of people use these in these pre-workouts and these neural focus products. Um, my problem with the DMNAs is that uh it's not legal. It's it's out there, but it's really not a legal supplement. I I I don't like these supplements I'm telling you that that that mess with, you know, stimulation in the brain. I think, you know, if you think about what happens, what does it take to really stimulate the brain? It in it takes an increase in neurotransmitters. How do neurotransmitters get it increased in the body? Well, you can inhibit their breakdown or you can cause them to be stimulate the body to produce extras. Most of these products stimulate the body to produce extra. Okay? And in doing so, you exhaust these neurotransmitters. And when you exhaust these neurotransmitters, some people call that adrenal fatigue. It's really not adrenal fatigue. It's just neurotransmitter fatigue. Okay? You get listless, you get lack of motivation to train. Uh you don't feel as good. uh your workouts start to suffer because remember the neurotransmitters enable the muscle cells and nerve cells to communicate. It also enables the nerve cells to communicate with each other in the brain. Thus, if you exhaust them, you can get depressed or your workouts can suffer. Okay? Or you can create, you know, an overabundance of anxiety in the body and just and just not feel good. Remember, if you don't feel good, you're not going to train well in the gym. So, to get a little burst here and there, uh, you know, from these products is okay once in a while. It's when you use them on a regular basis because people become dependent on them and that's when they cause problems. And you know what I found and I've talked to a lot of people about this. I don't use stimulants anymore. I stopped using them. I used them when I used to diet. I would drink a lot of coffee really. I didn't really use any stimulant products. But since I stopped drinking coffee, I don't need it anymore. I don't need coffee to wake me up. Okay. Life wakes me up. You know what I mean? I It's weird. It's a weird phenomenon when you don't drink coffee and you don't use a lot of stimulants or caffeinated coffee. At least I drink decaf. Um, you don't you don't rely on them anymore. It's it's an amazing phenomenon. Try it. I pro I challenge anyone out there who's a stim junkie, get off the stems. And I'm telling you, it might take you four weeks, but in four weeks time, you're going to thank me. Let's go to Danny G9. We're on Instagram now. Our handle is official_Rxmuscle. Let's go to Danny G93. Uh, Dave. Danny here from the UK. Did you think Nathan Dash's placing was fair? I had him uh between 8 and 10. You know, Nathan Dasher along with uh Dallas Macccarver and Justin Compton were in that rookie newbie class I called. And they all look pretty damn good. Um I think the judges I think Nathan looked a little, how would I say this? Artificially enhanced in certain areas and I think that might have hurt him a little bit. Um, you know, I know everyone pumps themselves up in certain ways and and gets their their muscles jacked up, but I think he did a little too much. Um, I didn't and I thought he lost some of the dryness that he normally has on his body. The the fact is he's got such big arms and shoulders anyway. He doesn't need to do anything like that. It kind of threw his symmetry off, I thought a little bit, too. So, in that sense, I I think that, you know, no one would have complained had Nathan been eighth, ninth, or 10th. Um, I think it was very close. Uh, I thought Justin Compton and him matched up really well. I I'd like to see them against each other like in in some upcoming pro shows in 2017. I think they'll be they could be the future of the sport along with Dallas. Obviously Dallas a lot taller than those guys, but Nathan and Justin really really match up well. Once again, it was his first Olympia. You can't really expect too much, you know, when you're going in for your first time. Let's go to OmarNJ. Dave, any two-part question, we'll take the first. Any tips on managing cravings? Look, you're going to have cravings when you're dieting. It just goes it goes without saying. What I tell people do is find something that's non-caloric that you like, whether it be some diet soda or you like coffee or um what else did I'm trying to think of some of the little tricks that I would employ when I was dieting. Um usually, you know what I would do is I would try to find good spices because good spices to foods make the foods much more enjoyable. A lot of guys just boil their chicken and they just eat it like plain like that. And you know what? It's not as exciting. You know, find some spices that don't have carbs in them. Uh I like adobo or Mrs. Dash or a combination of them. Uh you got to get creative. You know, create taste so that your body's, you know, can get away from these cravings. The worst thing you can do is give into the temptation though. What I would do if I would start getting really crazy is I would get out of the house. Leave the house. Walk out of the house. Go for a walk or get in your car. go for a ride. It's not that long contest prep, okay? When it's over, you can eat whatever you want. If you cheat, however, you got to live with that regret when you get on stage and you stand next to someone who's in better shape than you are. So, to me, that was never an option. So, I never cheated, you know, unless I had a prescribed cheat meal. And his second part is, uh, training advice after recovering from a double torn bicep tendon. Um, train carefully. I don't, you know, a lot of people tear biceps in the gym because they're doing crazy stuff. If that's what happened to this person, then become a smarter trainer. You know, use your muscle injury as a way to train better. You know, if I would have known what I know now, when I first started training, I probably would have saved myself a lot of grief and a lot of injuries over the years. Um, I learned most of my proper training technique after I got injured or had shoulder arthoscopic surgeries because I had to use perfect form after those surgeries so I wouldn't reinjure it. And what I found was that I grew better when I did that. And my strength actually increased when I used the muscles, right? So, you know, the best thing you can do, and I hate to, you know, it sounds very amateur-ish, but get yourself a personal trainer when you first start working out. Learn the right way. Find a bodybuilder who's got good technique and who can explain it well. I have people who come in and and and pay me to do leg training sessions, back training sessions with them. I don't train people in the gym, but I will on on a once once in a while occasion. I have people fly in from other states, Dave, I want you to just train legs with me for the day. Fine, let's go to the gym around the corner from me. We'll go to Bevs. We'll do legs and you know, I charge them whatever and and and they learn how to do legs and then they never have to worry about it again. So, find someone who's going to teach you the right techniques. Let's go to professor gains. Hi Dave. hate the show more than Kai Green hates getting straight to the point. I've heard some bodybuilders talk about synergism between Tren and Winstrol in particular. Can you explain this as it pertains to pre-contest use? I don't necessarily know if there's a synergism synergism between Tren and Winstrol as much as they're both hardening agents in the sense that when on a lean body, Winstrol and Tremolin will make a hard body harder looking. Okay? If you're not if you're fat and you take Winstrol and and Trembolone, it's not going to do anything for you. It's not going to lean you out. Uh so in that sense, you know, one of the my favorite, you know, combinations pre-contest is Winstrol, Trenmbbolone, Testosterone, and even Masteron mixed in there. That's a really good pre-contest mix. And a lot of guys like the Winshell and Trembolone acetate because it's fast acting. And you know, I people know that, you know, I recommend guys take it every single day, the last seven days before a show because the stuff works fast. It gets into your system in high amounts and it really hardens up the body. But once again, it's important that you be lean. It's not going to lean you out. It's going to make a lean body harder. Fat Tony Dave, is there a difference in injecting GH sub versus intramuscular? You know, they're both acceptable routes of administration. Uh there's been research that shows that the intramuscular route, which is what I usually recommend people do, it gets in faster, okay? Because it enters the bloodstream faster. Whereas when you put it subq under the skin, sometimes it gets trapped in the fat cells, sometimes it gets lost, but it gets in eventually. It's just slower. Let's go to Matias Viegas. If you were actually no, let's go to Merely Darren. Kevin Levrone was from an era where conditioning symmetry and granite hard vascularity was the standard. So does Phil Heath advance that or in your opinion has bodybuilding gone into regression? I think bodybuilding goes in stages. I think you know the bodybuilding world is only as good as who's competing, you know. So uh we've seen eras where there was just an enormous amount of great competitors and then there's been you know dry spells. I think we're coming into an age where we're going to see some amazing physiques again. Uh the introduction of Big Ramy, Dallas Macccarver, Justin Compton, Nathan Dasha, these are going to be the stars of the future and they're going to be really good these guys. I think before that we hit we had a dry spell from probably when when Ronnie retired to when Jay retired, you know, I think that was a dry spell. I think Phil took over. He was like he was kind of like special and but there really wasn't anyone else there. It was a lot of older guys. I think now we're seeing guys coming into their own the rodents and the wolves and the dexter still around. They're good, but I think this new crop is going to be great, but I think it's going to take another f three to five years before we see that. And I think we're going to have a little bit of a golden year. And yet, don't forget we have Cody Montgomery's and some there's a lot of, you know, this Aberaji guy. Uh there's a lot of new guys coming up that are young in their 20s that we're going to see be the future of the sport. Brooks Clark. Hey Dave, why is estrogen seems like why does estrogen seem like it's in everything? Plastics, deodorants, shampoos, and many other hygiene products. Will using these products negatively affect you in the long run? When they say there's estro estrogenic compounds in these things, it's not like, you know, you're producing oodles of estrogen like from testosterone that's aromatizing. They're in there somehow. They're in the environment. They're getting incorporated into plastics and they're getting involved. they're getting into, you know, animal feed and stuff like that. Um, you know, some people are saying that that's why the the the world or the men of the world are becoming feminized. It's from all this estrogen that's in the environment that's getting incorporated into their bodies through the foods and the uh the stuff we come in contact with. I don't necessarily know if I go along with that. Like when people say, "Oh, don't don't eat soy. It's got estrogen and it's going to make you estrogenic." I don't believe that. I don't I think that's a croc of crap to be honest with you. I do think that there's environmental estrogens. I don't know how they're getting there necessarily. That could affect like a growing boy or growing female. Uh I think adults are kind of immune to that. So, I wouldn't get all I wouldn't get all worried about that, oh, oh my god, I can't eat this food or I can't I can't use this plastic cup or I can't do this because I'm going to get estrogen in my body. That's not going to happen. Believe me, taking a shot of testosterone is going to get you a lot more estrogen in your body than than than using a plastic cup. Let's go to muscle_achine. Dave, my question is, what is the difference uh between insoluble and soluble fiber? That's a good question. Uh first of all, you need both. Um as you know, my fiberized product from Species Nutrition uses both. Uh you need a lot more soluble fiber than you need insoluble fiber. And that's important uh to understand. Soluble fiber, okay, uh is something that when you mix with water, it can absorb the water. So if you think of Opran or oatmeal, when you put water with it, it it soaks it up. All right? That's what you need a lot of. The best source of soluble fiber to use in the body in a supplemental form is psyllium. Psyllium is actually eight times more potent on a gram for gram basis than than oat brand. So you get a lot more bang for your buck and you can use a lot less of it. That's why we use I use it in fiber. Uh psyllium will will bind up bile acids. So it lowers LDL cholesterol, which is that's how your body gets rid of it. It will increase uh uh mobility in the intestinal tract. So, it'll help you eliminate waste faster, get toxins out of the body. It also tells the liver to stop producing glucose, which lowers uh insulin amount uh levels in the body. Lower insulin means better fat burning. So, it's a great supplement to use when you're trying to lose weight because it keeps insulin levels lower uh which is something that we want. Obviously, it's more efficient for fat loss. Um, soluble fiber on the other hand will help remove waste from the the colon. It actually acts almost like sandpaper in scraping the waste out of your colon. It'll also alkalinize the colon. Uh, what does that mean? That means that it neutralizes acidity. If you think about what's going on in the colon, it's a pretty acidic environment. It's pretty disgusting, right? Well, the immune system doesn't work in an acidic environment. The the soluble, excuse me, the insoluble fiber will alkalinize, neutralize that acidity, helping the immune system to work better. less chance of us having any kind of like colon uh cancers or any kind of p-up formation. And on that note, that is going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave, brought to you by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com, available right now on rxmuscle.com and the RXMuscle YouTube channel. Dave's thoughts on Kevin Levon's return to the Olympia stage. interview with Danny Hester, Jeremy Buendia, Tom Platt. All our expo interviews and post Olympia wrap-up available right now rxmuscle.com and the rxmuscle YouTube channel. Johnny Styles is going to be flying out to Spain tomorrow to cover the 2016 Arnold Classic Europe. So, all the pre- Olympia, pre- Arnold wrap-ups, wrap-ups, preview video videos, athlete interviews, and of course, the post show wrap-ups are going to be on rxmuscle.com and the rxmuscle YouTube channel. For Dave Johnny Styles, I'm Sad Farooqi. We'll see you next time.