This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the 2010 IFBB Pittsburgh Bikini Championships here with our second place finisher, Sonia Gonzalez. Inner in her pajamas. Well, in my backstage clothes. You're already You're ready to get out of here and go eat, huh? I'm ready to eat. Yeah, I I But I'm hanging out with all my girlfriends and, you know, saying hello to everybody that I don't ever get to see it except on the circuit. So, I'm going to hang out for a little while. You You have the prestige of having been an IFBB figure pro who was very successful, won shows before. You decided obviously upon someone else's advice to switch to bikini. You won the first two bikini pro shows of the year and you finished second very close uh to Natalia tonight. I mean, you can do it all, huh? I'm trying. Why'd you switch to bikini? Um just to try something different, kind of reinvent myself and um it's a better fit for my body. I'm AI'm a curvy small girl and it's hard to put muscle on. So, bikini just kind of was my calling and the doors opened up. So, I tried it. Are you happy because now you don't have to diet quite as hard? You know what? I'm still I still go at it as I mean I'm a competitor. So, it's still competition. I still diet as hard. I still, you know, the cardio isn't as in as intense or the the weight training, but I'm still killing it, you know. Are you still weight training like you would? Oh, yeah. Of course. Okay. So, you're just lucky you just have like that kind of body that just looks good for bikinis. Yeah. Yeah. Some of these girls told me they had to stop working out. Well, I'm not doing as much cardio. I was with figure, you know, you had to lean down, do all that stuff. So, the cardio is a lot different. I That's the difference right there. I'm not doing the two hours of cardio that I was doing before. I'm doing half hour cardio now. And what kind of meals, what kind of food are you eating now that you're doing bikini? Eating tons of fats, steak, salmon. So, you raised your fats. You didn't raise your carbs, right? Right. Interesting to round you up. Yes, definitely did. Well, you look beautiful out there. You look phenomenal. Congratulations. I think it's going to be a real good Olympia come September between you and Nathalia. I think it's gonna be amazing and I can't wait. What do you think you got to do to beat her? You know what? I am pretty happy with it with what I have with my physique now. Um maybe just come in a little rounder. I don't know. I I got to sit down with my trainer and and discuss that. But with what I have right now, my package that I brought, I couldn't be happier. You know what? I was I'm happy where I'm at. Sonia Gonzalez, second place here at the Pittsburgh Bikini Pro Championships. Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com. Yeah.