and yellow. Black and yellow and yellow and yellow and yellow and yellow. I'm standing here with Stacy Alexander, second place here in the uh IFBB Pittsburgh Bikini Championships. Actually, you were tied for first and it had to be a tie for they probably went to the thrown out scores and you wind up narrowly losing to your Shira Robas. Uh talk to me about how you feel. I I personally, and I'm going to go on the camera saying this and I know a lot of other people tell me this that you have the best body in all of Bikini, bar none. Thank you. Thank you so much. Oh, wait. You got to get the glutes. Best butt without a doubt. I don't know what you do for it. You probably were just born with it. I I was born because I'm Mexican with you. I got it from my dad. You were Mexican. I didn't know that. Mexican. So, I got it from my daddy. So, thank you, daddy. You speak Spanish? No. That's the one thing he did not teach me, but I'll take the booty over the Spanish cuz that's something you can learn. Sure. Sure. But, uh, I I work my glutes two, three times a week. Um, obviously bikini, that's the most important and it's one of my favorite parts. It's the best asset. So, you got to work your ass, right? It's the way you move on station. You're just very fluid. You have that long, small waisted torso. I just think that that's what bikini is all about. It is. It's about being sexy and and confident and having fun. So, I grew up dancing. So, you'll see me on the sideline or kind of walking out. Everyone's like, "Is she going to dance on stage?" So, that's my passion besides fitness is dancing. And that's what comes out when I'm actually doing my posing on stage. And I love it. And you got a great personality because she's also the co-host of Muscle Girls Inc. radio show on rxmuscle.com exclusively. and you and Adella do a phenomenal job. I listen to the show sometimes that I just crack up listening to the stuff you talk about. Thank you. We have a ton of fun. Her and I just go back and forth and we try and pick some really fun topics like out of the ordinary. You don't want the same thing every day and and we just talk about girl stuff and guys stuff and what to do in the bedroom and what not to do and it's fun, you know, real. Keep it real. And us guys love to know what you guys want to do in the bedroom. That's a very good topic. Now, talk to me a little bit about this this loss tonight because there wasn't really a loss. In essence, it was like a coin flip. Uh, does that hurt? I mean, because I know obviously the winner always feels great. The loser, you know, goes home and cries. But, uh, are you gonna go home and cry or you going to regroup for the next show? Um, I'm not going to cry. I I love you, Shira, and I love Amanda. All of us are are really good friends and we support each other. Um, but I did feel that I brought in a super tight package and everybody was coming up to me and they're like, "Okay, you got this." I mean, they were tweeting it. You were talking about it. And I was like, I actually think I might I might take it. Oh, this is yours. Yes. And you Shar and I are rumoring together. And she's like, "Oh, I was, you know, I wasn't my best." And girl, this is your show. And I'm like, "I never celebrate early cuz you never know what happens." And as you can see, she was surprised. I saw her backstage. She said, "I didn't expect it." I think she really thought you were going to win. She did. She told me. She's like, "It's yours." And I'm like, "No, not yet." Now, what's next for you? Uh, New York Pro. Will that be a rematch against you? It will. And um Ashley. Oh, and Ashley will be there, the reigning Miss Olympia. So, you three have been going headtohead all year long. We have. And Ashley, myself, and India went to Australia. You were there. I was there. And you did very well, man. Thank you. And New Zealand. So, it's always been second, second, second, second. So, I want that first place, you know. You know, it's interesting because you did beat Yeshira this year, correct? Uh, no. The Arnold. You didn't beat her at the Arnold? No, she got second at the Olympia and I got third and then she got second at the Arnold and I got third. Oh, you got Right. Okay. Right. Yeah. I'm always right one step behind her, but I love her. So, you want to beat her obviously in two weeks. Um, that would be sweet. Yes. Yes, that would be sweet. All right, give us a little uh since you like to dance a lot, we'll take this interview out with you. Doing a couple moves for us here. I think just be whatever you'd like. Give us a dance move. I think I like the dance move better. Stacy Alexander, the one of the sexiest bikini bodies in the business. And she can move, too. And it's all because of that Mexican booty. Show us that booty. Johnny Styles. Loving that booty. That's all I got to do. All right, we're going to see her in two weeks in New York. For now, I'm Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.