I'm standing here with IFBB Pro bodybuilder, one of the strongest men in the IFBB Pro ranks, Stan Efforing. And uh every time I see you, you try to reinvent yourself. You're a little on the leaner side since the last time we talked. Yeah, after my last powerlifting meet, I was a little heavy. I was up upwards of 290. So, I started running stairs, cut some carbs, dropped 40 lbs, and uh trying to get back in shape for summer. I live in Vegas now, so you got to have the six-pack for summer. True. And you and you have two kids now. I do. I just had a baby boy on Valentine's Day just a few weeks ago, and I have a 2-year-old daughter, so yeah, they keep me busy. Aquarian. Yes. Yes. Talk to me a little bit about You have a new invention. I like new inventions because the to me that's like the the the you've reached the pinnacle of of creativity when you can invent something. What what did you and Flex Wheeler invent? Uh well, we've got a new product out called the cooler. Let me see this thing. Hand hand it over to me. Flex, give me that cooler. Flex can't come on camera. Yeah, Flex is over there. The wings. The cooler. It's a onegon beverage cooler uh that you'd use for say ice water or maybe a pre-workout. Some amos and creatin. Just drink that during training. Could be for athletes, crossfitters. What's special about it though? Well, what's special about this cooler is is that it has a removable cap. Show us Show us. Tilt it over there so John can see. Has a removable cap. And then uh inside of it is a separate shaker that keeps your postworkout shake ice cold for you. Oh, and on the outside is where the other drink is. And the outside is where the other drink is. Then what we did that slides down into a sleeve. The sleeve is removable and it makes a second shaker. Wow. In the bottom of here, you could put some powder, you know, and fill it with the ice water from the shake. So, you can store all ostensibly three shakes in here. Ostensibly three shakes in there. And that way, it's not it's ice cold when you're done training. And uh I used to stuff a shaker inside of a cooler. That's where you got the idea from. And yeah, and I thought, why wouldn't we just make something? How did you make find someone to make this? It looks complicated. Yeah. I own an engineering firm in Dallas, so we that helps. So, we put that on the CAD program, sent it over to a manufacturer and produced a this is a this is a prototype and we expect to have the these available for sale and finished by say uh 4th of July. Now, how much would something like this cost? Uh retail for $29.99. That's reasonable. Now, uh where can you buy them? Uh we're going to Well, we're distributing them through Europa. So, at all the Europa locations, you can get it just about anywhere or online. Stan, I I love the idea. It's very cool. And this is called the thecooler.com. thecooler.com with a K. Yeah. Stan Efering, powerlifter, bodybuilder, now inventor. Check it out at all your Europa distributors throughout the world. Hi guys, what's going on? It's Massive Joe's raw review and I'm coming to you from massive joe's.com. Awesome raw review for the viewers at home today. It's on an all new reformulated preworkout supplement in the house from one of the world's premier supplement brands and by far one of the world's hardest working dudes in the industry. It is of course Ronny Common signature series, Myob Blitz XS. There's a bunch of ingredients in this here Myoblitz XS that I ain't never seen before. So I actually had to do some research on these ingredients which I'll be honest with you does excite me. Let it rain. Let it rain. In terms of the effects, I'm going to tell you about my first experience with my Blitz XS. Woo! First time I took this here my blitz, man. I took it, drank it, kind of waited a little bit. Next minute, started warming up, started training. I started training some shoulders, man. Started training some shoulders. Next minute, workout over. So, I thought, cool, that's good. Can't remember my workout. Don't really care about not remembering my workout cuz my energy levels are pretty low. So, so long as I got it done, I'm happy. Next night, train myself some arms, man. Once again, took the Myob Blitz excess, waited for it to kick in, started working once again. Workout over. Next day, biceps, triceps, sorus. Took it the third time, which was last night. train myself some back. My blitz XS one scoop, one scoop of Tesen XR. One of the best workouts I have ever had. Blitz, you can hear colors. You can taste sounds. This is on a different level. Preworkout mental focus has to be the best preworkout mental focus supplement we have seen thus far. Thus far. Yes. Fair.