Welcome to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Tuesday, November 3rd, 2015. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. On the off-hand chance that international politics isn't your cup of tea, you probably haven't heard that the Russian economy is in freef fall and the value of the ruble is crumbling. But perhaps hope is on the horizon thanks to the country's number one new export, Alex Federov. This year, the Russian Bmoth made a return to the stage after a self-imposed decadel long sbatical. Just a few weeks into his off seasonason, Fedorov is looking as cartoonishly enormous as we've ever seen him. With a full year of competition under his belt and a long offseason ahead of him, maybe 2016 will be the year that we see both the ruble and the mighty Russian on the rebound. Michael Eli's personal vendetta against body fat has reached cataclysmic proportions. Over the weekend, Eli released new progress photos three weeks out from making his second consecutive trip to the Furo Legacy Classic stage. Eli is one of the few guys out there who gets inside out shredded every time he takes the stage, but whether or not he's made enough improvements to overcome some of his structural issues still remains to be seen. But one thing is for sure, no one will outwork the bluecollar Eli come contest day. A few weeks removed from bringing his talents back from the Nordic Pro stage, the mighty Zack Khan is looking as big and as freaky as we've ever seen him. After suffering through a horrific series of leg injuries that nearly derailed his career, the man many once thought to be a future Mr. Olympia is still one of the freakiest looking bodybuilders the world has ever seen. At this point, it's a safe bet to say that the mighty Khan isn't going to reach the stratospheric heights that we once all saw in his future. But he's still one of the biggest personalities in the sport. And if nothing else, having him around seems to make everything just a little more fun. Don't let the fact that he's over 50 years old fool you. 212 powerhouse Martinez Hagens is still firing on all cylinders. Over the weekend, Muscle in the Morning obtained some exclusive footage of Hagens in action during a recent training session as he dives deep into his offseason preparations. Hagens told Muscle in the Morning that he's planning on stepping on stage again next year where we can expect his best look to date. An ex-military man, very few men on this planet have the work ethic and discipline of the North Carolina native. And if he makes good on his word, look out. He has all the gifts and tools to make things get very interesting. Kevin Jordan looks like he's doing everything in his power to avoid the dreaded sophomore slump. Following a terrific rookie campaign where we saw the former NPC national champ come out and become an immediate force on the pro stage, he's back in the gym moving some serious weight in preparation for what many expect to be a breakout season next year. Even with all the crazy new muscle Jordan managed to pack on during his time away from the stage, he still has a lot of room to grow into his tremendous frame. And it's not too hard to imagine a scenario where a few years from now we could be mentioning Jordan's name among the best in the sport. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com. Today, I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passion. And make sure to follow us on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo!