This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the 2010 NPC Team Universe here with our women's figure class B champion and new IFBB pro Terasita Morales back in the winner circle again. Yes, I am. This is a much bigger win. Absolutely. Much much bigger now. The biggest show I've ever done. It was awesome. The last show I saw you was the Long Island and you won that and then I was like, "Wow, this girl's really good. You should be doing some national level shows." Um yeah. And then after that I did the Atlantic States in the city and I did very well in that as well. And you didn't win that show. I won the Masters and I took second in the open figure. Right. But which is ironic because then you come back to the team universe and and you win your pro card. Yeah. Which just goes to show you that the the judging on the national level is sometimes different than the regional level. I I thought I you know I always said when I saw you up on stage at the Atlantic I said she's going to do better at the nationals than she will on a local level. Thank you. Now you have a very interesting uh profession. You're a lawyer because uh you know I don't see many lawyers. I see a lot of like uh medical people. I see a lot of people in the sciences but not lawyers. Why do you think that is? Um you know what? I don't know. Um I think because we're pretty busy, uh we have a very hectic schedule. What kind of law do you practice? I do uh custodies, visitations, order protections, and I'm also on a panel of attorneys that represent uh children in foster care. Oh wow. That's pretty that's important actually. It's very important. Now, how did you get into the whole uh figure genre? Um, I remember uh in 2003 I met a a woman at a gym in the city and she asked me if I competed and I said never and so she took me to a show and um and I loved it and then after that I just started competing and then I first I competed as a bodybuilder and I did okay in that. Um what year was that? That was in 2003 2004 I got my pro card as a bodybuilder in Oh, in one of the national organizations. Yes. And then I switched over to figure and then I started doing figure and I kind of like that a little bit better. Why do you like figure better than bodybuilding? Um well one I couldn't get as shredded as I needed to to win. So it's easier for you. Uh for me it is. Yeah, for me it is. What do the people who work with you, the lawyers think about this whole thing? Do they think you're crazy or do you keep it a secret? Um at first uh they ask a lot of questions cuz you see me in the hallways eating like in the stairwell eating and I always have to take breaks during my trials to eat. But um now um I mean everybody knows that I do this. All the judges are very supportive. Yeah. I was say, "Hi, what do you do?" Cuz in court, they don't give you like breaks to go eat. Um, is this going to be on like national TV or It's on national internet. Okay. Um, I take breaks. You just sneak out and you go eat. Little breaks. I take little bathroom breaks. Then I go out and I just sneak in. Stuff some food down your throat. Yeah. That's all right. You're allowed to do that. Yeah. Let me ask you this question. I've asked this to the last couple competitors I've interviewed. A lot of the girls that have been turning pro recently been very successful moving to the pro ranks immediately after competing. Do you see yourself competing in the pros this year? Um, I'm going to I guess I'm going to just uh think about that for a little while. I think my body needs a little break and I want to take some time to uh eat, train, and grow. Um, so maybe I'm going to think about that for a while. All right, Terrace Morales, class B champion here and new IFBB Pro. I'm Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.