Welcome back to another exciting episode of Live with brought to you by Quest Nutrition. Visit questnutrition.com. I'm your host Dave Palumbo and uh tonight our guest is classic men's physique pro Terrence Ruffin. Welcome. Hey, how you doing Dave? You know, you got a great story and I that's why I really wanted to get you on here because uh you know, you started out in bodybuilding like a lot of the uh the classic physique pros did. You won the lightweight class at the Nationals in 2014 and you know, you decided to make the switch to the classic division, which I thought was a brilliant idea on your part. You know, a lot of guys want to, you know, they start in bodybuilding, they want to stick with bodybuilding, and you said, you know what, I'm going to do this classic division. That's what my body is is is is best suited for. And you did it and you did it very successfully. Um, was it a hard decision? It was. You know, I had the same mentality you just spoke of. You know, I started in bodybuilding. Um, I'm going to stick with it. Um, but, uh, I sat down with my coach, Matt, and, um, you know, talking it out and I was, you know, I was interested in it, but at the same time, I was, you know, still, you know, motivated to do the 212 class. But after we sat down and talked, you know, we made the switch back in uh February or March. Now, when you when you leave uh you know, when you started in bodybuilding, obviously, and you turned pro, you were under 154 pounds, uh which would have mean meant you would have had to probably put on a good 50 pounds of muscle to compete in that 212 class, which you could have done. Dexter Jackson did it from a bantamweight. So, um, you could have done it, but obviously now you have this other option, classic physique, and you have, you know, if I had a if I had to draw the prototypical, uh, classic physique guy, I would probably show them your physique. And when you stand alone, you look like uh, the Olympia champ. You know, I have to tell you, when I first saw you come out at the Mr. Olympia competition, I said, "This guy might win the whole show." Uh, obviously, you are giving up size to some of the taller uh, classic physique guys. Um, what do you think number one is, uh, I guess your strength in in classic and number two, what will it take for you to beat some of these bigger guys? Well, um, I think my strengths are definitely like my leg leg development. Um, I would be pressed to say I got, you know, one of the best, you know, set of legs on stage. You know, maybe me and Bon both. Uh, my back is pretty good. My posing is um um I love the way I pose and it's and my routines are I would like to say unique compared to a lot of guys. I do a lot of movements and um you know that that you don't see very often. It's like a mix between I would say like a Bob Parson Lee Labra mixed with you know Kai Greenish type of style. But uh for me to improve and to get better the better you know just work on my weaknesses um size and with the the raise in the class you know that's it was already possible before you know I wasn't at the limit I didn't have to you know suffer to make weight but now with that you know that extra five pounds it's even more of a chance for me to bring up like my arms my upper body you know just the things I need to work on. Now, where does someone like yourself find these unusual poses, the way you presented your body? Because I mean, a lot of guys, you know, I I work with some guys, they're horrendous on stage. They their presentation is terrible. They have terrible body awareness. Where did you get such good body awareness? And where did you get all these moves from? I think part of being a good poser is having like an artistic eye, but you know, it's really, you know, I just studied. I just study. I think that's a big part of it. People forget that posing and presentation is a big part of the sport. So, I spent hours, you know, when I first started, you know, um before I turned pro, I would be posing, you know, for an hour or two a day just figuring out how, you know, figuring out my body. And a lot of people, you know, in the training aspect, they figure out, you know, what works for them, but they forget to figure out what poses work for them. So basically it was just me studying um watching posing videos from like I said Bob Paris, Leah Brother, Kai Green were the the top three guys I I uh look to for posing inspiration. And what do you do? Do you like videotape yourself and and then watch the videos and then make like I I always wonder how people can critique themselves and know that the position that they're holding their body in is correct, you know, and that that they're hitting the pose properly because I see a lot of guys hit some artistic poses on stage and their guts hanging out or they're not pulling their shoulder to the right side or their arm is not positioned properly. How do you get that that perfection in the final product? Um I I videotape it. Um, just like you said, and um, also I've tested some poses, you know, even and even then I test some poses out, you know, in the gym and they look great, but once I hit them on stage, they don't look as good. So, I won't hit that ever again on stage or, you know, I might practice it more and more until it does, you know, have the same effect that I see in the gym on stage. Now, Terrence, you won the Kentucky Pro. you uh were second at Diana Kado, you won Tampa this year. Um that had to be a huge boost in your confidence and momentum going into that Olympia because I mean you went from winning the lightweight class probably a lot of people told you, you know, pack it in kid, you know, you know, you're never going to be a good pro and now you're winning pro shows, you know, two years later. That had to be a how tell us about how that felt because that had to be terrific motivation for you um this year. This year for me has been surreal. Uh yeah, I didn't, you know, you know, turning pro as a lightweight, I was thinking, man, it's gonna be a tough road ahead. You know, I might not really become successful for like another 10 years, you know. Uh but with the with the new division coming out, you know, I've been allowed to do so much more. And you know, the first pro show I did, you know, I was a little bit nervous. That was the uh Prestige Cup. I took third at that behind uh Bion and Dar. And then, you know, after that show, I saw how well I did. I felt good. Um my conditioning was a little bit off, so we fixed that. And uh when I went into Tampa, I was ready to do battle. Talk to the judges after the show and and get some feedback from them. Um as often as I can. Um I talked to him after the prestige. I talked to him and I talked to him after the Olympia. That was the two times I got to talk to them because you know the judge and then I don't sometimes I can't stay for the whole show. But um after the Olympia I talked with uh Steve Weinberger and the only critique he had for me was to you know put on some size. So were you disappointed with the eighth place at the Olympia? Because a lot of people were kind of billing you as like one of the favorites going in to the show. Uh after like I said I critiqued you when you came out and did your individual posing and and I said, "Hey, this guy is is right up there. This is top three material, maybe higher. And uh you know, obviously when you stood next to some of the other guys, you looked a little smaller, but was it discouraging for you to go from those, you know, top twos and a couple wins and then go down to eighth place at the Olympic? Yes, it was. Um, you know, going into it, you know, I was thinking no lower than fifth place at all. Um, you know, and my f, you know, I got really good fans or really really some persistent and dedicated fans. You know, some of the stuff they did I wasn't too, you know, I didn't agree with, but they did support me and I really I really um am appreciative of that. But knife was not what I wanted at all. So, I artificially inflated you a place. I thought you were eighth, but yeah, you're right. You were ninth. Yeah. What how do you come back from like, you know, that that that deflation, so to speak? You go in there riding a high wave. You got a you think you got a good shot at, you know, making that top group. You come out of the show at ninth. Um, how do you pick yourself up again and and and you know, start over, so to speak? Well, as a lot of people, you know, a lot of people would take that as like um they would let it discourage them or whatnot, but I've you know, I've never been discouraged. I always if I see somebody bigger in the gym, I'm like, "All right, I don't I don't feel bad. I'm like, "All right, I need to get on his level." Or if I, you know, when I took my first show, I took uh last place in the lightweight. And then the next year, I won the show. And then I went on straight to nationals and won, you know, nationals. So any, you know, it just lights a fuel for me to do come back and do better. What's your uh what's the weight class off now for the uh classic physique in in your height? Uh 170. 170. And what did you weigh at the uh at the Olympia? Um around like 157 to 159 if I remember. You got a lot of room to grow then. Yes. And um you know, even though I was hoping that they wouldn't change it this year because I could have still put on size and the other guys would have been stifled, it's still like I can put on so much more and make a a dramatic change to my physique compared to a lot of these guys. A lot of these guys, especially with the taller guys, five pounds doesn't look the same on them as it does on me. You know, I you know, I said that I was talking to Chris Aceto about that and I said that I think it's a disadvantage for the the taller guys. I think the the shorter guys have a bigger advantage because like you said, five pounds on a short frame is way way bigger looking than five pounds on a tall frame. I said it should have been graded the uh the weight increases, but uh I agree with you. I think you do have an advantage with that extra five pounds. Yeah. Yeah. It's going to be crazy. No comment on that. No comment. So, how long do you wait before you compete again? Because obviously, you know, you were uh very successful last year, but you do want to put on this muscle now. Uh do you hit some of the early shows or you going to wait till like the summer? You know what? I really really wanted to hit the Arnold. But like you said, thinking, you know, logically and thinking, you know, with my with my head instead of my heart, I'm going to wait to just do the Olympia. Um, and, you know, give as much time in my offseason to put on that the size I can put on. Um, I'm going to be I'm very disappointed I can't do the Arnold this year. Uh, the first year they having a classic, but you know, the the Olympia is what I want to shoot for. Are they I thought they're not having a classic physique at the at the Arnold this year. No. Um, I'm not sure. I've heard I've heard a couple guys um talking about it. I know um Arash said he was I heard him saying something about signing up for it. I I I don't know. Could be out of the loop a little bit. Talk to me a little bit about your uh family support system here going into this show. Uh do the family support this? Do they know or even understand bodybuilding or are they like uh Gung Hoert? Um well they are I'm the first one in my family to even you know know anything about bodybuilding but my mother is very very very supportive. Um I actually interviewed her interviewed her a week ago and put it on my page but she has been at every single show except two um just because she's a teacher and you know time off but she's always been there. Um she drove to the Diana Kadoo Classic uh a 12 hour drive, you know. Yeah. You know, with like a week or two's notice. She uh you know, so she is like the biggest support I've had. Um besides that, I have my wife. Um she is currently um stationed in Korea for a year. She'll be back um she'll be back to do the Arnold amateur. So that'll be pretty cool to watch her. and um she'll be back full-time uh next September. So that's got to be rough being separated. Are you military also? Uh yes I am. Yes. Visions uh Air Force. Okay. Now can you get shipped out at any moment too? Uh well it's it's depending on the job and my job is it's not likely for me to get shipped out. I'm very very uh limited on the spots they send people overseas. I have I've been here in Florida for about four or five years now and I haven't been anywhere. Um, as with my wife, she's been this is her fourth place she's been to. Now, do you fly? What do you do in the Air Force? Um, so I work on this. It's uh the name of my job is electronic warfare technician. Um, there is a So if you see in the movies and you see a plane and it says, "Oh, I'm locked on to target." Basically, the system I work on is a jamming system. So it it stops it from allowing it to lock on to the other planes. Very cool. That's you that's a very important job then obviously. Yes sir. What does your wife do? She is a uh comm troop. She works on like uh phone networks, computer uh software and stuff like that. IT type of stuff. And how long you been in the military? I've been in five years. I reached the end of my contract next year and at that point I will be most likely going into the reserves the uh two day the weekend out of the month and two weeks during the uh out of the year just to uh pursue bodybuilding a little bit more. um competing this year I've had to take um we get 30 days of leave and I've used all that leave you know going from show to show and you know with my family I if I want to go visit them I don't have any time off anymore to go do that so you know it's just two you know two jobs are clashing and um I really want to see what this takes me do you feel like you can make a living in this sport do you feel comfortable with that of course I um with the season I I you know I I um I talked about it, I thought about it, I did the numbers, and especially they've upped the prize money for Classic. Um I definitely think I can make a living off of it. And then at the same time, I'm still going to be in the reserves making money, you know, doing that and then um sponsorships and my small business. So I think it sounds like you got everything together. It sounds like, you know, uh you're on the rise right now. you you're I would say if uh your if you were a stock, I'd say your stock is hot and if people want to get there and and invest, I I would invest in you because you seem to be the future. You have another 12 13 pounds still to grow into that division. You're very impressive standing on stage alone. I was very impressed with with the way you looked and I think that the classic physique division really is is predicated on physiques that are like yours rather than these these, you know, huge bodybuilders trying to come down. I think your physique is going to be the physique that people are going to champion in the future. Uh, do you ever think we'll see a shorter guy like yourself win the Olympia? Classic physique Olympia? Well, Danny Hester is my height. So, yeah. Oh, okay. So, are you guys the same height? Pretty much. I mean, if he is taller than me, it's like an half an inch, if that, you know. So, I mean, and going into that, I saw Danny Esther and um, you know, with that, you know, it definitely motivates me. He haven't been in the game so long. And, you know, somewhat similar physiques and, you know, similar height, you know, so it's definitely possible. What do you do when people criticize you and say, "Ah, you know what? You're wasting your time." How what do how do you deal with negativity like that? You know what? Being in the spotlight like this, you can't let it bother you. I know so many guys I've seen on the social media they go back and they fire back at the uh the troll internet trolls or whatever and you know half the time I just delete it. um you know if it's if it's like a critique on um like some people say I don't have a classic physique and then you know then I might say something like oh uh is they say I don't like you know guys like Arnold or Frank and then but my interpretation of this sport is it's not called golden narrow body uh golden narrow bodybuilding classic can be interpretated as the 70s 80s and even maybe the early 90s you know I mean Flex Lewis is is somewhat classic to me. I mean, I'm not fl wheeler. I'm sorry. Um, so with that being said, I just, you don't, you can't take that stuff too seriously. They're arguing over keyboard. Very wise words from a very wise man. And, uh, Terrence, I want to wish you the best of luck in 2017. We'll be looking for you up on that stage. Hopefully you'll be bringing in some home some more titles and challenging for that Olympia title uh come next September. Best of luck to you. Yes, sir. All right, that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live with brought to you by Questnutrition. Visit questnutrition.com. I'm your host Dave Palumbo and we'll see you next time.