Does Masteron cause hair loss? We hear it's DHT derived, but does it cause hair loss? Stay tuned. I'll let you know. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition Products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution RX Television, rxmuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Whatever is on your mind, the bodybuilding, non-Bodybuilding, diet training, supplementation, this is your forum to get your questions answered wherever you are. We're glad you could join us on this the second day of July in the year 2025. We're going to go right into the questions. The first two questions on this show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. First question, how often do you recommend doing your mail? And I know you have uh plans for males and females. Your male superset plan that you have in your app. Well, before I answer that question, I want to thank my friend John Minnelo, who's a Comic-Con freak. And uh Jaws, as you know, is hit its 50th anniversary, and he sent me this classic t-shirt from Jaws. This was the actual poster of the Jaws movie. It was also the front cover of the book. And I remember as a kid being obsessed with Jaws and and that picture and we used to in school we would all draw the same this this shark with the woman. That was like the thing that everyone would draw all the time to try to see who can come up with the best shark. And so I'm not a white t-shirt guy, but I got to wear this because this is cool. This is this is real classic. So thank you John Manella. And he sent me a bunch of other ones too that I might wear along the way on the different shows. But getting back to the question on the day experience app I have all my workouts uploaded there. One of the workouts is a um was this the um which was for the male for the yeah male supererset. Yeah. Oh super set. So yeah. So what I like to do is I do a pretty much standard workout all the time. You know it's a fiveday split you know each one body part each day. You know two days off a week but sometimes you know people get a little stale and I put together a a superset like type workout. So, it's the same type of exercises, but it's like alternating uh between maybe buys and tries rather than doing straight sets of buys and then straight sets of tries. And uh you know what I recommend doing is you know either you can do it every once in a while this workout or you can do it for like six weeks, you know, just to give yourself a break, you know, I don't want to do the straight sets. I'm going to do super setting and do it for six weeks and then go back to more straight sets. Once again, it just mixes things up a little bit. Sometimes I do this also like when I'm pre-contest because I want the weight training sessions to go a little faster and I'm kind of, you know, just stagnant and I'm hungry. So I'll do the superset workouts as well. Doesn't mean you shouldn't rest between sets. It just means that you're doing two exercises at a time. So you might do reverse grip pull downs for triceps and then you might do, you know, bicep cable curls with for for biceps. Then you rest. And it seems to be popular. Once again, if you do it all the time, it's not going to work. to mix it up in there. It it it's a nice little shock to your body and I I like I said, I like to to once in a while mix things up. Second question, again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Uh question about just general water intake, your normal recommended amount of water intake. So, if you want to on a daily basis, during training, before, after, however you want to splice this. Yeah, I mean, you know, I hate the the guy who works the people who walk around with the water jugs. I wouldn't do that. To me, it's annoying. But if you have trouble getting enough fluid in during the day because you forget to drink all day long or maybe you're very busy or maybe, you know, for whatever reason, it's not a bad idea. A gallon a day is usually enough. Unless you're outside sweating profusely all day long. I don't measure the amount of liquid I take in per day. When I'm thirsty, I drink, you know, and I try to, you know, when I drink, I I swallow, like if I'm gonna swallow like a bunch of vitamins, I'll drink eight ounces of water with it. I'll gulp down eight ounces. When I wake up in the morning, you I take my thyroid meds in the morning, but even before I did that, I always drink eight ounces of of water, you know, usually spun water that's also got, you know, hydrogenated, you know, because all my little water filters I have. But so I'm I'm I'm constantly downing water. I just don't overdrink because I think when you overdrink, okay, and a lot of people think for some I don't know why they have this this warped view of thinking that the more water you drink, the more fat you'll burn. That's not the case. In fact, if you drink too much water, you're going to water down your electrolytes, which is your potassium and sodium. And a lot of times that can cause cramping. So, you don't want to over matter of fact, there's a condition in in nursing homes where people I don't know, it's like some kind of psychosis where people don't ever they always feel thirsty. They're excessively thirsty and these women a lot of times it happens in women. They'll drink so much that they actually die because they water their electrolytes so much now that they they go into spasm and they actually die. It's happened. I forget hypo hyper natric I don't remember the name of the the condition but so don't overdo the water but at the same time make sure you're getting enough fluid in. Now if you're drinking like a lot of diet like you know Sprite or diet like you know I drink a lot of diet ginger ale that's still considered fluid. You know, you can't it doesn't have to be a gallon of water a day. It's nice to drink water during the day, but doesn't have to all be water. As long as you're getting enough liquids in, your body is still going to use that to hydrate itself. Uh, obviously, if you're drinking coffee all day long, which acts as a diuretic, that that's not I wouldn't necessarily count all that as liquid. But, um, as far as just fluids, they don't have to be pure water, you know, as long as there's no sugar in them because sugar dehydrates you. I don't I don't know anybody that would be stupid enough to drink, you know, a sugary drink during the day. It's the dumbest waste of calories of all time. You know, I if I'm gonna drink if I want something with taste in it, I drink diet soda or something like that. Um or some sort of diet iced tea or something like that or amino evolved. Never drink pure sugar. It's the dumbest, stupidest thing. It messes up your blood sugars. It messes up your brain, your brain function. It's not good for you. You stress out your pancreas because it's got to produce a lot of insulin and it usually makes you fat. So once again, drink, but don't overdrink. Well, what what are your takes on like a Gatorade Zero? That that seems to be popular. Yeah, I like that too. I like that, too. Although, I'll tell you something, Sid. But the Gatorade Zero, I become very cognizant of the of the colors coloring agents they put in there. They use the red because I used to like the red one, the the fruit punch one, but they put that red dye 40 or whatever in there that's supposed to be terrible for you. So, now I use Propel. Propel has a zero sugar. Um, and and it's funny because Propel is made by Gatorade or Gatorade owns Propel. Maybe they bought them. Uh, and it's perfectly clear. It looks like water, but it has a nice taste to it. I drink I keep those in my car. I drink them in the gym. So, try the Propels that are zero calories, zero sugar. Those are much better. Now, these are good questions, and the once again, they seem simplistic, but they're really good because a lot of people have the same they're wondering the same things. How much should I drink? Should I? Don't restrict salt. Don't restrict fluids. Don't overdrink. Do everything in balance. And then guess what? Your body won't hyper react to everything that you're doing following these insane things you're doing. I see people drinking five gallons of water a day. I'm like, you're out of your mind. Or I see people doing no sodium a whole diet. It's just it's insane. These are questions that I answer on a regular basis on the Dave Palumbo Experience app. If you haven't downloaded, you can download it on your uh your Android phone or your uh iTunes, excuse me, phone via iTunes and the App Store there. It's $29 a month. You get me as your coach in your back pocket. Essentially, all my writings, all my videos are in one place. All my protocols, workouts, drug protocols, men, women, offseason, you know, pre-contest, beginners, advanced. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum, so everyone sees everyone's questions and answer. It's a great learning experience. I do a Q&A video just for the app members every single week. So, it's like an extra Ask Dave. It's a great learning experience. It's like you're constantly evolving. Every time new stuff comes out, I address it in the app. And I think it's a great way to keep up to date and not have to go scouring the internet for, hey, is this is this stuff good? Is this not good? Is this good information, bad information? It's all in the app. And you can all, you know, if it's in that app, it's 100% legit. And uh it's a service I've been doing for the last couple years. And I want to thank you guys for all your support. Before we go to the rest of the questions, our friends at Titan Medical Center, now just to give you a heads up, Species Nutrition will also be having a July 4th special. We'll be announcing it within the course of the next 48 hours. Uh, but Titan Medical themselves have a July 4th weekend special as well. Um, $130 for male panels, $200 for females. For males is usually 200, so $70 off. For females, the $100 off that service is usually $300. Yeah. So, a lot of people, you know, don't have health insurance and uh or they don't want to go to the doctor for whatever reason or they have crappy health insurance. And, you know, bodybuilders should get regular blood work. I'd say at least every six months without a doubt, once a year, you know what I mean? But I every six months is usually a good if you're neurotic, every three months, you know, but if you don't have insurance, which is, you know, that's your own personal choice. You don't want to pay for it. that I understand that you have to get blood work. So, you're gonna have to pay for it somewhere. And it and Titans panels are so all-incclusive. They really have all the right stuff in the panel that that we're looking to see and check. And to have $70 off the first of all, their normal price is very cheap compared to what you would pay if you went to Quest. And then with the discount, it's it's like they're giving you it's like they're giving it to you for below cost. But you know a lot of times you know when people do these panels and they find they have deficiencies they obviously will go to Titan and say hey look you know I was referred for Dave Palumbo RX Muscle ask Dave and I want to get on some therapies to help with some of these you know abnormalities of my blood work. So it works both ways for you know for them and for you but they're offering this really cheap. If you don't have insurance I highly recommend doing it now while they have this sale. It's good to know, you know, a lot of people are going to start, you know, in the fall, their off seasonason mass building, you know, after their contest prep is over. Good time to get some baseline blood work done. So, we'll take questions now from primarily our YouTube community page. Again, we've really enjoyed the interaction and the engagement that we've gotten on that page for this show and for the other content that we've been putting up. We also are going to be putting up a lot more short form content now on the YouTube channel, between our studio content, between some of our contest coverage. We've accumulated a lot of short form content. Uh so we're going to be putting that up a lot more in detail. So again, you're going to get long form, you're going to get short form. Uh and then again, the primary source for questions on this show on Ask Dave is going to be from our YouTube community page. So with that, first question is about T3. Is it detrimental or beneficial to take T3 if having hypothyroidism? Uh, oh, you know what? We got this question last. I'm sorry. So, scratch that. My bad. Let's go to the next one. Do DHT derived anabolics like Masteron cause more hair loss than non- DHT drugs due to a higher conversion of DHT? Yeah, you know, there's a misnomer a lot of times that people don't realize that the these Masteron is not really DHT derived. They don't really use DHT to make mastron. It the molecule itself, the mastron molecule looks a little like DHT, but it's not DHT and it's not made from DHT. But that's that's a misnomer. In my experience, okay, of using pretty much every anabolic on the market because there are no other ones essentially. Uh, Mastron does not cause hair loss, okay, or it's minimal if if anything. I mean, anything can theoretically cause hair loss. any kind of um androgen can cause hair loss but it's it seems to be very very minimal. The the drugs that cause hair loss are the drugs that convert directly to dihydrotestosterone or DHT. Um testosterone would be you know the biggest converter. The good thing is that you could take things that inhibit the conversion of testosterone to DHT. You could do something like Tesla, you could use finasteride, you can use dutasteride. We're going to be going into a very deep dive on this topic with Dr. Todd Lee. I did a great interview with him for Guru Talk. There'll be a few a few parts of that going up this coming week and in the following weeks and I think you guys are really going to enjoy some of the deep dive we did into that. But yeah, now Masteron is pretty safer here. Uh question about, you know, we do get a lot of questions about older from an older audience or you know, training techniques or protocols that apply to an older audience. Um, do men over 50 need to lift lighter weights and higher reps? People are telling me to stop doing squats, bent over rows, deadlifts. They say at 50, I'm asking for an injury by lifting heavy, six to 12 reps and doing compound movements. If you're healthy and you don't have injuries and you lift with good form and control, there's no reason to lighten weights up purposely. High reps don't build muscle, okay? They don't even preserve muscle. That's that's the sad part. So, you know what I do is I lift exactly like I lifted when I was competing at, you know, 200, you know, 70 pounds. I just don't lift as heavy weights because I'm not as strong because I'm smaller. So when I go to do inclined, you know, dumbbell BUN bench press, you know, dumbbell presses, I'm using, you know, 75s at max because I I I, you know, I can't lift anything heavier than that because I'm only 20 what, five pounds. All right. If I can lift 80, I would do 80s, but, you know, I do six reps with 75s, which I think is pretty damn good considering that I couldn't do I couldn't do 10 pounds because I needed shoulder replacements. Now I have new shoulders and I can do them with good form under control. And I I get a lot out of it because it's for me it feels the muscle is feeling like it's being challenged. Now, if I was stronger and I could do more weight, I would do more weight as long as I can control the weight. If you're doing stupid [\h__\h] like I see guys lifting weights where they're doing partial reps, they can't really lift the weights and those are the people that get hurt. If you can squat at 50 years old, okay, you might not be squatting what you did when you were 25, 600 lb, but you might be squatting 405 or or 450. If you can do it with good form and control, then there's nothing wrong with doing that. Why would you lighten weights and go higher reps and lose muscle purposely unless that's your goal? I'm assuming this from the the question this person that's not their goal. Their goal is to maintain muscle mass. Um, so there's nothing wrong, you know, and like I said, I do all free weights now. Now that I have should new shoulders, everything I almost do. If you watch any of my little workouts I put up there, I think we have a a day in the life coming up pretty soon that that Jesse Peterson shot of me. You're going to see I'm I'm for back. I do all free weight movements. That's that's what I do because now I can do it and I like the way I feel. I just don't lift as heavy as I used to because once again, I'm not pushing the envelope where I'm going to try to hurt myself. Uh there's no reason for it. I'm not competing. Now, if I was competing, different story. Now, if if I was competing and I was doing cycles of stuff, I'd probably be a lot stronger, too. So, but I think there's nothing wrong with challenging your body as long as you're not doing anything dangerous. And I think that is the key. People do dangerous crap all the time. I see ballistic type lifting in the gym, which is just super dangerous. And this is nothing against Branch Warren because I love Branch Warren. I think he's a great guy. He was a great bodybuilder. Uh, you know, he he did more with his physique than I think anyone ever thought possible. But, you know, he's like a ball and I'm sure he doesn't train like this anymore, but he's a ballistic trainer. You know, very, you know, fast, you know, you know, explosive type reps. That probably is not the best way to lift when you're a little older because that that can lead to injuries. Now, he has lifted that way his whole life. So, I'm sure it's hard for him to change, but he's absolutely not lifting the weights he did when he was, you know, at his peak, uh, because he's smarter than them. So, just be smart in the gym. You don't have to change the way you are just because someone else says you should. Um I think that that's a big mistake. Uh question about muscle maturity. Now before I ask this question, uh if you go on our Instagram right now, official_rxmuscle, last night we posted a picture of 22-year-old Nihhat Kaya, who right now one of be might be one of the top 212 prospects in the world. He just won at the Dubai Pro, beat a top three Olympian in the process and you know we asked him you know after he won you know again what are some of the difference between last year and he talked about muscle maturity and I kind of my head I was like at 22 right and he started training at the age of 12 but the question what is a minimal amount of years that it takes to reach muscle maturity naturally and in your time in this sport what what is sort of that sweet spot age range that you've seen someone hit muscle maturity, provided they've been training for a number of years. They say to be a master in anything that you do in life, not just bodybuilding, but anything you do, you need to do it for 10 years. That's what they say. And I and I believe that. I think that when you do something for 10 years, you become an expert in it, whether you want to or not. And I think that's that's the truth of bodybuilding. I think in bodybuilding, when you've been lifting for 10 years, your body has a different look, even if you're not that big. So, I've seen guys that are smaller guys that are all natural that have lifted for 10 years and they have a different look to their body that than a person who just starts. Even a person who just starts who's on anabolic steroids. It's like a denser look to the body. It's like a more groovy look to the muscle. The muscles have more curves in them and and and we call that muscle maturity. Now, this guy uh Bot is is is is a genetic freak, but he's been lifting for 10 almost 10 years if you think about it. So that's you know that I think that's what he means like his body is coming into its own has a different more mature look whereas most people start at his age you know or started 18 19 years old and it takes until they're 28 to hit muscle maturity so you know in in a sense he's got an edge now this guy's also a genetic freak on top of you know what what I'm telling you here in terms of muscle maturity which you know you can't discount I mean it's like the uh the Cody Montgomery fact Cody Montgomery won the team nationals three years in a row he had a different look to his body. He just was was I don't know more mature than everyone else and he had better genetics. Kai Green comes to mind too. The guy had a separation in his quads probably the first day he started lifting. That's just the way his body was built genetically. But for most people after 10 years you get a different look to your body than you did when you first started training. No matter how big you are. So when I got really big after five years I put 100 pounds of muscle on in five years. I look huge, but I didn't have that the muscle maturity that I I had five years later, if that makes sense. Uh question about Lantis. Uh let me pull it up real quick. Uh should we avoid using lantis or other insulins if we're taking IGF-1 LR3? No. You know, long art 3 uh IGF-1 is which is insulin like growth factor. The reason they call it insulin like growth factor is it doesn't really have it can have an insulin it can bind to insulin receptors because it looks similar to insulin and so it can lower blood sugar a little bit. It almost acts like a fast acting insulin when you first take it. Now the receptors you want the IGF-1 to bind to are the IGF-1 receptors which are on damaged muscle fibers. But when you flood your body with IGF-1 some of it invariably binds to regular insulin receptors and pushes glucose into the bloodstream. That's why you can sometimes get like a a hypoglycemia or a low blood sugar effect from taking your shot of IGF-1. But that's a very shortterm effect. It only it only affects you for about an hour or so, you know, and then it's gone. It's like taking like a a fast acting insulin. So, Lantis is a long acting insulin. So, it's not going to it kind of works in the background, so to speak. Um, if you're, you know, if you were taking a fast acting insulin with the IGF-1, you might want to lower the dose a little because they kind of both do the same thing quickly, you know, and that could really drop blood sugar too low. Back in the day when I was doing IGF-1, I was taking insulin with it, too. But I was eating a lot of carbs, you know, post-workout, I was having 100 grams of carbs, like an ultra fuel, an ultra fuel, which at the time was 100 grams of carbs, and I'd mix it with like 40, 50 grams of whey protein or metric shake. And so I was getting plenty of of, you know, carbs to to both accommodate the IGF-1 and the insulin. Taking a long acting insulin should have no effect on what you do with the IGF-1. It's because, like I said, it's working in the background. It's not working very aggressively. It's kind of just, you know, getting rid of the what we call the the basil metabolic requirements of insulin. meaning that the sugar that's being kind of trickled into the bloodstream through the liver converting glycogen into glucose or through gluconioenesis which is the liver or kidney's ability to turn amino acids into glucose. That's what lantis the long acting insulins handle. The short acting or the fast rising blood glucose levels are handled by quick acting insulin. And if you're not taking a fast acting insulin, it's your body's release of insulin very rapidly that will bring those blood sugars down. Both accomplish the same thing. So, no, I really wouldn't worry about mixing a basil insulin like Lancis with IGF. Uh, last year in the run-up to the Olympia before Nick Walker uh and his coach decided they were not going to compete at the Olympia, we did an episode of Iron Debate and you pointed out the fact that he did a there was a lack of social media activity out of Nick Walker and you said that that may have been a red flag. Well, this year it's been a remarkable contrast from that. Obviously, we saw two great showings, Pittsburgh and New York. The question is, what do you make right now of Nick Walker in terms of his physique, in terms of what you've seen, what you saw in Pittsburgh, but then also just as far as, you know, again, him more regularly posting very uh transparent physique updates. Well, I think I think Nick is back to where he was mentally, you know, prior to this little hiccup he had in his career, which everyone goes through, by the way. Everyone has a little downtrodden. They try something, it doesn't work and they don't look right. And I think he got back to his roots, heavy lifting, you know, being the freak on stage. He has a lot of confidence now after placing second at the Pittsburgh and winning the New York Pro, re-qualifying for the Olympia. Everyone's talking about him. He looked, you know, he was close to his best. And that that's a big confidence boost for him. And he realizes that his biggest money maker is not competing on a bodybuilding stage. It's social media. And people want to know what he's doing. They for some reason he he's very compelling and very charismatic and he has to play into that. You know, that was what, you know, I don't know who told me, but I kind of just knew intuitively. I said, you know what? I I might not win the Olympia or I might not, you know, ever be a great pro bodybuilder, but I I knew I could make money because for some reason the fans were attracted to the freak factor that I had, the the fact that I was always lean, that I was one of the biggest guys. So, I played into my strengths and I used that and leveraged it to make money in the industry and become popular. And I think that's what Nick has to do. Does if he ever wins the Olympia, that's great. That's a feather in his cap, but he doesn't have to win an Olympia to be one of the most popular bodybuilders on the planet. And that's what's going to make him way more money than winning the Olympia. He wants his ego wants him to win the Olympia. And I'm and look, we all as fans want to see him win the Olympia, but if it doesn't happen, it doesn't happen. Who cares? It doesn't really matter. he can win the Arnold Classic this year and win $750,000. To me, that's a lot. That's that's a huge accomplishment and that uh that really kind of solidifies him as as a great force in bodybuilding. So, I like I said, I think it's very smart what he's doing. He's posting transparently again. He's like, "Here I am. This is who I am. Yeah, I have foibless. Uh I I fell a little bit from grace. I'm back in in the in the uh in the captain's chair again. I'm going into the Olympia all guns blazing. I'm going to try to win this thing and and the fans love that and they want to see it and they want to follow it. And me as a fan, I love it too. And I think that that was a big mistake for him to kind of to come off social media, but obviously he was in a bad mental place. He didn't like the way he looked and because he had abandoned his roots and now he's back to it and I think he's in a he's in a good place moving forward. Kind of a flash from the past question about a fellow Long Island bodybuilder, Dan Luri. Have you ever gone first of all any interactions that you've had with him, but then have you gone to his store uh that's off the Belt Parkway? And I know you haven't been here in quite some time, but a if you want to highlight any interactions you had with Dan Luri and then yes, if you have visited his store that's off the Belt Parkway. I drove by that store a thousand times. I don't know why I never bothered to get off the exit and go in there and take a look at it. I don't know. I I don't just never did. It was right if if Sid if you know where the the the Southern State Parkway becomes the belt. It's right there. It's it was right there on the left side. I don't I I doubt it's not there. I doubt it's there anymore because Dan Dan then Lori died. So how far from uh Belmont Racetrack? Five minutes, you know, right? I'm saying as soon as the sudden state becomes the the Bell Parkway, that's where it was. It was right on the left side. And I saw it all the time and I never stopped there. I only met Dan Lori once at the beach. Mr. G, I don't know how Mr. got involved with Steve Mahalik running some kind of bodybuilding competition at the beach and I went there and Dan Lori was there I don't even know what they were doing with Dan Lori there but they were doing some kind of shtick he was really Dan was this was at the end of his life he was very old at this point and he seemed like a funny guy but I I never really had much of an aside from that was the only time I ever met Dan Lori and uh you know he was he was he did his own thing I don't I don't think him and Weer didn't get along very well they were both kind of similar personalities and they were in competition with each other And obviously Weider I think won that that battle, you know, Flurry. But and if you watch the Brothers and Iron, they have the whole Dan Lori, Joe Weider kind of, you know, I guess you could say competition with each other kind of laid out in that movie. But yeah, I I I didn't really have much to to add to this because I really didn't have any interactions with Dan other than like I said when he was an old man. couple of TRT related questions to close things out. Um, when talking well I guess this uh user was talking to his doctor about TRT and the doctor brought up the risk of heart attack and stroke. What do you think the real chances are of a heart attack and stroke when taking TRT doses? I mean, let let's look at and I and I've talked to I do a lot of consultations with people, a lot of phone consults. probably do like five to six or seven a week. And with a lot of people who have blood work that comes in and their doctors get them all scared and they call me up and they say, "I want to do a" and we go through their blood work and I tell them what they should be concerned about, what they shouldn't be concerned about. But let what is what does testosterone do to the body? It's not liver toxin. Okay? So there's no liver issues even though liver enzymes are sometimes high on blood work, but that's from working out. Because when we break down muscle tissue and we leak these metabolic enzymes into the bloodstream, they're the same enzymes inside muscle that are inside liver. So you can't differentiate. So people who work out have high enzyme levels on blood work. So that's not a problem. Okay. Testosterone in and of itself is not kidney toxic in any way. Um obviously if you if you get high blood pressure from taking TRT and you don't address it, that can cause kidney stress. So that's so so it's not directly kidney toxic. Um, what causes a heart attack? Well, there's only one thing that really causes a heart. Well, two things. An arrhythmia, okay? Meaning that your your rhythm is off and that's usually genetic, right? So, testosterone doesn't cause arhythmias. And the other reason would be a blockage in the arteries that feed the heart, the coronary arteries that feed the heart with blood, oxygenated blood, so that they can the heart muscle can function. Right? If we have a blockage in there and that can cause the muscle to die in that area and that's what we call a heart heart attack or cardio cardio excuse me cardiac infarction. Now testosterone doesn't cause blood clots. Okay, it does increase the viscosity of blood meaning the thickness of blood because it increases red blood cell count. So when you take any kind of anabolic or some testosterone most people their bone marrow starts producing more red blood cells. But having more red blood cells is not a reason that your body would all of a sudden throw a clot in the coronary arteries. Okay, that that's not really something that happens in people who are prone to clots. They might have a clotting disorder or people who, you know, you know, I don't want to get into the whole COVID thing, but people who had COVID obviously increased clots. Those people might want to donate blood if their blood levels get too high. If the red blood cell count, hemoglobin hematopic gets too high. But that's not really something that's going to cause a heart attack. But coronary artery deposits, okay, plaque formation in the coronary arteries can cause a heart attack, right? Because that's a blockage that's permanently. It's not a blood clot. It's actually it's like building up sediment in there that's that's narrowing these vessels. What causes that? Well, doctors would tell you high cholesterol levels, right? which is not necessarily the case. We know now that if you have high LDL cholesterol levels, which is the quote bad cholesterol, uh, and you have low or normal triglycerides, which is blood lipids, you're really not prone to to to lay down coronary artery plaque. Okay. If you have high triglycerides and high LDL more prone does steroid usage or testosterone usage especially TRT cause high triglycerides and high uh LDL no that's there's no cause and effect on that whatsoever. It does lower the good cholesterol HDL and we don't even know what that means really. Okay, we just know that this happens. We don't necessarily know if it's a bad thing or if it's a good thing. I think it makes the HDLs more efficient so you don't need as many. And I think that's what it really does. But whatever the case may be, that's, you know, neither here nor there. The question is what causes plaque formation. Bad diet, smoking. Most bodybuilds don't smoke cigarettes, right? We know that. Uh high sugar intake, right, is no good. Causes inflammation in the body, can cause damage to the blood vessel walls. Then they start laying down plaque. Um, but the number one reason why we lay down plaque in the coronary arteries is genetic predisposition. Meaning that if you have a family history of laying plaque down in the coronary arteries and getting blockages, you have a much greater chance of getting it if your father and your mother or this whoever had it in your family because I know people that have the most perfect diets. They don't have any body fat. They eat perfectly. They don't even take steroids and they have blockages in the coronary arteries. For what reason? No one knows. Their parents had it. That's why. So, there's a genetic component. I also know people who don't take care of themselves. They eat terribly. They eat all the wrong foods. They're overweight. They take steroids. And they have absolutely normal cholesterol levels. Normal tri Well, usually triglycerides are a little high when you have a bad diet. And they have no plaque formation whatsoever. So, to answer the question, I did this in a very long-winded way because I wanted you to see the cause and effects. I hate when doctors say steroids or HRT causes, you know, increase in heart disease and stroke. There's no definitive link to why these things would cause this to happen. If you have a family predisposition, anything, okay, that's going to raise red blood cell count or raise inflammation in the body can actually exacerbate or make it worse. But I don't believe that that TRT dosages are going to cause you to have heart disease. I think you you either have heart disease or you don't. It would be like saying, "Well, I've been on TRT for, you know, 10 years, and that's what caused my aortic aneurysm." Well, that's not what caused my my aortic aneurysm was caused because my father's two of my father's brothers had it. One of his uncles had it. It's it's it's runs in the family. Boston Lloyd's father had it and he got it. It that has nothing to do with steroids. Now, if you have high blood pressure on top of that, from taking steroids, that could make the aortic aneurysm worse. But the point is that the testosterone molecule is not causing strokes and heart attacks. It's your lifestyle and how you manage your lifestyle. So if you have high blood pressure, get it under control. Get on an ACE inhibitor. If you're not sure, if you have high cholesterol levels and you're not sure if you have plaque formation, go get a cardiac CT scan. If you're a self-pay and you don't have insurance, it's a hundred bucks. It takes five minutes. You call your radiology place, say, "I'm a self-pay. I want to get a cardiac CT calcium score and you get it. If it comes back high, then you address it. If it comes back normal, then you got nothing to worry about. I have someone who was paranoid about that recently who I told the exact same thing. He had no insurance. He went and got a cardiac CT, calcium score. It came back zero. He has nothing to worry about. All his little psychosmatic pains that he was getting in his chest and all over the place went away the next day once he knew that he had cleared. Everything was clear. Okay. So, if you have a genetic predisposition, you know, everyone in your family has problems with plaque formation, absolutely, maybe at 30, go get a cardiac CT scan to make sure you're not building up plaque. But the use of anabolics and or testosterone replacement in and of themselves don't cause these problems. That's going to do for this episode of Ask Dave. Reminder right now all new episodes of the after hours podcast as well as Heavy Muscle Radio. We did want to spend send a special shout out to Ronnie Coleman a Thomas Olympia the king uh recovering from his serious medical condition. Uh we so far gotten two updates over the last couple of days. One indicating the fact that he, you know, was in the hospital yesterday getting um a little bit more clarification exactly what was going on. But we're certainly hoping that the next update we get is a more positive one and that certainly we hope to see Ronnie Coleman out of the hospital and doing what he loves to do and being that constant fresh breath of air to the bodybuilding world. So shout out and warmest healing wishes to the king eight time Mr. Olympia Ronnie Coleman. And also special shout out Fouaba doing his first podcast back from the hospital bed. Um, so hoping that for a full and speedy recovery for FUAD, he saw that for me, by the way. I want to just take credit for that. That was he pulled that off of mine. He's like, "If Dave can do a podcast from the hospital after getting a order repair surgery, I'm doing one after I broke my neck." But we'd love to go out and get better quickly. No, absolutely. So, yeah. Again, if you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss this or any other show segments that we have coming up on the channel. Uh right now we are about trying to think when's the next when's the next men's open class show? Is it Tampa? Is it is it Texas? No, no, next week. This week actually Portugal. We have Portugal. Was Portugal coming up. Yeah, it's going to have uh Rubel, Rubio Musgra, Nexzilla who earned his Olympia qualification first ever pro victory last week at the Flex Pro. He's going to be going up against Nathan Dash and Nathan still unqualified looking for his ticket to the 2025 Olympia. And then yes, Texas in about four weeks after. So yeah, now we get into the thick of things. Most of the big names have already qualified, but now you start to see that Olympia Mr. Olympia dance card fill out again. Subscribe below, hit the notification bell so you won't miss our coverage of this and all upcoming shows three months leading into the Olympia. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadi Farooqi. We'll see you next time.