 I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work, I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RxTelevision, RxMuscle.com. A Merry Christmas to you all. This is Ask Dave, your weekly 30-minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Of course, we're not going to take a day off even though this is Christmas. And we hope to answer as many of your questions as we can over the course of the next 30 minutes. Be it bodybuilding related, be it Christmas related, be it whatever is on your mind. We have you covered for the next 30 minutes on this show. But first, Dave, we have a sale going on right now. One second. Final day of the sale at Species Nutrition.com. 30% off. It's our Christmas special. Promo code HOLIDAY30. And not only that, but they get a free Arthrolyze Elite for spending $70 after the purchase. So this sale expires today at Species Nutrition.com. I got to tell you something about Arthrolyze. And the reason I put it on there is a lot of people constantly contact me and they say they have joint problems. And they don't even know how good Arthrolyze is. And what happened was when I had – a lot of you guys know my story. Back in the day, I had bad shoulders and it got progressively worse, which is one of the reasons I kind of ended my career a little earlier than I probably would have liked. But they said I needed a shoulder replacement back in probably the late 90s. Certainly in 2002, I needed one. But the shoulder replacements were really crappy back then. So I went on this search for how I can keep my shoulders going as long as possible. And I did a lot of research on glucosamine. And a lot of people – we all tried it. It just didn't do anything. And I realized, you know what? It's not the ingredient that's important. The ingredient is the right thing because it's the raw materials of the joint and connected tissue. People just weren't taking enough of it. Because think about it. Imagine if you got a protein supplement and you took a teaspoon of whey isolate every day and you were like, I don't understand why I'm not getting any muscle gains from this. Well, you're not taking enough – you have to have macro amounts of this protein. Same thing with joint and connective tissue. We don't eat ligaments and tendons and cartilage when we eat like chicken and fish and – I mean chicken and beef. Right? We cut all that stuff off. So we don't get the good raw materials. So you have to take glucosamine. But you need to take it in gram amounts, not milligram amounts. Some people take – most people take 1,000 or 2,000 milligrams a day. It's not enough. You got to take at least 4 grams of the stuff a day. Same thing with MSM. You need at least 4 grams of the stuff a day. So when I kept playing around with dosages, generically speaking, and I figured it out, I said, I'm going to come out with my own joint product at some point when I'm not competing. And now I know the secret. It's the amount you put in there. So Arthrolyse has 4 grams of glucosamine, 4 grams of MSM. And I'm telling you, when you take this stuff on a regular basis, daily basis, 5 pills twice a day, within – most people feel it right away. But I always tell people, give it 3 weeks. You will be able to push through a lot of joint injuries. Because number one, not only does it help the joints start to repair themselves, which takes a lot longer than 3 weeks, but what it does is it increases the synovial fluid in the joint, which is the lubrication. So now you have better lubrication. A lot of people, it's just – it's dry in there because your cartilage is starting to deteriorate. You don't have as much production of synovial fluid. And that's what causes a lot of the inflammation and the pain. So you got a great opportunity on Christmas. And I'm telling you, we're recording this on Christmas. You know, I work every day of the year. I don't take any days off because information is invaluable. And I know you guys are probably home bored anyway. So give it a shot. Go to speciesnutrition.com. Buy your stuff. You get 30% off the entire website, which is the highest discount we ever give. And use Holiday 30. And then if you spend $70 or more, which I know you guys will, you're going to get a free bottle of Arthralize. And if you spend $100 or more and you live in the continental United States, you get free shipping too. So it's a great, great offer. I see we already have about several hundred orders, which is going to back us up. So don't expect to get them tomorrow. But I promise you, everyone will get their orders. Everyone got their orders from Black Friday sale. It's a great prize. He has a great opportunity to give it a shot. So again, Holiday 30, 30% off at speciesnutrition.com. $70 purchase after discount gets you Arthralize Elite. Let's go on to the questions. The first two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Question about ayahuasca. Is it worth doing? From what you've seen, from what you've heard, from trials and tribulations of ayahuasca? I did ayahuasca twice, which is, it's a concoction of like a couple of different herbs from, they get from like the jungles of Peru or whatever, wherever it is from in South America there, the rainforest. And it's not just one. A lot of people think it's just one chemical in there, you know, but it's not. It's a concoction of stuff. And it lasts about three hours. And if you're going to do ayahuasca, you don't do it in your house. You got to go do it with like a shaman where they are. You don't have to go to the jungles of Peru to do it, but you can do it. You should do it in a setting where there's people there, with someone who is running the ceremony, playing music. You know, they usually chant and there's like a drum beat because that stuff kicks in the ayahuasca. And some people get a little freaked out by it because it's a very emotional journey. So that's why it's good to have other people there. Don't do it by yourself in your house if you're going to do it. Like I said, if you can't, there's plenty of ayahuasca groups online. You can probably find where they do it someplace near where you live. I did it once in New York City. I did it once in California. This is years ago. And I don't think I need to do it again. I think I got what I needed out of it. You know, spiritual, insightful knowledge. For me, it was good. There are people that freak out when they do it because they got a lot of demons in their past. But most people do feel a sense of peace after they do it, after they're done with it. Some people's journeys are harder than others. You have to ask yourself, are you ready to do that? And not everyone needs to do it. And not everyone, you know, feels an urge to do it. But if you feel like there's something inside that maybe you need some spiritual wisdom that you're not connecting with, it's definitely a good way to do that. So, once again, it's not like going to a club and doing, you know, MDMA and getting, you know, and having a great high. It's a journey. And it's a lot of emotional, very emotional, I would say. And in some cases, painful emotional experiences. So, be ready for it if you're going to do it. I was pretty deep. I'm not going to lie. Second question. Again, these first two questions from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. A little bit of a lighter topic and one that's certainly up your alley. Lee, your opinion on keto versus carnivore diet. Can one utilize a carnivore diet during a prep? Yeah, you know, the carnivore, it's funny because I came out with it. I didn't come out with it. I created my ketogenic performance diet. And I call it, I differentiated it because, look, Atkins was the guy who popularized the ketogenic diet. He said, look, eat whatever you want. Just don't eat any carbs. The problem was it wasn't performance geared because most people ate mostly fat and bad fats. And they didn't eat healthy healing fats. And they basically ate lower protein. It was mostly fat in the diet. And it works because if you don't eat carbs, your insulin levels are low and you burn fat. But for bodybuilders and people who train and break down muscle, we need to eat high protein. So I created this ketogenic diet, which is high in protein, moderate fat, just to have enough for fuel and then obviously low carb. So you're in ketosis, but you're eating a higher amount of protein. If you did that and you didn't work out the way bodybuilders do, you might actually come out of ketosis because sometimes you can convert protein into glucose if you don't need the protein you're eating. But bodybuilders need high protein. So I created that. This is going back 25 years. You know, I've been talking about the ketogenic diet. And then recently they came out with the carnivore diet. Now, the carnivore diet is a ketogenic diet. It's what I call a restrictive ketogenic diet. So it's a ketogenic diet that you could only eat like animal products, essentially. There's no healthy plant fats in there. There's no vegetables allowed in there. It's just meat, you know, meat and chicken and stuff like that. And so for me, I don't see the benefit of that over a ketogenic diet like I would advocate. Matter of fact, I think it's got a lot of drawbacks because you're not having the essential fatty acids in there. You're not taking in your omega-3 and 6 fats from polyunsaturated fats. You're not getting your monounsaturated fats from like olive oil, macadamia, and all avocados. It's leaving out that you're not getting green beans and salads and low glycemic, low carb vegetable sources, which we need for roughage and vitamins. So I don't really like the carnivore diet. Does it work yet? Because it's a ketogenic diet. It's the same thing. It's like the Atkins diet. So carnivore works, but it doesn't have any added benefits over a conventional ketogenic diet that I would have. As a matter of fact, it has drawbacks because you're not getting the health benefits of the fats and the vegetables. So I don't advocate a carnivore diet. I'm not against it, but I just don't see why you have to be that restrictive. It seems gimmicky to me because it's like, oh, we can only eat this. Anytime you get limited in what you can do and put into a box, that's what I call a fad diet. And those never last because they're too restrictive. And there's no reason for them. There's no scientific reason why you would eat a carnivore diet versus my ketogenic diet that allows low glycemic vegetables and good healthy fats. It doesn't make sense. If you just think of it logically, why would you restrict the good stuff that's part of the ketogenic diet? It's like, hey, okay, here's a ketogenic diet. We're going to take out all the good part of the ketogenic diet. We're only going to keep this part of the ketogenic diet. It doesn't make sense. And so I'm not really a big advocate of it. Does it work? Yeah, it's a ketogenic diet, but it's too restrictive as far as I'm concerned. And these two questions, by the way, good questions. From the Day Palumbo Experience app, I know you guys, it's Christmas here. You want to buy your significant loved one a great Christmas gift. You can give them a subscription to the Day Palumbo Experience app. You can download it from the Android store or the app store if you have an iPhone, the iOS store. And you get, for $29 a month, you get me as your coach in your back pocket. You get all the videos I've ever done, all the writings I've ever done in one place, all my protocols, drugs, off-season pre-contest, detoxifications, everything right in one place. We put up a workout every week. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum in the app. So everyone's questions and everyone's answers are seen by everyone, so you can get that learning experience. Plus, I do a Q&A video exclusively for the app members every single week. So it's like an extra S day just for app members. And it's a great resource. And I think a lot of people really like it. And I got to thank you guys because that's my Christmas present from you guys because you guys have supported that app for the last several years. And we got a tremendous amount of members. And those memberships motivate me to keep doing it. Thank you so much. And happy holidays for that. Let's take questions now from our YouTube community page, from our Instagram page, and from our Facebook page. First on our YouTube community page. Well, a lot of people have been asking, obviously, about Jimmy the Bull when he's coming back on the show on Apple and on other RS Muscle platforms. Well, we send our best to Jimmy the Bull. He's a little under the weather right now. Yes. I got a chance to text him yesterday. He's in good spirits. But, you know, hopefully he's better. And we're going to have him back on. Jimmy sent me. Jimmy sent me. He must be feeling better. He sent me a reel from. It was a clip from. What is that? Full Metal Jacket. Remember the scene in the lot when they're in there? And he had one of these soldiers. He calls him Gomer Pyle. And he catches the guy. He had a jelly donut stashed in his little locker. And the guy was fat. And, you know, he was supposed to not be eating the jelly donuts. And he makes the whole troop. Everyone in the room do, like, 100 push-ups. Or, you know, and the guy has to eat the jelly donut while they're doing the push-ups. He's like, that's like Jimmy's motto for life. Like, Jimmy believes that's how life should be run by all the time. Like a drill sergeant telling everyone what to do. So, Jimmy, we love you. Merry Christmas. So, this question is actually about Jimmy the Bull. Again, that's sort of the up- Right, right, right. No. The question is, what would it take for a strength athlete to transition into bodybuilding? How would their training and eating have to change? Basically turning Jimmy the Bull into Vince Taylor. Now, again, I preface this by saying Jimmy the Bull was a unique niche of, quote, power bodybuilders. Yeah. Jimmy was very lean back in the day. He didn't look like a powerlifter. And he ate hot dogs and stuff like that. But he had a very fast metabolism. And he had abs and everything like that all year round. So, but usually, you know, strength athletes transition usually very well into bodybuilding. I'll tell you why. Because they're lifting heavy. So, they have a lot of good, dense muscle. A lot of bodybuilders don't lift heavy. And they don't have that base of muscle. So, when the powerlifter goes to bodybuilding, they get it. And they're starting with a good base. A lot of these guys, you know, are not really in the greatest shape because they eat whatever they want. So, as soon as they, they got to change their diet, obviously. Most people eat, you know, the meals, you know, five, six meals a day. But a lot of powerlifters will eat less meals but more garbage, you know, food. So, they got to kind of get more regimented. Get the six meals per day down. Make sure the protein is high. You know, get in, you know, carbs but not the junky carbs. Because, obviously, you don't want to walk around with, you know, a flab hanging off your waist if you're a bodybuilder. So, it's basically just kind of cleaning up the diet a little bit. And maybe focusing more on rather than one and two rep sets, you know, which is stuff that powerlifters would do. Because they want to try to, you know, raise the weight as much as possible. You know, moving up to four to eight rep range. And I think a lot of those guys do very well. A lot of guys get injured in powerlifting. And then they'll transition to bodybuilding. And they have very good bodybuilding careers. So, you never know. Look, the two sports are very interrelated. And you can go back and forth if you really want. I've seen bodybuilders go to powerlifting and be very successful. Brian Dobson used to say it all the time. He said that if Ronnie Coleman would have said at some point in his career, when he was at the height of his powers, I want to do a powerlifting meet, he probably could have broken every record at the time. Because that's how strong he was. So, you know, bodybuilders that lift heavy have a lot in common with powerlifters. There's just – it's usually a diet tweak that's involved. Question about dianabol. After it's open, or rather past the expiration date. Yeah. Actually, I should restart. If unopened past the expiration date, how good – how long is dianabol good for? Yeah. You know, I get this question a lot. And you know what? I have to say anabolic steroids because they're fat-based. You know, they're steroidal compounds. They're made from cholesterol backbones. But fat-soluble-based compounds, most of them. They're very stable. They don't break down over time. I don't know what it is. You know, the protein hormones will break down. Like if you have insulin that's over, you know, that's past the expiration date, way past it, they break down after a while. Now, if you keep them in the refrigerator, obviously, it's a little more stable. Same thing with GH. If GH is always refrigerated, it's stable for a lot longer. But by and far, steroidal hormones are – you can get 20 years after their expiration date, and they still probably will work well. I'm sure if like 100 years from now they found a stash of testosterone bottles and someone decided – and they were sealed and someone used them, they probably still work. So fat-soluble-type compounds like that tend to really have good stability. So I would say, you know, within 10 years, it's probably still full potency. And the worst-case scenario is you lose 5%, 10%. You know, it's still going to be good. So, yeah, I would not have a – if it's sealed, it's probably good. I just got an echocardiogram, and I found out that I have early stages of left ventricular hypertrophy. I'm 35 and currently running a cycle. I'm coming off TRT after this news and would like to know, if you were me, what would you do in this situation moving forward? Yeah. You know, I hate to – I don't want to give doctor advice because I don't know the situation. But usually what happens is a guy who's in perfect health and feels great goes for an echocardiogram because Dave Palumbo says get an echocardiogram, get a cardiac CT scan for your health. And then they come back and they say your left ventricles enlarged. Well, guess what? Guess what? You squat 600 pounds in the gym. Of course your left ventricles enlarged. The heart is a muscle. The heart will grow, okay, when subjected to, you know, training. That's called an athletic heart. Now, if you didn't work out and you went for an echocardiogram and your left ventricle was enlarged, that's a problem because that means that your heart is not working well. So your heart is enlarging itself to try to compensate for whatever is wrong with your heart. But in bodybuilding, when your heart is enlarged, when we talk about the left ventricle, that's the chamber that pumps the blood out to the body. If you're training hard, that's the reason it's big. So I don't know why these doctors can't differentiate between an athletic heart versus a compromised heart, you know, or, you know, a diseased heart. Now, if you are having shortness of breath and you are having symptoms of your heart not working, that's why you went for an echocardiogram. Different story. But that's not what I'm reading. What happens is a regular healthy guy goes, gets an echo, left ventricles enlarge. Oh, you're in trouble. You're going to have heart failure. They get scared and they go off drugs and they stop, you know, working out because the doctor tells them to because there's nothing wrong with you. You have no symptoms and you feel good. Train. That's normal. You know, if you if you didn't have an enlarged heart, I would say you're probably not training hard enough. So, yes, athletic athletes will have enlarged left ventricles. OK, if you're a weight training athlete or a power athlete, you're going to have a thickened heart. If you're an endurance athlete, like a long distance runner, you're going to have an enlarged heart, but it's going to be a stretched out heart. In other words, the chambers don't get thicker. They just get they get thinner almost, but they hold more blood volume. If you ever check the heart rate of a runner when I was running, I think my heart rate was like 38 beats a minute, which means that I'm beating my heart's beating less frequently, but it's pumping out enormous amounts of blood per per ejection fraction. So. It changes your heart can remodel itself. And the funny thing is, you know, when I went to a cardiologist years ago, he said to me, he goes, if you're really worried about your because my left ventricle is really was really thick. And he said, just, you know, stop training so heavy. And, you know, as I got older, I stopped training as heavy. I noticed when I go for echocardiograms. My left ventricle is less. It's still thickened, but it's less and less and less because obviously it's detraining itself. It's a muscle. It's it's atrophying a little bit. So I don't even worry when they always tell me that. Oh, your heart's in line. And I have and I have rhythm problems, you know, because I've had a order repair and I had an AV block, you know, so I have and I have a pacemaker because of that. But that's the rhythm on my heart. The muscle itself is healthy. It's just enlarged because I lift heavy weights and that's the way it goes. And if you feel good and you're not short of breath, then don't worry about it. Don't don't end your whole bodybuilding, you know, career because of one diagnostic test that doesn't know how to be read by a good doctor. But once again, I'm I'm saying this because I don't know what you if you have symptoms or not. If you have symptoms of a heart failure, that's a different story. But it doesn't seem like that from the question. A question about trend night sweats, how to stop them. I've tried triple dozing magnesium powder before bed. No go. So your solution for trend night sweats. Get a really, really strong fan and put it about three inches from your face. And and as you're sleeping, it'll blow on you and you'll and the sweat will go away and you will sleep like a champ. So that's it. There you go. That's a fan. A good fan. Trend makes you sweat. All steroids make you sweat. I used to sweat like a maniac because it just hypes your metabolism. You know, he didn't say he's having trouble sleeping. He said he's having sweats at night. So if you're having sweats at night, you have to sleep. But I used to have an overhead fan, the ceiling fan. And then I would put a separate little fan right on the nightstand directed right at me. And usually what usually happens is it's hard to fall asleep. OK, once you're it that fan kind of chills you into falling asleep, then a lot of times in the middle of night, you might want to turn it off because it might get too cold. You know, I also always ran. I always ran air conditioning when it was summertime. I never messed because if you're hot, you're never going to sleep well. The key is to cool yourself down. I'm in Florida now. My air conditioning is never off. People like, oh, open the windows. It's so nice. And I'm like, that's all right. I'll just keep the air conditioning on all the time. I'll pay the air conditioning bill because I don't want to be uncomfortable at night. Question about tuna. So no doubt we're going to have mentions of tuner in the comment section below. I go through quite a bit of tuna in a can. My question is some tuna is stored in water. Some are stored in oil. What would be the better, the healthier option between those two? And what type of oil are they actually storing the tuna in? You know, sometimes I see a lot of times they say olive oil. It's usually stored in. I don't know if it's extra virgin or not. I always tell people get the tuna in water. It's, I drain all that oil out of there anyway. So you don't need all that extra oil. You get the tuna in water and just squeeze. I even squeeze out. Who wants that tuna water taste? I squeeze out as much of the water as I can. And then I put the tuna in whatever I mean. I mix it into whatever I'm eating, whether it be rice or whatever. I used to make, you know, one of the grossest smelling foods I ever made. And I ate a lot of it because it went down real easy. I would do tuna, pasta, and Parmesan cheese. So imagine, you know how strong some Parmesan cheese smells. Add that to the tuna smell. It's such, it stinks so bad. Like if you were just like a person coming into the house, you'd be like, oh, what the hell reeks like that? But I'm telling you, it's a great combination. I would make like a half a pound of pasta. I'd throw it in a bowl. I'd maybe put a little olive oil on it. I'd throw, you know, some Parmesan cheese on that. And then I would take the can of tuna and I'd scoop it in there, about two cans of tuna, mix it in the whole thing. And I would sit there in front of the TV and eat it all. It was absolutely delicious. You know, I'm getting hungry. I'm actually craving it right now just thinking about it. I completely forgot that I used to do that. Very good combination though. Let's go to Alexander Ruin. Coach, any difference in dumbbell and doing dumbbell bicep curl standing or seated standing more weight, both good control and squeeze? Yeah, I mean, when you're seated, you're kind of locked into not being able to cheat as much, right? Except if you're Jimmy the Bull, that is. Jimmy the Bull, let's get back to Jimmy the Bull. The most impressive lift that he ever did. And I told him this a million times. He would do seated. He would be on a bench with the back, seated dumbbell curls with 150s. And he wouldn't just do one rep with it. He would do 15 reps with each arm. That, to me, and he would do good. He would actually lift it up like this high because he used a lot of front belt in there and bicep. He would, it was the most incredible thing I've ever seen. That was his best lift because he did full range of motion with them. And it was just crazy because the weight, try to do a dumbbell curl even with 100 pounds, much less 150. You tear your bicep, okay? This guy was the strongest person I've ever seen do those dumbbell curls. I've never seen anyone else do it. As a matter of fact, he did a demonstration. I don't know if it was in FIBO or if it was on the Arnold Classic stage. There was a guy at the time by the name of Manfred Holberg. He was this German guy. And he had like the first synth ball arms. But he had really big arms, too. He was a very big muscle guy. You know, he was one of the first strongmen. And him and Jimmy the Bull were going to have this curl-off. And so they were doing some kind of demonstration on the stage. So they came out. Manfred got the 150s. And he had these big arms. And I think he did one or two reps with each arm. And then Jimmy came out after him. He did like 15 or 18 reps with each arm and showed him up. And, you know, at the time, Manfred had been competing as a strongman. And Jimmy was just doing demonstrations. But people were like blown away because it was that incredible of a lift. So personally, I like the seated ones because you're not cheating as much. You're getting more bicep. Standing, you can kind of like swing them a little bit more. Jimmy likes that swinging action. So it's really whatever you like better. It doesn't really matter. You know, once again, I'm more about form, you know, and trying to, you know, really control the weight a little bit more. But, you know, whatever works. Here's an interesting one. It's about a current trend that you have to run 3, 4, 5, or 6 plus grams of gear to get big. Like Olympians pros are coming out sharing their cycles now and still aren't believed when it's a modest one and a half grams. Yeah. You know, I think that if you go back to the 90s and the physiques were good, I'm not going to compare who's are better. Okay. Let's assume they were equivalent. Okay. And maybe the guys in the 90s had just better genetics. So that's why there was a bunch of freaks during that time. But I think the sizes of the guys were pretty comparable. Right. And back then, I know what guys used. No one used an exorbitant amount. There might have been one person that was out of his mind. But, you know, people used a thousand milligrams of testosterone a week. They used about another, you know, maybe another six to eight hundred milligrams of anabolics on top of that. So they were under two grams of gear total per week. And most of them used anywhere from like three to four. I use a GH max if they could even afford the GH. People were huge. Now, we can say there's an explanation for that. We can say, well, the gear was better back then because it came from pharmacies, came from overseas. It was it was it was no underground, you know, crap that people were using. Okay. That's a possibility. But if we are to assume that the gear is the same as, in other words, dosed properly, there's no reason to be doing three, four or five grams of gear a week. It's overkill. All you're getting is more fluid retention and more side effects. I'm telling you, if I thought more was better and I've tried everything, you know, I've experimented. I would recommend that. I'm hardly conservative by any means. But I know what works and I know what gives the best results with the least side effects. So when I recommend that people use, you know, under two grams of gear, which is what I have my guys doing, they're probably at about, you know, 1800 milligrams most a week. That's the ideal dosage. If you're going to take more than that, you're wasting your time, your money and your health. And that's just the, that's the honest truth. Now, if some people have to take three, four grams of gear because they're not getting any results, maybe their gear is underdosed. That is, that was the Boston Lloyd theory about gear today, that it's just not dosed properly. But if you know you're getting gear that's dosed properly and you've tested it or it comes from a pharmacy, there's no reason to do that much. I'm telling you, you're wasting your time and you're just causing more side effects. So I do not, I'm not saying that the guys don't use more gear today. They probably do because the guys are very honest. Most people are very transparent on social media because they get more views that way. So just because those guys are using that much gear doesn't mean you need to use it. It's not going to make you bigger. Okay. The training, the eating, the consistency is what's going to put the size in you. We know what the threshold amount of gear you need to do to get big. I was 319 pounds on what I'm telling you I was taking. Okay. Therefore, and I, and I'm hardly, I'm hardly a genetic freak in terms of size. When I started out, it was very skinny. Right. So I know what works dosage wise. So the other components are the most important, the training, the eating, and the consistency. Take one or two more questions. Sir Morellin. Thoughts on Sir Morellin, but then the secondary to that is best peptides for building muscle. Yeah. I like Sir Morellin. I like all the growth hormone releasing peptides. I think they're good alternatives to taking GH. They're not anywhere near the same as taking GH because you're hoping, basically you're taking a GH releasing peptide and then praying that your pituitary can produce enough GH in response to that, that you'll get an effect from it. That's what you're doing. Right. Same thing. When you take HCG, you take a shot of HCG and you hope your testicles are going to produce enough testosterone to give you some sort of a benefit. But more than likely, taking two shots of testosterone a week is far superior to taking any HCG. Just like taking two, three IUs of GH a day is far superior to any Sir Morellin or CJC or any of the other hexerelin, any of the other GH releasing peptides. That's just the reality of it. Does it mean that you're not going to get any results from Sir Morellin? Sir Morellin? No, it works. But you're not going to get the results you're getting from two, three IUs of GH a day. It's just not the same. Because when you're taking the GH, you're actually putting growth hormone into your body and you're getting a pharmacological effect from that. When you're taking a releasing peptide, your body's releasing its own. And you only have so much ability to produce GH out of your pituitary gland. Some people are better releasers than others, too. So some people get better results. Other people get no results. And that's the truth and the fact of it. So is it better than, you know, nothing? Yes. Is it better than taking GH itself? No. And it's not even comparable. However, you did mention what are the best muscle-building peptides. GH is a peptide. IGF-1 is a peptide. Those are muscle-building peptides. To me, if I'm going to spend my money on any peptides, I don't know of anything in recent memory, new compounds that have come out that is even close to BPC-157. It's the greatest healing. It's the greatest new peptide, I think, that's come out, period. Because BPC-157 actually causes healing and recovery. I know because I don't use growth hormone anymore. Ever since I had thyroid cancer, I won't take it at all. And so I use BPC when I'm hurting. And you know what? When I take it, the injury goes away in days. You know, sometimes my ankle hurts where I had the surgery. I take a couple shots of that. You know, I get from Titan Medical Center. And you know what? It goes away. The pain goes away. It actually works. And I feel like I'm recovering better from workouts on it. So I'm telling you, if you're going to use a peptide in today's day and age, that's what I would spend my money on. That stuff works. You know, and I know Titan Medical now has the combo of BPC-157 and TB-500. I think they call it the Hercules formula or something like that. That's it. That's what you should be using for healing and recovery. If you want to grow, take steroids and GH and IGF-1. That's how you're going to – we know that those are the most potent builders of muscle. There's nothing better than that. You're not going to take any little peptides that are going to cause anything comparable to GH, IGF, and steroids. They're the number one guys on the block. But for healing and recovery, the BPC is tremendous. That's going to do for this episode of Ask Dave. Reminder right now, speciesnutrition.com. Our Christmas sale. Promo code HOLIDAY30 for 30% off. If you spend $70 or more after the discount, you get free bottle of Arthrolyze Elite. From our family to yours, we wish you a Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. Happy Hanukkah. Happy holidays. Whatever you may be celebrating, hope you're enjoying time today. Your families, your friends, do something fun. Obviously, we thank you for spending your Christmas day with us, even if just for about a half hour or so. And we hope we can be a part of your Christmas day. But again, speciesnutrition.com. HOLIDAY30, 30% off. This is going to be our final sale of 2024. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadiq Faruqi. We'll see you next time. Bunga.