 guys, with 6,000 new peptides on the market, you might be confused. What's the best way to put on the most size using the least amount of compounds? I'm going to tell you three compounds that are the most potent anabolic agents that you could possibly use and to get the most bang from your buck. Stay tuned. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition product. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RSLVisionRFsMuscle.com, this is Astave, your weekly question and answer show with Dave Palumbo, bodybuilding, non-bodybuilding. It is all on the table. This is your forum to ask Dave whatever is on your mind. We're going to go right into the questions, the first two questions on this show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. I just completed a calcium score test with a result score of 221. I followed a diet 30 years eating low-fat, moderate carb, high protein, bodybuilding lifestyle diet, 30 to 60 minutes of cardio every day along with the resistance training, your methods five days a week as well as for the past 30 years. I'm 54 years old on no meds, but TRT, gel. If it was you, what would be your next steps? Well I see a lot of this. I read a lot of blood work. I read a lot of these cardiac CT scans that I have people recommend that they go get done. There are people with high calcium scores. You know what? He can go for a more extensive cardiac CT angiogram where they actually put some dye into your vein while they do the CT scan. That will give him a better idea of whether he has blockages. Right now, the calcium score just says how much calcium is in the vessels. If you have a higher amount, usually there's a correlation with some blockages. Probably with a 220 score, I would probably follow up with a CT angiogram with the contrast is to see a little bit better about what's going on, to make sure you don't have any blockages in certain areas. That's number one. It seems like you live the perfect lifestyle to not get blockages, but there's a very big genetic component when it comes to heart disease. It's just undeniable. It sucks that we're beholden to our genetics. I pretty much took great care of myself and had to get an aortic aneurysm at 50. I didn't have it when I was training, when I was big. It's a genetic time clock. My father's brothers, two of his brothers had them. One died, one had it fixed. It just happens. We're basically beholden to our genetics that we have at the end of the day. Probably eating a low-fat diet probably didn't help his cholesterol levels. I always tell people moderate fats with the good, healthy fats that help and aid and keep triglycerides low. A lot of guys eat a lot of carbs, and carbs raise triglycerides, especially if you're eating low fats. You want to make sure you have all the right essential fats in your diet. That's why we put together Omega-Lyse. Omega-Lyse has it's insurance policy. You don't have to worry about if you're getting it from your diet. You can take three pills twice a day of that. You're going to have your essential fats. That is dramatically lowered Greg Valentino's bad cholesterol levels and improved a lot of his inflammatory markers as well. That's important. That would be the first suggestion I would tell him to do, is get on an essential fatty acid supplement, add some more good, healthy fats like from macadamia and oil. As you know, we sell a brand of macadamia and oil from species nutrition. You don't have to use ours, but there's nothing out there. You can use avocado oil. If you can actually find real extra virgin olive oil, a lot of it's fake out there. That's going to help also those cholesterol levels. Now, what can you do to try to reverse what's going on? Taking a good multivitamin that has vitamin K2 in it will help take away that calcium in the vessels. Vitamin K2 directs calcium away from the blood vessels. You obviously have a predisposition to lay down calcium in your blood vessels. You could be K2 deficient. Another little shameless plug. The new v-mineralizer, I know a lot of you have been asking about it, is finally here. It's done. It's completed. It should be in the fulfillment warehouse, and it should be up on the website for sale. Then in Amazon, probably a week after that, within the next week, that's great. I have fortified the new formula with a lot of vitamin D3. We only had 2000. I used last time now. We have 5. We have K2 in there, which is exactly what you need because the vitamin K is going to make your absorb more calcium, but we want to make sure it doesn't go to the blood vessel walls. We have methylated B vitamins in there, obviously the methylfolate and the methylcobalamin, which was already in there. It's a great new product. You can add that to your regimen as well. Omega-lise, v-mineralise, importance. I would go get a cardiac CT angiogram to follow up to make sure that you don't have any blockages that you might require a stent for. Increase your fat intake a little bit, maybe cut your carboxy back a little bit. There's another product that's made by a company called Omega-VIA. They make a pure EPA oil. Now, if you remember, for a lot of my videos I do on essential fatty acids, there's two essential fatty acids. The Omega-3 essential fatty acid, which is alpha-linoleic acid, gets converted to usable form EPA and DHA. The EPA component of that is supposed to be the most potent in terms of removing plaque from vessel walls. The study that came out was 2,000 milligrams per day of the EPA, in addition to whatever you would take from Omega-lise. You want to add 2,000 extra milligrams per day of EPA oil, just pure EPA. It's hard to find. As far as I know, the only company that makes it is Omega-VIA. They sell it on Amazon. I actually have a monthly subscription to it. I get it delivered every month. I take 2,000 milligrams. In addition to my Omega-lise, I take every month. I don't even have any blockages. I just want to prevent anything from happening. I think it's a great product. I think that it's super anti-inflammatory in the body. It'll prevent any clots. It's very good at preventing clots, too, because those Omega's really inhibit the clotting factors quite a bit. I would recommend adding that to your routine as well. Then, just live your life. You can't be worried about, am I going to die tomorrow or anything like that. If you do all the diagnostic testing, you make those subtle changes, I said, I think you're going to see some good results. The reason I answer this question so in-depth, is because it is a question I get a lot. There are a lot of people that have a genetically high LDL cholesterol. They have some plaque formation, or they have some calcium deposits, and they want to know what to do. I think this was worth going into detail on this. Second question, again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Your opinion, and I'll answer another very frequently asked question, your opinion on peptides for muscle growth alongside AAS. I know you like IGF-1LR3, but what about many others like Tess Morellen, CJC, et cetera? Your opinion on these, and are they even worth bothering with? If you're not going to use growth hormone, because growth hormone is the most potent peptide for growth. It's even better than IGF-1, and I'm not sure why, because you would think that IGF-1 is the growth component of the, you take growth hormone, your liver releases IGF-1 in response to the GH you're injecting. For some reason, taking IGF-1 doesn't yield the same results, or you would think it would yield better results. I've talked about this before in the past. I think it's because when you take a large amount of IGF-1, which is what a lot of these guys are doing, it down regulates the IGF-1 receptors very quickly in the body. You get a nice surge initially when you take it for the first two weeks, and then you get nothing. I think growth hormone is better because you're getting small surges in IGF-1, and you're not down regulating as much. My recommended dose for IGF-1 is like 10 to 20 micrograms per day, 30 days on, two weeks off. No one does that. People do 100 micrograms. You're completely overwhelming those IGF-1 receptors and shutting down the response factor. Who the heck knows if the IGF-1 along our three-in-the-market is actually even real, or it's actually doing what it's supposed to be doing? I'm not so convinced on that. To be honest with you, if I had to give you the three most potent performance-enhancing drugs, if I had a limited budget and I wanted to just say, hey, what's the best three, nothing replaces anabolic steroids. Nothing builds muscle better than anabolic steroids. There's no myostat inhibitors. There's no peptides. Steroids still work the best, and they're the best bang for your buck because they don't cost that much. My suggestion would be to use testosterone with some other anabolic agent like equipoise, or deca, or trend and anthe, for building muscle, long-acting injectables combined with testosterone usually in around a two-to-one ratio. If you should do 1,000 milligrams of testosterone a week, you'd do 500 milligrams of EQ or deca per week. Trend-belone is a little trickier because it's very potent. I would probably stick around 200 milligrams of trend-belone and anthe a week with the 1,000 milligrams of testosterone. Those two compounds are the two anabolic, and you got to stack two because when you stack two, you get a better effect. Then I would combine that with just regular growth hormone, real legitimate growth hormone, anywhere from three to four I use per day, taken every day, and you're going to get the most bang from your buck out of those three compounds. You can add 600 other peptides. You probably won't grow much more than a couple of percentage points above that with all the added stuff. Now, I've complained about this before. There's a million growth hormone releasing peptides on the market from Sir Morellen, Tessa Morellen, CJC, Hexarell. I could probably name 10 different ones out there, and they all list different outcomes. This one does this, and this one does that, and this one does that. It's really BS because they all do the same thing. They stimulate the pituitary gland to release natural growth hormone. The amount that you're releasing from your pituitary varies from person to person, depending on how much you produce in your pituitary, and how you respond to these growth hormone releasing agents. Once again, it's an analogous to trying to grow muscle and not take testosterone, but you're going to take HCG, which stimulates your body's natural testosterone production. Well, everyone releases different amounts of testosterone in response to HCG. It's not really a good way to get growth. It might be a cheaper way in the sense that these growth hormone releasing peptides are way cheaper than taking real growth hormone, but you're not getting the firepower of taking real GH. Once again, if I had to make, say, three compounds that were the most potent, it would be two anabolics, testosterone with another anabolic, and GH. That's all you need. You use that, you're going to put on probably just as much sizes as if you added 16 other different compounds. Now, are there good healing peptides out there? Absolutely. I love the TB-500, the BPC, the copper peptide. I love all those. Are there other peptides that do other things, like control weight, like the GLP-1 agonist? Yes, but as far as building muscle goes, I wouldn't delude yourself into thinking that if you're taking 16 peptides, you're going to grow anywhere comparable to what a couple of anabar pills a day would produce. That's how much stronger anabolic steroids are. The reason I'm making this dramatic presentation is because it's true. These guys that sell peptides, and by the way, I see a lot of people now getting arrested for selling peptides, unless you're like a rejuvenation clinic that has a license and that has getting it from a compounding pharmacy. If you're buying it from China and setting it up on a TikTok store or on your website, you're committing a crime. It's illegal to do. You could say it's for research purposes all you want, but if you're doing videos telling people how to take them, then you're doing a crime. Watch out for that. These two questions, which might be the best questions probably of the whole episode, are from the Day Plumber Experience app. This is the kind of questions I answer on a regular basis for the app members. It's $29 a month. You can download it on your iTunes or Android store. You get me as your coach in your back pocket. You have access to all my writings, all my videos in an organized way. You have all my diets, my keto diet, cyclical keto diet, off-season diet, all the drug cycles for men, women, off-season pre-contest. Everything is there. It's a great resource. I'm constantly putting new stuff up. I put everyone's questions and answers that I answer on a daily basis into an open forum so you can see it. I do a Q&A video, so an extra-ass date, essentially, for the app members every single week. If you're really interested in learning about bodybuilding and how the body works and supplements and drugs, you've got to get this app. It's for $29 a month. You can't beat it. You have me as your coach in your back pocket. We have a great, great membership, and I'll keep doing this as long as you guys keep supporting it. I want to just thank you once again. Before we go to the rest of our questions, our friends at Titan Medical Center, and I'll put it up on the screen, they gave us a new therapy quick reference guide. That includes a lot of their peptides. One that we haven't really discussed yet, but it is worth discussing. You're telling me about it before we went on air. It was ARA290. Good for inflammation and nerve support. Yes. If you guys have chronic pain rather than taking opiates, this peptide seems to have a relief on the nervous system. It supports the nervous system, recovery, growth, cognitive function, but it's really what it's known as is the anti-pain peptide. If you have annoying pains in your body, I'm sure if you're in massive pain, it's not going to do anything. If you have daily pain aches and pains and inflammation, this peptide works really well. You might want to give it a shot. It just became available again. Titan can prescribe it. If you contact them at titanmedicalcenter.com and you call that number there and you tell them, Dave Paloma, ARX Muscle Center, you're going to get a great discount. They'll explain exactly how to use it and what it will help with. I think that the great thing about Titan is that they're not just a supply chain. They are people who are willing to spend time with you guys, the customers, and explain what you might need based on your blood work or your complaints. They can suggest things or you can just go on there and say, Hey, look, this is what I'm looking for. Dave Paloma, tell me he takes glutathione. I want to take it. He loves the healing peptides. I want to try you a glow stack. Really, they're going to explain what it does and they're going to follow up with you. They've got some great customer service over there. We love John and Cherise. We've been working with them for many, many years now. I've been sending people to them for quite a long time and everyone seems to be a very happy customer. Check it out. They've got some great new therapies up there. Like I said, that chart is good because it tells you what they all do. Depending on what you need them for, they are available. You might not even know. You might call them up and say, Hey, look, I'm just tired. What do you recommend I take? They'll help you out with that as well. Go check them out. TitanMedicalCenter.com. As Dave mentioned, Dave Palombo or RxMuscle and they will give you the royal treatment. Let's go to the rest of our questions from our YouTube community page, from our Instagram official underscore RxMuscle and our Facebook page. If you just search RxMuscle, training related questions. You always talk about training only one muscle per day, per week. What do you think about combining triceps and shoulders with biceps, chest, for example, isn't it much more work and the way that you could also have an extra rest day instead of resting two days, you'd rest three times a week like Dorian Yates did. I mean, you got to work. You got to do what works for your body. And I'm all about experimenting. There's not just one way of doing anything with as far as training goes. That is, you know, there's so many different ways you can train. And I've changed around training according to my schedule. Like when my kids were really, really young and babies, it was hard to get to the gym. I was training at my house for a while. So I would do all my body parts on three days a week. And it wasn't that bad. It took a little longer, but it really wasn't terrible. And because I wasn't sleeping as much, I felt like it gave me more time to recover from the workouts. Now that I can kind of, well, I don't sleep as much as I would like to, but now that I have like a more, you know, my kids are in school during the day. And I, you know, I could actually, you know, go to the gym, enjoy my one body part per session, do a little cardio if I want, you know, tan if I want. And then I can go back and I have plenty of time to eat and relax. I usually tend to go four or five days a week now, you know, usually I try for five and then I take two days a week off. Sometimes they even go six because I just, I just, I'm just enjoying myself. But ideally, five days a week is, is I deal with two days off. If you feel like you're not recovering well, and you want that extra day, and you feel that you can squeeze in, you know, arms on another body part day, that's fine. I just feel that most people don't have great arms unless, you know, there's a few genetic freaks out there. And so it's nice to give arms its own day. But if you have no problem, you know, stacking it with another body part, then go for it. Your body will dictate, you know, what it needs. If you feel like you're just after you do chest, you just have no desire to do the next body part, whether it be biceps or triceps, then don't do it. You know what I mean? Like when I'm done with chest, I don't want to do anything else after that. You know, I can't imagine having to go and do shoulders after that, or I would do triceps after that, especially because I just use my triceps and certainly don't want to do biceps. So that's just me, you know, so there's no right or wrong way. It's whatever feels good and what enables you to recover from the workout. If you like the extra day week, look, you could do one body part per day and do an eight day split. You don't have to do a seven day split. If you want that third day off, there's nothing wrong with that either. So there's no rules. It's what works for your body. And a lot of times you have to just experiment. Earlier, we had a question about a calcium score, this question about, I guess, heart related question, question about left ventricle ejection fraction for a bodybuilder. 35 years old on and off gear training for 20 years. EF is 44%. Cardiologists want him to stop bodybuilding in gear. He's on pendopryl 5MG right now. Yeah. As soon as they see reduced ejection fraction or ulcerative cardiac output, they immediately put you on a beta blocker, which blocks the heart's ability to beat to a certain amount. So it kind of relaxes the heart. What they're trying to do is increase the size of the chamber of the left ventricle so that more blood will be ejected when it squeezes. So if you think of the heart, it's like a pump. Each chamber has a certain amount of blood in it. Now here's where the cardiologists mess up. Now this doesn't apply to everyone because there are people who have heart problems, right? But the athletic heart, let's go over and I've talked about this before, but it's weren't just mentioning again. The athletic heart, what happens to the bodybuilder who trains? Well, the heart is a muscle and it gets thicker, right? Because what happens is you're squatting and you're bench pressing and you're demanding blood in those muscles as quickly as possible. So in order for the body to squeeze that blood out of that left ventricle, which is the chamber of the heart that pumps the blood to the body, it needs to get stronger to be able to pump it faster to get to the muscles. So when you're bodybuilding, because it's not an aerobic activity, it doesn't matter how much blood you're pumping. It's the speed with which the heart can get the blood to the muscles that's the most important. So what does the heart do? It gets thicker. Okay, so now when you have a chamber, think about a cup. If you would have, if you would have made a cup thicker, okay, you would lose the inside of the cup, you wouldn't be able to hold as much water in the cup. But the cup would be, it would be much stronger, right? Now imagine the cup can contract, okay? So here you have this heart that's thicker. When it squeezes that blood, it jets out of that heart and gets that muscle super fast, which accomplishes the goal, right? Getting blood in the muscle, getting blood in the brain so that you don't pass out while you're squatting. But when they measure your heart ejection fraction, how much blood is coming out of that left ventricle on each contraction, it's reduced. Now, when would you see a reduction in blood volume being ejected from the heart? Well, when the heart's not working properly. So they somehow erroneously confuse the athletic heart with someone who has a defective heart that is not functioning properly and gets big and thicker because it's not working properly. And they treat it exactly the same. So rather than say, wow, this guy's got an athletic heart, he, his heart's working very efficiently. They put you on a beta blocker, which slows your heart down. And they, and they want you to stop lifting weights so that the muscle could atrophy and go back to normal. And, and, and now they could say, oh, your, your, your values are normal again, you're good because the heart will detrain itself and it will shrink just like any muscle will. And then you have no muscle left in your body because you stopped working out. But the heart ejection fraction is normal. It's ludicrous. It's ludicrous. Why these doctors, and you know what they, they tell you, as soon as your ejection fraction goes below a certain mat, they, they term you being in heart failure. So now you have this stigma of, I'm in heart failure, you think you're going to drop dead. Meanwhile, you're in the best shape of your life and you have an athletic heart. And they're erroneously labeling you as someone who's no better than the guy in the, in the hospital ward who smoked six packs of cigarettes a day for, for 25 years. And, you know, he has blockages in his coronary arteries and he, and he has, his heart is failing on. It's just not the case. And I think this is, this is a problem. And it's the same problem that we have with blood work, although the doctors are getting some doctors are getting a little smarter on learning how to interpret blood work because it's different for people who work out, you know, they got these guys going to the hospital and they're, and they're, you know, CPK levels or their, their liver enzymes are like 10 times what they normally should be. And they're like, huh, rabdomyloysis, they're dying. Your muscles are in a state of chronic breakdown. Well, of course they are because I just swatted yesterday, you know, 600 pounds. They don't ask, and this is, this is why medicine became something that I couldn't do as a career, because doctors just treat symptoms. They don't ask for what's causing anything. A lot of doctors don't, some doctors do, but most don't, they just treat symptoms. And when half, when you treat symptoms and you don't get the whole picture of what's going on, a lot of times you make very bad diagnosis. And I think that's what's happening in this case. Once again, there are people that legitimately have heart problems. Okay. Could be genetic. It could have been something you did to your heart. You could have been damaged onto it, whatever the case may be. But a lot of body bills, I can guarantee you, if I took the top 25 body bills in the world and I gave them all echocardiograms, they would all come back with cardiomyopathy, you know, left ventricular hypertrophy, reduced ejection fraction, and you would think they're all on their death bed and they're not, they're in the best shape of their life. Likewise, if you take an endurance runner, okay, who's running 20 miles a day, you know, a couple days a week, they're doing 10 miles regularly a day, their heart does something different. It doesn't get thicker because they don't have to deliver blood faster because remember that it's an aerobic activity. Okay. They need to deliver more blood. So what the heart does is it stretches itself out and they get this big wide chamber and their ejection fraction is huge. They have this enormous amount of ejection fractures, but their heart doesn't beat very fast. It only beats like 40 beats a minute, whereas the average would be what 90 or 60 or 80 or 60, whatever it is, because, but they're delivering enormous amounts of blood on each contraction. And doctors will tell them that's not good either because a big stretched out heart is not efficient in the doctor's mind, you know, so, but for running 10 miles, 12 miles a day, it's very efficient. And so we need to differentiate athletic heart from pathologic heart. You know, that kind of leads right into this next question. And it's about your background. Do you think your background in being a runner in college benefited your bodybuilding career? If so, how do you think running help condition your heart to large PED doses? Do you believe running is a good base for young inspiring or aspiring bodybuilders? You know, I've had, I've thought about this a long time, you know, over the years. And I think that running did a few things. Number one, it gave me tremendous discipline to run 10 miles every day, you know, which is what I was doing at the height of my career and to restrict my diet so that I wouldn't gain too much weight. It's so much more difficult to do that than bodybuilding, that when I went to bodybuilding, the discipline was easy, you know, because you don't have to run, you don't go work out outside in 100 degree heat, and you don't have to work outside in zero degree weather, except if you're in prison. So it kind of taught me really good discipline running. That's number one. Number two, as far as from a physiological standpoint, I don't know if it did anything to my heart because, you know, runners have like I just mentioned, a more stretched out heart, whereas bodybuilders have a denser heart. So I think my heart probably remodeled itself for bodybuilding as the years went on. But I think what putting my legs into a constant oxygen debt all the time from running, you know, that many miles, what happens is your body produces new mitochondria, you know, which are the energy producing, you know, organelles of the cells that oxidize fat for fuel, ATP for energy while you're running. And while runners don't get bigger in a hypertrophy sense, because it doesn't serve them, they still produce more mitochondria, which are giving you a larger population of muscle cells, you just don't know you have more muscle cells than you did when you started, because you don't see the you don't see them because they don't get bigger. But when you switch from running with all these extra new mitochondria, which are basically new cells, and then you and then you switch to a hypertrophy sport like bodybuilding or powerlifting, all of a sudden now you have a genetic advantage over the person who never did the running. And I think that's why my legs got so big naturally, because I think I had a lot more, you know, muscle cells in my legs beyond that I had created from five years of running. Likewise, you know, I think that the metabolic enzymes in your cells become optimized to produce energy efficiently and copiously because right, you need a ridiculous amount of energy when you're running that much. And I'm not I wasn't jogging, I was running at a good pace, you know, plus I was running cross country races. So that when I switched to bodybuilding, I think I just was I was like a truly efficient fat burning machine, you know, my body did better on fats, because that's what it uses when you're running a lot. And it also metabolizes glucose when you're running too. So I think that that was probably what made my metabolism supercharged. So I think I got two benefits from running the muscle cell increase in my legs, which is probably why I had really good legs. And number two was the metabolic enzyme up regulation, which obviously helped me stay like leaner and become like a metabolic, you know, fat burning machine. So yeah, I think it I think I think in aerobic actions, I don't think to the extent maybe that I did it, because it was a little obsessive. But I think definitely, you know, aerobic training and all that stuff, and sports in general, when you're younger, is going to definitely prime your body to be a better bodybuilder later in life. And that's not to say that guys can't do nothing when they were younger. Evan Santopani was a little fat kid and got into bodybuilding and turned it to one of the best bodybuilders in the world. I was talking about him the other day. So but there he's a genetic freak, you know, but for the average person, I think sports early in life definitely predisposes people to being better bodybuilders later. Take one more question. This one about I think this applies to a large cross section of our audience. You have advanced lifters, you have those that are just getting into bodybuilding and everyone in between ever had a massive fluctuation on certain lifts, benching being a prime example. One week, I'll easily bench say 275 or 10 or more reps and next week lucky to get four.  diets on point, and unnatural, if that makes any difference, but that applies to you and just scenarios you've seen where one week you seem strong as a bull and then the next week you just don't have it. Yeah, you see it on benching a lot, you know, the fluctuations, sometimes on even on squats. The problem is, are you glycogen loaded? Are you fueled properly? Did you sleep enough? A lot, and that has a lot to do with it. How you want to cycle, you know, when I would be taking a cycle, my strength was through the roof. However, when I trained in the morning, I was weaker than when I trained at night because at night I had five meals in me already, six meals in me already, and my muscles were loaded with glycogen. I was holding water obviously because as the day progresses, you start retaining fluids, and that makes you stronger, and it protects the joints and you just feel better. So, you know, a lot of bodybuilders train really late at night if they don't have like a real job, you know, and it's hard to explain why, you know, but I can explain it from my own perspective. It sucks that you have to, if you do, if you have to go to the gym at midnight because it's like, it messes up your whole schedule, sleep wise, so you really can't have a job the next day if you're doing that, but a lot of bodybuilders don't. But I used to do it a lot, and I had my best workouts late at night because I felt fueled up. In the morning I always had trouble. The only time I would go to the gym in the morning was when I was dieting for a show, and that didn't really matter then because I wasn't trying to set any new records. I was trying to just maintain my muscles, so I wasn't like pushing in the gym to go, to move past my normal lifts. So that was fine, but when I was trying to grow and get big, I always trained, I tried to train like about four or five o'clock in the afternoon, you know, but I always noticed that I was way stronger in the morning. So I mean, in the afternoon. So take that for what it is, you know, but there are going to be days where you just didn't get enough rest or you just, you didn't eat enough the day before. It doesn't matter what you eat the day of the training. It's what you ate the day before. And you're just not fueled up and your body just is not ready to go. And the worst thing you can do, and we all do this, is take a bunch of stimulants, you know, like pre-workouts and caffeine and stuff like that to get yourself going so you can get through the workout. And if you don't feel up to it, a lot of times that you can get hurt doing that. So you got to kind of be intuitive. Not every, every single training session has to be a world record for you. It should be trained the way you feel. But I've gone to the gym on days where I felt like I was going to have the worst, the worst workout of all time because I was tired and I didn't want to be there. And I wound up having a great workout too. So it works the other direction as well. And there's no, there's no real predicting why that is, you know, sometimes when you have a lot of stress, you have aggression and you want to get it out. Sometimes you have a lot of stress and it does the opposite to you. It zaps you of your strength. There's no rhyme nor reason. That's why it's important to go to the gym on the days you feel like crap and on the days you feel great because if you miss the days you feel like crap, those could be the best workouts of your life, you know, that you could be missing. So never, never make an excuse why you can't go to the gym. Being a great bodybuilder is about being able to train and do the work even when you feel like you don't want to. And a lot of people can't do that. And if you can't defer gratification, you're not going to be a great bodybuilder. And on that note, that's going to do for this episode of Ask Dave. Dave mentioned Greg Valentino earlier in the show, a hilarious, all new episode of After Hours on the channel right now. Jimmy the Bull makes the appearance and tells us about his stalkers violently threatening him to not appear on After Hours. You have to see it and you can decide whether or not you believe his stories, his claims, but it is an absolutely hilarious episode. After Hours as well as Heavy Muscle Radio with Dave Palumbo and Chris Assito live right now on the channel. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss this or any other shows that we have coming up. Of course, the Arnold Classic in less than a month now. So we're going to begin our preview segments. And then of course we're going to have wall to wall coverage the weekend of the Arnold Classic live from Columbus, Ohio. Dave, myself, Chris Assito and whoever else we're going to bump into. So again, if you haven't already done so, subscribe below and hit the notification bell. As Dave mentioned, the mineralize is going to be back in stock soon at speciesnutrition.com in a matter of just a few days really. Just waiting on shipping. It's all done. It's all shipped as soon as we have it in. It'll be live on the website and you will get or have an opportunity to buy the reformulated version of the mineralize. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadee Farooqi. We'll see you next time.