Live from the RX Muscle Studios, this is the Heavy Muscle Show with your host Dave Pumble featuring Love, Jimmyia, Mr. K Jeff the producer. All right, we're back from break. Uh was a great uh we got some great info from John Natashak and we're going to get a little bit more feedback at the end of the show. Uh, but Jimmy, you've been complaining all show that you've been getting jipped in life, jipped by hot pods, jipped by everyone, even though I fed you protein bagels and and Quest protein bars. I want to give you a tub of isolized proteins. I know that you you it's very hard for you to eat. You've been eating hot dogs and poverty food. So, here's a free tub for you to take home with you. I love you. Thank you. Vanilla, your favorite. I finally [\h__\h] got something in life. All right. All right. That's good. So, hot bugs. I don't want your [\h__\h] shirt. I got the protein. Now I want to I want to just show one more thing. Remember I was talking about this this book strength training and anatomy and and uh Magnus the Magnificent came up to me on the break and showed me this picture that he was very fond of of a woman uh was showing the anatomy of her crotch basically. What was so fascinating about this to you uh Magnus? I just love the detail of the the up here. You so you like you like the female anatomy. Absolutely. Look how beautifully laid out she is there. Wouldn't you like to dig into that? Wouldn't I like to What is that? Would you like to dig into that? Are you No, that's I'm actually going to use that by that. Would you like that? I'm not particularly, but I mean, you know, you like a little more meat on your girls. That's a sketch. It's a sketch. It gives you an idea where you muscle and tend. You're very visually oriented. I noticed I am and I can tell what's going to be behind. Jeff is audio oriented. You're a visually Jeff is a fabulous producer and I see things visually and I can tell that you've been the in skeleton that it's going to be a good looking body. Do you have any females that you're currently interested in? I got a few in line. Of course. Any dates recently? Of course. Where would you take a girl on a date, Magnus? I would I would take you to I would take you down to BO in Huntington, which is a nice upscale Mexican. Bito. Yes, BTO is very nice. Have you ever been Have you ever had been gone to Mosquito with a girl? Uh I've gone with my girlfriend. I mean, but uh the food there is not that good. It's a drinking bar for sure. Not really. Uh it's not. The food is there's a waitress there who's got really big boobs. And you like big boobs? Well, it's something that the men sort of notice when they go there. Do you notice that? Do you like boobs or do you like butts? What What's your thing? Um, it's not discriminatory with me. That's the personal persona behind the body. Yeah. Do you Do you like a good-looking woman or do you were you not that, you know, discerning? Well, you know, she's wealthy. I go for it. So, wealth is important to you. Okay. So, you're looking for someone to support you, Magnus. Is that the idea? Make more money with. Gotcha. Well, you're doing pretty good in the stocks, you told me, right? Of course I am. So you can you could probably you got something to offer Jimmy. Doesn't money you know that's that goes a long way with you know the old time saying money talks and [\h__\h] walks. They say but money doesn't buy you they say money doesn't buy you happiness but that's a lot of hogwash. I agree. Talk to me about what you would do after taking her to drostanolone. What would be the next move? Take um take her to a nice spa. There's a beautiful place in the village called Alive. Would you drink with her? cuz I've never seen you drink alcohol on the long beach. I would I would take a sip of the wine and not drink anything. You just try to get her drunk. Well, I just want to be in total control of the situation and I do like seeing reality. So, if I'm drunk, I don't get to see it. So, what would happen after that? Well, you see, it's like an FBI [\h__\h] I want to just know what he does. All right. I know what you do. I want to know what he does. You sound like a [\h__\h] profiler. Like trying to nail a guy to a murderous. No, I'm trying to find out how he seduces women. He's a, you know, he likes the ladies. And then you take her home and you watch a couple of comedies with your no comedies with comedies. Now, why comedies? Because laughter gets you in a happy mood. And there's an ends that work on the woman that always makes them happy. These are things you guys never knew about. Pay attention, Jeremy. Then once you get the laughter going, then use your imagination. What goes on after the laughter? Laughter. Laughter. Laughter. I'm sorry. I thought he said laughter. No laughter. I thought there was like some kind of paint dinner or something there. Yeah. And life is fun when you play it that way. Well, Magnus, you you seem to have everything figured out, but right now we're going to get to our weightlifting, excuse me, our arm wrestling guys. Compliments of casting dire. No, I had to just follow up. Uh we have Jean Camp here, president of the New York Arm Wrestling Association. That's nycarms.com. You've been doing this for 34 years. Uh you're running it all through Long Island on all five burrows. Talk to me a little bit about how you got into the arm wrestling game. Well, um, years ago in 19 in the 70s, early 70s, uh, was watching it on television. Wide World of Sports had the wrist wrestling in Bedum, California. Got a good idea at that time. I was always a good arm wrestler in school and I thought this is the time for bring New York arm wrestling to New York. And that's how we started. We You founded it? Pretty much. I founded it. Yeah, I founded it in 77. We ran our first tournament on Queens Boulevard. Wow. Most people when they think arm wrestling think of the movie Over the Top with Sylvester Stallone. Yeah. Um, how accurate was that movie? I'll tell you it's a pretty accurate movie. I mean, there's a guy that's looking to make it in the big times. He's working out in his truck. He's trying to trying to go into major tournaments. The tournaments were real. Um, it's it's all about guys. The arm wrestlers always want to be the best in the world. Every one of them, every single solitary one wants to be the best in their weight class. Everybody wants to be the best. the world champion and that's their goal. I mean, arm wrestlers are just like any other sport. They thrive and they think of it. They breathe the sport every day of the week and uh they want to be the best. Is is is there really that many characters in arm wrestling like he depicted in the movie? There's a lot of characters in arm wrestling. Can I say something here real? Yes, you of course you can. Who's with that movie over the top? Yes. That that movie was about an actual person. Do you know that, right? Yeah. I think it was based on a real person. I don't know if it was an actual story, but it was based on a real character. It was based on a real character. Yeah. Matter of fact, I arm wrestled that guy at the Arnold Horton. Did you beat him? No, but he was five times a heavyweight world champ. I forget his name, but was he a big guy? Big dude. Bigger than Stallone, I would think. Yeah. No, he was a [\h__\h] one arm was like tremendous. The other arm was like skinny. I knew this guy was It was bad. Is that typical that arm wresters have one arm bigger than the other? Because Okay. They're a right-handed arm wrestler. Well, today, years ago, it was all right-handed arm wrestling, but today everybody's going for the double. Oh, you've switched now. You do both. Both arms. And they're working out on both arms. But some guys are called Popeye. They got such a big arm that they're actually called Popeyes. Now, how do you how do they determine in these tournaments what arm you use? Is the tournament always right armed? The tournament is weigh in registration and it's various weight classes and right and left hand competition. Oh, there's different right and left. It's exactly our tournaments are all we all the weight classes have both right and left-hand competition. Gotcha. You match them up. Are there guys that do both? Yes. And that's an Armstar award. You win both. You win an Armstar Awards. Matter of fact, the next tournament is on April 30th at the Village Pore House. That's called the New York City Big Apple Grapple. Yeah. It's our premier event. It's the It's like the big event. People come from all over the world for this. Oh, really? Okay. We really do. How many people show up at this thing? Always over a hundred people. You know, the last one we had 122 people are there is someone like Jimmy over the hill too much or could he get into arm wrestling at his age? Because No, you were a great powerlifter, you know, power bodybuilder back. But I'm saying maybe you should move into another uh arena. Maybe you should start wearing [\h__\h] diapers and go [\h__\h] get [\h__\h] food. No, it's not because I'll tell you the truth. His age, they have a mast's class for amateurs. You win it. That's right. Why don't you get into arm wrestling? I think that would be something good. coming into the sport the first time, put him on the table, he wins. Would you train him? I I would be scared to go with him. I think he could beat me. Yeah. Yeah. But would you train him to give him techniques or something like that? Yes, I would definitely train. Would you have to get back in the gym a little more serious? If Jean lets you train you, would you listen to what he tells you to do and and try to do wrestling tournament? I don't know [\h__\h] about, so I of course I would listen to him. Yes. Heat. Heat. Hello, my name is Jack Olock, CEO and chief scientific officer of DPX Redline. I designed Redline Ultra Hardcore with a dualaction microtab and liquid delivery system. This makes Redline Ultra Hardcore the fastest acting, longest lasting the strongest stacking bathroom in the history of sports nutrition. First, micronized particles within the liquid phase of the delivery system enter the body within seconds. Then, the black and blue microtabs bypass the destructive acidic environment of the stomach. They then enter the alkaline environment of the intestines where they burst open the most potent active ingredients into the system. Amazingly, the Black and Blue MicroTabs release steadily into the body for up to 3 hours. Redline Ultra Hardcore's proven steadystate releasing vacuums starts to work in 45 seconds and last up to several hours. This is hardcore scientific cuttingedge technology. This is the most advanced triaction dual microtapped and liquid delivery system in the history of sports nutrition. Cuz you want to burn fat fast. I made Redline Ultra Hardcore. You are hardcore. That's why you need VPX Redline Ultra Hardcore. The most technologically advanced fat burning delivery system ever created. Get yours today nationwide at GNC's bodybuilding.com and vpxports.com. Heat. Heat. Heat. Species evolutionary nutrition. The species line of products champion original thinking and carry this thought process to its logical conclusion in the form of supplements that strictly adhere to the core nutritional principles of Dave Palumbo, founder of species nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com to purchase the next generation of highquality supplements available today that fully adhere to the theory of natural selection which insists that only the fit survive. species nutrition.com Life is pain is dedication. Life is pressure. Life is P28. This is the Heavy Muscle Show with your host Dave Mumbo. Hey, this is the Game Triple H from the WWE. You're watching rxmuscle.com, the truth in bodybuilding. All right, Jean, what do we got set up over here? We got now we're going to show you about techniques. We got our professional referee Dan Pattona from Waiting River. Okay. And he's over here with Eric and Mike. Let me introduce who's over here. We got Dan Fortuna, I think, who's going to be our referee. We have Where's Bobby? Got Bobby Bugo. He's going to take over. Well, yeah. I want you to come. I want to introduce you. Come over here so we can get champion. You are I don't know if I could I don't know cuz earlier in the day earlier in this broadcast, yes, he said he beat two New York champions. No. So, so 10 [\h__\h] years. I'm trying to figure this out because so you're saying you can walk out of the gym and be beat, you know, like a national champion world champ and I say that's how it happens. You got wrong information. There's no way you're walking out of the gym and taking me or taking him with 500. the table over 20 years ago. Me now Bobby Bafukco is actually the brother of Joey Bonafuko. Did you know that? That's crazy. Now let me ask you a question. Would you train with this guy for for a couple months and then to challenge Bobby? We let me tell you something. We'll pull him on the table, show them what it's all about. I don't realize it's a different world. Anyone train all due respect, Mr. B. All right, hold on. Get your shirt on. Don't over steam a little shorts. All right, I did wrestle this little guy one time. All right, when I was in my prime, he was a little dude, okay? And he put me down two, three times on a coffee table. Like I wasn't even there. And I have to say that the guy wasn't he was a professional arm wrestler. He was a small little dude. I thought I was going to plow him through the table. He put me down. All right. So I'm not saying arm wrestle is totally different from where he lifted the power lift. I ain't saying that. But that night in the bar, these guys did claim that they were [\h__\h] New York State. They could have been lying to me. I don't know. It was just two big dudes and I put them down on the [\h__\h] table and that's it. I will let him slide. I'm not going to say I respect all. I just want to hear my cocked. I really don't. Who else we got over there? Eric. Eric is a good What's Eric's last name? Dwire. Dwire. Dwire. And what's his uh uh armless face? He's already won championships. D. He's a He's a pizza. He's a pizza. The supers. Super super heavy. Super heavyweight. Anything over 240 heavyweight. Gotcha. And we have Mike Ayella here. Mellow just won the uh New York State Armrest of the Year award. Really? Congratulations. What weight class did you do that? 242. 243. What's What's the highest weight class? What's the heavy super heavy weight class? Is that your weight class? 243 and whatever. Gotcha. So you're in the You're with all the big guys. You must go up against the monsters, I'm sure. actually the smallest guy and you and you're the champion of the state. That's pretty impressive. All right, let let me hand it over to uh Dan over there. And Dan, give us give us a little lesson on We're going to talk about the basic three most common used techniques. We'll start with what most people do in the lunchroom when they're kids or in the bar, which is the basic hook technique where they start off straight and then when they say go, they both turn into a hook where their wrist are cocked like that and they're using their back and their shoulder as Eric will pull Mike this way. Is that the right way to do it? And bring it down. Typically, you start out that way, but you migrate to the other techniques because you're using a lot of straining in the tendons in the elbow, which is dangerous, which can hurt, and you roll a lot of tendons. The first year or two in arm wrestling, uh, is very painful. I mean, Mike described it perfectly before. It's like a toothache in your arm. It's a pain that doesn't go away. And we lose a lot of very good guys during that first year or two because it's just endless. And uh so what's the technique that you have to eventually evolve into? Hopefully evolve. Some people stay with the hook because they're just really strong there. And that's probably what Jimmy was using. Exactly. And a lot of Europeans will go over nationally. They're they're hookers. But over the top introduce not prostitutes hookers hookers. Over the top introduce the back pressure top roll where you try to pull the opponent away from their strength. It's almost like a hammer curl in the gym. And Mike's going to show that where he's pulling straight back, pulling towards your body. And what you're doing is kind of putting your knuckles in your left hand pocket. So he's going to roll out and roll away. So you're pulling. Guy could have 30 in arms, but you're taking his hand and wrist away and you're pulling away. Assuming that you're strong enough to do that. Assuming that you're strong enough to do that. So you're going to pull him out of his range of strength. That's what you're doing. Exactly. You get that, Jimmy? Take a note. So, if you notice, Mike's right leg is underneath the table and his left leg is in winning position cuz that's the area he wants to go. So, he's going to pull Eric straight. Pull to your leg. You pull through that opponent's head. How do you prevent that from happening? if you have someone trying to do. Okay. So, what Eric would do, say Eric is a hooker, he wants to use his finger presser, grab a little lower, and hopefully on the go, turn him in and use his shoulder and prevent Mike from going in. What if he's also got the same technique? What happens usually when they both do it? Yeah. A lot of times they'll slip out. So, they're both using back pressure and that's where you get the straps. Ah, so if you slip, you automatically goes to the strap. I remember from from uh over the top. Exactly. So, in how you set up the straps, the hands are open. You put the strap over here, right? Around here, back under. And because these guys are monsters, I'm running out of straps. What What holds the thing? It was a Velcro. Velcro. The I like the buckle ones. Uh there's different pre preferences. You get them real tight, then you set the grip. What you have to do is you have to keep your your pointer finger under the other guy's thumb knuckle. If he's over too high, he has an advantage. So the highest you could grab is at the knuckle. So when they over the top when he let go and he grabbed over the can. You can let go after the go. You can reposition yourself. Now you kind of overexaggerated it a little bit. Sometimes it happens, but not on a regular basis. I my head backwards already. And you can't have your hat this way. It has to be turned around. If you insist on wearing a hat, you put it in the direction of the wind if you want. If you want. So, I keep them both knuckles down. Now, no matter what happens, they're going to be strapped together. And they say strap tells no lies. You're stuck together. And they'll do backup. As the referee, what are you looking for? What What's legal? What's illegal? Good question. They have to keep their elbows on the pad. If Mike bobs up to do his top roll, he has an advantage. Even if it's an inch. If Mike comes out forward to get him into a hook, he has an advantage. So, you have to keep your elbows down. If you lift it up, you disqualify. You lift it up, you get one foul. You get two fouls, you're disqualified. You lose the match, he's the winner. So elbow is important. You have to have the wrist straight from the go. After the go, you could curl your wrist. What about the guy who has one arm much longer than the other arm? He has an advantage or a disadvantage depending on how he uses it. If he keeps his arm out here, it's a disadvantage. If he keeps his arm up here, he's got the height and he's using it to his advantage. Dan, can you wear platform shoes? Yes. The uh little guys could use platform platform shoes or we always have a riser which is about this high to bring them up to I've actually seen some guys use the table for their advantage. Can you do that? You could use one foot. You got to keep one foot on the ground but you could some guys put their foot on the brace to use it or they go across. It all depends on your comfort zone. By doing this you're committed to one move usually. So it could be a disadvantage if you get caught in a different position. All right. Now, so you got the two techniques, is there a third technique you can use? Also, the third technique would be a shoulder roll, which again could be used as an amateur technique or a very big strong guy. The problem with the shoulder roll, you're committing, and that's where you may want to put the foot up to going in one direction. If you get caught out, you could get hurt. And Mike's showing the shoulder roll where he's getting on top. You can do that. You can do that. You cannot touch your shoulder with your hand, but you're going to Mike's going to swing soon as I say go and jump that shoulder on top. Would you use different techniques with different parties? How do you decide what to use? Well, what happens is the arm wrestling uh uh area is such a tight-knit community, I'm sure. Just like you guys know, with the bodybuilding, you end up knowing everybody's technique. Sometimes you get some freaking nature that comes out of nowhere, but you're both within just, you know, a couple arm wrestles. You know that guy's technique and you're saying, "Okay, I want to stay away from that and maybe roll out or he's just rolling out. You want to chop in and see if he's strong over there." Why don't you guys give us a little demonstration? Okay. Who's stronger of these two guys? He is. They both say that. Can we get a little Eric hasn't pulled a little in a long time, but can we Is this going to be for real or you guys just [\h__\h] around? Can you guys go for real here so we can see who can win? Well, we can go for real, but Eric hasn't pulled in a while, so he's at a complete, you know, that's all right. We want to see some competition. We're going to start it over here. Well, before they go, what's the difference between pro and amateur? Okay. If you win an amateur event, then you could go pro. Now, in pro events, they have anything where they're giving away a truck like an over the top. And speaking of that movie, a lot of those guys in that movie were in the tournament and still arm wrestle the guy who drank the oil. Uh Oh, really? Yeah. So, he he's really amazing. Yeah, it's pretty cool. And one of the guys that we know from the thing who owes me 600 bucks wind up actually Keith Keith Jones wind up dying recently actually of a heart attack. He was like 500 lb, but he was in the movie as well. Get your money then. No. All right. So, let's see you guys go here. This is going to be like for real. I want I want to see what it's like. What the faces look like. I'm going to get up here so I can get a better look. Okay. Ready? Go. And there you go. Interesting. A lot of the thing about arm wrestling, a lot of matches are really quick once you have the advantage at arm wrestle. how it's different and why it's a hard transition sometimes with weightlifting. In weightlifting and bodybuilding, you're concentrating on individual muscles, working them individually, getting the rest, getting the pores, getting the oxygen. With arm wrestling, what we're working, and that's first really hard, the first two years is getting it in one movement. So, you what you notice, you'd never see an arm wrestler do this like a tricep push. It's this. It's one move. Let's get Jimmy the Bull up there and Bobby Bafuko there. I want to see you guys going head to head on the thing, you know, just just show technique again. Jimmy, get up there. You swung around a pole two weeks ago. Can I ask Dan a question? Yes, you may. What kind What muscles are you using when you're actually when you're pulling? And what you're using is your whole even your hip, your lat, your shoulder, your tricep, everything. Your hand, your finger strength. It's one movement. You're pulling in one motion. And tendon strength is extremely important. Do you guys ever come across any kind of injuries? Yeah. What you'll get is a a lot of tendinitis. You'll get uh bicep tears from up top from the back pressure. You'll get them down here. You know, a lot of common things that you get with Yeah. John Ashac, I want to ask you a question. Uh have you ever arm wrestled before? You look like a guy that probably was a good arm wrestler. When I was a kid in in in high school and actually in Boy Scouts, I wanted a troop arm wrestling. You were the true champion. No, you look you got that compact frame. You look like you'd be a good arm wrestler. I wouldn't step up there and thousand mile stairs. All right, Jimmy, get up there. I want you and Bobby to go head to head. Yeah, just just fun stuff. [\h__\h] I know you're nervous about me every [\h__\h] week, which is nothing. No, give me front. Just let him know warm up. Jimmy, turn the switch on. Come on, Bobby. How old are you? Turn the switch on. I'm an old man. I was a young guy. Jimmy, get some chocolate on there. Get some chocolate. What? How old am I? 57 or some [\h__\h] Oh, so Jimmy's the same age as you. Jimmy's 51. So, we got the over 50 category up here. Just Just warm up a little. You don't want to do a cult. Yeah. Bobb's been in arm wrestling 20 years. He's a multiple world champion. Yeah. And I'm going to arm wrestle. You're a,000 lb [\h__\h] I don't really feel he's going to he's going to get me. You did bicep. I feel in his wrist right now. There's nothing that happen. I'll pull I'll just go over his arm. I would That's what I don't give as much. I want to see how I'll just He's got to warm up that arm's going to crack. I got He's got a lot of calcium in there. Nothing cracks only. He's going to fight with me. I'm holding back. When I went to this morning, you guys were saying something about watching your arm. So, Jim, right? What happened? When they set you up, they're going to set you up like you're going to feel this. I happen to love being in this position. You already know. You're right. Told him they're going to set you up. You're going to be a little strength. He's strong. Yeah. You can feel yourself a little force behind. What you going to feel? You get the [\h__\h] up here. If in a tournament for back pushing, say you see someone like you go, "This guy's got some great biceps, got form." So I say, "You know something? I'm going after his hand first." That would be a move. He's got a very strong hand, too. But what happens, he's going to feel the [\h__\h] hand without the arm. See, what happens is, so pull slowly. Put your hand here. Don't stop cheating. Ready? Stop. Cheating. How am I cheating? I need leverage on your hand. Pull straight back to your nose like like you're doing a hammer curl. Go. Yeah. Can you move him, Jimmy? No. He's like, right. And my move would just I don't want to do it. I don't want to do it. Or if you roll into a hook, roll. They'll roll in. What am I doing now? Pull to your chest. Pull this way. All right. Yeah. It's pretty impressive for a 57y old guy, Jimmy. Are you impressed, Jimmy? Oh, I already figured this out already. That's why we take a guy like this and train. How old How old How old are you? 51. 51. So, he can be he'd be in my class. I just won the world of Nevada. Are you a world champion? Yeah, I won against Ro shoulders. So, he would be in my age group, but not my, you know, I don't know what your weight is. 245. So, no, I was in the the two the 200s. But the um he would be if he wanted to do that, we could train a guy like him that's that age and and it's a cool thing to do instead of go to the gym. If you you got all the tools, then you train. What would you change his about his what would you have learn? Yeah, but he's got everything. He's got all the tools you need, but now you learn what joint and you got you got to work your tenon, you know, heavy tendon strength. A lot of forearm work and stuff. Forearm, it's a whole lifestyle ups, a lot of static holds. We do pull-ups on flat fingers. So, we work this muscle because you can contain a guy by just doing that without using finger pressure. develop. Jimmy, how strong is he? Just give us what he What do he feels like? You want me You want me to touch the Jimmy? Can you put him down? I can't put him down. There's no way. [\h__\h] You're impressed. You're impressed. [\h__\h] sit down. You're always willing to put it on the line. Thanks for watching the Heavy Muscle Show Muscle.com.