Proviron. What the heck does this stuff actually do? Does it do anything? Stay tuned. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements. ments that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RX Television, RXMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. bodybuilding, non-bodybuilding, whatever is on your mind, your questions are here to be answered. Let's get right into the questions. The first two questions on this show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. First question, recently went to an HRT clinic. They prescribed me 120 mg tests per week along with 50 MG Proviron daily split into two doses. What is the purpose of Proviron and is it needed? You know, you know what the funny thing is about about this is, first of all, I I have no awareness that proviron is an Americanmade drug. I I I don't believe it is. And I've never seen it in any hormone replacement clinic protocol because it's not an Americanmade drug. So, I don't even know how this clinic is prescribing it to be honest with you, unless it's one of these like shady, you know, gray market ones that are really not clinics. They just calling themselves a clinic. That's number one right off the bat. Number two, provide theoretically which is mysterolone. We used to use it back in the 90s. We thought it was a an estrogen receptor blocker. That's because Bill Phillips told us it was in his anabolic reference guide. Turns out it's not. Doesn't block estrogen receptors. It's it's more of a supposed to free up uh testosterone, knocking testosterone off the binding protein. So sex hormone binding globbulin is a protein that circulates in the bloodstream and it can bind up testosterone and obviously more testosterone that's bound and less that's free and available to be build use muscle to build muscle is not good. Um when you take anabolic steroids where you take an exogenous source of testosterone free testosterone versus bound doesn't seem to be as big of a deal because you're kind of overriding that by taking the the uh the exogenous testosterone. But um that's theoretically what it does to to be honest with you. I've never seen it work the way it says it's supposed to work. I've seen people take it. I don't see very high free testosterones and I don't see lower sex hormone binding globulin. I don't think it does anything to be honest with you. And personally, and this is just my own personal, you know, belief, I think it competes with antigen with other anabolics for the androgen receptors. Um, and by doing so, because proviron has no anabolic effects, no muscle building effects, it can actually inhibit muscle growth. That's my theory. So, I don't ever include proviron. I don't recommend it. And um I'm shocked that a hormone replacement clinic is actually prescribing. Second question, again, these first two from the Palumbo Experience app. Uh, I'm six weeks out from my show day. Entire body is lean. I have striations on my chest, delts, and triceps. However, my glutes are still soft. What can I do? Um, well, if your glutes are still soft, you're probably not in shape yet. Or or the other option is, and I've seen this happen before, is you don't have enough muscle on your glutes. So, I I've seen guys that are very under muscled and women, too, on their in the glute area, and they get so lean every place else, and they just keep trying to diet more and more and more and get the glutes in. And the problem is that it's not that the that the glute that the the glutes are holding fat. It's just that there's not enough muscle there. So the skin is loose and they think that that loose skin is actually body fat, but it's not. And so what happens is they just keep losing muscle and losing more and they don't and they actually look worse. So without seeing a picture, it's hard for me to tell um what's going on. Now let's assume that you do have enough glute muscle back there and it's not just a glute issue. It could just be that you're you're holding fat because your body is hoarding fat for a reason. Now, in women, a lot of times they hoard fat around their glutes because they're not taking in enough essential fatty acids. And I know that sounds kind of weird, but if you think about it, the body, you know, can measure what it needs, right? So, if you don't take in enough protein, it's protein starved. If you don't take in enough essential fats, the omega-3s and sixes, your body's going to think what? That it doesn't have enough fat. Okay? So, what is it going to do? It's going to hoard fat. In women, it usually hoards it in in the glutes, and men, it usually hoards it around the lower back and waist. Um, however, when men take anabolics, a lot of times, you know, because of high estrogen levels, the body, the male body can hoard some fat in the glutes area as well. So, what you might want to do is make sure you're taking an essential fatty acid supplement with with high amounts of the right types of fats. Something like omega, three pills twice a day. That's that's an insurance policy everyone should take. This way, at least you know you're getting the right amount of fats in your diet because otherwise you don't know and then and then you might run into a problem like this. There's no ch there's no reason to try to assume or try to say, "Oh my god, I hope I get the right essential fats in my diet." Just take the supplement. You don't need that much if you only need three grams of fish oil and and about two to three grams of of evening primrose oil to get your essential fatty acids. Now, you also might want to increase some total fat intake as well. some monounsaturated fats like from olive oil, extra virgin of course, or macadamia nut oil like I sell or avocado oil, okay? Or even avocados themselves because that also can speed the metabolism up a little bit. If you're very fat deprived, sometimes your body will hoard fat even if it's not essential fat. Um, assuming that those aren't the problems and and let's say you correct those problems and you still have some fat there, then maybe just got to suffer a little bit more. You know, sometimes people are just not going low enough in their food. They're not doing enough cardio. Um, there's a lot of variables and that's why having a coach is good because I can analyze all the variables and see how you look and I can make a determination. Is it not enough muscle? Is it not enough essential fats? Is it they're not you're not suffering enough? Maybe you're suffering too much and your body is shut down. And and that's why it once again it's good to have a coach like me who's going to be able to diagnose that issue. This is the type of question we get at the Day Plumbo Experience app on a regular basis and I answer everyone's questions and everyone's answers in an open forum which means that everyone gets to see everyone's questions answers. It's a great learning experience. I also do a Q&A video every single week for the app members. So, it's like an extra Ask Dave TV show just for the app members. Plus, we put up a workout every week. All my protocols are in there. offseason pre-contest cycles, diets, you know, rotation diets, ketogenic diet, all the writings I've ever done for every article I've ever written and all my videos. So, in a very organized way. So, it's a great app. It's a great opportunity to have a nice library of of coaching at your disposal. It's $29 a month. You download it on your Android store, your iTunes store, and it's a great little tool in your back pocket for a very affordable price. I want to thank everyone for all your support. Before we go to the rest of the questions, our friends in Titan Medical Dave might be having quite possibly their biggest sale of the year. 10% off all therapies this week and this week only. Does not include hormones, but all the weight loss, all the recovery, all every therapy they have available on their menu available for 10% off this weekend. there. You should stock up, guys, because um you know, they don't give these these I guess sitewide discounts very often, but for the summer, they normally do it. That's usually when I tell all my friends that go to Titan to stock up. Um I obviously a lot of people ask me, "What do you use from Titan?" Well, I use a lot of stuff, but I I use their BPC-157, TB-500, which are the healing peptides on a regular basis every single day. I use the glutathione injectable every single day. Those are those are my staples. And then I use NAD+ which is good for cognitive function, energy production. As we get older, we don't produce our DNA, excuse me, our mitochondria don't work as well. NAD+ really boosts the mitochondrial output. It's a great supplement. So those are my four staples. And then I mix in stuff like, you know, some of the GH releasing peptides and, you know, depending on what the the copper peptides, you know, I'll go with some of the esoteric ones every once in a while. And then a lot of you guys out there want to use, you know, ever since Nick Walker said Retrotide was the drug that he used to get ready for his New York pro. Everyone's ask me about Retrotide. Everyone wants to take it. You know, every that's like it's like a almost like they have to plug it into their program if they haven't used it. Now, it's not necessary for everyone. If you lose weight, you get in shape fast, not a problem. If you're a cheater on your diet, however, it's great for women. Um, you want might want to try that. I personally like the traapatide which is or teptide which is the mangjaro better than the retrotride which is three things in one whereas the tzapatide or tzepite is two in one but either one or even the original ompic uh is available at titan and you can get 10% off now. So make sure you head over to titanmedicalcenter.com mention again Dave Palumbo RX Muscle and they will hook you up. We go now to our social media question. We do uh I guess give preference now to our YouTube community page. We wanted to boost our just overall engagement in terms of the interactivity that we have with our YouTube community page. So if you want to ask questions for this show, the primary source is now going to be our YouTube community page. Uh question about lipolyze for fat loss. Would you use your lipolyze product for short periods or could you use it year round like with Testalize? Yeah, a lot of people take it year round. They tell me they really enjoy it because it has a slight appetite suppression effect and they don't want to overeat it. It's almost like an herbal GLP-1 agonist and I probably I should re I should remarket it like that because that's really how it works. It had it works on appetite. Now a lot of people don't realize that you know leptin is a is a hormone our brains produce after we eat which makes us feel you know like we don't have to eat. It's called causes satiety which means you feel full. Uh in overweight people they have very high leptin levels and they and they were very shocked to find that. They're like well if their leptin levels are so high why are they overeating so much? Well what happens is leptin sensitivity goes down in these people. So in other words they have the hormone and the body's cranking it out but they the body can't re respond to it. So they're always hungry and they overeat a lot of times. And so you put these a lot of the new the new drug of choices you put them on a GLP-1 agonist. we just talked about like Mjaro or Zepatide um you know retreatide but in reality you can restore herbbally receptor sensitivity by taking lipolyze because some of the ingredients in there actually sensitize leptin receptors. So now the body can respond to the leptin that you are producing already and it gives you a feeling of feeling full after you eat your meals. It doesn't prevent you from eating, but it enables you to go longer between meals without being without being starved. And a lot I It's funny. I was talking to um Ruben uh Glass who is just won the uh he won two shows in one weekend, two pro men's physique shows, and he said he loved the product that it kind of cut off his appetite. And so it works, and it's I've been selling it for years, and I made it really for myself when I was dieting. That's that's the truth of the matter. and it also wastes calories. So, it's a great it's a great product that you can use year round, especially if if you have an appetite issue where you're overeating all the time. Now, if you're if you're a person that is trying to gain weight and you might not want to suppress your appetite year round, but for a lot of people, they want to stay lean and they don't want to overeat between meals, this is a really good version. There's no stimulants in there. It's not going to raise your heart rate. It's not going to raise your blood pressure. It's not going to raise anxiety levels. It's a very tolerable, you know, supplement that can actually act as kind of an anti-aging supplement in addition to a fat loss product. Uh question about um postshow growth. You've talked a lot about the positive booth boost in growth postcontest. You've also discussed coming off cycle post contest, especially if you've been cycling all year. Would you recommend staying on cycle for maybe a month post contest to capitalize on the rebound? You know, you would think logically that I'm going to get a rebound. I might as well stay on a lot of drugs, right, and grow. But it it's actually the wrong way to think about this. You have so much drugs in your system already, okay, that those drugs will stay there for three to four weeks after you stop them. So, if you compete today and stop taking your shots today, for four weeks after that, you're going to have a lot of hormone in your system. And when you stop taking your injections, you reduce the load on your liver and your body. And what happens is your appetite opens up tremendously because drugs blunt your appetite a little bit because they are a little toxic on your body. When you're a little toxic, you're not as hungry. Now, I know you're hungry. you're gonna be hungry because you're getting off a diet. But I can't even tell you how hungry you will be when you stop the drugs. So, I like to just stop them, start HCG immediately, then do your clomin after two weeks and and do your start your off seasonason because now you're cleaning out and you're rebounding and you're growing. So, for four weeks, you're going to grow no matter what. Then then the next four weeks, you know, you're going to be low and and you'll just maintain and then you'll start your cycle again. So, now you're cleaned out. you're you're you're almost ready to go on on a cycle again and you made some amazing gains for those four weeks. So, yes, don't I I don't believe in staying on unless you've been on a very short cycle prior to that, but most guys have been on for eight months prior to this. Get off, start the cleanout process. You're still going to rebound and you're still going to grow. It's impossible not to. As long as you're eating good quality foods, you're not missing meals. And you're going to say to me, Dave, you are 100% right. I can't believe it. I grew just as much as if I would have stayed on cycle and I didn't feel all lethargic. I didn't feel like all bloated because you, you know, you're gonna lose a lot of water retention because you're off cycle. And my appetite was insane. And that's the key. Question about uh Lumen. Um not sure if you've spoken about this before, but what are your thoughts on lumen? It claims to be able to determine if you're currently burning carbs or fat by breathing into it. Your thoughts? Do you think any practical use for bodybuilders? You know, I don't like these gimmicky type of of devices because it's like it's like going for get your body fat measured by these uh these these new machines that do impedance and stuff like that and you step on a scale and it weighs you and it's a mathematical formula and they're never right for bodybuilders. It's like it's like going for an echo cardiogram as a bodybuilder. You do get some useful information, but it it really is not that applicable because we're like we're like aliens, okay? Our bodies don't act like a normal person. And these these medical devices that are used to measure stuff are are are used for people that are normal, okay? Don't that are not like super athletes. And that's why they never they're never accurate for bodybuilders. We know what works. High protein, moderate fat, and just enough carbs to fuel your body. And for some people, that's a lot of carbs. And some people it's at the lower amount of carbs. Okay, that's what works. I don't know why we're so confused by the fact that what builds muscle. Protein builds muscle. A certain amount of essential fats are necessary also for the muscle building process. And carbs are a fuel source. It's so easy. I don't understand why people make this so complicated and why they can't figure this out and why they think they have to do these these esoteric, you know, testing mo protocols and and and to determine what, you know, they need to do. Trial and error will tell you if you're a good carb burner or a bad carb burner. Trial and error will tell you how much protein you need. It it it's not brain surgery we're doing here. If you've been doing bodybuilding for five years and you still don't know what to eat, then then you're really not doing your job diligently. you're not observing what's going on and you probably need a coach to to to tell you what the freak to do because you obviously don't have good insight into your own body. So, I'm not a big advocate of that as you can see. Question about white fish, white fish pre-contest specifically and that to thin the skin. Is this fact or fiction taking white fish pre-contest to thin the skin? Well, what what do you define thinning the skin by? That's I think what you have to try to define for yourself. Thin skin means I mean people say I have thin skin, right? That means I have very low body fat on my on my um will fish make your body fat lower than than eating meat? Well, well fish has got a lot less calories in it, right? Because it's it's high in protein but it's very low in white fish is very low in fat and obviously devoid of carbs. So if you switch from eating chicken and beef to eating the same amount of fish, you you have to lose weight, right? I mean, you have to lose some body fat because you're eating less calories. I mean, it's less carbs and it's le probably red meat has very low carb. It's less fat. Okay? So, you're lowering your fat intake by going to a white a white fish. What I do is I have days where I give guys protein and fat, you know, predominantly with virtually no carbs. So, those would be, you know, the salmon and and and the red meat meals and chicken meals and whole eggs does have a lot of fat in them. And then I go to days where I'm giving them carbs. On those days, I go to leaner source of protein like white fishes and, you know, very lean chicken breast, egg whites. So, I'm not giving them, they're not getting the fats, okay, from the protein sources, and I'm replacing those fats with carbs. So, if you're, you know, behind schedule or you're not losing fast enough and you're eating a lot of chicken mostly and and red meat, switching to to a white fish, you know, which is a leaner fish, whereas versus a a fattier fish would be like salmon, swordfish, you know, sea bass, those fishes have much more fat. If you go to a white fish, you're going to lose weight faster, right? Because you you're eating less fat and that's that's, you know, which is means less calories. So, that just is logical. question about deca. Uh I received deca from a pharmacy. It's the real deal. Uh 250 ml per week along with my 400 ml test. Uh I've been at least on it for 7 weeks. I haven't seen a lot of gains working out hard. Any suggestions? Should I increase both? And it says both in a bollocks. I I guess that was testosterone. Yeah. No, no, no, no. Literally, it's the phrase bollock. So I think that is the spell whatever auto correct must have done that. I was also thinking of adding once a week master. Yeah. You know it depends what you're trying to accomplish. Okay. Assuming that you're eating enough protein, okay, in your diet, which could be a problem. Assuming you're training hard enough, you know, full range of motion, doing the right things. Let's assume you're doing that right, but you're not growing anymore. You might have hit a plateau. Um, and you want to increase your cycle so that you can grow more. Obviously, you're not doing HRT. You're doing a cycle. For as far as cycle dosages go, you're pretty low. So, I would like to see you boost testosterone to 800 milligrams a week. I'd like to see you you get that Decker up to at least four or 500 milligrams a week. So, double that as well. And I think you'll start to see more gains. So if you double both the testoster I think you'll start growing again because then now you're hitting effective dosages that are just because what you what this person's really taking is they're taking a little bit more than HRT dosages. So it's not HRT but it's really not a potent cycle. So if you're going to do a potent cycle then double the dosages and I think that you'll be fine. If if that's not something you want to do and you want to stay in in in the more moderate dosage range you might have tapped yourself out. But what I would at least do in this situation is I would say on the test I switch the deca for the Masteron and do you know 300 milligrams or 400 milligrams a week of the Masteron in place of the DECA and see how you do. But if that's not if the goal is to put on, you know, a lot of size, you really need to increase the the dosage of testosterone. Um, is it detrimental or beneficial to take T3 if having hypothyroidism and taking synthroidid synthroidid in order to get lean? I mean, you don't have to take it. Look, I take, you know, T4, right, which is synth, synthroidid essentially, or generic T4. I don't even know what I take. I don't think I take the name, but I take T4 because I don't have a thyroid gland anymore. My body converts what it needs to T3. So it's essentially I've restored my body to what it would naturally be doing. If I was going to diet now and I needed to lose a lot of body fat and I was let's say I wanted to take fluterol and then I was thinking about taking T3 that would be separate. So in other words I could take T3 on top of what I'm doing. I wouldn't stop my T4 that I take every morning. But obviously the T3 would override a lot of what I'm doing because the reason we take T3 is because if you take more T4, your body just won't convert it to T3. It only converts what it needs. When you take T3, you're actually taking the active thyroid hormone. So now you're increasing, you know, your metabolic rate. So, as a person on replacement like this person is, you can take T3 and let's say you get up to 75 micrograms per day on top of your normal whatever your T4 dosages and then when you go off the the great advantage is when you stop the thyroid, you can just stop it cold turkey because you're already taking T4, you don't have to worry about your body producing it and then your body will once again start converting the T4 to T3 at whatever rate it needs to. So, yes, you can take T3, just don't stop taking your hormone replacement, T4. Um, 3 weeks out from a show, at what point would you implement temoxifen or arimidex to quote crush estrogen? And in your opinion, which one is better? First of all, I would never crush estrogen at all. Okay. You don't want estrogen going to zero because you're not going to you're going to get flat because you need a little bit of estrogen to sensitize those androgen receptors and you're going to feel terrible. You're going to feel like you have no sex drive. So, you never want to crush estrogen. But, if you're not if you're not if you're on a full-blown cycle and you're not taking any aromatase inhibited, your estrogen is probably way too high already. So, I I usually have guys on a half a milligram of arimidex daily during their contest prep. And then if I think they need it because I they look a little estrogenic, I might increase it to one milligram a day uh the last four weeks. I don't the only time I ever use Nulvadex, I don't really like it because it blocks IGF-1 release. The only time I use Nulex would be uh if the person has really bad gyno and uh you know there's just there's no chance to take it out prior to the show and I want to reduce the size of the stuff I might put them on in addition to the arimistics I might put them on some Nullex because Nulex blocks the receptors essentially and that's 10 milligrams twice a day. So, you know, once again, I opt for the aromatase inhibitor. If you don't like aridex, you can use aromomasin or famra. That's fine. But that's pretty standard protocol. I wouldn't start taking like two milligrams a day of arrivex thinking that I'm going to lower my estrogen to zero because just not a good idea. Um, question about wait, did we just I just asked about Oh, no, I didn't ask this question about Clomid. um like all over the place right now. What do you think about Clomid used for only boosting testosterone if you are within normal levels? Yeah, I don't I don't think Clomid inhibits estrogen receptors. So like it it theoretically goes to the brain with the hypothalamuses. It blocks the estrogen receptor there and then uh by blocking estrogen receptors that increases the release of gonatotropic releasing hormone from the hypothalamus which then stimulates the pituitary to release more FSH and LH which then stimulates the testicles to produce more testosterone. That's theoretically how it works. Okay. In normal people who just add Clomid, I don't really see a a big boost in testosterone production. I don't know why, but I just don't. It doesn't work that well. I give it to people who are trying to have babies. It's on my babym making protocol because it does seem to kickstart that whole hypothalamus, pituitary, testicular axis, which is what we want because we want sperm production obviously down there too. But I don't really see it as being that valuable as just a as a natural or as a drug induced testosterone stimulation. If you want to stimulate testosterone production from your testicles, take HCG. that directly stimulates testosterone production. You you'll see it right away and you'll feel it right away. Uh best ways to eliminate rosacea and restore gut health. You know, uh number one would be taking a good daily fiber supplement every day like fiberiz. I'm going to highly recommend that because that's I know that's the best one on the market. And in doing so, what you're doing in terms of for gut health, you know, we know what it does, you know, in terms of strengthening the colon. We know it reduces cholesterol, LDL cholesterol. We know it does low can lower blood sugar by limiting the liver's output of glucose. But what it does is it feeds the gut bacteria. The gut bacteria that are in there, especially if they're weak and they're not really thriving, they need a food source. Okay? So when you give them a a good quality fiber supplement that's high in soluble fiber, they use the soluble fiber as food and they ferment it and they thrive on that. It's like you're giving them it's like taking fish food and throwing in your fish tank. The fish eat it, the fish grow and they and they and they thrive. So you got to feed these gut bacteria. If you if your diet is devoid of fiber, okay? There's nothing for these things to eat. They're going to die off. And that's why a lot of people when they eat horrible processed foods all the time, they get leaky gut because they what happen leaky gut is basically the the instead of having a nice layer of this bacteria coating your entire internal organs internal intestinal tract, you have nothing. You where you have you have gaps in in in in the coverage and then that's what the leaky gut is. It's like having like a like a leak in your uh in your sink or something like that. And these pathogens can now get into the into the bloodstream and cause all kinds of, you know, allergic type reactions and and brain fog and stuff like that. So to restore the gut bacteria and get them to grow and and cover up those holes, you got to feed them. The best way to feed them is with a soluble fiber or something. The second thing you might want to do is you might have destroyed so much of your gut bacteria that you need to recede it. In other words, you need to put more in there. So in that case, you would take a probiotic supplement. Um, I I highly recommend uh Natron, n-nen.com. Natron.com sells some really great stuff. I use a product called Bifido Factor. I get the powder. I I put it right into my fiberiz shake. I put like a half a teaspoon in there. And there's another one called um there's Bifido Factor and Megadophilus is the other one. And one is really more focused on the small intestine, one is more focused on the large intestine. And you can kind of alternate dayto day with each one. and do a half a teaspoon of one one day, half a teaspoon the day the other day. And you can do that for like two, three weeks if you need to to restore the gut bacteria, but do it in your fiberiz shake so that you're feeding these gut bacteria as you're putting them back into your colon. Once you do that, I notice after like a couple days, but you know, give yourself a week or two, you're going to feel a million times better. I promise you that. And then just save the stuff. You put it in your refrigerator, the the probiotics, you just leave it there. And if you ever have another problem, if you take some antibiotics or something doesn't feel right in your gut, you can do another little mini, you know, two, three week cycle of the stuff, but stay on the fiber all the time. And I will promise you once you stay on that, you'll never want to ever come off it. And you can talk to people that have been taking I know guys that have been taking it for 12, 13 years since I've come out with it and they never stopped. So once again, it's a two-tiered combination of the probiotic with the food source for the bacteria, which is soluble fiber. We'll finish off with a philosophical one. Seems like bodies are either very powerful with fast twitch muscle and others are more enduranceoriented with slow twitch muscles. Should slow twitch people waste time strength training and stick more with sets and lighter weights? slow twitchers don't seem to put on a lot of size or gain a lot of strength. So, why waste time trying to strength train and stick to slow twitch training? Your thoughts? Well, we we all have both fibers in our body. That's that's for sure. And we know that we can actually increase the population of of the fiber type that you're using. So, when I was an endurance runner, and and to tell you the truth, I don't know what I'm what I'm hiring. I might be equal. I don't know. I was a pretty good endurance runner. Okay. Um, I was, you know, I was able to win races in a division three college, which I would say is is not easy. I certainly wasn't going to the Olympics in these events. I wasn't at that level. But then again, I never used performance-enhancing drugs as a as an endurance athlete. I didn't even know about them. So, I don't know how far I could have gone in that in that realm. Okay? Plus, I didn't even know what I was doing. I was I wasn't really eating or taking the right supplements. So, I don't know how far I could have gone in that. But, I was obviously better than the average guy, right? And I was I was I did very well at a high level. Then I switched to bodybuilding, which you would assume I'm not going to do well at, right? Because I look skinny, you know, and I was always very on the very thin side, lean side, but very thin side. And I started putting I put a lot of size on naturally. I got up to about 215, hit a plateau. I took drugs and the second I put any drugs into my body, I found I was a hyper respponder. I started growing. Okay? Not not at a ridiculous rate, but at a consistent rate. Okay? And you saw how big I got, right? I got up to 300, you know, 20 pounds and I was one of the biggest guys, you know, at the time. So, I was able to do both very well, which tells me that the body is flexible. In other words, it can change fiber types depending on what you're doing with the with with the muscle. You know, if I'm running endurance, then it's gonna it's gonna help the endurance muscles, the slow twitch fibers get better, and I'm going to increase nuclei, which are going to increase oxidation, you know, potential and fatty acid oxidation ability and the ability for my body to to to get better and better and better. Likewise, if I switch over to a strength sport where I'm doing heavy movements for smaller reps with big rest periods, now I'm going to really start championing those fast excuse the fast twitch fibers that are going to get bigger and enlarge in size. So, the body has this ability to go both ways. And it's the same thing with the heart. When I was running, I had a heart rate of like 38 beats a minute. My heart got bigger in size, but the chambers were big and stretched out so that I can accommodate more blood. My cardiac output was probably ridiculous. I never had it measured, but it probably was. Then, as a bodybuilder, your heart changes. It gets thicker because it's got to eject the blood faster, but the chamber size gets smaller as the heart gets thicker in size. So, now they'll tell me my cardiac output is less, but really it's less, but I'm delivering the blood faster. So, that's that's in both cases, I have an athletic heart. So the body has that ability to do both. So I always tell people don't don't worry about what people think you should do or what sport people think you should go into. Okay? Do what you love because what you love will enable you to give a 100% effort to it. If you don't really like what you're doing, even though you might theoretically be good at it because that's your body type, you're never going to give it 100%. You're gonna you're gonna you're gonna like I was a very good soccer player, but if I would have practiced soccer the way I practiced in running and bodybuilding, I would have been, you know, probably in the World Cup, but I it it didn't interest me that much. I was good at it, but I like that that that really got me going, but it didn't interest me enough to give it a 100%. And my body was built for soccer. I had good legs, you know, I was fast. I had explosive speed, but it wasn't something that that turned me on. So, I had to find something that I liked in order to give a 100% of my effort to it. And that's what you guys should do. Don't worry about where you should direct your body. Do what you love. That's going to do it for this episode of Asia Reminder. Right now on the channel, all new episode of After Hours Heavy Muscle Radio, we have content from this past weekend's Dubai Pro. And of course, over the course of this week, we're going to be putting out content from the Wack Pack weekend in Alabama as well. uh wacky situation right now with the liver king. Um he had his beef with Joe Rogan and uh getting arrested for making threats to Joe Rogan. Anyway, Dave made a v reaction video to that. We might actually be making a second reaction video to that by the time this video goes up. So, in any case, loads of new content right now on the channel. Check it out if you haven't already done so. Subscribe below, hit the notification bell so you won't miss any of what we have coming up in terms of content coverage, in terms of our future shows, and then of course on reactions to some of the weirdest things going on in social media and with some of the social media influencers that we love to keep tabs on. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadi Farooqi. We'll see you next time.