Why is the word insulin in the hormone insulin like growth factor one? Does it have insulin like effects? Is it the same as insulin? Stay tuned. I'm going to tell you about it. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RX Television, RXMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Whatever is on your mind, be it bodybuilding, non-Bodybuilding, diet, training, supplementation, anything and everything is all on the table, this is your weekly forum to ask whatever it is to Dave and we will have you covered. We're going to go right into the questions. The first two questions on this show, of course, from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. First question, when using TB-500 and BBC 157, can you inject them in the stomach or do you have to inject them near the site of the injury? You could really inject them any place. It doesn't really matter. It's going to get into your body. Um, it seems like when you put it near the injury, it has a higher concentration that hits that area first. So you might get I think you get some kind of an initial like advantage, but then what happens is it enters the bloodstream and it gets watered down. So it's like kind of just a real initial surge. So like if if you if you're worried like let's say you got surgery, you don't want to inject anything into that area because you don't get an infection, you can absolutely just pop it in your shoulder and it's going to get into your bloodstream and do its job. Um, but you know, if that's not if there's no issue with like an incision or something with getting infected, you can certainly just pop lift the skin right over where it is. I even do it in my ankle, like right above my ankle. There's a million little veins and arteries in there and and nerves, and I just lift up the skin and I put it right under there because it really helps. So, that's something that you can absolutely do with both of the you and you can put the TB-500 and the BPC in the same syringe. So, you don't even need to do two separate syringes if you don't want to. Now, someone told me a really interesting, you know, observation they made about the TB-500 that because I I didn't know I felt like it wasn't as potent as the BPC. And they said the problem with the TB-500 is that it loses once you mix it, it loses its potency after about a week or two pretty quickly, whereas the the BPC7 will last months once it's mixed. So the the the I guess the the strategy might be to use it quicker and or I'm talking to our friends at Titan Medical Center about putting it in smaller vials rather than 15 milligram vials. We'll put it in like two or three milligram vials so you can use it like almost single serving or at least you know a couple days in a row and then you go to the next one. I think that would be a better way to do it especially if it does have a shorter halflife once mixed. And uh speaking of Titan Medical Center, we have a they have a sale this week only 10% off all their growth factors. So that's long R3 IGF-1 the GH releasing peptides. So they're going to be giving 10% off this week. Just mention RX Muscle Dave Palumbo and they're going to give you that great discount and that's at titanmedcenter.com. So check out Titan Medical Center again. Mention Dave Palumbo RX Muscle and they will hook you up. Again, we go to the second question. these first two from the day Palumbo experience app. Uh IGF LR3 is it insulin like does it mean that it has the same benefits as insulin shuttling nutrients when used postworkout? The reason why you know IGF-1's job really is you know whether it's released in response to taking a growth hormone injection or you're injecting it directly yourself. It binds to IGF-1 receptors. Now where are the most IGF-1 receptors? Well on damaged tissue. So when you go to the gym and you you work out your pecs, you know, and you break down some pec muscle, uh those muscles send out like IGF-1 receptors. They increase the number of IGF-1 receptors on the cell membrane, which is basically it's like a SOS. Hey, come over here, guys. We need some help. And then the IGF-1 will go to that area, help with the repair, uh activate satellite cells, which are now known as stem cells, to form new muscle fibers and and to reinforce that muscle that was there. Um, but something that's interesting about the IGF-1 molecule is that it it has a very similar configuration to insulin. So, it can actually bind to the insulin receptor, too. And what happens when you bind to you bind a hormone to the insulin receptor? It shuttles nutrients into the cells, specifically glucose, carbs. So, when you take IGF-1, it could lower your blood sugar a little bit because some of that IGF-1 binds to the insulin receptors and drives nutrients, sugar in your blood into the cells. And if you don't have a lot in there, and maybe because it's right after you trained, you could get a little low blood sugar. So, it's having an insulin-like effect. The good thing about IGF-1 is it doesn't store glucose as fat. So, it doesn't matter, you know, if if you're carbloated already, it's not going to make you fat. Like like for instance, if you took insulin and you and you already had full glycogen stores, some of that glucose then would go into fat storage. That doesn't happen with with IGF-1. Uh it's kind of like just like a side effect of what IGF-1 does. It has that insulin insulin like effect and that's why I call it insulin like growth factor. It really could just be called growth factor one, you know, which is, you know, in response to GH injection or GH release, growth factor one is released. But they call it insulin like growth act because it could also have that insulin like effect by binding to the insulin receptor. A matter of fact, they actually speculated they were trying to say, I wonder if diabetics can actually use IGF-1 instead of insulin to lower blood sugars and it would prevent them from getting fat. They threw that out there for for a while, which just goes to tell you that probably IGF-1 costs no more to make than insulin does. But not a lot of people use IGF-1, so they charge a lot more for it. But it's probably the same exact process to make insulin. And look how cheap that you go to Walmart for 25 bucks and get a 10 cc bottle of insulin. But yes, that's why it's called insulin mic growth factor. Let's take questions from our social media platforms, our YouTube comm community community page, Instagram, Facebook, etc., etc. Uh question about potassium. What is your thought on the potassium salt, potassium chloride, and mixing daily 6G normal salt which equals 24 mg of sodium. uh as the sodium potassium rate is 1 to three. So I'm getting 1500 mg potassium from food and 1500 mg from the potassium salt. After I introduced it, I noticed better pumps, an increase in force and some movements and I got rid of some of the muscle cramps, especially after leg days. You know, if I if I was a betting man, I would bet that the cramps went away and the fullness came because you added sodium, too. So you're doing sodium and potassium salts. So I I I I don't believe that the average person is is ever potassium depleted. The average person or you or the person who works out unless you're throwing up which causes a loss of potassium or you're taking a potassium losing diuretic like Lasix. Okay? Potassium is found inside the cells. Okay? It doesn't it's not outside the cells. Sodium, it can be removed and and and absorbed very easily and very rapidly because it's found outside the cells. Once potassium is inside the cell, it doesn't really leave the cell unless, like I said, you're taking a potassium losing diuretic or you're you're sick and you're throwing up because when you vomit, you lose a lot of potassium. Aside from that, usually you're never low on potassium. Okay? Taking extra potassium can be a problem because it throws off the balance internally of of sodium potassium. Even though you're taking equal sodium in with it, it doesn't matter because the sodium gets pumped out and then you got all this extra potassium in in your bloodstream and then that wants to go inside the cells which the cells don't want it and it can cause problems. I mean, when they put animals to to sleep, they give them a lethal injection of potassium because if you put too much potassium outside the cells, the membrane potential changes and you can actually stop your heart from beating. So, you don't want to do that. Now, I don't think you're gonna that's going to happen from taking in some potassium salt, but I bet you if you just did the sodium that you're doing instead and left the potassium out, you would feel exactly the same because your body would equilibrate what it needs. A lot of people, and I talked to a lot of, you know, competitors on a regular basis. I have a million clients. A lot of people don't eat salt in their diet. And it's not because they don't like it's some of them it's because they don't like it. Some of them think that they shouldn't eat it when they're dieting because they think they're going to lose fat faster, which is the stupidest thing of all time because salt intake has nothing to do with fat loss. It might have something to do with fluid retention. But you want to take in a lot of salt so that you're desensitized and you give your body the right amount that it needs because if you're low in sodium, you're pumps will definitely be affected. You're going to feel a little dehydrated in the brain which is going to give you a little brain fog, possibly a headache, okay? especially while dieting on low carbs because when you're eating low carbs, it's hard to retain fluids. Sodium helps you retain the right amount of fluids to stay well hydrated. So, my suggestion, don't do the potassium, do the sodium. If you don't eat sodium on a regular basis, like I salt the crap out of all my foods anyway because I just like the way it tastes according to my DNA. I don't taste salt the way the rest of people do. I I I that's why I eat more probably. But if you don't if you're not one of these salters or or soy sauce guys, then you're going to have to add salt to your, you know, whether you put it in your shakes or add it on your food, whatever you do, you need sodium. The potassium, not so much. Question about Clen and taking Clen while being off. Um, while being off cycle and cleaning out, can you take Clen during this period to maintain strength and keep body fat down? Will this have a negative impact on androgen receptor sensitivity? Somebody commented below and this is kind of what I wanted to if you want to add on to that. If you're on if you take Clen while being off, are you truly off? I if you let me let me preface this. If you go off cycle and you take a little bit of clenbuterol and I wouldn't take more than 20 micrograms twice a day. It has an anti catabolic effect. So, it can definitely keep you a little bit more anabolic. It definitely can keep you a little leaner and it'll definitely keep you a little stronger in the gym because clen does make you stronger. There's no doubt about that because it increases the contractility of the muscle. I don't have a problem with that and it's not going to affect your androgen receptors ability to regenerate themselves. So, it's not it's not it's not competing with that because it's not an androgen. However, if you just got off a contest prep, okay, and you were taking cluterol for 16 weeks, you can't go off and then continue to take cluterol. You want to give the the beta receptors a chance to regenerate. However, if you were like on a offseason cycle and you went off and you haven't taken Clen for a year or six months or whatever the case may be, then you can probably easily do two, you know, 20 micrograms twice a day of clenbuterol. If that's something that that that worries you and you and you want to have a little bit of extra something on board, that's fine. But don't do it if you just came off a contest prep. You want to let those those beta receptors regenerate themselves so that when you do use clenigan, it's very effective. You know, you can't stay on clenbuterol all the time. it's it's it's just not going to work. I like to save it exclusively from PE when people compete on stage, but if you're a guy or a woman who's in the offseason and you know, you're really not planning on competing anytime soon, it's not a big deal. I used to do it when I was um when I first started cycling, you know, because I wasn't using really strong compounds and I would I wanted to try some climbutrol. wasn't competing at the time and and people thought I was on more gear when I was on roll and off cycle than when I was actually on cycle because I you get a lot harder on it and obviously I don't really hold a lot of water anyway so it was making me look really lean but yeah try to stay away from the clan if you came off a contest cycle question about free testosterone versus total testosterone your opinion how crucial uh is free testosterone versus total I'm over 50 and my uh my endocrine doctor says my low free and average to sometimes low total is normal for my age. Yeah. If your to if you're natural, okay, if you're not taking any hormone replacement and your total testosterone is is in the normal range and you feel good, then don't worry about it. If your total is is normal, okay, but your free is low and you feel crappy and the doctor says you don't need replacement because your your your testosterone is 600, you're fine, but you feel terrible. That means that you're not freeing up enough testosterone. Now, if you take exogenous testosterone, meaning you inject it because you're on replacement, even if you take, let's say, 100 milligrams a week of testosterone and your total is high, okay? Let's say it goes up to 800, okay? 900, but your to but your free is low, okay? And you feel good, don't worry about it, okay? Because when you're on exogenous testosterone, the free testosterone is kind of a percentage of what you're taking. you're taking a lot more than your body would normally produce. So that the the free doesn't really matter as much. So I guess what I'm saying is when you're on replacement or you're on a cycle, free testosterone is is is kind of meaningless. It's only meaningful when you're not on any drugs, okay? Because then you want to free up more of your natural testosterone. When you're taking exogenous, you're getting what's called a pharmacological effect even when you're on replacement dosages. So the free is not really as accurate as it should be. Same thing with sex hormone binding globulin. Okay, theoretically the higher it is supposedly the less you'll grow, right? Because you want less bound, more free. So it it's only really relevant when you're natural, okay? Or when you're not taking any hormone replacement. As soon as you start pumping some testosterone into your body, I don't even look at sex hormone binding globulin or free testosterone anymore. I don't think it's even relevant once because of the overriding effect of the hormone replacement because once again, you're now you're getting a different effect. I tell people this all the time. When I was when I was off for seven years having my kids, my levels were up to even 600 at some point naturally, but I but I didn't have the the strength in the gym. I didn't have the um the muscle building capacity. My sex drive was was okay, but when I took I'm on 80 milligrams a week. When I take 80 milligrams, my testosterone goes up to like 850. I It's a whole different world. I'm only 200 points higher on on the total testosterone, but I'm growing better. I'm super strong in the gym. So, there's definitely a a pharmacological effect of testosterone when you're taking an exogenous source of replacement versus natural. Uh, question about your your contest career, your preps. Um, worst, most grueling contest prep of all time. explain what it was like in terms of your diet, your training, you at your absolute most challenging time during your worst prep. I think everyone would agree with this. The first prep is always the worst, assuming you do it right. You know, some people don't really diet that hard, but I I was all natural. I was 100 I got had got myself up to like about 190 pounds or something like that naturally. I remember I was like 138 pounds running eight months earlier. And I did my first show. I was a middleweight. I would got down to 168. It was the most torturous diet of my life. Uh Vinnie Carvelli, this guy from the gym, I don't know if he watches the show or not. I run into every once in a while. He did my first diet for me. And he he didn't, you know, if he said jump, I jumped. If I asked and if he said jump higher, I jumped higher. It was one of those deals. I was starving to He had me doing like stair master and stuff like that. That was like the thing he used to do back in the day. And it was only like 20 minutes, but I wanted to die. I thought that that I said I will never ever do another show again. This will it never happened. There's no human being should feel this terrible because you know what it was? I didn't know what to expect. And I probably dieted way harder than I needed to. But it was a really good experience because it taught me that I can endure anything. I said, "If I can do this, I can do anything." It was so hard. And he said, "Don't worry about Don't worry." He goes, "Two weeks after the show's over and you're eating again, you'll you'll you'll want to do it again." I said, "Vinnie, you have no clue. I will never do this again." And of course, he was right. You know, and I and I've talked to a lot of people who've gone through that. That first prep is always the most difficult because you just don't know what to expect. And, you know, I was a kid coming off out of high school, you know, I was well, I was probably like, this is my third year of college. So, you know, I was still relatively young. I had never done anything that extreme. You know, I was a runner, which was extreme, but this was just like the most brutal thing that I had ever endured. Getting your body fat down to like, you know, single digits, you know, and for me, I was probably 2%, you know, at that point, was just unbearable. And I think it's good for the soul to go through that at least once in your life, even if you don't continue doing it anymore. And it wasn't that I was I remember I was on no drugs. I was, you know, eating the typical 80 late 80s bodybuilding diet, which was high protein, you know, pretty much low fat, you know, very low carbs at this point because I was trying he was trying to get me shredded and it was only I only did like a six week diet with him. So, it was brutal and, you know, and and I was working at the gym and so I was everyone was eating at the gym all the time and I was sitting there eating my little meals that that lasted, you know, about 10 minutes they made me feel good for. So, I think that most people would agree the first prep is usually the hardest. Couple of weeks ago, you did a video, sort of a response video to comments made by Dorian Yates. Well, you may have another chance to do so here now. Ron Harris did an interview with Dorian. In the interview, Dorian said that the lack of conditioning is caused by guys trying to come in too big. He said if you were training any of the top guys today, he would bring them in 10 to 15 pounds lighter. Do you agree that guys are chasing size at the cost and conditioning? And would you agree with Dorian's, you know, proceed methodology? Yeah, I I think Dorian is definitely on something. Like I said, n 99% of the time I usually agree with Dorian. That one instance I didn't because, you know, he was talking about something that he didn't really have that much knowledge on, but he is 100% right. I think the a lot of these guys are chasing size. They're they're so worried about fullness and and that they don't get themselves lean enough before they start filling up. I don't know if they need to be 15 pounds lighter, but they probably need to be about, you know, seven to eight pounds lighter, a lot of these guys, and they would look that much better because you you ever see, look at when Hottie came into the Arnold two years ago, and he was just shrink wrapped. No one mentioned his weight. I guarantee his weight was the lightest it's ever been, but he looked ridiculous. And that won him the show. It might have been the best look he ever had. And no one was talking about his weight because it didn't matter. And that's what Dorian's trying to say. It doesn't matter what you weigh on stage. It's what you look like you weigh on stage. And when you come in, look at what Dererick looked like at the Arnold when he was shrink wrapped. Never heard a single mention of what he weighed because it doesn't matter because he was because he was he was inside out shrink wrapped. And that's what win shows. And if Samson came in like that, I don't he'd probably win, you know, for another five, six years in a row because he's got the size. He's got to come in with that shrink wrap conditioning. And if he does, he's super dangerous. And I think that that's what Dorian's referring to and I agree with him. Don't think it's 15 pounds, but I think for a lot of these guys it's probably in the seven to eight pound range. You've answered this question before. Uh you haven't been asked this in quite some time, but you know, right now Nick Walker uh at the forefront of the bodybuilding conversation, the narrow second place finish at Pittsburgh, then win the New York Pro and you know, taking a lot of the headlines and a lot of the bodybuilding conversation. So this question comes up again. Are Nick Walker's varicose veins dangerous? But now he adds to this because of his peed usage along with getting extremely lean and dehydrated for a show. I think you guys have to understand the superficial veins. Those are the veins that you see on the surface like all the veins on my arms. Those are really not like when they get clogged or if they got clotted up for instance, it doesn't really matter because you have so much c collateral circulation around them. meaning there's other veins that that are draining those those body parts. The varicose veins, what it is is that the valves in the veins have collapsed and he probably has just genetically faulty valves. I bet you his his mother or his father probably has the same thing. And so what happens is the blood instead of the valve preventing the blood from going backwards because there's very low pressure in in the veins the pressure in the blood vessels in the arteries because the left ventricles pumping blood and the arteries have high uh pressure so that it pushes the blood through. When by the time the blood gets to the veins to return to the heart there's no pressure. So the val the veins have valves and the valves prevent backflow. But if the valves fail then the blood can go backwards. So, it kind of just stagnates and sits in there. Um, it could cause little clots in that area. It's possible, but it's not going to be life-threatening or anything like that because they kind of just it just doesn't it doesn't do anything. Doesn't go anywhere. Doesn't do anything. So, he's not in health. His health is not in jeopardy. What's in jeopardy is it just doesn't look good. So, I mean, there are options. You can get those veins removed. You know, it's probably not a fun surgery. The little spider veins they inject with saline and those shrink up. But, he doesn't have little spider veins. He has big veins. he would actually have to have surgery to remove those and I don't know if I would recommend doing it. To me, it doesn't bother me. Okay. It just, you know, Dlet had them across his chest. I think it's kind of freaky looking. It does not bother me one bit. It doesn't distract from his muscle. It doesn't take away from his conditioning. I know Gpari, I I just interviewed him. He he didn't like the way it looked. And there are people who don't like it, but I I don't think it's a big deal to be honest with you. Um they're not like like grotesque or anything like that, like where they're blue and stuff like that. They're they just look like very squiggly veins. Uh I would tell him don't touch him. If later after he's done competing he might want to get him taken out. That's that's something he can do. I wouldn't touch him right now. And I think that people are making way too big of a deal of it. Take one more question. Uh I've always known Mastron to be as a pre-contest compound, but hear a lot of people talking recently about using it offseason during their building phase. What do you think? I can't see it being better than EQ and Deca. I like EQ and Deca better 100%. I like trembolone better off seasons. Some people can't do trembolone. They just they get wacky crazy or bothers their you know digestion uh could raise their blood pressure. So some people that's out for them. Okay. So it's like well what do you switch? And then other people say well I can't use Deca because it kills my sex drive. So now you're down to equipoise. I mean what else are you going to use? So for people like that, I usually do I'll I'll go back and forth between test and EQ and then test and master offseason and it works fine. Um you know like I said it's it's strong. You know we'll do 200 milligrams you know uh three times a week which you know brings up to 600 milligrams is a nice dose of mastron to do probably comparable to doing you know like I don't know if it's comparable to deck or echo boys but it's close and at least it doesn't have the side effects of the of the trend balloon. Like I said, a lot of guys, especially guys in their 50s, they don't want to take Trembolone. I don't recommend it anyway because, you know, it does raise blood pressure really high and it can it nests up people's sleep. Some guys get hiccups from it. So, if you're not one of these people that doesn't tolerate, you know, trenone well and you don't like Deco also because maybe, like I said, you're sensitive to the prolactin effects of it, Master's fine in the offseason. That's going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave. reminder, all new episode of the After Hours podcast, Heavy Muscle Radio. And then uh either today or tomorrow, we're going to drop that interview that Dave prefaced with Rich Gaspar. Rich Gasparry giving his thoughts on the elite of the Olympia lineup as well as some of the different scenarios that may shake out in four months in October. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss any of our shows, segments, anything between now and obviously over the course of the next four months. in the thick of the IFBB contest calendar leading all the way into the Olympia. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadiq Farooqi.