We have Dr. Todd Lee here today. You're not going to want to miss this episode of Guru Talk. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Thank you for joining us for another episode of Guru Talk. We haven't done one of these in a while and we're back with a vengeance. I'm Dave Palumbo joined today by Dr. Todd Lee, someone I've been following for a while and uh we align on a lot of things all related to anabolics and training and bodybuilding. So, I fig let's get him here. Let's talk about some of these topics. What's going on, Todd? How are you doing today, Dave? I'm doing good. I'm glad we finally got to do this interview. I uh I've been I had it on my like to-do list for like about over a year now, and I and I had people, you know, texting me and saying, "You should get them on." And I'm like, "I know." And and I said, "Finally, I got to reach out to you." And uh I saw a reel you did on Instagram and it resonated so strongly with me that I was like, "Oh my god, I gotta do it. Now's the time." Which reel was that? The Space Marine reel. No, you know, just just it was it was a real about you talk about like Masteron, I think it was, or something like that. and um just about how ridiculous people are with like thinking that, you know, it's it's funny in today's steroid world. Whatever is not available, people think is is is the most is the best anabolic you could possibly use. And I think primabone is probably, you know, the least accessible because it's the most expensive and it gets the counterfeited the most. So, everyone thinks that's like the magic drug. And it's really, you know, back in the day I used to go remember in in 1992 I went to Barcelona and we were buying sharing Prima balms over the counter for like a buck 80 a vial and they were like no one even used them like we would just give them to girls and stuff like that but it wasn't like a strong anabolic nowadays because they're so it's so hard to get it seems like everyone wants to use it. It's I always call them primo princesses because it's like they they like to show off about their primo and their theim like they've got a Gucci purse and they've got a Prada hat or some [\h__\h] and then they're just bragging about brand identity. It's just so lame. It's not even like a high-end brand, you know? It's like, you know, they grew up in a trailer if they wear a Gucci shirt because Gucci's actually not that high-end of a brand. It's like rich clothes for poor people. And it's kind of like I think the same thing about Primo and the is like they think they're hot [\h__\h] but they ain't [\h__\h] What what do what do you think about Primob and what is like why did why is it have this mysticism on it? Do you think it's because it's just hard to get? I think it's because a bunch of influencers got together and they pushed it and they're like, if we all agree that this is the best thing and we control the collective subjective, then we're going then when people hear it enough times, they believe it's true. It's kind of like CNN, MSNBC, and all those channels would repeat the exact same sound bite and then the weak-minded sheep believed what they were told. So all the people using Primo, they're just sheep that fell for this [\h__\h] that it's so great. First of all, there's this class which is misnamed. It's the DHT derivative class. It's a stupid [\h__\h] name for that class because they're not derived from DHT. They're just five alpha reduced that the double bond position 4 has been broken and now it can it can't be aromatized. But it also typically DHT can't survive three alpha HSD inside the nucleus of the muscle cell. So you have to modify a DHT molecule to make it survive in that environment. So the Baldinone class has a double bond between positions one and two in the A- ring. So really because there's a double bond in primo primo is one methyl DHB. It really belongs in the Baldenon class. It's not part of the other class that Yeah. like Masteron, Anavar, Anadrol, Superdraw, they all have a methyl group bound to position two. They're a separate class. Those are the DHT derivatives or the five alpha reduced anabolics. Then the Baldinone when you five alpha reduced boldenone you get DHB. And if you add a onemethyl group to that DHB, it now should survive first pass liver metabolism. And that's how primabolan was made. Primabolan acetate was made to be an oral version of DHB. The problem was it really was so weak they had to add on an athlete tail to the carbon 17 and that makes it injectable. But the thing is whereas DHB is two to three times as good at transcribing transcribing DNA compared to testosterone, primobolan is only about 70% as strong as testosterone, which makes DHB four times stronger than primo. Plus, primo has an added flaw that a lot of people don't realize is that it it one of its metabolites is an aromatase inhibitor. So, as you add in primo, you lose estrogen. Now, a lot of people what they do is they overdose on testosterone because they think testosterone is the best muscle builder and then they try to control the estrogen excess by using primo. The problem is when you do this, you drive the equation towards DHT production and so you're going to have more hair loss from that testosterone than you would normally get. The wisest choice is to run just an a a HRT dose of testosterone to get just the right amount of DHT so your dick works and just enough enough estrogen so your GH converts to IGF-1 and then you run something safer like Masteron which doesn't have any influence on DHT. It doesn't have any influence on estrogen. It's just a purely anabolic thing. It doesn't even drive up red blood cells. The only flaw with mastron is it drives down HDL and can drive up LDL, which is all the anabolics. But you know what I I think that what you your the point is is valid. In other words, if you take a if you take a steroid that converts to estrogen and you block that estrogen pathway, more will convert to DHT. That's just pure logic, right? I mean, so if you're taking compounds that inhibit the estrogen pathway, I mean, why not just take a little finasteride or some salt palmetto to inhibit the DHC path? Well, this finasteride blocks at the type two enzyme which is located in the prostate, but it isn't at the hair follicle. That five alpha reductase type one is at the hair follicle. So, what you really need is a dutestasteride. Now detest is so potent that if you swallow it and it has a fiveweek half-life people are bound to get impetence that is intractable meaning it won't go away. So what I like to use is topical dutesteride and topical isotren with topical minoxidil and then use a dermar roller along with RU48851 I believe is what it's called. I'm I'm going to get that formula for you. But I will tell you this, you are 100% right. I I took finasteride for 25 years, okay? Since I had some hair grafts done in in 2000, okay? And I never had I didn't have an impetence problem. It didn't it didn't affect my sex drive at all. Some people they say it does, but didn't affect me. Um I did notice my hair loss stopped. So, it definitely did something for hair loss. Uh recently, like within like like about a year ago, I had a hormone replacement clinic say, "You should use detasteride. It's way better for hair loss." And that annihilated my sex drive, man. Not the sex drive, it annihilated like like my ability to have an erection like like like instantly. It was like it was so noticeable that I was like, "Oh my god." And it took a long time before that came back. It was it was what is it doing that it's causing that? So it is such an extremely strong fav alpha reductase inhibitor that it wipes out all the DHT production. Now, the way I like to explain it is DH DHC wasn't that low. I mean, it wasn't that low on it when I measured it, but it was yet it was still affecting uh sex drive and stuff. That's weird. Well, in my experience, it's that the DHT influences the sensitivity of the penis. And so, it's part of a feedback loop that if it's sensitive, then it's going to be more prone to get hard. If it's insensitive, it's less prone to get hard. Gotcha. Makes sense. Uh my recommendation stay away from dutasteride. I don't know how anyone can possibly take it. It really destroys. I have I have figured out one way you can take it. If you want 50% DHT suppression and you have no choice but to use oral dutestasteride, the only way to do it is take the half milligram pill on the first, the 11th and the 21st of every month. That that because the reason is is the correct dose is 0.0. 05 milligrams or 50 micrograms. But the smallest pill is 0.5. So the only way to get the right dose, unfortunately, is to do 0.5 every 10 days. And it averages out to being 0.05 per day. Now, I'm a daily injection guy. I totally don't like the idea of sporadic injections. That's why I tell people do the 1st, the 11th, and the 21st of every month. It's easier to remember. If you had to do every 10 day, can't we just have someone make like like you know how like they have Propecia for hair loss, but for but but a procar is for prostate. Why don't they just make a hair dose for of dutasteride for hair loss? You know, there's I don't think there's the money in it because what what people are doing. You don't think so? From for hair loss. That's such a vain thing. I would think there would be a ton of money in that if they marketed it right. You know, I think what that, you know, because they're making preparations like Strut makes a preparation for topical and it mixes in other things like the isotrenoan and the minoxidil. I'm basically coming up with my own version of what Strut's doing. Does it work? You think it works topically? I think it works fine because let me explain why I know. So when I had my hair transplant surgery and I was using my protocol, it definitely dramatically reduced the amount of DHT in my system because I had all these open wounds on my scalp. Right. So I know for a fact if you use the derma roller then the topical application will work. Interesting. But what about when you're not when you you know you didn't have when you have a sealed head essentially. You know if you have a sealed head it probably won't work. The dermar roller is the key. What does the dermar roll do? Explain. Um, it's basically one mill one millimeter needles. It's kind of looks like a a like a lawn mower, you guys. Or not really a lawn mower. Like a a tiller. Is it like the micro needling that women get on their face? Yes. Yes. You just do it on your scalp. I see. I see. Interesting. I didn't even So So you do that with the topical, right? And it and it seems to penetrate. And what's the art? I was reading about what's the R isn't that like an anti-andigen the RU what was the RU the RU488451 blocks the androgen receptor but you got to keep in mind like people are like oh why would you take steroids and then use that that's stupid it's like it's 1 milligram so if you're injecting a thousand milligrams of mastron and 40 milligrams or 200 milligrams of testosterone and you're taking one milligram of RU on your scalp I don't think that you're going to have a thousandfold binding affinity So where it's bumping all the anabolic steroids off the receptors and the muscles. Have you noticed a different I mean have you done a controlled experiment with yourself? Have you noticed any difference taking that ru uh you know that prostaglandon on your head? Well I'm going to be honest when it comes to our own cosmetic self-perception I don't notice things. I know that the combination of doing electromagnetic micro needling on my scalp with lasers and red light therapy and doing all the other stuff like the GHK-Cu. Yeah. The isot trenan, the tutsteride, the hair is growing back with in the areas that I did not get the transplant. So the transplant was in front the crown. the crown. I'm gonna probably go get a transplant on the crown anyway, but in the interim because once you have to take two weeks off and it's gonna [\h__\h] up your competition season. So, you got to do it right at the beginning of an offseason and then be ready for the next season to start. Right. Right. So, so you think so you think it is possible to grow regrow some hair on the crown even after you've lost it? I have. That's for certain. I've got before and after photos with everything I'm doing. It's working now. I don't I can't say this one drug is going to make it right. You don't know which is working exactly, but it's and that's not like that's just not how I do things. I don't think PRP in the scalp or or stem cells. You think they they have any promise? I've had both that done and I'm not sure it worked more than I had it done when I had the transplant. I had stem cells harvested from some fat spun down, injected in with PRP. Right. I'm thinking like though like you know like when I went I went to Mexico and I got like 300 million stem cells like IV into me. I'm wondering if like they can spot inject that around if it'll do anything. I'm I'm assuming if it worked more people would be doing it but I have to imagine hurt. I mean I would do it but I'm going to get a transplant at the same time. Like I'm gonna you know like I'm a double tap type of guy. I'm not going to just put one round in the thigh and hope that they bleed out. I'm going to put I'm going to empty the clip in the chest and the head. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Are you going to go to like Turkey and do it or you going to do it in the United States? I I did Turkey, but I found out there's a guy right up the street in Sterling Heights, Michigan that does 12,000 graphs for 600 for 6,000 bucks. So, I was like, why the I went flew all the way to Turkey when I could have just went 20 miles east. So, I'm gonna I have a guy in the guy in Turkey. want to do mine for free, but like I I don't know if I have enough donor hair left at this point, you know, because I had did it a few times in the 2000. I don't know, man. I I don't I don't care if there's any hair on the left of my sides of my head or my back of my head. I'll just look like Ragnar from Vikings. [\h__\h] it. Let's Let's talk Let's talk about daily shots because I know you're a big advocate of daily shots. Oh, yeah. And this I personally I think it's a pain in the ass. I mean although I'm a neurotic creature like you that I can do everything daily but I think for most people it's I always tell people every other day because because most people just can't handle doing everything something every single day. What's the advantage of every day? Is every other day acceptable to you? And what do you see happening when people do it more frequently? Dave, have you ever seen someone win a race running on one leg? No. No. So they need two legs to run a race. So one leg is your anabolics and the other leg is growth hormone. That the growth hormone upregulates the androgen receptor and the androgens upregulate the growth hormone receptor. So 2 + 2 equals 16 when you use growth and test at the same time. Right? So if someone accepts that they want to stop aging, then they have to accept that growth hormone is the right tool. Right? So, if you're going to be using growth hormone, and growth hormone's got to be used at least every day, then why the [\h__\h] not just load the testosterone in the same needle as the growth hormone and give yourself one shot a day? Can you mix the water with the water with the uh oil? It doesn't need to mix because you I mean, they're not going to have a covealent bond between the two of them. They're just going to go into You don't It'll affect the absorption is what I'm saying. You're injecting it so it's 100% absorbed and needles by definition is 100% bioavailability. We back in the day we used to put winstrol and testosterone in the same syringe and we and we'd shake it up like like salad dressing you know and right it would mix you don't need to do that but like yeah you can just I say shoulders triceps and because people are like well what if you're too fat to get to the muscle I'm like well then you just push harder. It's amazing how hard and amazing what you get out of life if you just push harder. You know what? You also said something else with regard to this that I discovered too and I just did a little rant on it the other day, but uh 27 gauge insulin pins, right, are perfect for drawing up oil through. They they go through it a lot quicker. That's how I take my my testosterone replacement through a 27 gauge. I don't pull the plunger out of the back. I just draw it up through that thing and I inject it into my And you're also a big intramuscular. I'm big intramuscular, too. I don't know why guys inject things subcutaneously. Can you tell me what the theory is behind that? The theory is this that there's sheep. And so the medical establishment knows that patients are lazy and stupid and cowardly. So they say just grab your belly fat and inject that because they assume everyone's so fat they can just grab a big wad of fat. And they're so stupid that they have to look in the mirror and see where they're injecting. They can't just close their eyes and find their body parts. That they have no propriception at all. They have to see it in the mirror and they have to inject in the big belly fat. And what the problem is if you don't have any fat. This is what happens if you do a subq injection. See that? Yep. Yeah. That's what happens if you miss the muscle and you have low body fat. the it decomposes the skin. So nothing screams bodybuilding champion like having Freddy Krueger skin, right? So if for bodybuilding you want to go in the muscle and so all these so people are like I don't want to be a bodybuilder. I'm like oh but you want to use Anavar and Andreone and everything your TRT doc prescribes you regardless if it's the right drug or not. Mr. Not a bodybuilder. But so the point is if you're It leaves marks when you do subcutaneous shots on your stomach. I don't know why anyone would inject their stomach at all. Who wants a bunch of marks all over your stomach? You know, if they're fat enough, they don't see it. But and the the nurses are fat, so they tell the patients just inject their stomachs. There's there's a few inshaped nurses, but when I was working in a hospital, the nurses look like Ursilla from uh Little Mermaid. Ursula from Little Mermaid. There's evil angry witches that are like blubber buses. But so what I found was if you just are like, "Hey dude, you're going to be giving yourself a GH shot every day anyway, just load the test in the same needle and shut the [\h__\h] up and do it." And then people do it. And now they're like, "This changed my life. My blood pressure is lower. My mood swings are controlled. It's amazing how much better daily injections are." The other thing I always say is only long esters, never short esters. And they, you know, people think, well, but it spikes higher. It's like, I don't give a [\h__\h] if it spikes higher. If it spikes, more enzymes are created like aromatase and five alpha reductase to clear the excessive amount of test. Exactly. You you don't you want it to fly under the radar like a stealth bomber. If you fly above the radar, you're going to get shot down by SAMs. But if you fly under the radar, you can blow up nuclear facilities and no one even knew you were there till I say the same thing. First of all, the body works best and I always found this out because when I would take short acting esters like propionate back in the day, I would get so much acne and and and I would notice more side effects because it's it's up and down. You your body likes being even even ke it doesn't like having hormone spikes all over the place because it tries to like you said combat those spikes. And I'm I'm a huge believer also in the long acting injectables as well, you know. Yeah. Long acting every day. Less toxicity too, right? And people like, "But what about the half-life?" Like, "Fuck your halfife." Like, why would you want it going up and then coming down and going up and coming down? It's like, do you have you ever been around a girl on her period? Do you want to be a girl on your period? Then [\h__\h] stabilize that [\h__\h] Right. Right. Smooth. So, if you had to put together the perfect, let's say, the perfect cycle for someone to do who's trying who's a bodybuilder and trying to put muscle on, okay, we're not talking about HRT now. What would you say would be the perfect cycle? I bet it's going to be exactly what I would recommend, but I want to hear what you So, this is this is my algorithm. You're going to run enough tests to where you get your estradile up to the point where you start to feel slightly tender nipples, then roll back a dose. So let's say at 80 milligrams a test a day you have tender nipples. Roll it back to 60 milligrams a day. Now titrate up your GH and get your blood tested for IGF-1 every 5 days. So you go from 2 to four units. Oh, you got 300. Okay, you go from four to six units. Okay, we're at 350. Okay, we go from 6 to 8 units. Okay, we're at 415. All right, we're going to go from 8 to 10 units. You're only at 415 still. roll back to eight units. If you're using GH and your estrogen's capped out and your GH isn't giving you any extra IGF-1, you don't bother with the GH anymore. So now our hypothetical dude is doing 60 milligrams of test a day, eight units of GH a day. Now we lay on the master. Now, if they're super advanced and they've got a strong liver, I would say let's run 10 or 20 milligrams of DHB a day because it's three times stronger than master for anabolics. The problem is the DHB can get hard on the liver. So, unless you're getting regular IV glutathione, TUDCA, NAC, if you hammer the liver support, maybe you can get away with 30 milligrams of a DHB a day. All the experts like Brick Chavez, who really likes DHB, he says his favorite upper limit for DHB is about 200. And I found that my liver took a huge crash when I went from 10 milligrams to 30. It didn't lower my estol like Primo does or EQ. So, DHB is neutral like master and DHB is almost as strong as Tren without any of the side effects except the liver. So maybe run 30 milligrams tops of DHB a day and you just fill in the rest of your need with Masteron. Now one thing I really strongly advocate is that you don't use more drugs than you need to. So if you've got a log book and you're making progress week after week after week, you do not need more drugs. You do not need more food. That adding more food is just going to make you add fat faster. It's not going to make you add more muscle faster. Adding more drugs will have you run into side effects sooner. So if you can stay at let's say 60 test, eight units of GH, 20 milligs of DHB and let's say 100 mron a day and you have perfectly clean labs and you're getting stronger and bigger on let's say 3700 calories and you're gaining nothing but muscle and no fat, don't get greedy. Just be patient. You're not going to make the muscle grow faster, right? Yeah, I agree. I agree with that to to a certain degree. I my in my experience, okay, and I've tried a bunch of different things. I never used DHB back because they didn't really have it around in in my day. And I don't know, you know, I from what I read, it seems like it's it is toxic. So, you have to be careful with it. I don't know if I would be running it all the time, but I always got a the ideal growth I got in my body was at 1,000 milligrams of testosterone a week. Now, I I back then would take it every other day. I was always always never had the day because I did notice more regularity gave you better. I never even thought to do it daily though. Why? I don't know. I just maybe I just just didn't think to do it. And um I found that thousand milligrams of testosterone was was ideal. And then I did get re I got really good results from EQ. I got really good results from Tren. Obviously you get some side effects, but I was using I always used lower dose on the anabolics, higher on the on the testosterone. Um, and I found that I got good results from that. I put on a lot of masks from that. I don't, but I'm not and it made me really strong and I wasn't just by nature a very strong guy. Um, why do you think I got such good results from that type of So, I would say about 15 years ago, I got turned on to the classic Dave Palumbo cycle, which I think everyone still uses today, which was, and then this is probably not your fault. It's just this what I it's 750 test, 600 EQ and maybe 300 trend if you're cutting. And the reason why this works so great is that the test is your primary anabolic and the EQ is an AI. So if you run slightly less EQ than test, then your the EQ is going to control that estrogen level, right? And then a quarter of the EQ converts to DHB. So, if you have 600 EQ, you're getting an AI to control the excess test, but you're also getting 150 DHB, which is the equivalent of 20 milligrams a day. I didn't know that you DHB. That's interesting. Yeah. A quarter. It's Yeah, because there's four possible outcomes of EQ. It can turn into an AI. It can turn into eststerone. It can turn into inert version of DHB and it can turn into DHB which DHB is about three times stronger than Tus. So most of the anabolic effect of EQ is actually the DHB that it converts into. Wow. And then as the aromatase inhibitor builds up, less of it converts to the eststerone and more of it converts to the um DHB. That's why EQ gets better results the longer you're on it. So, it's better for longer cycles. Yeah, but it doesn't seem to be liver toxic to me. I never really noticed a lot of like liver enzyme spikes on that. But, you know, then again, Yeah. Why is that though? Because DHB I have no idea. I have no idea why DHB pure causes the liver GGT to go up, but the EQ does not. However, we do know that the EQ can cause the RBC's to go up and all that other stuff along with the test. Now, the only flaw I have with that system is if someone has hair, if we're inhibiting the estrogen conversion, we're driving up the DHT production from that amount of test. So, the chances are someone's going to lose some hair running 750 or a,000 test, 600 or 800 EQ. You're going to have a lot more hair loss than with my method, which would be using lower test, relying on master. Right. All right. Right. No. So what now what is Masteron going to do other than act as an aromatase inhibitor that makes it? You seem to be very high on Masteron. You you mastron is not an aromatase inhibitor. That's why I love it. It's a myth that it's an aromatase inhibitor. What it is is it's an alossteric inhibitor on the estrogen alpha receptor. So it stops I meant to say it blocks estrogen receptors. I'm sorry. But it doesn't competitively block it. It doesn't block it at the binding site. it blocks it to some other mechanism and because it has no binding affinity for either estrogen receptor alpha or beta, but it definitely causes the estrogen alpha breast um erra BRCA cancers to shrink the tumor shrink if they're prone to estrogen alpha. Oh, so it almost acts like NovX in that sense. Yeah. Well, Novadex is also a misnomer because Novadex is a prod drug that converts into four different drugs in the body. It turns out some of them are ser and a couple of them are AIS. So really what when people talk about Novax, what they really are thinking of is relaxifen. And that relaxifin is the one that's a pure serum. But what's cool about the um maststeron is it stops the feminizing effects of estrogen, but it doesn't stop the anabolic effects of estrogen. So the estrogen beta receptor is the one that drives up IGF-1 production from the GH and the bone formation. So by using Masteron, you can stop estrogen causing Gyno, but you can still get the same amount of IGF-1 from a certain amount of GH. Yeah. You know, it's funny you mentioned that. It brings up a point that I wanted to bring up. Back in the day, we we you know, there was a study that came out and that's why we all stopped using Nulvidex because they said that Nulvex inhibited IGF-1 production. And luckily at that time the aromatase inhibitors came out so people started using arimidex and and and aromomasin at that point but you know no one knew that est that novidex did that what's the mechanism that estrogen does that I mean that nox does that by so then the novidex converts into multiple different things it converts into ais and serms. So if it blocks the estrogen receptor beta, estrogen receptor beta is needed in the muscle to help facilitate the GH turn um creating IGF-1. So the GH binds to the GH receptor. There's some downstream second messengers that occur and then the estrogen binding to estrogen beta is a co-actor for the IGF-1 production. I see. I have a study that I found um about 10 or 11 years ago. It's on my website toddlemd.com under under Dr. Lee's required reading where it says estrogen is good for something and I I have the resources linked in the bottom and it's um I explain it in the article but I have my references in the bottom and in that one of those studies it shows that estrogen receptor beta was found to increase strength size and IGF-1 production of muscle cells. Wow. Wow. So, what I have coming out soon is a men's estrogen complex, which is going to cut down on the total amount of estrogen, completely block all of the estrogen beta, estrogen alpha receptors, but stimulate the estrogen beta receptors so that people get as much or more IGF-1 out of their GH, but they don't have to worry about estrogen causing gyno. That way if somebody doesn't have access to Masteron Primo, if someone wants to do it the legalest way possible and use just testosterone, they could use this. And what's cool is inside of it, it also gums up DHT and eradicates it. So that you could use twice as much test, keep the hair, keep the IGF-1, and not have to worry about gyno. And that's using a prescription drug or is that using a natural supplement? This is over-thecounter stuff. Wow. So, um, yeah, I've got another a new line I'm starting. I just paid for it the first run yesterday. It's it's going to be called ToddlyMD supplements, and it's a health line, whereas Valhalla Labs is a bodybuilding line, and it's got blood and axes and flames and [\h__\h] on it. This is just a white label looking. It's got my logo. It looks as medicinal as possible with having a red dragon, right? and and you think it'll it'll it'll functionally work, you know, because usually natural supplements don't work the way they're they're so so my what's cool is everyone who's used my products from Valhal Lab say your [\h__\h] actually works. Yeah. So I went with the clinical max doses of every ingredient and I and I also arranged them synergistically. So, like my diet pill, Wrath of the Vulyrie, even though it's made, you can take all four pills and that's the clinical doses of every ingredient. I don't know anyone who can handle four pills. One pill is plenty. Why is it stimulation? No, I have no stimulants in it except for a little bit of caffeine. I put in T2 and a bunch of other stuff. It just they have so much energy from the fact that they're liberating so much fat and they get so warm on it because I found natural uncoupling uncoupling agent. Yeah, it's an uncoupling agent. Yeah. I also had I thought you can't use T2. I I used T2 15 years ago and I had to take it out of my product because I thought they made it illegal. Um so it's it's uh not illegal, but there's people who are afraid to put it in products. Oh, is that what it is? Okay. Yeah. When I first released it, um people were drinking it from the bottle. So when I released it a second time, I put it in pill form because everybody's perfectly happy drinking from a bottle, but they think taking five pills is too many. It's so weird. It's so weird the way people's brains work or don't work as the case may be. Yeah. Well, you know, I I I try to explain to people that if you're buying a multivitamin like a sententrum that's one a day and they say it has 6,000 ingredients in there, there's probably not an effective dose of anything in there. It's pixie dust because you can't fit the stuff into the capsule. Yeah. You have to have multiple capsules to take effective dosages of vitamins and minerals, you know. Yeah. Just my morning the Toddly MD supplements morning vitamin is 12 caps. Yeah. I'm 10 caps for for V mineraliz. Yeah. It's like it's like there's no way. They only fit 750 milligrams or so. You don't understand it. No. But as long as it's vegan compliant. Yeah. Yeah. That's all they care about. Yeah. I want to go back to growth hormone for a minute because you're an advocate of taking higher dose GH. Well, I talk about two units for HRT, right? And then the medical community feels that 300 IGF-1 is a safe upper limit. But if you're not concerned and you want the best results, then I you would have to take more than two units to get over 300 in most people. 100% agree. Let me ask you this though. When is the best time to test your blood to see what your IGF is? Because I think a lot of people don't have the timing right and then they're like, "I'm taking fake GH." I said, "I I said, you tested the GH with the GH testing kit. I sell it's real." I said, "I think you're just not taking the blood test properly." You know? So, what I do tell people to do is if you want to see the dosage of your GH, don't test IGF-1 for that. Test the GH itself. And all my panels on mine m&mlabs.com um my standard panel has GH on there and IGF-1. What you do is you shoot a whole bottle. So basically 10 units. Well I mean some brands like Viking Tropin are 18.86 IU per bottle. Serum's 18 which is less. But the oldfashioned bottles were 10 units. You shoot 10 units at, let's say, 8:00 a.m., then you get the blood drawn at 11:00 a.m., 3 hours later, and your levels of GH should be 30 or higher. If it's 30 or higher, then you've got pharmagra GH, whether it was labeled pharmarmacra or not. There's plenty of underground labs that are pharmagra. FDA's criteria for pharma grade is 91% pure brands like Viking Tropin and Metatropen which are underground. I don't like the term generic because they've got brands. They're not generic. They're testing at 98. Serim tests 98. So if you're testing as good as the top brand in the world, you're certainly not generic by any stretch of the imagination. And since the FDA's limit is 91 with a 4% dimer, I've never seen an underground GH test that poorly. Okay, that's that's good to know. To recap, because I kind of was long-winded, 10 units and then test your blood three hours later, the result should be 30. Okay. And what about the IGF levels? IGF levels, it those last for 30 hours. So I find that because 30 hours you take five half- livives. If the half-life is 30 hours, that's 150 hours. That's approximately 5 days, 6 days. So if you start using your GH at night on Sunday night, you can go in Friday morning or Saturday morning and get your IGF-1 levels tested and that should be capped out. Topped out? Yeah, because Right. They're not going to go higher than a certain amount, right? Yeah. you unless you change your dosage, right? And I tell people that I said if you're going if you're taking, you know, 10 12 IUs a day, more than likely for most people, would you and I think you'd agree with this, but you can tell me if you know, you're wasting your money because you're taking GH, you're not even getting any benefits out of you. Just make yourself more insulin resistant at that point. I think, well, I think taking 10 units at once is a waste. I think if you take four units before bed and you want to take more units, you can take some in the morning. You basically want a six-hour refractory window between injections. Why do you like to take it at night? I'm a big advocate of the morning. I'll tell you why. The reason why I like it at night is because you have a higher conversion to IGF-1 at night and also your liver produces more IGF-1 binding protein 3 at night because normally your body releases the GH when you're sleeping about 2 hours after you go to bed. So if you time your sh shot shot right so that you peak about two hours after you fell asleep that's when you're going to get the most um IGF-1 I think the belief I think from two units generated 7.5 nanomles in the day but if you take it before bed it generated 13 nanomles of IGF-1 I yeah I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna just put give you a little push back on this I I noticed way better results when I took it in the morning. And I and my theor my my theory is that because you're the most catabolic in the morning, your cortisol levels the highest and you don't you don't produce GH in the morning. That's the time to take it because your body's releasing it naturally at night. Now, if you're taking a lot of GH, like I said, you have to split it up anyway. It doesn't matter because then you can take it morning and night. But I really think a dose in the morning makes you a lot more anabolic throughout the entire day. That's just the way I did it. And I found like I've tried it both ways and I found that when I took it at night, it dropped my blood sugar and I would wake up like hypoglycemic too at night. That's that's all true. So I'm not disagreeing that if someone's cutting and they're using less than three units, they shouldn't use it first thing in the morning if that's their only goal. But if that's their only goal is fat loss, why not just use GH frag? Why waste the money on GH? I don't you think frag works? I I really didn't see any results on that whatsoever. I I've never tried it because I always found that it's just as cheap to get GH as it is to get frag. But I would also never use less than four units. I would never use less than eight units. So I personally do two units when I wake up, two units before I go to the gym, and four units before bed. And if I was to turn it up, I would go 3, three, and six. And the most I've ever used, you did it. The the most I've ever used was 22 and 24. Wow. 24 at night. Oh my god. I took a year I took a year to build up to that though. Side effects like numbness of your hands or anything like that. Not if you build up slow. You that the water retention effects you get is due to the eldoststerone or the ADH or something to do with one of your renal angotensin system. And if you go slow enough, your body doesn't detect the change. It's interesting that you say that because you know what? When guys tell me they're getting pins and needles in their hands, I tell them I tell them to go off it for three days and then start up at half as much and build up to it again and and they don't have a problem. So I I I agree with you definitely there. I always tell people you go up to a dose where you get a problem, then roll back to the previous safe dose. What What's your fasting blood sugars when you're on that much GH? Honestly, before the Texas TW before the 2024 Texas Pro Prep on 20 units of GH, I had 80 fasting glucose in the offseason. Now, now why do you think do you think you're just you're just good? How old are you? First of all, I'm turning 46 tomorrow. So, why do you think you're Yeah, I look I I look at a lot of blood sugars and blood worker guys. I mean, thousands. You people everyone sends you their blood and there's a lot of people with high fasting blood sugars and and they're not even doing that much GH. Why do you think your G your your blood sugars are not being affected negatively by all that GH? Not sure. I don't really see that it's relevant. So, I think the reason why people have high glucose, fasting glucose, is because they're insulin resistant. And I think the reason why they're insulin resistant is because they're thinking, I'm spending all this money on GH. I better eat enough to get something out of it. And then they are eating in a gross calorie surplus. So they build up intramuscular triglycerides and that causes inflammation and that drives up insulin resistance. I I don't agree with that. I'll tell you why. Because I see this on people who are dieting for shows on no carb diets or or low carb diets. I I think you know and most bodybuilders are not insulin resistant because exercise and the way we eat and train is is not conducive to insulin resistance. It's it's conducive to insulin sensitivity. So, I feel like it's a lack of insulin because we just eat so much food that the demand on the beta cells is so high and then you throw some GH in there which is antagonistic, you know, and is causes, you know, the body not have to produce more insulin. The body just can't keep up. And so, we see it especially in guys 30s, 40s, I start seeing these high fasting blood sugars, which is the the initial warning sign, hey, we can't keep up with insulin production. Um, it's amazing that you're normal. I I expected you to say I'm a little high in the morning, you know. So, I also, if I'm not going to bother with fast and glucose now that they've got continuous glucose monitors that are so affordable, if someone's really serious, they should use a CGM because what you'll find is and what I found was is that an hour before I wake up, my blood sugar spikes and that's why I wake up is it's called the well, the smogi effect was the dawn effect is that your your glucose gets so low cortisol is released for gluconioenesis and then when you wake up and test your glucose now it's high but if you had actually tested in the middle of the night it would have been low so I think that's metabolism just so fast right but your body should respond to that spike in insulin produ in glucose production by releasing insulin and lowering blood sugar but it it can't when it's when it's when it's basically being overtaxed is is how I see it I usually see what hap what I usually see is that they're fasting glucose is normal and they're fasting insulin insulin starts rising because I never order a fasting glucose without an HbA1c and a fasting insulin. And what I see is if their fasting insulin starts creeping up, creeping up. And when their fasting insulin's over 15, that's when I start seeing their fasting glucose go up over 80, over 90. Now they're insulin resistant or not. And and their HbA1c is usually by a 5.6 by that point. Right. I notice high fasting blood sugars and I and I and I see it completely mirrored in the a A1c values. They're going up 5.6 5.7 and you know that's that's to me that's a warning sign. Hey, we got to address this because you start going higher than that, you're going to you're going to be on insulin for the rest of your life, you know. So, I find that that a long acting and I just wanted to get your opinion. Long acting insulin actually makes people grow better because you're giving the body now enough extra insulin. It's like taking a testosterone replacement dose. You're giving the body enough extra insulin to be able to absorb the food efficiently and to manage blood sugar properly. It's and and you don't need to use a fast acting insulin, which is what we did back in my day. We used a fast acting in we didn't know any better. I feel like a long acting insulin is almost should be part for the it should be part of the whole protocol if you're doing high amounts of GH. Your old protocol of 10 units of Lantis in the morning and then using maybe one to three units of Humalogue pre and postlift was a mainstay the world over and I think the reason why Milos never adopted it is because he didn't have Lantis. So you pretty much were the pioneer in how to properly use glucose management. However, recently we had access to reetatide and with reatride I feel that makes the use of insulin no longer necessary. And for example, I was using 50 units of insulin a day. Yeah. And this was after the Texas Pro. I was full-blown diabetic. That that one prep [\h__\h] me up bad. Um I had like a 600 fasting glucose for the week. So, you did have problems with fasting glucose, but it it wasn't from the GH cuz I had a GH of 26 going into the prep and a 80 fasting glucose. When prep started, all the inflammation from the prep, that's what gave me the insulin resistance. So, after the show, I had for all offseason, I was using 40 50 units of Lantis a day and barely controlling it with a 136 average glucose and like a 6.1 HBN1C. I went on one milligram of reatutide one dose and the very next day with no insulin I had a 96 average glucose and I've been using one milligram of reatutate on my high days which two a day two a week so two milligrams a week with reatutide and my glucose has been completely fine with no insulin since yeah first of all lantis is not a true 24-hour insulin so if anyone's using alantis you definitely should take two shots a of it. Now, we know that I did uh half in the morning, half at night. Yeah. So, Siber and and and THJ are actually true 24-hour insulins. But getting back to with the Red Truth Diet and and I'm a big believer in the GLP-1 agonist, especially for people who cheat on their diet because it does take the hunger away. My my concern is with it, not concern, as far as bodybuilders go, it's kind of like a lazy way of controlling things. And and the reason I don't like it is that it slows the transit of stuff through the intestinal tract. Um, obviously you got to take a fiber supplement with that. I mean, and I'm I have no problem because I make the number one fiber supplement. You could everyone's on fiber. Fiber. Everyone get it at species nutrition.com. Everyone uses, which is great, but I I worry in the offseason, is that going to um inhibit people's ability to grow because you're not absorbing your food as quickly and it's slowing down the transit. I think pre-contest it's great, but I don't think it should be something that people use all year round. You know, I think a safe approach, and I think Eric Chaniki talked about this too, is 0.25 a day. You know, some other people like Chase Iron says 0.5 every other day. I think that's a less than the minimum dose. I think that's a great way of helping control lipids, insulin resistance, etc. in the offseason without it really affecting your appetite. Plus, if you follow per week, you say per week or per day? Per week. Like 0. a day. 0.25 a day ends up to being less than the two milligrams per week. Okay. You're taking the reatide daily. I take mine on my high days because I'm in prep. So I after a high day, like if I have 400 carbs on Monday, I'll do 1.5 milligrams and then I'm not hungry again until Friday when it's my next high day. But for somebody in the offseason, you use way less and you don't have the appetite suppression. and it hasn't affected my digestion at all and none of these supposed side effects. I think people are extrapolating semaglutide and tzipotide side effects to reattachide where they just aren't there. Well, it's reatride is is essentially tzapatide with an added glucagon agonist, you know. So, I mean it's the same thing on paper. Yeah, it is. But the actual subjective experience that people are having is that it's just all good, no bad. So I don't know why it's not my I'm not a GI expert. I'm a hormone expert, you know, but body t body bills can rationalize anything. As soon as Nick Walker said he'd used red of True Tide, everyone in their their mother wants to use Red True Tide now. Even the people who don't need it. People like, "Have you tried it?" I'm like, "Have you looked at me recently? I don't have I don't I have I'm strided glutes. I'm 200 pounds. What do I need red tide for?" I said, "I don't take drugs for the sake of taking them. There's got to be a reason why you take them, you know? The only reason why I took it was cuz I wanted to cure my diabetes. I didn't do it because I I had a sudden onset diabetes which was pancreatic insufficiency and insulin resistance which the the medical community is calling one and a half when it's not. It's one and two. So technically it's three, but I completely cured it with Ratatouuchad and I'll probably have to use it for the rest of my life. But I'm totally cool with that, you know, and I was using your the prophylactic approach of doing the Lantis all day every day and all the stuff I was supposed to be doing. It's just that when you're eating 8 900 carbs a day, you're going to get diabetes eventually. That's why I've prefer doing it Ella's way, scientific snitch, where she reset the term for calorie surplus. So that instead of maintenance being body weight maintenance, it's body fat maintenance and that there's really no reason to be in a surplus. You but you have to account for the amount of calories you need to grow muscle in your tde. So if your tde with the old way of thinking was 3,700 calories, then your tde with you accounting for how many calories needed to grow muscle is probably 3,800 or 3850. So it's not even a 5% surplus. It's like a 100 calorie surplus. And when you eat like that all offseason, you're not going to get fat, so you don't have to diet as hard. So you're not going to lose muscle. And this is the easiest prep I've ever done because I did Ella's style of offseason going into this prep. Yeah, I I wouldn't recommend that anyone gets excessively fat. There's no reason for that. I mean, I usually calculate a person's protein and fat needs and then I vary the carbs based on whether they're flat or they're they're too fat and then I cut them back or raise them. It's funny you say that is so it's like the vertical diet with the carbs, right? So, what's funny is I say the same thing about test and GH and Masteron. That test is like your fats. GH is like your protein. They don't change once you receptor map it. Your levels are your levels. And the master is what you go up and down with, just like carbs. If you're not growing, add more. I It's an interesting theory, but I'm going to go on record as saying this right now. Number one, I think you're doing too much GH and I think you're going to [\h__\h] your your your blood sugar control up with eight units with eight units. Yeah, I think long I think long term I think you're better off going a little lower. Um, okay. And especially with some of the the recommendations, I think that's too high for most people. I think it's going to mess up their blood sugar. And number two is if you're going to take the redide, I think you should also be have some like trace or to on board as well. Um, because I think your your your pancreas is being stressed more than you think. Even though you might be showing kind of normal blood fasting blood sugars, I think you still I think you still your body. I'm averaging like averaging about 75 80 average. Not even fasting. Oh, really? That's pretty good though. Are you dieting? But in Yeah, I'm 13 weeks out. That's That's why you're dieting. But I think offse you might want to consider taking Oh, offseason I will run a basil level of Lantis or twice a day for sure. Right. or try try to TJO. I've been doing TJO. It's a it's a U300 insulin. It's concentrated. For some reason, when they concentrate the insulin, it works better. And I my my blood sugars are like I could eat whatever I want. I'd have to get my hands on some of that. Then you get a, you know, doctors will write a prescription. I have an actual prescription for it, you know, because if you could show the doctors that you have AI mean, you're a doctor yourself. You can say, "Look, I have high blood sugars. I need I I don't want to I don't want to wait till I I'm a full-blown diabetic. I'm taking this prophylactically. I think that you're you're absolutely uh justified in taking a long acting insulin. Well, and I want to point out that the things I do as a professional bodybuilder are not the things that I have patients or clients do. Whether they're a lifestyle patient on HRT or whether it's a state level bodybuilder, that doesn't mean I happen to have like an Irish liver, I can get away with way more drugs. I'm a hypo respponder, but a hyper tolerator that I've ran as much as 450 mastron a day, no problems. Ran 200 Tren a day, no problem. So I my body can handle [\h__\h] Like I don't have the genes to grow muscle, but I have the genes to survive drug abuse. You could drink 12 beers a day and not have a not have cerosis in your liver. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. What do you think? What do you think is the best combination of liver detoxification supplementation? So, you know, IV glutathione is the king. Then short of that, I would say liposal glutathione, NAC. How do you How much do you take a day? Um, the solution I have is in volume, which people are going to laugh at me because I always make fun of people who do stuff by volume. I could go get it from the other room, but I was like, don't ever [\h__\h] tell me how many ccs you do. Tell me on the milligrams. But I actually don't know how much is actually the active amount of glutathione off the top of my head. I have a five milliliter oral syringe that I fill up with the solution. It's usually 200 milligrams per per ml. That's usually the I can go get it if you want me to. I'll be right back. Yeah, why not? Let's see what you're doing. I'm interested. I take 200 milligrams every day and I find that that works really well, but I have gone to clinics where they've actually pushed like nine grams of glutathione into me through an IV and I felt like almost high from it. And I have to imagine that that you, you know, doing that every so often is not a bad idea. But I think on a regular basis if you do something daily 200 milligrams is more than adequate to give you the you know the heavy metal detoxification the anti- inflammatory effect the liver detoxification that you get with the with the glutathione. All right. So this is what I use. It's called trizomal glutathione and it is llutathione reduced and s acetal llutathione blend. It's 175 milligrams and it also has 125 of an acetylcysteine and it's a liposomaal preparation. Oh, so you do it you do it in your mouth then? Yeah, sublingually. I always do everything sublingually. I'm s shocked that you don't inject it. You're an you're an injector. So, I'm right now I'm ordering the glutathione and the IV bag and the tubes and [\h__\h] and I have a chair and a towel and I'm just going to [\h__\h] have my That's what I want to do. Nine grams of it. Try nine grams. You'll be like high as a kite. It's unbelievable. I'm going to go with uh five grams of uh vitamin C and like whatever 20 grams of glutathione and squeeze the bag and [\h__\h] And I was like, "More DHB for the DHB god." And I was just like just like, "How much of this [\h__\h] can I put in my body so I can use more DHB?" There you go. That's gonna be the key. I I got to tell you, we got to come back and do part two of this because this was I I really enjoy this. And I I I always say I try to learn something every day and I actually learned a lot from this interview with you, especially about how it works. I did not have any idea that, you know, about the the conversion to DHB and and the the way it works and I and I and it makes a lot of sense why I always found that I got really good results with test and EQ and I I and all the clients that I work with on a daily basis, you know, I have them on that and they get great results. So, it makes sense. I I'm glad that you were able to elicitate the the mechanism that that worked by and I hope the people watching this really appreciate, you know, the knowledge that you imparted. And remember guys, pound-for-pound EQ is six times cheaper than Primo. And DHB is 14 times cheaper than Primo. When you count the actual potency and multiply it through by how concentrated the solution is and by its street cost, that Primo is throwing your money away. I actually did the math and for the amount of money, if you switch from Primo and Serim to like EQ and Viking Tropin, with the money that you're saving, you could get a $500,000 house and a McLaren. Yeah, it it's Isn't it sad that that people will spend that much money on Sir GH, but they'll they'll be too cheap to like, you know, to buy a Netflix subscription for themselves? Yep. Yep. I always say it's like it's like do you want to pull up in a take a girl home with you in a McLaren to your McMansion or do you want to drive up in a rusted F-150 to your trailer and she's like are you [\h__\h] kidding me? It's like yeah baby but I use sir stim and primo. It's like guess who's not getting their dick sucked like hey Todd thank you so much. What's the best way for people to get in touch with you? Um, Instagram, ToddleMD, you know, everything. Tik Tok is Todd LeeMD. YouTube channel is Dr. Todd Le's Anabolic University. That's where I have the fulllength videos. The reals are cute, but they're an advertisement for the real the real length video. You can't do say a whole lot in 90 seconds. Let's be real. No, you're doing great stuff, great information. It's all free out there. Check it out at all his social media and YouTube modalities and channels. Thank you so much for coming on. We're gonna get you back. For now, we are out of time. I'm Dave Palumbo with Dr. Todd Lee for another installment of Guru Talk.