Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Wednesday, July 12th, 2017. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. All of my old school '90s bodybuilding fans will probably agree with me in saying that there aren't a whole lot of things more impressive in bodybuilding than an athlete who has a set of freaky vascular granity looking legs. But thankfully, we all got guys like Paulo Alo out there keeping the 90s spirit alive. Recently, the freak released some video from a postshow leg training session where he gives his fans a sneak peek at what he's been doing to build some of the sickest legs in the business. In his two outings so far this season, we've seen a much improved Paulo continue to make improvements and keep putting the pieces of the puzzle together piece by piece. And with a few more moves here and there, I think we're going to see this guy take the next step a whole lot sooner than later. Speaking of new talent in the classic physique division, is there anyone out there creating more buzz right now than Cleveland Thomas? After dropping in from completely off the radar to score a monster win in his rookie debut at the Chicago Pro, the hottest name in the classic physique division is already all out into Olympia mode. New training footage shows a completely insane looking Thomas crushing his latest shoulder workout as he prepares to square off against the best in the business just over 10 weeks out from now. The look Thomas brought into Chicago is one of the most impressive I've seen all year from anyone in classic physique. And if he can even manage to replicate anything close to that, I think we could be looking at a legitimate top 10 contender here. There are some athletes out there who thrive in the spotlight, but I've got a special place in my heart for the ones who like to go about their business in silence. And I think women's physique star Kieran Newman probably falls squarely into the latter category. After spending most of the season keeping her head down and operating off the grid, lately we've started to see some signs of life trickling out of the team Newman camp. Over the weekend, the multi-time Olympian was spotted sneaking in a late night arm session as she starts to crank up the intensity for her current Olympia prep. Over the past two seasons, there haven't been a whole lot of athletes who've managed to perform better on the big stage than Kieran Newman. And when it's time for the lights to come on and the big curtain to finally draw, I have no doubt in my mind we're going to see a 100% Kieran Newman out there ready for action. As of right now, we're still about three weeks away from kicking things off down at Tampa Pro, but it looks like rookie classic physique pro Eric Jones is ready to get the party started a little early. Last week, new progress photos surfaced of a ridiculously shredded looking Jones, who looks like he's on track to come in a whole lot fuller than what we saw in his debut back at the New York Pro a few months ago. Jones is one of those people who just has an absolutely relentless work ethic. So, if he can just manage to keep up this pace for another couple of weeks, I think he has a shot to really turn some heads with his performance. Lately, it feels like the Junior USA Championships have turned into a breeding round for some of the new best talents in the sport. And this year's light heavyweight champ, Charlie Williams, certainly seems to fit that mold. A few weeks removed from delivering his lights out performance, an uber focused Williams has been in the gym training like a man on a mission in preparation for a procard qualifying contest. Recently, we were able to get our hands on some exclusive photos of the emerging young standout who looks like he's already started to add some good quality muscle. Williams is one of those guys who has the potential to turn into a really good pro one day down the line. And I wouldn't be the least bit surprised if he ends up being someone whose name you start to hear a whole lot more in the very near future.