 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o theses nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. So you're the favorite obviously, you've just come off winning three quarters of a million at the Armaclassic. Does that put extra pressure on you coming in here, how do you feel? No, no it doesn't, it doesn't, it doesn't. It's, well I believe, I believe in God's plan, if it is what has been written, it will happen. I've gone to work, gone to hard work, going there, I'll fight and I'll do my best and when all that comes out, I go back home happy, it's no problem. And is there anything you get nervous about coming into a show? Because obviously you're this big, strongman. No, no, no, no, no, no, I've happened like that. Because I see show, I see this whole thing that we're doing as an educational institution, it's like a school, yeah? There's time to study, there's time to go hard, you study, you go in there on the exam day, do your test and whatever that comes out on the board, the score, the result, you take it, you complete it and that's it. Same thing with this, you put in the work and everything and then you put it out there on stage. It's the same mentality. So in your mind, obviously you're number one. Is there anyone that you, even in the back of your mind, worry about a little bit? Like say there's Brandon Curry, he's obviously a Mr. Olympian. I'm worried just about myself. Just myself I'm worried about. So this is your third show in what, five weeks? Yeah, pretty much. So what have you learned about your body competing that frequently in the past five weeks? So that's a good question because I have kind of a new body now. I took a year off and you kind of got to learn yourself with the Arnold Ohio. We showed fullness, which was the easiest for me to just carve up, you know. But Detroit, one week later, it's all about refining that peak. So making sure that the fullness I have retains, but with more conditioning, because you can always get drier, but there's a balance there. And we're going to be slightly better here at the Arnold UK again. I think Detroit, you pretty much nailed the look, but you can always improve a little bit, which is what we're going to do at the UK show. So probably the most anticipated thing for this is your showdown with Mike Somersfield. Are you excited for that? Is there anything you're nervous about in that? I'm mostly excited because so many people want to see this battle. So even as a bodybuilding fan, I'm like, I'm happy I can participate in something that the fans want to see. Because that's what a show is all about. The excitement for bodybuilding drawing people in. So I was just going to show my version of classic physique, version of classic bodybuilding. Mike's going to show his version. Let's see what the judges decide which is the best one. One last question. So you're probably the most like Arnold physique in the whole industry. And you know, when I first saw you, I was like, oh my God, that's what Arnold looked like. So do you play, and you're a very nice guy as well, but do you play like mind games like Arnold did against you? Are you going to play mind games against Mike? The difference between that era and this era is social media. So I like to use social media via interviews like this, podcasts, and maybe smart remarks here and there to kind of do that a little bit. I'm not really that kind of person, but I also recognize it's boring to be always the nice guy. So you've got to play a little bit here and there. And I think I'm pretty good at that, you know, being a little bit cheeky here and there. Of course, Arnold was the GOAT, it's the best. But I'm trying to be a little bit like that to make it fun for the audience. What are your main techniques to do that? Well, I know what my strengths are and what other people's weaknesses are. And I try to make their weakness even more scoped out and my strengths stand out even more. And that's how I kind of like to make the difference bigger between me and my opponents. There's so much anticipation to see you. What's your mentality going into tomorrow? Making everyone excited? Yeah. And what do you think will be the biggest surprise tomorrow? I guess the overall show. They leveled up so much. They brought a bigger stage. The Expo is bigger. Great athletes. I think the Arnold's Classic by itself evolved a lot. Yep. Okay. And obviously, you're one of the favorites and you're, you know, one of the best in the world. But do you get nervous about anything for tomorrow? What do you get most nervous about? Or is there anything you feel insecure about or worried about? I get excited. I get excited. You get excited. I know what to do. We've done the job. And now we deliver. You are one of the most experienced people coming into the show. And you are, I mean, everyone says you're almost getting better as you get along. And what have you learned that you're going in with today that you didn't know from your experience, say, 10 years ago? Hmm. Well, I just, the process is, is where you learn, you know, through every prep. It's a process. And that's where you learn. And that's where you have the most values in the process. You know, we can win. You can lose. But if you're not learning anything from the process, then it's a lost cause. So, winning is great. But not winning often teaches you more. And that makes you evaluate things more. Because if you win, you know, what do you have to reflect, right? Where's the, where's the chase? The chase. So, I've learned to be content and satisfied in the work that I put in. No matter if it's rewarded or not, I have to, I have to appreciate my own work. Because I know what I put in. No matter if it's, the results I get are the greatest or not, I still love the sport. I still love the process. I'm still learning. I'm still gaining experience. Well, you are technically one of the greatest because you're a Mr. Olympian. You're one of the only people in this pool that is, you know. So, you must have an edge over everyone else in here. You're older than them. They're younger. But you have an edge. What's your edge? Yeah. I don't think, I don't think of it as like an edge. I think that's probably the biggest edge. What I have accomplished is great. But I'm not stuck on it. And I'm still, still hungry. I'm still here. So, I think this is the edge. You know, all these guys are great. And seeing the new guys come in and seeing some guys go away, it's cool. It's a cool experience. But these young guys keep me hungry. You know, without them, I probably wouldn't have this drive and this hungry. So, I appreciate this young, fresh, new competition because it really helps bring life to the sport and me in this sport. Also, one more question because you've got a big queue behind you. What makes you, like, you're a big, strong dude. You're one of the best in the world at what you do. But you must get nervous or insecure about something or worried about something. Do you have something you're worried about going into the show or nervous? Everybody gets nervous about something, but... I didn't struggle with nerves, like, regarding stage, performance, like, I thought I would. It wasn't the reaction that I thought I would have. I thought I would, but it just didn't come. But what I learned to understand is that you always have resistance. And... You have to be able to... Speak against the resistance and any negativity that may happen. Like, right now, I could be in panic mode if I wanted to. But... What's the point of me being in panic mode? Yes, I have luggage that's not here yet. It's not arrived. I need closing trunks tomorrow. They're not here. I can panic, but... In my panicking... Whether I get myself tomorrow or not... Was it worth panicking going? No. No. I can't control it. It's the way it happened. It's a part of a process I have to experience. And... I'm going to gain something out of it regardless. So don't panic. I just want to watch and jerk and enjoy the process. Control what I can control right now. So... I think when it comes to nerves... When it comes to anxiety... I think... I've developed the ability to try to resist that... As much as possible. Because I see it as worthless. You know... It's a worthless pursuit to be in this state of mind... When you're trying to accomplish anything. And that one gets in your way. So... I try to avoid it. I try... If I do identify it... Then I try to make sure I deal with it appropriately. To where... I'm not carrying it into... Any kind of aspect. So... Yeah. When all this stuff starts happening... This weekend... So far... It's like... Okay. I do what I can. Keep moving. And we'll see what happens. You have a very realist perspective. It's really interesting. But then... Also in your mind... Who's going to win this weekend? Oh... Well... In my mind... The... You know... If we're being realistic about who's going to win this weekend... It's obviously Andrew. Yeah. He has the most momentum. I mean... I understand bodybuilding. I understand the game. So Andrew has a lot of momentum. We're looking for Martin to come back and... Capitalize on... Some turbulence... In his performance... And his mind state. And then of course you have me... Who's really trying to capitalize... And improve... And show that I can still stand... And be competitive... And even... Beat these guys on occasions. So... That's... That's how I see it. I wonder... I wonder... Thank you.