IGF-1 long R3 the best anabolic you can use but will it cut your life short? Find out. How's everything with you? What's going on? I'll call you another time. I'm I'm recording. I have a guy doing a documentary with me. Jumbo mode. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RXVision, rxmuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. I'm your host of the Farooqi Soul. Glad you could join us on this the second day of April in 2025. It is April already. Before you know it, it's going to start to get nice and warm. Contest season is going to be in full bloom. Of course, this past weekend was the Detroit Pro, which saw William Bonak win in the open class. Tight battle between him and Cassan Herat, who by the way just announced that he's going to be doing Fibo uh next week. So, it'll be Sassan Herat, it'll be Sergio Oliva Jr. uh at Fibo in Germany. Of course, Matt Grego edging out Wesley Vissers in classic physique. So, an exciting show and now things are going to start to heat up over the course of the next few weeks. Of course, you got Fibo coming up next week. Um Pittsburgh in a matter of five weeks and then the New York Pro Cal and on we go. We're going to go right into the questions. The questions on the first two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo Experience. First question, your thoughts on supplementing with uh HMBB. Is it really in your opinion that effective? HMBB um was an interesting supplement when it came out in the 90s because uh Bill Phillips of EAS fame is the one who really popularized it and you know was basically touting it as like the the the natural supplement that's going to build a lot of muscle. And the the hype around it was that it was a a more potent form of leucine. And we knew that leucine was important. It's a branch chain amino acid that turns on the protein uh synthesis machinery in the cells. So post-workout you take, you know, you want to take in a supplement that has or you know protein that has high levels of branch chained amino acids, specifically leucine turns on protein machinery and you start repairing muscle. So the idea was that if you could take a metabolite of leucine that's like one step closer to what the active metabolite is that it would work better. And there was some studies they did on like you know people that had AIDS who were had wasting syndrome and they were giving them HMD and they were showing that they that they were you know they weren't as catabolic and they weren't losing as much weight. And I always wondered whether it was the fact that they were giving them more protein and if that really, you know, was what what did it or not. But there is some research to to suggest that HMBB could definitely help with recovery a little bit. Probably more so if you're natural. But, you know, is it worth the price? And that that's what I always have to like weigh. You know, in other words, you g if you're gonna get like a tenth of a percent more recovery, but you're spending, you know, 50 bucks on the product and you're not taking a multivitamin or you're not taking an essential fatty acid or you're not taking a fiber supplement because you can't afford everything, then it's probably not worth it. If you have expendable income and you want to try it, I I don't I don't think there's anything wrong with using it. I think it could it could only help. It's not going to hurt you in any way. But for most people who eat a very high protein diet, especially for people who post-workout take, you know, a whey protein isolate shake like like isolize after they train, there's so much leucine in there already that it's probably not going to do very much. It's it's like I said, it's better for people who are on the run and people who don't eat right and don't get enough protein. And those people will see more results from HMBB supplements than say uh the person who's already eating perfectly. Second question. Again, these first two questions from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Um, again, we talked about the fact that it's getting nice and warm now. Summer around the corner. Currently, I'm trying to just keep my muscle while shedding some fat. Was wondering what time of the day you suggest I eat carbs. I guess presumably for the purpose of losing weight. I you know I hate this question and I get it all the time and and I and that's why I answer it all the time because I know it's a relevant question because a lot of people answer why people think that they should only eat carbs like around workouts pre-workout post-workout or in only in the morning you know or I I don't get it. Okay, it doesn't make sense to me. And think about this. What is carbs? Carbs are a fuel source, right? And specifically to the brain more so than the muscles. muscles use it, but the brain really needs the brain gobbles down carbs, right? It gobbles up glucose as a fuel source. So, why would you only take in carbs? Let's say your carb intake for the day is 100 grams. Just just to make the math easy, right? Why would you take all 100 grams like in the morning and then right after you train? Like, so that by noon you're done with your carbs for the day. For for what reason? There's no reason for that. If because remember carbs are like fuel. So, if you don't need the carbs, your body stores them as glycogen in the muscle. Now, assuming you're not overeating carbs where the glycogen stores are so full that one extra gram of carb is going to actually cause, you know, fat storage, you know, which is not going to happen in a depleted state when you're dieting, then then it doesn't matter when you eat the carbs. So, you might as well spread them out throughout the day so that you have a nice even distribution, your brain has a steady, you know, supply of glucose, and you feel good. That's the the key is how many grams of carbs do I need to lose weight but how but yet still be able to fuel my activities. And if the answer to that question is that the there is any carbs that I eat I get fat from or I don't lose weight then you need to do a ketogenic diet. But if you can eat some carbs and still lose weight which a lot of people can very easily. I have a lot of clients that are on carb diets. Then you got to figure out what the minimum amount is and then spread them out. So, if you're eating 100 grams for the day, do 25 grams at at four meals spread throughout the day. And you could do one at at the night at at the later meal at dinner time so that you're not starving all night. There's nothing wrong with that because your body is it's still 100 grams of carbs. Your body's going to utilize it probably better if you spread it out. Plus, it will stimulate your metabolism a little bit. So, I don't like this. I only eat, you know, 80 grams of carbs today. I'm gonna eat it all in the morning at breakfast so that I can burn more fat the rest of the day. That's not how it works. It doesn't work that way. The By the way, these questions, good questions, both from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. You can download it on your iPhone or your Android store or Android from the Android store and the iTunes store. It's $29 a month. You get Dave Palumbo, me as your coach in your back pocket. You get access to all my writings, all my videos, all in a nice organized way on the app. All my uh cycles are there, offseason pre-contest, beginner, advanced diets, the ketogenic diets there, my psych carb cycling diets there. It's a We have workouts up there. I do a Q&A um video exclusively for the app members every single week. So, it's an extra Ask Dave every week just for the app members. Plus, I answer everyone's questions and in an open forum so everyone sees everyone's questions and everyone's answers. It's a great learning experience. Uh you guys have supported the app. It has grown every single month since I launched it several years ago and thank you for the support and keep the questions coming. Uh before we go to the rest of our questions, uh our friends at Tite Medical Center, Dave, do have a couple of different specials going on. One is a blood work special. Uh for males panel, $130, for females, $200, and then um for IGF-1, IGF-1 LR3. I know we get a lot of questions about that. They have $30 off using their uh for their IGF-1 LR3 therapy. Obviously, you could use their promo code Titan life or just tell them that Dave Paloma and RX Muscle sent you. I uh made a big mistake, Sid. I switched my insurance. I was I had United Healthcare and then I switched to it's called Florida Blue. It's like Blue Cross Blue Shield, but it's just it's called Florida Blue. It's just for Florida. And um it's supposed to be it was supposed to be better. I don't know. Who knows? So, I didn't realize that you can't use LabCore, who I always use for Florida Blue. You have to use Quest, you know, to get your blood work done. I went to LabCore like I always do and I got a bill and I'm going to tell you this bill was so high. It was like $800 for blood work. So I realized right then and there and I had to pay it. I didn't have a choice. It was my own stupid mistake. I I realized that blood work is very expensive if you do not have insurance. And a lot of guys said I hate to say it, a lot of women out there don't have insurance. So you still got to get your blood work done. Guys, Titan is giving you an awesome awesome price on this blood work. this. You don't even know how cheap it is. I'm telling you, I got one one specific test I had was like $200. So, you're gonna get your whole blood panel, hormones, and everything done at Titan. Contact them, titanicalenter.com. Tell them we sent you. You're going to get even a bigger discount. Plus, the long R3 IGF-1, which comes right from their compounding lab. A lot of people think a lot of the IGF-1 on the on the black market is is fake, and they're right. It is fake. This stuff is not fake. It comes right from the compounding laboratory. It will be sent to your house with a prescription and they they have great products there. But I'm telling you that blood work special act quickly. That is a super deal. Take questions from our Facebook page, Instagram, our YouTube community page and our various social media outlets. Um first question is about so baseball related question but it is peed related uh from brother Gibbs. Uh there is a player on the Atlanta Braves Juren Proar recently suspended 80 games for a PD violation. Turns out that the substance he was using was HCG, which I know you've talked about in your baby making protocol to help guys start making testosterone again. Do you think it really had any performance enhancement properties for a baseball player? It probably did if he wasn't taking anything else with it. Okay. So, um, he probably got a little boost. It definitely raised his testosterone for sure. Now, the interesting thing is what if you're a baseball player? Here's a good scenario, Sid, since you're in into all these sports. What if you're a baseball player and you can't get your wife pregnant and they put you on a protocol? Let's not let's assume Dave Palumbo didn't put you on the protocol. Let's assume the fertility doctor put you on a protocol of HCG, HMG, Clomid. Um, is that acceptable or would that be considered performance enhancement since they're on these these substances that are actually banned by the Major League Baseball League, but yet, you know, the doctor has medically prescribed them. That's I mean look in how many instances has there have there been where they get popped for a substance that actually has no direct impact on the performance but they could rule it to be say a masking agent which happens in a lot of these cases. Yeah. But no but if if you get popped for something that really didn't help you then you're an idiot because you were using a substance that didn't even giving you an advantage. But what I'm saying is it's if I was this guy I would say I'm trying to get my wife pregnant. That's the only that's why I'm taking it. I mean, he should have consulted with me. I could have given him a good excuse, but there are really legitimate people that want, you know, baseball players that might want to try to get their wife pregnant. They can't. They go to fertility and now they're breaking the the rules of baseball. So, I don't know if I I don't know if I would have HCG on that list, but I guess they have to do it because people will, you know, they'll take it every day. They'll abuse it and they'll And yes, you can raise your testosterone enough to get a significant uh effect. It's not the same thing as taking HRT because you're still stimulating your natural production, but you are artificially enhancing your testosterone. So, uh, question about Jimmy the Bulls from Raw Muscle Glutes. No, this is from actually from Rob. Where is he? He says, "Uncle Jimmy." Now, you say every week that you send him the link for after hours, but yet he's uh I have a theory. I have a theory. I think he's on the International Space Station. I think they forgot about him up there. And I think when Elon Musk sent that that rocket up there to get those other two people that uh he was hiding in a closet there and he uh and they missed him and and now he's going to have to stay up there for another like six, eight months until they can send up another rocket. Go get him. It's my that's my working theory right now. So there you go. Hopefully Jimmy, if you're watching from space, hopefully uh we'll see you soon. Uh well, Jimmy doesn't Jimmy doesn't think there is outer space because he thinks we're on the flat earth. So he probably doesn't go along with that. So he doesn't know where he is right now. Uh, what advice or guidelines do you give your clients about working out when sick? Now, sick could mean cold, could mean flu, it could mean COVID nowadays. What point do you tell them to take a day off versus working through it? I I have a very there's AI have a nice line in the sand. If you have a fever, stay home. If you don't have a fever, go to the gym. Now, if you're if you're if you don't have a fever, but you're like super like contagious and you're like, you know, coughing and sneezing or or you know, maybe you're throwing up, obviously stay home. But usually when you have that when you're that severely sick, you do have a fever at that point. So, take your fever, take your temperature. If you don't have a fever and you feel, you know, you just maybe scratchy throat or maybe just coughing a little bit, you can go to the gym. If however you have a fever, your body is telling you lay low for a couple days and to take a day off. The problem and the reason why I'm I'm I'm putting this line in the sand is because I know a lot of people, some of them are my clients, some of them are just regular people who will use any little runny nose as an excuse not to go to the gym. And that's just BS. Matter of fact, some a lot of times you feel better after you go to the gym if you're if you're experiencing a little bit of sickness. Like I've had like a scratchy throat sometimes and I felt like kind of like a little congested. I've gone to the gym. I've done a workout. I've done some cardio. And I when I got done, I felt like a million bucks. I felt a thousand times better. So once again, temperature, stay home. No temperature, go to the gym. Um, Alexander ruined training. Do people feel better when they have different sources of carbs? For example, if I were to train after my first meal, I would feel better after having a whole tin of say pineapple, 50 to 55 grams carbs instead of oats or toast. Obviously with protein fats, if I train after two to three meals, doesn't matter what carbs I eat. Well, I mean, sugars digest quicker. So, it's going right into your bloodstream. So, it's raising your, you know, your blood sugar levels. So, you're feeling it faster. Whereas oatmeal is a is a low glycemic carb, which means it takes longer to get into the bloodstream, which means that's why it has less insulin release in response to it because it trickles in over a longer period of time. So you're gonna it's going to take you longer to get that buildup of the higher blood sugar in your bloodstream where you're going to feel more energy. So yeah, sometimes in the morning, especially if you're not dieting, you know, actually when you are dieting, I usually give people very fast acting carbs so they can kind of get in their system pretty quickly and do its thing. So you know, I use in the morning I I I stopped using oatmeal a couple years ago. I I don't like it. I just it makes you feel bloated and I use grits or cream of rice, but my my late latest go-to has been grits. I buy the packets of unflavored grits. I put a packet or two, depending on how many grams of carbs I want, into a bowl. I put like three Splendor in there and then I put um a handful of raisins in there and I put depending on how many eggs I'm eating, but let's say I'm eating four whole eggs, four whole omega-3 eggs. I put it in there. I I mix it all together. I might add a little bit of water. Sometimes I don't need the water. It depends on how many eggs I put in there. And I put it in the microwave for three and a half minutes. And you might even want to stir it halfway through. You don't have to. And it comes out. It's absolutely delicious. The the grits absorb the eggs. It's the Splenda gives it a nice sweet taste. The raisins a little something to bite on. And I have that almost every single morning. That's my breakfast. And it's high protein, moderate fat, you know, moderate carbs depending on how many packets of I usually put one packet of grits in. I don't I don't go crazy on the carbs. Question about men that are between 40 and 50. Your experience. What is your experience evaluating PSA blood blood lab values in men between their 40s and 50s? Um, still running cycles or even TRT dosage. Do you see any concerning increases or are most situations transient due to dosage or compounds being used? I don't see any any um direct correlation between being on a steroid cycle and high PSA levels. So, a lot of guys, you know, in their 40s and 50s, my age range, you know, have enlarged prostates a little bit. I I think mine has, you know, probably gotten bigger, too. Probably not as much because I'm on I've been taking finasteride for, you know, 25 years, but, you know, a lot of people have higher um prostate or bigger prostates, but that doesn't mean their PSA goes up. The PSA goes up usually if you have either an infection of your prostate, prostatitis, or you you know, you have prostate cancer. Uh the problem is that when you go for blood work and you have a high PSA, all of a sudden what do you immediately think? I have cancer. 99% of the time it's not cancer. It's like I said, it's an irritation of the prostate. It could be an infection in there. You might need to take antibiotics. Sometimes if you you know some guys I I had one client who was had just started dating this new girl and they were having sex like three times a day and it was his prostate just got irritated and it raised his PSA level. So those can definitely happen. Um, once again, you know, if your PSA is consistently high, high high, high high, and there's no infection, then you might need to get a biopsy done to make sure you don't have prostate cancer. But in most cases, it's not that. Um, but your PSA shouldn't be high. Like my PSA is never high, you know. So, um, some people do have a family history of higher PSAs, and those people, they have to really watch their prostate, maybe get a CT scan every once in a while, make sure, you know, there is nothing going on there. There's no cells growing that shouldn't be growing. But uh like I said, your PSA should not be going up on a regular basis unless there is some kind of irritation or something going on there. I know we discussed this a very long time ago and that is, you know, balancing um a nineto-ive job and having a bodybuilding career versus um being a career bodybuilder. So, Fed Smoker says this was being discussed on Guy Sister Nino's podcast. Do you think having a nineto-ive job structure is better for bodybuilding or having quote unquote lots of free time? Well, you know, for me, when I had lots and lots of free time when I used to when I was bodybuilding, I always found stuff to do. I wasn't I'm not like AI'm not like a person who gets bored easily. Like I'm I always have projects I'm doing and stuff like that. So, I I'm a guy who's good with free time like to to to manage my own time. A lot of people don't do well managing their free time and what they do is they start doing destructive things, drugs, because they're bored, you know, they they and then then what happens is they get lazy and then they don't even they miss gym. So a lot of people need that structure, you know, to go to a job. Now, I was trying to think about what what's better to have your own business or a nine-to-five job while you're bodybuilding. And I think the answer is nine to five because at least you don't have responsibilities outside of that 9-to-f5 window. So, you go into work at 9:00, you leave at 5, you're done. If you have your own business, it's even though you can organize your hours, like I can go to the gym whenever I want and I can, you know, do things when I want and and move around my schedule, I never stop working. Now, that's fine for me now because I don't compete. But if I had to worry about getting in, you know, 12 meals a day and getting to the gym and and doing an intense workout and and being there with my training partner and and then I had to worry about getting enough sleep, I couldn't do it. I would be I if I had to have a job like that was conventional, I'd be better off on a nine-to-five schedule because then I could bring my food with me and be organized. You have to be very organized when you have that. But um you know having too much free time for a lot of people is just not a good thing. You know unless like I said you're like a self-motivated lunatic like me you know or guy sister you know we could you know we could we could keep ourselves busy because we'll give we we'll have our own agenda but a lot of guys get lost and they start wandering you know off the path when they do that. So I would recommend a nineto-5 you know unless you look unless you're making good money. If you if you're if a lot of people really focus on their social media, their YouTube channel, and if you're doing that and you can put your efforts into that, then and you're making money from it, knock yourself out. I think it's great. Uh there seems to be a debate between health experts about raising IGF-1. Is it healthy long-term HGH to two IUs, raising the IFG, IGF-1 to around 350? Some say the longest living humans actually have low IGF-1, right? Yeah. Um there was a study, there was a couple years ago, remember they were saying that metformin actually increased longevity. They said it was everyone should take it because it's good for longevity. Well, the way it increases longevity is it reduces IGF-1 release. It actually suppresses it. So if you're a bodybuilder and you're taking metformin, and I believe me, I warned you guys not to take it, right? Remember I said take a long acting insulin. Metformin blocks IGF-1 release. So it's it's going to inhibit the anabolic, you know, abilities of your body. Uh so you're not going to grow as well. Okay? So yes, low IGF-1 has been correlated with longer life. And and I'll tell you why. Because IGF-1 can make tumors grow. So if you if you get cancer cells in your body coming on or you have some sort of a cancer, IGF-1 will make it grow faster. So the idea is that if you have lower IGF-1, the cancer doesn't grow as well and your immune immune system has a longer time to and a better ability to eat up the cancer cells because remember the the body produces what's called natural killer cells. It's a an immune cell that's sole job is to eat up cancer cells. Now why would we have these natural killer cells in our body if the body wasn't designed to kill cancer cells? In other words, cancer cells are a normal thing that happens on a regular basis in our body. But the body has a defense mechanism against them. And the reason it's there is because it's it's it's an evolutionary mechanism of survival. The problem is when they get suppressed these natural killer cells because you're not eating right or you're stressed out or whatever the case may be immuno compromised. That's when these these weird cancers grow like you know I remember during the AIDS epidemic the you know the people would get that that weird saroma caposia saroma and they couldn't figure out why it was because their immune system is suppressed and their body couldn't produce the natural killer cells that it needed. So, um, you know, in one essence, you know, we want to live a long time, but I think the bodybuilding lifestyle because we eat right, we sleep well, we we exercise. That in and of itself makes it less likely that you're going to get cancer because you have a better immune system. Your body, you know, eats up these cancer cells. So, we can handle higher IGF-1 levels because, in other words, it's like saying, well, you know what? I don't want to give anyone anything that's too anabolic. because it might kill the it might grow cancer cells. Well, how about just keeping your body healthy so you don't get the cancer cells to begin with and keep your immune system healthy. That's a better way to be rather than try to take a pill to cure the problem. So, I believe, you know, if you're a healthy adult athlete, you know, who exercises and eat right, eats right, you want your IGF-1 levels high because you're going to recover better. You're going to build muscle better. You're going to maintain lean muscle tissue at a higher level, and you're and remember, IGF-1 is one of the most potent anabolic hormones in the body. It actually turns stem cells into new muscle cells into new muscle tissue. So when you break down muscle, not only are you repairing the muscle that's there, you're actually producing new muscle cells when you have IGF uh present in high levels. So if you whether you're exogenously taking it or you're naturally inducing it, IGF-1 is is a is a great anabolic hormone. The key is not to let yourself get run down. You don't want to not you don't want to sleep three hours a night. You don't want to be in a stressful situation all the time because that you don't want to, you know, not take vitamins and and essential fats and, you know, all the things that your body requires because then you will be suppressed your immune system and then you will be more vulnerable to cancer. When I got to thyroid cancer, I was had my kids were really young. I was only sleeping like four to six hours a night. I I I believe that that really had a something to do with the fact that my maybe my immune system was not functioning at optimal levels at that point. So I don't think that you can say IGF-1 bad, you know, uh just because of of some of these studies. I think it's it's they're taken out of context. A question about um best I guess best way to do TRTs from Sarah Bogish. Um 100 MGs every four days, intramuscular in the glutes or subq in the abdomen? I don't like subq and I'm going to tell you why. I don't care what the studies say. Oh, put it micro dose it on subq. Anytime you put something subq, it always irritates that tissue there. And you know what? You can build up little like marks where you're putting it. You can get scar tissue under there. If you go deep into a muscle with a new syringe, the the chances of you having anything any even remnant of the fact that you did that is slim to none. So you you're not taking a a high volume of stuff anyway. So you could take a literally take a a 27 gauge 1 cc insulin pin which will draw up an oil and you can just pop it right in your deltoid. Okay, muscle and there's your HRT shot for the week. Now how much you take is really dependent on what your levels are. And I've talked about this before. I literally take 80 milligrams a week now because when at 80 milligrams a week I am at 850 900 you know which is the high normal. If I take a 100 milligrams a week I'm at 1,200. I'm just a hyper resppond. I don't I utilize testosterone really well. If I were to take 200 milligrams a week, I would probably be at 1500. So, I self-regulate how much I take because I know that my body utilizes better. I know other people, however, who could take 400 milligrams a week and they're still not at a thousand, okay, total testosterone. Why? They utilize testosterone. They probably their body inactivates a lot of the testosterone that they're putting into their body. So, you got to know what your levels are. And the only way to do that is to go for blood work. And guess what? Our good friends at Titan Medical Center this week are having a blood work uh special. So, it works out very perfectly. If you're not sure what your levels are and you don't know how much to take, go get them checked out. Perfectly placed. Uh question from RP. As one of the bigger guys in the gym who uses an intra for carbs, I'm seeing a trend with other lifters consuming I mean he used the example of fair life lactose-free milk consuming 80 grams of protein while they weight train. Do you see a benefit to this during a workout versus consuming a whey protein isolate shake post-workout? Some have said it accelerated their gains. I personally don't buy into this trend. First of all, no milk is lactosefree. Let me just tell you that. So don't don't believe the hype. It's milk that they put lactase enzyme in. So that's number one. Number two, you don't eat you don't eat while you're training like a like a whole food, which milk would be considered a whole food. And the reason is because when you're training, your body is diverting all the blood supply away from the digestive system and into the muscles. So that if if you ever notice, I mean, unless you're guzzling guzzling water, you never have to pee while you're while you're working out. You could train for an hour and a half and you you don't have to go to the bathroom. As soon as you're done, all of a sudden you got to go to the bathroom because the kidneys are the body has diverted blood supply away from the kidneys. The kidneys are not even filtering. Okay? Just like the digestive system. If you eat like a pizza pie 10 minutes, 15 minutes before you go to the gym, that pizza is going to lay in your stomach until probably the workouts over and then it'll start digesting it. So, you don't want to drinking milk, you know, while you're training is is ludicrous. I mean, having some, you know, branch chained aminos, essential amino acids, like like our Amino Evolve product, sipping that while you're training, that's something your body can absorb because it's already digested. It's just going right into the bloodstream. But doing a whole food product, whether it be a liquid whole food product or a solid, is is is ludicrous while you're training. It's not going to do anything for you. Somebody says that they love Sid, but he has really bad under eye circles, and Dave never said anything to him. Uh Dave, what would you suggest for bad under eye circles? You know, uh stem cells. Stem cells. You got to get some stem cells. Yeah, they you got to it's anti-aging. I don't think Yeah, I think the reason Sid has those circles is he doesn't sleep very much. He's got a young child sleeping and he and he doesn't sleep enough. So, my suggestion is to get more sleep. Um there, you know, I was in this is a true story. I was in Las Vegas for the Olympia and I went to the Arya Hotel because my daughter's name is Arya and I wanted to get her a sweatshirt there. And in the Arya hotel gift shop, they had this like I don't know they were doing like you know they had like like creams and anti-aging stuff and they you know they grab you and they put you in the chair and they're like let me put this cream on your face. You're going to see your the circles around your eyes are going to disappear. And they put this cream around my eye and and sure enough it like it like shrunk up all the like swelling there and it disappeared. Not completely, but it was it was significant enough that I bought the I bought the product from them. And uh it's some kind of like anti-aging serum. It's got like endothelial growth factor in it. It's got some supposedly stem cell activating. Who the freak knows? All I know is it did work. There are some creams that are like a tightening creams that you can put around your eyes. I mean a lot of women probably know about it more us men we don't know about any of that that stuff. I mean, women don't have circles on their eyes because they use makeup. But, uh, you know, sometimes, you know, even putting like an ice pack on your eyes or something like that in the morning if if you're really tired, but there's nothing. The only way to get rid of circles that are caused by not sleeping is to sleep. There's your answer. There you go. Uh, question about I guess um, okay, again, we're talking about somebody wants to get lean for the summer and, you know, wants to balance it out cardio protocols. 39 years old uh at 271 pounds was at 271 currently at 230. The goal is to hit 200 lbs lean. I'm on your low carb diet. Also on 400 mg sip a week, 200 mg strong pro a week. 250 oh no 25 mcg T3 and 40 mcgen splitted uh split during the day. My issue is that I'm very tired all the time and it's getting hard to lose the fat while training. I get in the same pumps but during the day I'm dragging. any recommendations on my cycle or what I could be doing wrong? Seven hours of sleep, training three times a week, two days uh of one hour cardio and he wants to get lean for the summer. Welcome to the jungle. It's it's it's not fun dieting. Yeah, you will be tired. It's while you're eating your meal, you probably feel great. 10 minutes later, you want to go to you just want to go to sleep, you know? Yeah. I mean, talk to anyone who's on a contest diet. A lot of caffeine usually is is is helpful. Um, what I always say is controlled delivery of caffeine, meaning that use it when you absolutely need it because if you use it all day long, you're going to get immune to it, it's not going to do anything for you. So, you know, I um I would always, you know, drink coffee at at key moments during the day, like if I knew it before I was going to train, usually in the morning, the morning I would eat my morning meal, you know, even if it was after cardio and I just wanted to go to sleep, you know, and luckily sometimes I, you know, when I was back in my day, I was able to do naps during the day, which really helped a lot. But yeah, you just feel tired and just don't want to do anything. Especially the leaner you get. The leaner you get, you feel it even more. And it's it's just part of the game. And a lot of people just give into it. And you know what? Unfortunately, when you're tired, a lot of times that translates into I'm hungry. And you're not really hungry. You just want to sleep. And people have jobs. You know, they you got to you got to do train people and stuff like that. So, you're going to have to find a way whether you use a pre-workout, you know, like our stimul stimulize max is coming out very soon. We have it in the works and I think people are going to really like it. But, uh, even coffee is is is good. But, like I said, use it sparingly. Don't use it just be just for the sake of using it. Use it when you absolutely need it. But that's very common. By the way, you know, a lot of people said that have been asking me, I found these in my uh in one of my drawers. I have these these little crazy workout guy workout maniac guys and everyone's been asking me where can I get these. Where can I get these? And the truth is I don't think anyone makes them anymore. These are I've had them for years and years and years. It was a great little gift for any bodybuilder would love these things. You I think that someone should start making these things again. I think it's it's a great idea. They look really cool. So before we go, tomorrow is the long awaited release of Jumbo Palumbo documentary. So there are a couple of things here. One, yes, uh we will be releasing documentary. We're going to go at noon Eastern Standard Time. We're going to set it live as a premiere. So you you get to watch along, comment as you see it, but also uh starting tonight uh at midnight Eastern Standard Time, we're going to have a one-day sale in commemoration of the documentary. So that sale is going to go live. It's going to be uh midnight to midnight. So deal will expire tomorrow night, Thursday night, at 11:59 p.m. That's US Eastern Standard Time. It'll go live tonight at midnight, US Eastern Standard Time. I'm not going to tell you exactly what it is, so you'll find out um at about about two hours prior to the actual sale. But yes, we're gonna have a big sale to commemorate. Uh Dave, your thoughts? I mean, 24 hours now, I guess, uh from the release of your documentary. Yeah, I'm I'm very critical, you know, of every about myself and I'm very critical of like everything else. And I had really no control over the documentary other than the fact that you know I had some feedback into it obviously and I was I was being filmed but uh I kind of left it up to Alexi who's the the brainchild behind filming it and editing it. He did I think he did a phenomenal job editing it. You know we we had a couple of uh edits that we then went back and I gave him some of my feedback. My sister even gave him some feedback and he went and changed some stuff and uh I think it I think it's even I think it's it's about as good as it could be right now. I I bet you he could write he could almost do another documentary with all the footage that he took probably out of it. I told him he should do like he did like a little bloopers at the end, but I told him he should do a whole blooper reel probably just on the top like the making we should do the making of the documentary, you know, might be even funnier uh because there was some funny scenes in there that he didn't include. But I think I think it's a a good kind of like a little bit of a retrospective on my career and he and and and he asked me some very difficult questions. I think he wanted to bring out, you know, the fact that I'm not a robot, you know, because everyone thinks, you know, Dave's been doing this for so many years. He's just he's like a machine. He wanted to show the, you know, the emotional side and the vulnerable side of me, too. So, there's there's some scenes that I'm not that comfortable with, but I knew needed to be put in there. So, I think that people will will enjoy it. It's uh it's kind of like a day in the life of of what I do now more so than just a retrospective on what happened in the past. It's not really a biography. It's more of like a how did I get to where I am now and what's going on now. So, you it's kind of like a a very, you know, high-end version of a day in the life of Dave Palumbo. And I So, I think and I think people like this. I don't think a lot of people know what I do kind of on a regular basis now other than when I talk about it. So, they get to actually see it. Alexi followed me around. You know, he drove next to me, drove with me, he went to restaurants with me, he we went everywhere together for 10 days. So this is this documentary is pretty much based on a 10 days of him spending with me and he did I think he did a really really good job and I people will enjoy it. Uh I'm happy to say we're putting it up for free. No one has to pay for it. It's it's you watch it on the YouTube channel and give us a like and uh you know or give us a dislike whatever you whatever you want to do. And uh hopefully everyone will will share it with their friends and uh it'll it'll bring joy to people and and help enable them to kind of escape their own life for an hour and whatever many minutes this thing runs. So that'll be tomorrow. And then of course I I figured we have to, you know, celebrate the release of it. So I'm going to do a really nice species nutrition scale sale. So uh make sure you act. It's only going to be 24 hours. Don't don't hit me up after the sale like the next day and say, "Oh, I just saw the documentary. Can I I I missed the sale. Sorry. So, make sure you you check out the sale tomorrow. Tomorrow, noon, US Eastern Standard Time, the release, the worldwide premiere of the Jumbo Palumbo podcast documentary. Documentary is going to go live tomorrow. It's going to be released. How come we didn't do a red carpet like George Ferris? I know, right? There you go. That that's the one thing that's missing. So, um you know, I was going to say, uh yes, I'm not a doctor. So, I'm not a doctor. that place I used to go to uh here in Westbury, Taco Joe's. We could have had it outside there instead of the red carpet, but unfortunately Taco Joe's closed down and uh so that won't be happening. But nonetheless, yeah, tomorrow US Eastern Standard Time at noon. We're going to be releasing uh the documentary. We're going to release it as a premiere, so you'll be able to watch along, comment, have some fun with it, and then of course the sale goes live tonight uh at midnight US Eastern Standard Time. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. If you like what you're watching, hit the like button, comment below. And as always, we appreciate all of your support for Dave Palumbo. I'm Sadiq Farooqi. We'll see you next time.