What should you do with your gear while you're traveling? I'm going to tell you how to get it to where you're going. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RX Television, RXMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, the Arnold Classic Week edition of Ask Dave. I'm your host Farooqi. Thanking you for joining us here on Arnold Classic Week. In just about a day or tomorrow, rather, we're going to be in Columbus, Ohio. Dave and I, uh, Chris Aceto is going to be there as well, and we're going to be providing you with wall-to-wall coverage of the 2026 Arnold Classic. Everything really kicks off, um, with the Meet the Athletes, which is going to be Thursday night. So, we're going to try to get maybe not everyone, but at least the the ones that you absolutely want to see. Uh, try to get the video edited so that we have it on YouTube as fast as we possibly can for you to enjoy. And then of course the competition begins Friday morning. Classic physique is going to begin uh 12:30 Eastern Standard Time pre-judging and then of course the night shows and then you never know who we're going to run into. Last year we had Phil Heath. Um John Hansen join us as well on our wrap-ups. So you know the who's who of bodybuilder going to be there and we're going to try to get as many of them on our wrapups on our recaps. Again if you haven't already done so subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss anything and everything that we have coming up this week in Columbus, Ohio. Right now on the channel, we have our interview with Derek Luns for twotime Mr. Olympia, as well as an all new episode of the After Hours podcast. Uh Dave, before we go to the questions, big news. Vmineraliz, the reformulated Vmineraliz is back in stock. And you have a b you have a bottle right there with you. >> Finally, it's here. Everyone's been asking about it. Here we have our methylated B vitamins. Here, methylated cobbalamin, methylated folic acid. We have vitamin K2, which directs calcium away from the blood vessels into the bones and muscles. We have vitamin D3 in a 5,000 units now, much higher than we had prior. This is the most comprehensive complete multivitamin, multi-mineral, antioxidant, polyphenolic uh plant extract product on the market. It's all you need. It's one bottle. It's got everything in it. I'm I'm I'm very proud actually to say that we we have this. I mean this and and Omega which is all your essential fats and and you really you just got to eat food after that and you got everything you need. Obviously fiberiz is a staple in everyone's plan. So if you use fiberiz mineraliz and omega you have got your bases covered. And like I said I always try to you know as new technology comes about as more information comes about I try to update things. Vmineraliz has been, you know, pretty much standard for the last, you know, you know, eight years or so. This is the first upgrade to it because I really wanted to add the the uh the vitamin K there. And I also wanted to and we have the different isoforms of vitamin K2 in there as well. So that's that's super important. And obviously more vitamin D3 and all the methylated B vitamins because we know a lot of people don't methylate the B vitamins and if you don't methylate them, you don't activate them and you can't utilize them properly. So, you guys are going to get even better health with Vmineralizer. I'm super happy that it's back in stock. Check it out at speciesnutrition.com. We're also going to have a big sale this coming weekend for the Arnold Classic. >> If you're not already following us on a species on our Instagram as well as our Tik Tok, which we're really trying to uh promote, we're doing contest giveaways now on a weekly basis. So, if you haven't already done so, go check it out. Go check out Species Nutrition on Instagram. And then as well, if you're on Tik Tok, go check us out. Species Nutrition on Tik Tok. Let's go to the question. >> Listen, listen. Hold on. I I got to say something about this. Listen, I I hate going to multiple places to check things. And I I resisted Tik Tok for a long time, but there's a lot of people on Tik Tok that are not on Instagram, and we got to be in both places. So, to kind of celebrate the launch of Species Nutrition on Tik Tok, we're giving away free [\h__\h] And you guys love free [\h__\h] That means free V-mineralize, free fiberize, free stimulize max. All our products will be given away free at some point. All you got to do is participate in the contests. A lot of times it's a goofy picture. Sometimes it's a little video. But every week we have a contest where we're giving free stuff away. So you're getting it for free. I mean, what is it? You're doing stuff on your own social media anyway. you might as well be creative and send it over to the species Tik Tok account and it will be featured not only on Tik Tok but on the species Instagram as well and we'll be giving away free product. But you got to post on the species Tik Tok. You got to follow us on the Tik Tok and show us the love and I'm going to give you free stuff for that. So can't lose. Let's go to our questions. The first two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Uh Dave, I'm going to the Arnold Classic on Thursday. I'm coming back on Monday. I can't take my gear with me and I'm currently on cycle. I I'm taking 250 sus EOD 150 EQ uh twice a week. So I'll miss Friday 250150 and Sunday 250 sus. Should I take an extra shot on Thursday and catch up on Monday or should I just skip and pick up when I get back? >> Good question. Don't FedEx exit to yourself if you live in Canada because we know how that went for some bigname guys a few years ago. Not a good idea. I do know people that do FedEx their stuff to the hotel rooms and if you're doing it domestically if you're in the United States, I mean that's not a bad idea, but back in the day, what I would do is I would just put the stuff in in my and and and you could still do it to this day. No one's looking for anabolic stairs. No one's looking to arrest you going through the airport. They're looking for weapons, bombs, and stuff like that. So, if you have a, you know, couple small bottles and you put it inside your sock and you wrap your sock up and put it in your luggage, no one's going to bother it. No one's stopping you. No one's arresting you. That that's not what they're looking for. They're looking for weapons. So, you can do that easily. If you're only going to be gone for like two or three days and you want to take a little you want to take an extra shot before you leave, that's fine, too. Probably easier. I was an urotic back in the day. I don't want to miss any shots and I was taking growth hormone every day. So, I always wanted to have my stuff available. So either way it works. If you want to take your stuff, just take what you what you're going to use for that couple of days. Put it inside your sock. Like I said, wrap it up, throw it inside your suitcase. The the suitcase you're going to check in, not the one you're going to bring as a carry-on on the plane, that might be a problem. And you shouldn't have any problems at all. Uh if you want to just, like I said, if you're only going to be gone for a couple days, you want to just take an extra shot before you go and you don't mind missing a few days, then that that's that's fine as well. It really depends what you're up to. No one is arresting you for having a bottle of testosterone in your socks if you traveling from New York to to Columbus, Ohio. It's just not happening. >> Second question, again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo experiment app. Uh Kurt Haven recently said after a study he did that test ananthate is superior than test sip. To the contrary, Dr. Todd Lee posted a rebuttal that SIP is better because it is more stable. Your personal opinion, professional opinion rather, and experience on this topic. Both are long acting esters. They're pretty comparable in terms of how long they last. And if you're doing a cycle of testosterone, you're probably taking it like three times a week anyway at least. So, you're not going to get any noticeable drops. You know what I mean? I've used both. I love both. I hate testropate. We've talked about that before. That's a short acting. So, I wouldn't even compare it. Between SIP and antate, I think there's very, very little variation between them. Some people respond better to one than the other, but I think it's more psychological. You know, in the past, they always said that anth was longer acting than cipate, but it's we're talking days. And once again, if you're doing it on an every other day injection protocol like I recommend and like a lot of people do, then you're not going to notice any difference. So, my suggestion is use what's real and what's more readily available. That that's that's my suggestion. And these two questions, by the way, good questions coming from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. I know you guys out there, I get a lot of questions saying, "How do I educate myself? How do I become a coach? How do I become knowledgeable enough? And I send all of you to take my secrets to becoming a diet guru course, which is an eight hour class. It's pre-recorded. It's on you can get get access to it through the link on my davepalo.com website, and you can watch the last class that I gave, which was done live, but it's pre-recorded. So, you have eight hours of of stuff to watch. Once you sign up for it, you can email me and I will send you the 100page manual that goes with that with all my protocols, all my cycles, everything that I've ever done is in that in that book. It's a tremendous resource you get with the course. And that's the best way to educate yourself. But to educate yourself on a daily basis because there's always new stuff coming out, you know, that might not even be in that course. Maybe something I just learned a week ago. That goes up on the Dave Palumbo Experience app and that's updated all the time with my latest writings, my latest videos. I do a Q&A on there every single week. So, it's like an extra ask Dave video that's up on that app. I ask answer everyone's questions in an open forum. So, everyone sees everyone's questions and answers. It's a tremendous learning experience. Plus, all my protocols and diets and, you know, offseason pre-contest, keto diets, all the cycles, everything's there. It's the greatest resource of all time. And for $29 a month, you can't go wrong. You download it from your Android store or the iTunes store and you get me in your back pocket to answer your questions anytime you want. And this is a tremendous tremendous resource. If you're a coach, you can write it off. It's an expense. It's an educational expense. So, it's not going to cost you anything. And it's it's great to have that. I wish I had this growing up. My I had to wait every month for Bill Phillips Muscle Media 2000 to come out just to get any little new snippets of information. Now you got me daily updating this thing. You know, I I want to just thank you guys for all the support. We have a lot of members and uh that's why I continue to do it. >> Before we go to the rest of our questions, uh Titan Medical has a sale on the recovery stack, the lowest that they've ever sold it. >> Um this is the stack that includes BPC-157, TV500, and KBV. $175 off the original price only this week. And they're also promoting the uh ARA 290 to stack on Yeah, you know, you know, I love this healing stack. The uh TB-500, the BBC157, the KPV, and the copper peptide. Great, great, you know, quad duo that just all kind of feed each other synergistically to help heal injuries and just make you feel better. So, I just take it like prophylactically just just to feel good on a regular basis. Even when I'm not in pain, I take it once a day just because I feel so good on it. And it's it's nice that they're offering such a discount on it. And I'll tell you why. Because the truth is, you know, you could I see gyms that are now selling peptides. It it it it baffles me that these people are doing this, but but they're doing it. I see it at the gyms. But the problem is that when you see these like gray market versions of these peptides, like you can see in the gym and health food stores, you know, and they're injectable. You just don't know what you're getting. There's no there's no way of knowing that what you're taking is really what's in there. It could just be a growth hormone releasing peptide for all you know. When you go to Titan Medical Center, all these peptides are compounded by a compounding pharmacy and sent to you with a prescription and everything. So, they're 100% legitimate. They've all been tested. They're all 100%, you know, potency of what they say on the bottle. The customer service is second to none at Titan Medical Center. And for me, I would rather spend the extra few bucks to have that certainty that I know what I'm taking is the real thing. And with a sale like this, I would get over there and take advantage of it. really. And when you when you head over to titanmedicalcenter.com, tell them Dave Palumbo and RXMuscle sent you for a great discount. >> Let's go to the rest of our questions from our YouTube community page. Um, why is it you probably asked how is it that Lee Priest never did PCT and is still able to get his wife pregnant? >> Um, Lee Priest is what we call a genetic freak. You never ask genetic freaks what they do or how they got to where there they are because they just don't know. Like when people doubt that Lee Priest used, you know, the dosages of stuff that he says he used, I believe him 100% because I've never seen a bigger genetic freak than him in my life. If you ever look at his hands and his feet and his and his calves and his forearms, they're inhuman. Whether he's on gear or not, they're still bigger than any person who takes gear. And that's just Lee. So to, you know, to wonder why he has a daughter and I don't even know if he if he was taking gear when he actually had his daughter because his daughter's, you know, she's not a young little girl. He had her probably, you know, you know, well after, you know, he might have even been on anabolics at that point. I don't know what the year was that he had his daughter, but he's a genetic freak. Ronnie Coleman had eight eight daughters all while on gear. So, you know, that's not the that's not the norm, though. So if you think, all right, I'm gonna take gear and I'm gonna get my girl pregnant, it's probably not going to happen. That's why the pregnancy protocol or the baby making protocol as I call it that I give out works so effectively because it does take advantage of science to turn back on the sperm production, the sperm motility, the sperm morphology so that you can get, you know, your wife or whatever pregnant when you want to. Uh for most people being on gear is just not going to cut it. Um, where I put it? All right. My abs keep cramping up every time I do abs exercise like bad. I'm hydrated and I can't figure out what's going on. I'm on TRT 200 mg a week. Nothing else. >> Yeah, that's, you know, that's kind of surprising. Usually when you're on, you know, some sort of testosterone, it actually makes you retain more fluid, which makes you better hydrated. Sometimes people restrict too much sodium in their diet. So, if you don't eat any salt on your foods, that was would probably be my guess as to what the problem is. Also, sometimes I know people that that take like multivitamins that have calcium in it, but they don't aren't balanced with the right amount of magnesium. Like Vmineralized, we put, you know, the right amount of calcium and magnesium. They're both chilated, so they're both absorbable, you know, through the stomach lining. As soon as you kind of swallow those pills, they're in a and I don't notice anyone who has any kind of magnesium calcium imbalance on demineralize because we use like I said the most absorbable chilated forms of these vitamins. So sometimes cramping can be like a magnesium deficiency especially if you take a lot of calcium. In my experience it's normally from not eating enough salt because people think that if I eat salt I'm going to get fat. I don't know why they have this this crazy notion. When you're off seasonason and you're training hard, you want to eat a lot of salt. You want to stay well hydrated. If you don't eat sodium, you're going to walk around dehydrated. You're not going to be as strong in the gym and you're not going to be in as an anabolic state. The muscle cells like to be well hydrated. So, my suggestion since you're not taking cluterol, so it can't be a clenbuterol craft. I would recommend salting your foods and if you're eating taking in a lot of calcium, either switch to demineralize or or try to balance your calcium with a little magnesium supplement. >> Uh, should HGH be run indefinitely for anti-aging? And what is your most recent IGF-1 level? >> I don't even know what my IGF it's it's it's like the high normal, but I don't take GH so I think I just I'm just naturally produce a lot of, you know, natural growth hormone. I think I just it's just something I've always done. But, you know, you can take GH theoretically year round if if you feel good on it and and you're doing it like a therapeutic dose like maybe you know two IUs per day. You know, if you're doing a lot high amounts like six, seven IUs, which is probably a waste of money, but let's say you're doing like six IUs there, I would probably take some breaks throughout maybe every 12 weeks, take four weeks off because you're going to make yourself really insulin resistant and you might start running some high fasting blood sugar. So, you might want to give your body a little break. Personally, I think lower dose over a long period of time is a much better way to go. Two to three IUs per day every day. Uh, you won't notice a lot of insulin resistance on a low dose of GH like that, but you get all the benefits. Growth hormone works long. It's better long term rather than shortterm hitting a lot of it because if you take too much of it, you're kind of wasting it because your your body's liver can only produce so much IGF-1 in response to growth hormone. Remember, growth hormone tells the liver produce IGF-1. But if you take beyond a certain amount per day, your your body just can't produce any more IGF-1. So, you're kind of wasting your time and your money in that sense. So, my suggestion would be less GH over a long period of time. Interesting one here. one drug from the pro ranks I mean I let's just say high level of bodybuilding that you would ban to improve the look of today's physiques and why I don't know if any particular drug is causing people to look bad now there are dangerous drugs out there I would not have anyone ever use DNP I think that's a very very dangerous drug and unnecessary um as far as you know what drug might be creating a bad look on people. I don't know about that. I don't I don't I I don't I mean all the anabolics you know you know don't really have any negative effect. I guess if you abuse GH it could you know cause a lot of excessive fluid retention which doesn't necessarily look good. And if insulin is used appropriately you know it can combat insulin resistance and a lack of insulin production by the body. So, I I think most drugs just need to be used responsibly and and and a lot of times people don't know how to use them responsibly because they don't understand the science behind what they're doing. So, what would I do? I would just tell people to stop just shotguning every single drug they think that they need because I see people with lists of peptides that they're taking daily. I can't believe it. There's there's like 20 peptides on this list. Of those 20, probably two of them actually do something. So pre I would recommend stopping the poly pharmacy just because you think all right these are around I have access to them I'm going to buy them and use them all. You're probably getting nothing out of it and you might be getting an interaction between the two that you don't even know what's going on and that could be causing some funky side effects. So don't overdo it. Use what works. Throw the rest in the garbage. >> Uh well earlier you talked about Lee Priest and being a genetic freak. Well, speaking of another genetic freak, can you explain how Jay Cutler used to diet on 1,000 g of carbs and 300 g of protein? I know he was close to 300 lb as start of prep, but that's still over 5,000 calories per day. Or was it implied that those carbs were on training days only? >> Yeah. Well, you know, you your energy requirements are pretty much the same on training versus non-training days. I mean, you might have a little bit higher uh because he's you're doing cardio every day, don't forget. So, and your metabolism is revved through the roof, especially when you have that much muscle. Listen, Jay had a lot of muscle on his body. He by his own admission when I when we did his podcast, he explained to me that he basically did very fat-free diets. You know, he didn't eat a lot of fat. He would have to eat, you know, more red meat usually to to get the fat. So, you know, if had he eaten fats, he probably could have lowered those carbs. And I told him this. said, "You probably had to eat way more carbs than you needed for fuel because you were not eating enough fat in your diet." And he's like, "Yeah, I think you're right." Because when I would eat red meat, I would look a lot better. Obviously, red meat has a lot more fat in it than say like chicken and fish would or even eggs. So, it doesn't surprise me. You know, he was on a lot of growth hormone by his own admission as well, which revs your metabolism through the roof. And it also makes you a little insulin resistance. So, he might not have even been absorbing all those carbs he was eating. And that's a big problem. I see guys that are eating massive amounts of carbs and they're walking around flat which tells me they're not absorbing the carbs maybe because they don't have enough insulin present. And you know, no one really knew that much about long acting insulins when Jay was competing. So he probably needed a long acting insulin. Would have probably helped his efficiency at absorbing all his food. I think we all could have benefited from that, you know, from that 90s and early 2000s era, you know, but that's, you know, you live and learn. That's one of the things that I wish I knew more about in that era. I really I kind of was using fumbling around with insulin but I didn't really know you know the differences between long and short acting and which ones I should use and all that stuff. So I think the technology and the knowledge today is much better in that regard. >> What are the risks of titrating peptides and bio regulators too high and are there irreversible damage or is there irreversible damage that can be done? Uh this is for healing and not for muscle building. I guess he's talking about the the typical healing peptides that we all recom that we all use like TB-500 and BBC. I mean I guess if you I look I've never taken too much of it where I've had a side effect because I just don't want to waste the the the money doing it number one. And number two, you know, I I usually I'm pretty good at listening to people's recommended recommendations for dosages. Although I you know I take 200 micrograms a day of of BPC. I know guys that do a thousand and say it works amazing. So, uh you're just going to go through bottles very quickly which could could make it for a very expensive uh you know healing you know modality but you know I haven't seen side effects when you go too high in these and I think that's why they're RFK Jr. is advocating for their uh legality because he's saying listen even if they don't work they're not causing any damage. No one's get having side effects from it. there's no documented side effects from these things, which, you know, can also lead you to believe that maybe they're not quite as effective as people are saying they are. That that's my belief. I think a lot of these peptides do nothing. Um, there are some that work and those are the ones I tend to to talk about a lot like the BPC and the TB-500 and the copper pep. I talk about those a lot because I actually feel the difference. The GHRP or the growth hormone releasing peptides work to to a certain degree, but everyone responds differently to how much GH they're going to, you know, the release. And a lot of the ones that like are metabolic boosters, the sloop and the and all those, you know, Miy the those are when they those things promise way too much and deliver very little in my mind. So, I would stick with the ones that have a proven track record. Stay away from the ones that are all hype. They're those are the ones that you you go on Tik Tok or or Instagram and they're like hyping them through the roof. And the guy's like 160 pounds. He's like, I'm on all these peptides and they're great and I'm I have cognitive function and I have this and I have that and I can lift 200 pounds more than I normally do and my and meanwhile the guy looks like a bag of [\h__\h] So I I would stay away from those. Like I said, there is no peptide out there that is comparable to an anabolic steroid. In that way, it's not even comparable to the weakest anabolic steroid, which would be Adabar. So, steroids are still king in my mind. >> Uh, what is the single most pervasive myth about training that's still out there and widely accepted? >> That you have to train each body part more than once a week. I think uh or that if you want to improve a body part, you should train it more frequently, which I think the opposite is true. you should train it less frequently because if a body part's not responding, assuming you're training it right, you're you're probably it probably is a body part that's easily overtrained and because it's not growing well and people are putting more effort into it and training with more sets and maybe doing it an extra day a week, that tends to make things worse rather than better. Like if you have a weak body part that's not recovering well, you're better off doing it less. You might even want to do it once every eight or nine days as opposed to once every seven days. But usually every once a week is adequate. And I that's just been my experience my whole career and the people I work with. Less is better. When you have a weak body part, hit it hard when you train it, but then leave it alone and let it recover. Take a couple more questions. Um, is Tren and Anthony absolutely necessary to build a top physique or only if you want to compete? I'm 45 years old. I don't think there's any anabolic steroid that is absolutely necessary because they all do the same thing. You know, trend happens to make you very aggressive and strong in the gym. It it you know, you look good on it, you know, because the glycogen gets stored in the muscles at a higher level, but it's not necessary. And for some people, if you're not sleeping properly, if your digestive system is getting messed up, if you're getting fired from jobs because your your your attitude is all wrong because there's too many androgens, then it's not a good drug for you. If you have an even temperament and you can take the stuff and you can function and you you can sleep at night and you and your body can digest food, then then you can use it. Once again, another drug that's less is better. You know, I for a while I was recommending 100 milligrams three times a week. Now, I recommend 50 milligrams usually three times a week and it it seems to be enough and it and it it gets the job done with with the least amount of side effects. I see guys taking six, seven, eight, 900 milligrams of Tren a week. They're going out of their minds. They can't eat. They have a digestive tract. They're hiccuping. They have sleep problems at night. It you don't need to take that much. You're just getting more side effects. >> Take one more question. Um, I'm dieting right now and I'm just realizing that I'm taking about 150 unaccounted calories in sugar-free fiber. Do these calories really count towards total caloric intake or am I good since they aren't absorbable? I'm really trying to lean out. I just want to make sure. >> Okay, sugarfree. Sugar free does not always mean carb free because some carb, you know, some carb sources are not sugar. uh fiberiz is completely carboh well I should fiberize is net carb zero meaning that the only carbs that are in the fiber are the fiber itself and fiber itself is a nonabsorbable form of carbohydrate. So if you have nine or nine and a half grams of fiber in fiberized all nine and a half grams are not absorbable because they're fibrous and by definition they're not absorbable. So, right then and there, you know, you have a perfect product. But if you have a product that is sweetened with something that has, you know, that's not sugar, but maybe it's like a like maltodextrin or something like that, that's they could still say sugarree on there, yet there's still carbs in there giving it some flavor. That's not sugar-free. You probably wouldn't want to use that on your diet, you know. Now, if any of you have used Fiberalize, you would know that it's it's it's it's the best fiber supplement on the market because it works the most effectively. It tastes great and the flavoring system has no not no sugar, it has no carbs in it. Okay? So, we haven't added any net carbs to the product to flavor it. It's all, you know, an artificial flavoring system so that you can use this while you're dieting. And even if you use three or four servings a day, which I don't recommend, two servings is enough. You're you're not going to have any problems. You're not going to gain any weight from this. >> And that's going to do for this episode of Ask Dave. Dave, you're going to get there at like what 10, right? Dawn. I'll No, I'll be there like 8 8:15 probably like in the morning. So, >> what time is your flight again? >> It's like 5:20 or something like that in the morning. You know what it is out of Fort Myers? It's very hard to get a direct flight. Southwest flies direct. Breeze flies a few days a week direct. So Breeze doesn't fly on Thursday. Only flies on Wednesdays and and I think Sundays. So I had to take Southwest there. And they had a they had a direct flight. The only good thing about Southwest now is they don't do this. They used to do this cattle call where first come first serve. You know, if you get on the plane last, you wind up with a middle seat. You now they have assigned seats. So I don't mind using Southwest anymore. So I I fly Southwest. They're direct from Fort Myers, which it's like a two and a half hour flight. It's like it's closer than going to New York. And I get there and you know that Columbus, Ohio airport is beautiful. It's small. It's really not small, but it's small enough that you know it's got that hometown like feel to it. You get your luggage, you walk outside, you grab an Uber or a cab, and it's 15 minutes to the venue. It's that close. You know, you can almost walk it. Not quite. And they get dropped off at the hotel. Now, the only bad thing is that when you get there that early, the room is never ready, right? Because they they claim why why rooms have to be ready at 3:30 in the afternoon, when you when you're paying for the whole day, I don't know. But that's just the way it works. Hopefully, my room will be ready before that. If not, I'll just be sleeping in the lobby. So, you see me you see me sleeping in the lobby, don't wake me up, please. Okay. >> So, again, if you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. We have a lot planned for you uh this weekend in Columbus and we're going to try to grab as many big names we possibly can and try to cover this show as thoroughly as we always do. Um you're in for a real treat. It's going to be a great show, a great competition, and we can't wait to bring it all to you. Subscribe below, hit the notification bell. We also have our live stream. Um so we're going to have our live broadcast Friday night and Saturday night. It's going to feature King Kamali. It's going to feature Arm on a DB, Chris Cook, and Melvin Anthony. So, you want big personalities on this channel, you line up. >> Yeah, it's a great lineup. And then, uh, the classic physique prejudging during the daytime. I believe we're going to have a live stream of that as well. Our very own Aman Kumar is going to be sitting there and giving you his analysis of what's taking place on stage with the classic division. a very very very I mean dear god this is a a quasi Olympia uh classic physique division minus only two from the top five. Uh this is going to be a great great show great contest and again we can't wait to cover it all. Uh can't wait to get started. So the next time you see us we're going to be in Columbus, Ohio for the 2026 Arnold Classic for Dave Palumbo. I'm Sadique Furuki. We'll see you from the Arnold Classic.