 if you want to know what the most gruesome gym injury I've ever witnessed with my own eyes in the gym, stay tuned. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RIS, television, rsmussell.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. I'm your host, Sadeek Farooqi. Thank you for joining us on this 21st day of January. This is your forum to ask Dave, whatever's on your mind, be it bodybuilding, non-bodybuilding, diet, training, supplementation, life. Of course, the IFBB Pro schedule kicks off with the Arnold Classic in just a matter of six weeks. Whatever's on your mind, this is your forum. We go right into the questions. The first two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. I'm currently doing the low-carb protocol. I don't know if you meant to say it, it's your low-carb protocol. Wondering about training tips while eating low-carb. My workouts are feeling a little bit flat. I generally train hour 15 minutes five times a week. Should I lower the weight and do more sets? I'm losing weight and realize this will affect muscle strength and endurance. Whenever you diet, you're going to lose some strength in the gym. You don't have as much volume in your body. Be honest with you, even when you're fat, the heavier you are, usually the stronger you are. When I think most people notice, when they first start the diet, they actually get stronger. They lose a lot of that excess water weight that sometimes could be maybe inhibiting their flexibility. Then ultimately, as they get super lean, they get a little weaker. If you're on a low-carb diet or my keto diet, they're pretty much comparable. The same thing happens. Low glycogen in the muscle, less fluid in the muscle. Remember, when carbs are stored as glycogen inside the muscle cells, they store fluid with them, water. That gives you a better pump. When you're depleted, even if you're not on a ketogenic diet, if you're on low carbs, which most people have to do to lose body fat, you're going to have low glycogen stores. You're going to have less of a pump. You're going to have less strength in the gym because of that. You might also have less endurance because you have less. Whether you're on a ketogenic diet or not, even on keto, you're going to use glycogen as a fuel source in the gym only. Now, you might only use 30 grams in the gym of carbs, and your muscles always have at least that plus a little bit more in there. What happens is you cannot train as long. What I recommend people do is keep their workouts at an hour max. If you have to reduce the volume of what you're doing, that's really what I recommend. I wouldn't reduce the weight unless you just can't lift this heavy. But if you do less volume, a little more rest between sets, which is what you should do anyway for resistance training. What you'll find is that your strength doesn't go down quite as much because you're getting more rest and recovery, and you're not exhausting yourself as much. Therefore, your body needs less glycogen because you're not training as long with as many sets, and you'll tend to get through the workouts better. What you'll probably find is that when you're done with this whole diet program, and you go back to off-season again and try to grow, the less volume, the more rest between sets actually works better even in a growth scenario. A lot of people learn how to train properly when they're doing contest prep because they actually have to reduce volume, and they realize, hey, it actually works better. I can lift heavier, I get more rest between sets, I don't have to rush as much, and you know what? I'm actually growing better. It's a double-edged sword that can work to your advantage if you take advantage of it. Ken, here you sit. And of course, I'm muted myself again. Bear with me. I'm kind of fighting the fool right now, so a lot of coughing going on in the background. Hence why I'm probably going to be muted myself a lot here, of course, off this episode. But anyway, second question, again, these first two from the Dave Pulumbo Experience app. Your thoughts on bodybuilders becoming insulin insensitive in the off-season? I've noticed a trend recently of many coaches preaching the importance of staying insulin sensitive in the off-season, such as by staying lean as possible, doing cardio, etc. I've heard you say in videos that lifting in the gym makes you insulin sensitive already. So what are the chances of becoming insensitive when pushing the food up? Yeah, I've said this a lot. I'm going to continue repeating it because I think there's a lot of bad information out there. Weight training as well as cardio increases insulin sensitivity. So you don't have to do cardio to become more insulin sensitive. Exercise in general makes you insulin sensitive. And what that means is that we all have a certain number of insulin receptors on ourselves. But when we train, the body has an ability to absorb glucose without the need for insulin receptors. In other words, without the need for insulin. So exercise itself pushes glucose into the muscles and lowers blood sugar. So exercise itself is an actual glucose lowering or blood sugar control type of activity, which is good. That's why we did actually, what's his name? Wrote that three hour body. He actually quoted me a few times. I can't remember his name right now. He's getting a brain fart. But he suggested what if everyone after every meal, you did a little bit of like exercise, you did like 20 push-ups, or you did some swat air squats with that increased insulin sensitivity, you know, or at least help drive some of those nutrients. You just ate into the muscles and he found that his blood sugar control was better. Now, obviously that's a little nerdy. But the act has made you more insulin sensitive and allows you to absorb glucose better by number one, helping the insulin receptors numbers go up, but also by driving food directly into the muscles. So we know that people who work out tend to be much more insulin sensitive than the average person. So when we see higher blood sugars and bodybuilders, it's very, very infrequently due to insulin sensitivity problem, unless you're taking massive amounts of GH. Because GH kind of antagonizes or work opposite of the insulin receptor. It blocks insulin from getting to its receptor. But assuming you're not doing that and you're taking moderate amounts, you know, like two to three, four I use, or you're not using any at all, you shouldn't really be insulin resistant at all. And the reason a lot of us are or have trouble maybe controlling blood sugar is perfectly is because we're eating a massive amount of food. And when you eat a massive amount of food, which includes a massive amount of carbs and protein can convert to carbs, we know that as well. Sometimes your body just can't handle that load, especially as we get older. So when we go get over 40, we get to the 50s and 60s, all of a sudden, we, you know, our blood sugar fasting in the morning is high. Maybe some people are having post, you know, meal sugars, postprandial sugars that are high because they just can't handle the capacity of the food we're eating. And that's not an insulin sensitivity problem. That's an insulin problem. There's just not enough insulin. And so those situations, I always recommend, at least especially when the fast things go up, a long acting insulin to solve that problem. Now these coaches that will tell you that's not the answer. You got to take 40 different insulin sensitizers. You have to take berberine and this thing and that thing and every little put you on a GLP one agonist, you know, just to increase, does that increase, you know, drives blood sugars that will, you don't need to do that. The problem is not an insulin sensitivity problem. It's just an insulin volume problem. You cannot produce enough insulin. Now there are people that have legitimate and sensitivity problems. There's no doubt about that. Also, if you take eight, I use 10, I use a GH day and it's antagonizing the insulin receptor. You could override that effect, but not with insulin sensitizers. You can use more insulin. And that's why guys who take a lot of GH take insulin with it a lot of times because they find they can't grow without it. So these are, you know, situations and once again, everyone is a different scenario. So I'm generalizing, but in general, you know, the best way to, you know, come back and blood sugar, you know, height or an elevation of blood sugar would be to figure out what the problem is. Now taking like my species nutrition omega-lise, which is an essential fatty acid supplement, those are really good insulin sensitizers. Those fish oil, you know, evening primrose oil, those really help insulin receptors work better. We don't know if they actually increase the numbers, but they make them work better. And probably because they have anti-inflammatory effects on the cells. But so I would certainly assess what you're doing. If you're noticing the sugar control is bad or is worse, my fault is going to shoot me is worse in the offseason. Then there's your answer. You're eating an enormous amount of food. Your body can't handle the capacity. If when you're dieting, it's perfect. Then there's your answer to it because you're not eating as much carbs. So obviously your body can handle it. It's usually in bodybuilders, an insulin production problem, not an insulin sensitivity problem. Before we go to the rest of our questions, Dave, our friends at Titan Medical Center have again, we talk about the different peptide protocols that they have, the different peptides that they have to offer. And then they have very unique offerings where they have a combination of them. So one is called GLO, which is their active special for this week. All in one peptide protocol, combining BPC-157, TB-500, KBV, GHK-Cu, inflammation balance, tissue repair, recombinant, and other things. And then there's the balance, tissue repair recovery, hair, skin, nail integrity, and anti-aging GLO at Titan Medical. Yeah, GLO is a great combination. And I kind of was asking John and Cherise over there to put a formula like this together because it's, you know what, everyone wants to take all the healing peptides, right? And everyone doesn't want to buy, you know, four separate bottles where they have to take four separate injections. So if you can put it all in one bottle, it just makes it easier. You know, I don't always use the GLO. They send me both the GLO and the just the BPC. On a regular basis, I use BPC almost every day just because I always have somebody part that's hurt. And it's just good for healing. Usually once a week, I'll do the GLO, which is the combination of everything. And I kind of just feel like, you know, once it's a nice little boost once a week, I can get from that. And then on a regular basis, that's just how I do it. They put the GLO on sale. So it's at a much reduced rate. I would take advantage of that because once again, you're getting all the healing peptides, the BPC, the TB-500, the KPD, and then the copper peptide. So they all work really well. Larry from After Hours, you know, Larry Poth loves, you know, he has like really bad phylaidus. And he says that KPD is a great anti-inflammatory peptide. It really helps his gut tremendously. You do have gut issues. You might want to try this just for that alone. I don't have any gut issues, but I have, I want to heal it back to my brain. And I find that, you know, when I take these healing peptides, I definitely recover better from my workouts. I don't use growth hormone. You know, obviously I had my thyroid removed. I thought I would get some. I just won't use it. So for me, those healing peptides work really, really effectively. And they're readily available by prescription from a real compounding pharmacy. And obviously I trust Tight Medical Center and they do a great job. And they're very helpful if you have a lot of questions. So make sure when you contact them, tell them RxMuscle and Dave Pueblo sent you for that great discount. And before actually we go to the rest of the questions, I did want to make somewhat of an announcement. We are working on a brand new RxMuscle.com. Now for those of you who have been with us for the better 15, 20 years, you remember back in the day when this was a website based operation before obviously we took everything to YouTube. And this is obviously YouTube is our primary base of operations. But we do have, I mean, it's in the works right now. We are actively building the new website and it's going to be much more user friendly experience, advertiser friendly experience. So, you know, it's going to allow us to cover bodybuilding and everything around it in a much more broader perspective beyond what we're able to do on YouTube. So, you know, it's going to be a lot more, you know, feature articles, a lot more, you know, obviously newsy pieces, whatever that again, it's just not really meant for Dave doing a reaction video on YouTube or what have you. But it's going to be a much more modern experience, much more user friendly experience. I wanted to get that out there because I know people have been checking RxMuscle.com and either it's not coming up for them or they're seeing something from days, weeks ago. So, I do want to put it out there. We are building a new website and we anticipate that it's going to be live within the next, aggressively I would say in the next couple of weeks. You know, it's funny. I don't think anyone else has the problem that we have because we've been around since 09. So, the website is just like, you know, like 16 years old. And, you know, while it still functionally works, it's a 16 year old website. Most of these, you know, most websites out there are like a year or two old, you know, and people are just coming up. So, we've been around probably the longest of anyone at this point as far as bodybuilding media websites go. So, it's time for a little, you know, refresher, so to speak, and that's what we're doing. And I want to just thank everyone also about the Dave Palomo Experience App questions. The questions are phenomenal. They keep coming in. If you want to join the Dave Palomo Experience App, it's $29 a month. You can download it from your iTunes store or your Android store. You get me as you coach in your back pocket. The app is tremendous. You have access to all my writings, all my videos in an organized fashion. You know, we all my diets, my ketogenic diet, my cyclical ketogenic diet, my offseason diets up there, all the drug cycles, advanced beginners, men, women. We answer everyone's questions in an open forum there. So, you get to see everyone's questions and answers. It's a great learning experience. I do a Q&A video exclusively for the app members. So, you get an extra day every week only on the app for the app members. It's a tremendous teaching tool. And I think to have that in your back pocket where you're constantly learning and have the ability to ask me questions for $29 a month, it's a steal. And you know what? I want to thank all you guys out there because we have so many members and the support has been great. And that's what keeps inspiring me to do it month after month after month. And I will continue to do it as long as you guys support me. So, thank you very much. A lot of people, you know, they tell me, Dave, I can't afford coaching with you just because I don't have that extra money. But I support the app because I want you to keep doing what you do. And so, I appreciate that. We take questions now from our Instagram, from our Facebook as well as our primary source now, which is our YouTube community page. So, if you go on the RxMuscle YouTube channel, go to posts, you'll see the Ask Dave graphic, and that's where you'll be able to ask questions. Dave, your thoughts on anchromocene for boosting tests in a 100% natty guy. Will it help the same as testosterone? Definitely not going to help the same as testosterone. That's like saying the growth hormone releasing peptides will help the same as taking actual growth hormone. Not going to happen. Will it give you a little boost? It could. Yeah, I mean, anchromocene basically is going to stimulate the pituitary gland to release more LH and FSH, which in turn can stimulate the testicles to produce more testosterone. And that's what its job is. How much testosterone your body cranks out in response to the anchromocene is a craft shoot. You don't really know. And that's why some people get a better response than others. For a natural, you might notice a little difference. And so that's something you can try. But it's not going to be anything comparable to taking a shot of testosterone. Even taking a very small HRT shot of testosterone will be a lot more effective. So, it might be a good first line try. I would recommend trying even my testilized product because that reduces it. A lot of people have enough testosterone production, but they convert it to other stuff. They convert it to estrogen, they convert it to DHT. If you take a testilizer three pills twice today, it will block and blunt some of that DHT and estrogen production. Keep more of your testosterone as testosterone plus boost your natural levels of testosterone. You might, a lot of guys get a lot of benefits out of that, especially the natural athletes who want to just naturally boost testosterone. And then if you want to try to kick the anchromocene in on top of that, you might even notice an additive effect to that. But if you want to get to that next jump, you got to go to the TRT essentially. We used to get this question a lot. It's been a while, but again, as we get a new audience, it's good to refresh certain topics. How do you do your rotational diet? How many days protein, carbs and fat and how many protein and fat? Yeah, I usually start guys out on three days with carbs and one day without. So three days, they'll be like protein, vegetable, kind of like a carb, you know, day. And then I'll do that three days in a row and then I'll do a protein fat day, which would be my ketogenic diet essentially. So they're getting a low, really low carb day once every four days. And I see other people respond to that. And as they respond, if they were losing weight and they're doing well, then, and because the protein, vegetable, carb days are not high carbs, they're just, they have carbs in them. And so there's no reason to start people immediately on a ketogenic diet unless they're really overweight and they want to lose weight at maximum speed. So I start like that and then I might go to two days, you know, with carbs in one day, not and then one day in one day, and then it might switch to two days protein, fat, one day, with carb. So it varies according to how the person is responding to the diet. I don't, I like to change the food and the diet last as a variable. So I like to play with cardio and fat burn is first. And then when those kind of hit a plateau, I realize, well, it must be diet related and why they're not losing weight. And then I change the diet. So I like to touch food last because it seems like the more food you can feed someone, the better they go look and the better they're going to recover. So I pull food last, but invariably, usually you have to pull food at some point. This question is more about your, your practices during your prime, but I guess I'll expand it to your coaching practices, but diuretics during the course of a contest prep, how much and I guess I'll add to that. What would you use as far as running during a contest prep? When would you taper up taper down, heading into a show? There's never a taper up taper down because you never use diuretics. You only use them the last day. So if you're competing on a Saturday morning, I might give you, you know, half a diazide during the day on Friday and maybe a half at night. And that would be probably the most I would use. Have I used more on certain competitors? Yes, because they're just some guys are just water buffaloes, you know, but not a lot of people. You know, but most people, that's adequate. Most people only need a half before bed and some people need none, but most people need a little bit of something. I've given people like a quarter of a diazide, you know, before bed and those are usually the 37 25 dies. Remember, dieside is two drugs. It's hydrochlorothiazide and triamperine. So a lot of times you get a generic prescription from the doctor. It won't say diazide. It'll usually abbreviate H, Y, like hydro, and then they'll put or hydro thia, and then they'll put like a slash and you'll see triamperine or TRI, empty. And you won't know what that is. That's the two drugs in there. And that's usually, usually 37 25. The, the, the triamperine dosage is really irrelevant. It's the hydrochlorothiazide that has a lot of kick. The hydrochlorothiazide makes your body lose sodium and potassium. The triamperine makes your retain potassium. So together they become a potassium sparing diorheic that you only lose diazide with. It's the most predictable diorheic because if something goes wrong and you start cramping, you know, the only thing that you can be deficient in would be sodium. So you add a little salt and you can correct it. Once again, anyone who uses diorheics more than one day before a show is, unless they have to make a wake last on a Thursday or something like that is, is really only looking to screw themselves up. There's absolutely no reason to use it more than that. Once the show's over, you know, you might need to have a diazide here and there like the following week. If you start retaining an excessive amount of fluid because you're rebounding really bad. But other than that, that's it. You know, you shouldn't be taking diorheics while you're training. Very dangerous, dehydrated muscle tears real easy and it's very catabolic. So do not take, even those herbal diorheics are very strong. Do not take those while you're prepping. The only time you want to take a diorheic is the last day because if you take it prior to that, what happens is you become, you start, your body starts catching on to what's going on. So it's releasing massive amounts of aldosterone and aldosterone is a hormone that causes sodium reabsorption. We want aldosterone low in the body. We don't want it high because then we're fighting our body's ability to lose water. So if you trick your body and just the last day, give it some diorheics to flush out that extra sodium and water, it doesn't have time to respond in a negative way. I see guys, they start diazide it like on a Thursday or Wednesday. By Friday they're peaked and they're ready to get on stage and then on Saturday they look terrible because they're either too flat or they get watery because they start the body's fighting the diazide. So don't tip your body off what you're doing. Save it for the last day. All right, so you brought up after hours and by the way, all new episodes of After Hours on the channel from yesterday because you're talking about Larry Pollock. So this question is from Sid Henry. He goes, why does Greg have quote, shoulder pad looking shoulders? I'm not trolling. I'd like Dave to explain. I don't know. Well, he has personally has big, he has big shoulders anyway. He's very broad for a short guy. He always was. But I'm sure from all the injections he was doing in his arms and his shoulders, there's still stuff in there. There's scar tissue. There's God knows what's in there. I think that's why I've never seen him really with a shirt on. Not in any recent memory, but I think he still, I think he told me he has a lot of scar tissue still. I know his arms do. I'm assuming his shoulders probably have some too. Let's go to... Here's one. Your most successful client who made it to the Olympia? There was a lot of guys that did well. You know, obviously Juan Morel and a team and I worked with them. Evan Sampani when I worked with... But I think that, you know, I wasn't really working with Evan when he went to the Olympia, but I helped him turn pro, obviously. But I'm the most... I personally, I've said this, I've gone on the record before. I think the X-Man Tony Freeman, when we were working together in the OA, Dexter won that Olympia. I thought Tony, who I think he came in fifth that year, he could have won the Olympia. I absolutely, if you go back and look at the pictures and watch the videos, you could actually make a case for Tony winning that show. I don't think anyone would have complained because Jay was off. That's why Dexter beat him. But I didn't think Dexter was at his best. Dexter was good, but he wasn't at his best. I thought you could make a case for Tony winning that Olympia. You know, no disrespect to Dexter. Love him. And the guys are a legend. But Tony was just on. That was his show. He was the best he ever was. Posing was amazing. I mean, no one looked better in that standing, relaxed from the front. His front double was deadly. His back poses were great. You know, I don't know. I would have had him winning that Olympia. You know, and once again, I've told him that before. And, you know, he absolutely should have been higher than fifth place. But it just wasn't... It wasn't meant to be. You know, there's just one of those things. But that was the most proud I had seen. I felt like, you know what? We did all the work. He busted his butt. This guy... People don't realize how many Pro wins Tony had. I mean, we were winning shows like two, three a year. You know, the regular shows. We would go to Texas. We would go the next week. We'd go someplace else. And he'd be winning like two, three in a row. So he was really on a tear for a while. And I really thought that the 08 was his best. And, you know, but sometimes it's just not meant to be. But go back and look at those pictures. You'll see what I'm talking about. So obviously with YouTube and social media now, if there is a something very, you know, gruesome or something very... I want to say one more thing. I gotta add one more thing too, because I blocked it out. Kevin LaBroni obviously winning the 96 Arnold Platinum when I helped him was probably the crowning jewel. You know, but I didn't work with Kevin long term. I only worked with it for that one show. But, you know, he beat Flexwheeler. So that was a very proud moment. You know, but as far as Olympias go, I think Tony, you know it. Again, one of the byproducts of social media and YouTube now is we love shocking. We love to hear something just absolutely wild, something absolutely gruesome. Well, when it comes to bodybuilding and lifting in the gym, unfortunately we've seen our fair share of gruesome gym mishaps, gruesome gym injuries. Do you recall a time that you saw one in person and what would be the most gruesome gym injury that you saw in person that you can remember? Yeah, I didn't see Jean-Pierre Fuchs, you know, collapse under the weight, but I have to imagine that was probably the most gruesome that you can see when you tour both quads. But I did see, unfortunately, someone tear a peck in the gym and I was like, they were on the bench press right behind me and I actually heard the pop. That's how loud it was. It was like someone snapped like a, you know how like you ever see those things that they wrap around like, what is it called? They wrap things, like they wrap packages and you have to cut them. They're like these plastic. I forget what they're called. It sounded like someone. Those plastic bourbon things, yeah. Yeah, they ripped it apart and just it was the loudest snap I had ever heard. I'm like, what the hell was that? It almost sounded like a gunshot turned around and the guy was in a tank top and you can just see the peck completely rolls up. It hadn't even had time to turn red or bleed. The peck just was not there. It just was gone. It was like rolled. And, you know, I think the person was in shock because they really weren't screaming like, or they'd been like that, you know, in pain, but they were holding, obviously they were holding their chest and it was just, you know, it's not a nice thing to see because you know what? It can happen to any one of us. And this is when I was kind of in my prime and I was at my biggest and I'm like, you know, it scares the crap out of you because you know what? That's a career ending injury, you know, for most people. And, you know, this person wasn't going to the Olympia or anything like that, but it still it's kind of sucked for him and and obviously got the peck repair. He was back in the gym, you know, six months later, but it's it was a gruesome injury. You know, it's not luck. Knock on wood. Luckily, I never tore anything in the gym like severely like that. You know, I obviously had the quad tear when I slipped on the staircase in India, but I never tore muscle in the gym while I was in the process of competing. You know, to me during my heyday, which I thank God for because that that's something you just don't want to do and go through. Thoughts on building muscle again keto. We haven't gotten a keto question in question time thoughts on building. So, you know, possible the carbs has to be better for a high intensity cardio and lifting right so building muscle and recovering while on a keto diet. You know, you got to remember carbs are used for fuel right and we know that on a ketogenic diet fats get used for fuel right especially to the brain. Here's the problem with doing a ketogenic diet in an offseason scenario where you're trying to build muscle. You don't want to use the protein and fat that you're eating in your diet for energy when you're trying to grow. You want to use that for building and repairing muscle. So that's why they say the probably heard the term the carb spare muscle, of course, carb spare protein, because when you eat carbohydrates, your body uses the carbs as fuel. When you're training and it has it can then take the protein that you're ingesting and the fats that you're ingesting use that to repair muscle at maximal rates. If you're on a very low carb diet. Okay. Yes, there's still some glycogen being produced indirectly from from amino acids and you still have something in the muscles to use. But if you run out of carbs, okay, in the muscle, because you're off, you do have low glycogen stores, your body is going to convert some of that protein into glucose to use for fuel. So now you might not have enough protein present. Okay. For repairing muscle tissue. ! We're out of the mineralized. It's one of our number one selling products because no one makes a more complete multivitamin, multimineral, trace metal, antioxidant, polyphenolic, fruit and vegetable extract products on the market. It's very complete. But I wanted to make it more complete. I wanted to update it, and I have updated it. And the new version will be out any day now. They're telling me the end of the month, so we're almost there at this point. It was supposed to be the beginning of the month, but you know how things go. They don't work out the way it's supposed to work out. I also didn't think we would run out of the old one because we went through like 5,000 bottles in the last three months through Christmas and everybody in that room was buying it with all the sales. So we blew through a lot of bottles a lot faster than I expected and that I predicted. So we ran out, but we will have the new version. I upped the dose of vitamin D3 in there because we used to have 2,000 I used. Now we have five, which is exactly what most people need per day. I also added vitamin K2, which most vitamins don't have in there, and an effective dosage, which we know K2 directs calcium away from the blood vessels into the bones and into the muscles where they need to be used. Whereas if you don't have enough K2, sometimes you can lay down calcium in your blood vessel walls and that's not good because it stiffens those walls, especially in the coronary arteries. Also we added methylated phallic acid. We always had methylated cobalamin, which is methylated vitamin B12, which is the activated version. We didn't have the phallic acid version of methylated phallic acid and we know a lot of people, myself included, cannot methylate phallic acid. It's just a gene defect and there's a lot of side effects that go along with that and things that you can't do cognitively and even work out wise if you don't have methylated or activated phallic acid in your body. We've added methylated phallic acid in there and this has now made demineralized the most complete multivitamin on the market. The dosage of five pills twice a day is what the athlete should take because it gives you all the right amounts of calcium, magnesium, vitamin C. There's so many things in there that you need to get the right dosage. You can't jam it into one pill. If you're taking one pill, one a day vitamin, you might as well throw it in the garbage. You're wasting your money. You're getting nothing. You're getting a couple grains of everything just so they can say that it's in there, but there's no effective dose of anything in there. It would be like a person on the desert island who has no water to drink because everything's salt water and you give them a fimble worth of water every day. It's not going to keep them alive. It might make their tongue wet, but it's not going to keep them alive. You need the five pills twice a day. If you don't work out at all and your grandmother is looking to take a good multivitamin, she can probably get away with two or three pills twice a day. Yes, that's better than nothing because I know my dad. My dad would never qualify pills twice a day just because it's too much work for him to do that. If I tell him take three pills twice a day, he'd be more likely to do that because you have to sometimes compromise with your parents. It's like, all right, I want you to take five a day, but I'll tell you what. If you do three a day, will you do it? Yes, I'll do three twice a day. Okay, great. Take the three pills twice a day. But if you're working out, you definitely want to hit the five. Whether you're a man or a woman, you want to hit the five pills twice a day. Take one more question and someone's about casein. Thoughts on casein protein before bed? I feel like casein was talked about a lot more, say, a decade ago, but that conversation has since faded. It's the reality of the protein market. whey isolate is insanely expensive. If any of you guys have seen the price changes in ice lice, and let me tell you something, I held off raising the price in ice lice so long that I actually realized I was actually almost losing money on selling the price. I had increased the price a few months back, maybe six months ago. whey protein is insanely expensive. I've talked about this with Rich Gaspari too on his podcast. He sells egg protein. Egg protein is actually more expensive than way right now. The two best proteins on the market are the most expensive. These companies are trying to do is constantly find something that's cheaper that they can make money on. They sell this collagen protein, which is basically garbage. It's digested tendons and ligaments. They sell pea protein. We know vegan protein is the void of breast chain amino acids. Body bonus, obviously. Casing was being sold for walks. It was much cheaper than way, but it's not that cheap anymore. You don't really see that much case anymore. Way is infinitely better than casein. Casein is pretty good too. Obviously, it's an animal source of protein. We put some casein a little bit of it in Protolyze, our protein pudding. I don't know if any of you guys have tried the Protolyze. It's absolutely delicious. We have vanilla chocolate. It's an instant pudding. You basically put a scoop in there. It's 30 grams of protein. You add two ounces of water and you mix it. You have instant pudding. It's a great snack at night, especially if you don't want to just do a shake and you want to do something. They can actually sit there and eat in front of your TV. A lot of guys will use a scoop and a half, so they get 45 grams of protein out of it. Or they'll do two scoops. That's fine too. The point is we put a little casein there because it thickens up the, helps you make the pudding better. It gives it a little more viscosity. Because casein is delayed in the sense that it doesn't absorb as quickly as way, we call it a time release protein. Casein can add a time release aspect to the shake that you're having or the pudding in that case that you're having. Would I use a straight casein at night? Probably not because it's quality-wise. It's not as good as way. But a blend of casein and whey isolate is a good mixture. That's why we did it with the Protolyze. Once again, I don't cut corners. My products are a little more expensive than everyone else's, but I want to put out the best quality products. Other companies, their goal is to try to get the cost of the product down so they can increase their profit margin. And that's fine if that's their business model. But understand that's why you're going to see all kinds of wacky, winky products out there. Even this clear protein is a gimmick because it's basically whey isolate that they've subjected it to heavy acidic acids and digestive enzymes to basically strip the protein down to nothing so that it dissolves and turns clear in water. The problem is that you've ruined all the immunobobulans and all the immune system-boosting ingredients in the whey. And you've just kind of broken them and destroyed the integrity of the protein. So yeah, mix is nicer. The protein is not as good for you. But it's a sales gimmick. So at the end of the day, you guys do what you want, but a high-quality whey isolate, we make the highest yield whey isolate on the market. It's 28 grams of protein per 33 grams serving size. We have the best flavors. It mixes the best because there's no added ingredients in there. There's no fillers and stuff like that. And once you use I-Sol-Ice, you're not going to use anything else. And I'm comfortable with that. But I also am comfortable with the fact that there are other companies that have cheaper products that maybe people are more apt to buy. That's fine. If you want the best, you use Ares. If you want a cheaper product, there's other options out there. But understand that a straight KC protein is going to be a sales gimmick that they're going to tell you it's a time-release protein to sell you because it's a cheaper version of whey. So you better off going with a blend. That's going to do for this episode of Ask Dave Reminder right now on the channel, all new episode of the After Hours podcast, as well as Heavy Muscle Radio with Dave Palumbo and Chris Sosito. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss any of this show or any other segments that we have on this channel. And of course, our Arnold Classic coverage begins very shortly with the Arnold Classic about six, six and a half weeks away from today, the beginning of the IFBB Pro League schedule. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadiq Furruki. We'll see you next time.