I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations dosed for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Alone Powers here filling in for Sid Farooqi for RX Muscle at the 2025 IV pre New York Pro with last year's champion here, classic physique winner Matt Grego alongside with the real technician Chris Cino and here to bring you the uh the wrap-up for the prejudging. What are your thoughts today on the 212? Um in the 212 I I have Angel uh winning the show. It's interesting because when he came out I he just looked like he was not sharp enough to me. Um at least his level of sharpness and you know they moved him the judges moved him like off to the side. I don't know if that was they moved him off to the side to get a better look at who I think will end up second and third. But in my opinion, they moved him off to the side because he didn't look that sharp, but as prejud um he sharpened up quickly and he has more mass than anyone in the 212. So if you weigh the mass that he has um which you really couldn't tell me convincingly that that was enough to win when he first came out because he didn't have like the super condition, but he sharpened up. So when you weigh like the mass that he had with the condition that he had towards the end of prejudging, I would put him in weight. Your thoughts, Matt? Yeah, I think uh Angel when he came out, like Chris said, I just I wasn't wowed with him. And usually when Angel comes out, I'm like, "Wow, like this is another level condition." But honestly, from the time he hit the comparison to the individual, he kind of came to life, he looked fuller, harder, more separated, just about everywhere. And I had him as a winner. And when he got moved toward the end, I didn't really think that was a placement of third. I thought they kind of already had him decided there, but you do never know when everything's going on. But I have Angel as a winner in 212. Okay. All right. Now, the classic physique. Now, here's the question. Does Terren repeat this week? Um I I was really impressed with Terrence. I just think that um he's got balance, he's got glow, he's got enough sharpness, he's got enough thickness, he's got presentation, he's got polish, he's a veteran. He's really hard to get by and I I know uh you know, he's being pushed quote on the condition, but I'm not convinced that it comes down to a conditioning show. It would come down to conditioning against any other classic type guy. But when you're going against Terrence, you know, a lot of that incredible conditioning gets negated by what's unique to his physique. And he has a lot of stuff that's unique to his physique. Um I thought uh in my mind like comfortably, I mean this is no blowout, but in my mind like I always thought like wow parents looks really good. So if you asked me out to prejudge and who do you have first? I would like, wow, Terrence looks really good. So, if you'd asked me out to prejudge and who do you have first, I would have Terrence first. Yeah, I I like Terrence for sure. I think it's going to be a very close call again. I think maybe another one pointer. Um I think Terrence just has that true classic body X frame. His presentation is second to none. He I thought he brought enough condition. I have seen him maybe sharper. Um but we're talking about Jose, we're talking about insane conditioning. I think he was actually even a little bit sharper uh for this show. I don't know if it played to his benefit. What What do you think? Do you think play for his benefit? No. I mean, how much sharpness do you need? Yeah, he looks like he was a tad bit sharper. And I think from what I understand, it's going to be another close call and it's going to be the shape versus the crazy conditioning. But I think where it stands right now, I think Terrence may edge him out by a little bit. But I am a big fan of Jose and what he's bringing. But um I think we're talking about classic physique. I think that Terrence kind of fits that a little better. And now for the Open's bodybuilding, men's open bodybuilding where in that it was entered that top four at the end. Very interesting. Yeah. Yeah. It's a very hard show for me to judge. Um I was super impressed with Reagan Grimes when he first came out. I was like, "Wow, Reagan Grimes has arrived." And by the end of Prejudging, I honestly don't even know if he will be fourth. Like he could have slipped outside the top four. He went whole hard dense with a lot of wild factor to like in 15 minutes maybe flat starting to water out but flat flat flat like it just it was you know you always hear these things like oh so and so flattened out during prejudging you're like well how flat can you get this may break a record for how flat you can get one prejudging because he was that impressive when he when he first came out it it was like a 10-minute period where he came out and I'm like this guy could actually win New York Pro. He was that impressive. His back double like said to Chris, I was like, "Wow." I was like, "This is a this is a really competitive look." And then just as things started to go on, suppose started to go on, it just got worse and worse and worse. And by the end, I was like, I could even see in that top four call him getting switched out. So, it was it happened pretty quickly. Yeah. And uh what are your thoughts on uh Nick and Bonnic? I I think Nick for this show like his glutes and hams were like super dialed in. Um and you know he I think he had like more in the most muscular he didn't have that overwhelming like polish that he had last week his first. Um, even like the side chest, like the leg is phenomenal, but it just didn't have like it was like he was fuller here, but it didn't really help. But, you know, tighter in the glutes and hams than he was last week. Um, I think that in many ways he was pushed, I don't know how the judges see here, but by William Bonac simply because William, you know, was had more polish to him, you know, like side chest was impressive, you know, big shoulders, big arms, big drop tighter in the glutes and hands than he was last week. I think that in many ways he was pushed I don't know how the judges see here but by William Bonak simply because William you know was had more polish to him you know like side chest was impressive you know big shoulders big arms big hamstring drop line in the hamstring um tight enough in the back double uh big and wide in the back lat spread you know Nick is obviously got you know cannonballs arms on the front double and probably has that shot. But I mean, you're going up against Nick Walker and your most muscular is probably would you say his most muscular was better or challenged? Williams was most certainly challenging challenging him. So, he had so much polish and detail and strikes at the pegs that my eye kind of went to William on that shot. Yeah. So, I don't know. I mean, I haven't heard the scuttle belt like what other people say. You know, I'm definitive on like where Reagan is and I think technically in some way be a toss up or close this show between William uh and and Nick, but at the end of the day if uh you know the freak factor comes into play, which Nick is, you know, he's still the biggest guy on stage. Um and you know, I think his back double was probably better than last week, but still really good this week. Like shoulders and arms are like look even bigger than last week. You know what happens is we want to see like last week and improve. Yeah. You know if we saw last week we'd say like oh no improvements saying make no improvements which is by definition no improvements the same. So we start nitpicking um you know a little bit more polished look you know finished out look last week but I it's probably at the end of the day you know going to get the win based on you know there's more of him out there. You know, I just think it's maybe we're surprised with so much like how William was able to, you know, be competitive probably coming into the show, you know, the expectation is Nick's going to destroy people. And when you start having those expectations and having someone who's competitive in those shots, you you start to talk like bad about the guy who was supposed to destroy everybody. There's a couple shots like I think from Pittsburgh specifically, wow factors from Nick with the back double. We looked at the back double and say, "Wow, this actually compared well to Derek." And for this show, I can't put my finger out that the Adam thigh didn't have the same wow effect it had from Pittsburgh. I don't know if the quads were a little bit down or midsection control wasn't there exactly, but that was one of the two shots, those two shots specifically, I was like, "Okay, it kind of made it a little bit closer William, especially when William goes and does the the crunching app shot. my eye goes to that more so than Nick's, but I do have Nick winning. Um, but I think I can speak for a lot of people. I did not expect William to come in and push him this hard. So, I think kudos to William for really putting on and I'm excited to see how the final shakes up, buddy. I I would say right now I'm seeing Nick in first and then William in second. Okay, sounds about right. All right. Well, it is a part one show tonight. It comes down to tonight as well for all the divisions. Uh, thank you for your thoughts, guys. And, uh, for you bodybuilding fans out there, stay tuned. Arts, muscle, truth hurts.