As you guys know, I love injectable glutathione. It does so many amazing things. Stay tuned and I'll tell you how much you should take, how often you should take it, and what it does. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution RXvision, rxmuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Whatever is on your mind, be it bodybuilding or non-bodybuilding, be it diet, training, supplementation, we got you covered for the next half hour. And we're so glad you could join us on the 16th day of July in the year 2025. We're going to go right into the questions, the first two questions on this show from the Dave Colomo Experience app. First question, can you explain why you recommend not to use whey protein the day before a competition? >> Um, I'm not so sold on on that, you know, as a definitive. I The reason I do that is because in some people it kind of can irritate your stomach, uh, dairy, and sometimes it can cause some fluid retention or some abdominal distension. So, it's usually a good idea to stick with all foods that kind of sit well in your stomach. Plus, usually the day before you're carbing up, and sometimes it's hard to carve up with a with a protein shake, you know, because you got to drink a shake and you got to eat rice with it. It doesn't really mesh well. So, a lot of times I'll just go to all food the day before and it's just easier, especially when you're traveling. I mean, I guess it's easy to travel with shakes. But like I said, I don't like to risk it only because in some cases people do get a little bit of an irritation. Even even if you tolerate the weight isolate 98% of the, you know, of the time or 98% of what you're drinking is is fine. There's always that little, you know, possibility that you could get something going on down there. And so I just, like I said, I air on the side of caution. Well, we talked about uh glutathione and something that you're obviously very high on injectable form of glutathione to be particular, but the question is in terms of daily dosage for injectable glutathione, what would you recommend? And I guess for what purposes? >> I think if you use glutathione, first of all, it's only absorbable via injection. You can't orally take it. It doesn't get absorbed that way. Um so the question is how much? Now I take it every day or just about every day and if I travel I don't take it obviously but if I'm taking it almost every day I feel that you can use less and get get a really good result from it. So I take 200 milligrams which is 1 ml usually usually comes as 200 m 200 milligrams per ml and I take the 200 milligrams every day. Uh, it's usually 1 cc and I'll usually, believe it or not, I mean, I'm very lean, so I usually take a 1 cc insulin pin and I put it right in my glutes and I usually draw it up with a 27 gauge insulin syringe. So, they do make 27 gauge insulin syringes. You wouldn't want to use that on a regular basis, but it the glutathione is a little thicker, so it takes a longer time if you use like a 29 or 30 or even the 31 gauge, which is small small insulin pins. So, I mean, you can put it in your shoulder if you want. I just put it in my glutes because it does leave you a little bit sore where you put it initially and I do that on a regular basis. If there was an ideal world and I had and maybe at some point in the future I'll I'll bother to do this if I'm not so lazy. If I had like an IV in my house where I could actually set up an IV, I would love to push like 9,000 milligrams or nine grams of glutamine like maybe once a week or once every two weeks into my right into my vein. You know, I've had it done before. It makes you feel like euphoric. It's really good. It's It's good for people who don't maybe take glutathione every day. Maybe go once a month and get a nice IV push of a ton of glutathione into your system and flood it, help it detoxify, pull heavy metals out, you know, help the liver, help your immune system. But I think if you're going to do it on a regular basis, and that's what I do, 200 milligrams per day is is is fine. >> These question, by the way, I just wanted these questions for the Dave Palumbo Experience app. If you guys want to download the app from your uh Android store or your iTunes store, it's $29 a month. You get me as your coach in your back pocket. You get access to all my writings, all my videos in a very concise place. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum, so you get to see everyone's questions and answers. I do a Q&A video specifically for the app members every single week, so you get an extra ask Dave with a lot of information on that. We put up workouts every week. There's so much great information. It's like a library of of stuff for bodybuilding and fitness and it's always being updated on a regular basis. So, it's a great little tool and like I said, for $29 a month, you can't go wrong with that. And I want to thank all the members out there because it's constantly growing. Tell your friends about it. Thank you guys for your support. >> So, a couple of things uh before we go to the rest of our questions. Couple of things from our good friends at Titan Medical. Um couple of items. one we have a sale but the second which I'll address first they are now able to sell blood work online so blood panels male and female um you have the per the ability to now purchase that service online which previously you had to do over the phone or in person you can do that virtually now so that's great they're going to assign RX Muscle a code so now going forward if you want to purchase any blood work any blood panels on titanicalcenter.com you'll be able to input the RXMuscle specific a Palumbo specific promo code and you'll be able to take advantage of their discounts and what other specials they have. Again, that's going to be available online. So, the sale, however, uh this week, this week only, they're promoting the stacked and jacked performance package. Basically, Hexarellin and Hercules. And, uh Dave, a lot of people have been seeing really, really good results with hexarellin. >> Hexarellin is a is another one of the growth hormone releasing peptides. So, it it works really effectively. It's kind of like serarellin. It's like tessamellin. It just works by a slightly different, you know, I guess string of amino acids as stimulating your pituitary to release your own growth hormone. Also, the Hercules potion, you take that pre-workout, it's like all the pre-workout ingredients only in injectable form. Citrine and glutamine and all these other great ones. You inject that, you get, you feel really, really pumped in the gym. It hits you pretty fast, too. I've done it, you know, a couple times before. I don't do it every workout. I usually use it when I'm dragging a little bit just to kind of pick me up a little bit. Like I said, I if I took every every therapy that they sold over there and they believe me, they're willing to give it to me because they would like when I try it out so I can help, you know, give my feedback to you guys. I'd be injecting all day long and I can't do that. So, I try to pick the ones that I really like and then I use the other ones on a on a semianual basis depending on when I'm, you know, I feel like I need them. But this Hercules, if you like pre-workouts and that pumped feeling, I'm telling you, try the Hercules. It's on sale. It's a great opportunity at titanmedicalcenter.com. >> So, as always, again, regardless of this sale as well as the online blood work services, they're going to be available soon. Uh, if you call them up or if you go online, you establish opponent contact and you mentioned Dave mentioned RX Muscle, they will royally hook you up. as we go to the rest of the questions. The rest of the questions from our social media platforms, from our YouTube community page as well as our in uh face uh Instagram page as well as Facebook. Uh question from muscle head cardio still beneficial if I'm going to eat all the calories burned right after. >> What's what's the say again? What's the question? I I guess the question is whether or not cardio is even beneficial if it's going to be just burning through the calories that you know you eat or is going to eat after the cardio. >> Well, I no because I mean you when you're doing cardio, you're doing it in a depleted state, whether it be first thing in the morning or right after you train. So, because you're depleted, your body has to dig into stored body fat to burn, you know, burn fat essentially, which is why you're doing the cardio. So, if you're eating like protein and and carbs after your training to restore glycogen and to res and to restart the protein synthesis uh machinery, that has nothing to do with the fact that you just burned, you know, I don't know, a half a gram of body fat, a half a pound of body fat. So, no, I mean that the cardio burns stored fat. You know, the the food you eat after you work out is used to start the repair process. So, it's it's totally different things. A couple of weeks ago, we took a question about uh retatrite and you know really started to create a lot of waves because Nick Walker uh mentioned openly that his use of reatride helped with you know in terms of his med section in terms of Bill's ability to burn fat. The question is about retatr bulk implies you're gonna be eating a lot of food. If you're going to take reatrine you're not going to be able to eat a lot of food. It definitely blunts your appetite. That's why it works at burning fat so well. These GLP-1 agonists do have some in internal or they do have some direct fat burning effects. Not that effectively. The fat burning occurs because you're not overeating. You're not snacking between meals. That's why you're burning fat, which is great for bodybuilders, right? Because let's face it, I remember when I would be dieting, I'll eat a meal and 10 minutes later I'm starving. And it's like, uh, oh, I got another one hour and 50 minutes before the next meal. I don't know how I'm going to make it. With the reatride, with with Tzepide or with the um the ozepic, which is the single drug, it blunts your appetite. So, you eat, you can get the meal down, but then you're not hungry for another two, three hours, which is great. So, you it kind of helps you bridge the gaps between the meals. That's why it's so effective as a as a dieting tool. It's not really that it's not like taking clenbuterol where you're going to burn fat because you're taking it. You're burning the fat because you're not overeating between meals. So, it works best on people who are cheaters or snackers. For people who are like single-mindedly will never cheat, you're going to notice a little bit, but you're not going to notice quite as much. Um, so when I have a lot of I work with a lot of these women who are snackers or they're busy, you know, they have full-time jobs. They're they're they're you know they they start sticking their hands in the cookie jar, so to speak. Maybe not literally the cookie jar, but they're sticking it certainly in the peanut butter or the almond nut jar and they're eating extra food because they're starving during the day and then that's sabotaging their diet. When you're on these GLP-1 agonists, you don't feel that urge to cheat. So that's why they work so well. >> Uh question from our good friend Bal Hamid. Can I run HCG during well while cruising on TRT and regain fertility or do you recommend coming off completely and doing PCT? Your recommendation on the HCG dose per week? >> If you're looking to take HCG because you want to restore fertility because you want to get someone pregnant. Yeah, staying on h staying on TRT is not a smart idea. Can you get your fertility back while on HRT? It's possible. Look, Ronnie Coleman fathered a ton of kids while on full-blown cycles. It happens, but it's not the norm. So, for most people trying to get their girl, wife, whatever pregnant, you got to come off all the drugs. And then you got to take the baby making protocol that I give out for free to anyone. So, if you want to reach out to me at huge285.com, be more than happy to send you the baby making protocol that works. It's HCG, HMG, Glutathione, Clomid, andor Nolvvenex. and uh and a good multivitamin. And that's that's the formula. And like I said, I'll give it to you. Stay off the steroids, stay off the HRT, and that's the way to go. Now, if you're just looking to to restore your your natural production because you want to take a little break, that's a different story. But if you if you're trying to actually increase fertility, do not stay on HRT. It's not going to work. >> Um where did I write it down? my 13-year-old son, and I'm glad he asked it because I have a seven-year-old son. My 13-year-old son wants to start lifting weights and has shown interest in bodybuilding. Um, you know, there have been a lot of questions as far as what's too young to weightlift. So, if you want to address that, but then also any suggestions as far as exercise or an approach to get children started in weightlifting. >> Until kids go through or hit puberty, they're really not going to be able to build like a lot of muscle. It's just they just don't have the hormonal makeup to do it. But they can build strength and coordination. And I think that's what's important. I think push-ups, sit-ups, you know, or crunches, pull-ups, body weight stuff is is is absolutely cool. I think that's perfect. My my daughters, my son, they do pull-ups all the time. uh if they want to do light dumbbell curls or light, you know, shoulder presses with like, you know, like the five pound dumbbells, I think that's fine, too. Just because you're getting coordination and you're, you know, you're you're teaching them how to balance, you know, I think that's all good stuff to to have these, you know, your kids when they're nine years old, like my son, lifting super heavy weights is not, I don't think it's going to benefit him because I don't think he's hit that point where he's going into puberty. Maybe when he's 11, 12 and he starts getting, you know, some testosterone production going, that's that's a a better time to start increasing weights. But I think it's good to start them young if they're interested in it to learn how to work out properly with full range of motion, good, you know, good form, and once you ingrain those patterns into their brain, when they do get a little older and they do start lifting heavier, they're going to do things the right way. And I think that that's really where you should go with it. But I think when they're younger, I would stick to a lot of body weight. Push-ups, pull-ups, sit-ups, for sure. Dips are not a bad idea. You know, my kids do gymnastics, too, so they can do, you know, they that's a lot of coordination and dexterity you can instill on them. If they want to do gymnastics classes, it's not a bad idea to take them once a week and let them learn how to do some, you know, cartwheels or, you know, roundoffs and stuff like that. I think it's just a good skill to have. I don't think I don't have any delusions that my kids are not going to be, you know, Olympic gymnasts, nor did I want them to be because it's kind of dangerous. But to have those skills, it's definitely beneficial. >> Um, a couple of weeks ago, you did a video about dazide and why seemingly nobody ever has dazide anymore. Well, >> this person says that he has dazide, scored dide, says that he's one of the lucky ones. Wants to use it for a pool party coming up. >> What will be a good protocol for that scenario? Also, would you put any water out of consumption the night before said event? >> Here's the problem with pool parties is you're going to be in the sun all day. You're probably going to be drinking. Uh, sun dehydrates you. You sweat a lot, dehydrates you. Alcohol dehydrates you. Probably not a good idea to start the day off super dehydrated as well. You probably should just let your body dehydrate itself as as you know, as time progresses. Now, that's not to say that if you're a bloated mess because you're on a ton of gear, maybe it might not benefit you. But if you are a bloated mess, taking a half a dazide or half of one of the 3725s the night before. And I wouldn't restrict fluid, you know, at all. I think that will get rid of some of that excess bloat that that that you're probably not, you know, too happy with. And then whatever happens at the pool, you know, you're in the sun all day and and if you're drinking a little bit, that will get rid of the rest of the water. I wouldn't go too crazy. The worst thing that you can do is dehydrate yourself, then go in the sun and then get too much sun and get more dehydrated. You will feel terrible the next day. You'll get you'll get heat exhaustion for sure or maybe heat stroke, which is even worse. So, be careful. Really good one here. And I'm not sure if we've really fully dived into this subject, but the anabolic rating system for how I guess different steroids work. I often see a lot of numbers thrown around. For example, Anavar has a rating of 322, 630, uh, semicolon 24. What exactly does all this mean? >> It it means that someone's got way too much time on their hand and they're uh and and they're they're engaging in what I call mental masturbation. Listen, the strongest anabolic steroid on a on an anabolic, which is muscle building versus androgenic, you know, which is the, you know, the glycogen storing strength part of the steroid is testosterone. That's number one. Trenolone is probably number two, which is actually it's higher androgenic, slightly less anabolic than than testosterone. And then it goes down the line. Then you got like Decard EQ and then you Anavar is at the bottom. There's nothing lower than Anavar in terms of how strong it is, but Anavar has the least amount of side effects. So, it's it's the strongest anabolic, but the weakest androgenetic. So, for women, they could use it because it doesn't have those side effects that can cause the masculinizing side effects. So, we always call anavar a purely anabolic muscle building drug. So, people think, well, it must be that it must be super strong. It's weak because the more you take away the androgenic component, the more anabolic component gets away comes away too. So while it is purely anabolic, it's weakly anabolic. And that's why when I when men tell me, "Hey, should I take an?" I'm like, "Well, it's kind of expensive. I don't know if I would waste my money unless it's like maybe your first or second cycle you've ever done." So the long acting injectables are up high. You got you then you got your your orals like Diana, T-ball, you know, those are those are strong drugs, you know, but they have more side effects because they're obviously they're oral, so they have a they have toxicity associated with them. And and then you got your your Primobal and Winstrol are kind of like, you know, kind of towards like the Anavar bottom of the chart. Less side effects, more anabolic. And then you got to got Masteron right in the middle. And I know this a lot. I know I talked to Todd Lee. I think we're going to be putting up that interview to do with him. You know, he's a big Master guy. He loves Master because, you know, it has the estrogen blocking effects and it it just seems to have a lot of different qualities to it. It's not super anabolic, but it doesn't have a lot of it has almost no side effects and it actually makes other things work better. So, I would put that like a like as a mid-range steroid. And you can give things all the number system you want and you can rank them all you want. But at the end of the day, we everyone kind of knows where everything else falls, you know, as far as what the strongest ones are versus the weakest versus what's in the middle. >> So, this is another question of something I'm not sure if we brought up on this show or this format. So, IGF-1, now correct me if I'm wrong, is it dees or? >> Yeah, either way is fine, >> right? So, okay. So, does IGF-1 dees really work for sight enhancement? And if so, what would be a good starting dose? And cycle lenth and I guess if you want to >> is there any difference because I do see like the comparison between death versus just IGF-1 and I guess LR3. >> Yeah. When when IGF was first syn synthetically made, they realized that it doesn't stay in in in the bloodstream very long. The IGF-1 binding proteins inactivate uh IGF-1 very quickly within 20 minutes, which is not really beneficial to building muscle, right? So what they did was they said if we can add some subgroups, some little side groups onto the IGF molecule, we could prolong its life because then the IGF-1 then the IGF-1 binding proteins can't inactivate and find the molecule because they don't recognize it. So they made dees IGF-1. It had a couple side groups on it. And it worked okay. I think it extended its life to like about two hours if I remember correctly. Uh don't quote me on that. Then they said, "You know what? We can't we got to get a we got to get something that makes it last even longer." And then they made long R3 IGF-1, which is three subgroups. That's why it's called long R3. And they kind of make this this IGF molecule like much more convoluted. The IF IGF-1 binding proteins really can't find it and activate it. Supposedly, it could be active for up to like 20 hours in the body, the long R3 that is. And so it has a much more potent effect because it's it's around a lot longer. Now there's another IGF-1 that's produced locally. So when you like work your biceps and you break down muscle tissue like your bicep muscles, uh the act of shearing or or breaking apart those muscle fibers releases a hormone known as mechanog factor. Mechanical meaning because of mechanical damage. This what it really what MGF really is is it's a local produced IGF-1. Now, the benefit of that is because it's locally produced where the muscle is, it's trickling out in that local area and it helps start the repair process down there. Um, they sell mechanical growth factor, which is really just a regular IGF-1 with no side groups on it. And you can inject it locally, but it's not going to really build that much muscle locally because it doesn't stay there. Okay? So, soon as you inject it, it goes into the bloodstream. Whereas the mechano growth factor when it's being released is kind of being constantly trickled in. I don't know how long it will trickle in after your workout's over, but it trickles into that area which helps it uh with recovery. So dees or or long R3 are not mechanical growth factor. Mechanical growth factor is probably more similar to just regular IGF-1, but once again it doesn't really work locally because when you inject it, it just goes into the bloodstream. It doesn't stay in the area you want it to. So, uh, that's why it never really panned out as a drug. It's available. You can buy a mechanical growth factor. It's not going to do very much for you, though. >> Uh, question about first cycle. I allegedly have um EQ, Deca, Trendmaster, and Prime and Primo. Looking to do my first cycle. All my blood tests are great, but my E2 is 90. Been that way for a while. I have no issues mood or anything like that. I don't want to use a cycle with E2 that high. I wonder if the home estradiol test was wrong. >> I know a lot of people, myself sometimes included, that have higher estrogen, you would think, and you would think maybe it would be doing something negative to their bodies and they don't even know that it's high. And having estrogen in your body is good for a number of reasons. Number one, it sensitizes androgen receptors. So, it makes you more more anabolic essentially because if you don't have enough if you don't have any estrogen, then your androgen receptors lose their sensitivity. Likewise, it does it is responsible for your sex drive to a certain degree. Now, granted, too much estrogen can sometimes suppress uh your your sex drive. Usually, in most cases, it's too little estrogen that the pro that the problem arises. Now, some guys also get very bloated when they have too much estrogen in their system, but I never noticed that. You know, when I'm when my I I've seen my estrogen around 60 70 and I you would never even know. I have not not a single symptom. Now, I also don't have glands in my chest because I had my gynecomastia surgery from Dr. Blau years ago. So, a lot of guys will know when their estrogen levels are high because they'll get they'll get you nipple sensitivity if they haven't had their gyno removed. In those situations, obviously, you would want to control estrogen because it's causing a problem. In people who don't have glands there, if you don't have any other side effects, I wouldn't even do anything about it. I think sometimes people lower their estrogen too much and that's when the problems really start. So, I haven't seen too many problems with high estrogen, but by the same token, if it starts getting crazy, like over a hundred, I would probably consider maybe taking an aromatase inhibitor once or twice a week. question about um achy elbows, pointy elbows. Says, "Maybe it's a dumb question, but my elbows are getting more pointed and sort of the touch now. Is it because I'm 57 or because I've been lifting weights for 30 plus years or some combination of both?" So, I mean, he's very specific in terms of, you know, elbow sensitive, pain to the touch, but then also they're very pointy. Chris Dickerson had really pointy elbows and and I and I heard the reason was that he from taking cadaavver growth hormone. Uh it was so potent that it made his elbows grow. Now is that true or not? I have no idea. Is it possible? Sure. I guess it is. I think some people do have tippy, you know, point to your elbows just by nature. I think that some people probably are affected by certain drugs and that could make the elbows grow more. I know a lot of like powerlifters who are constantly, you know, straining that that tricep and then they're putting tremendous pressure on the elbow. What does the elbow do? It thickens itself so that it can secure that tricep tendon more securely. So remember, when you work out and your muscles get bigger, those muscles are pulling on the tendon that attaches it to the bone. And when you're pulling harder on the bone, the bone increases in density. That's why weight training is so good for bone density because the bigger the muscles get, the more they exert pressure on the bone, which then has to also get thicker and denser to to to hold the the muscle in place. So, it could just be from years and years of training and putting stress on that area and and the bone grew. Maybe you also you took growth hormone and that made it accelerate that a little bit. There's a lot of different reasons, you know, it's there's really nothing you can do about it. So, I wouldn't worry about it too much. Uh, is there are there any benefits of injecting only GH or is there only a downside to it? >> Meaning no other anabolics. Is that what he's referring to? >> I mean, I know guys that just take GH and and believe me, uh, when I would go off cycle and I would take GH, I noticed a huge difference from taking nothing to taking GH because GH will definitely help you recover from your workouts. You might not feel jacked. You might not feel that big. you get a little bit of a pump on it, but recovery is huge. It's a big big difference. So, I noticed when I take GH, not that I've done it for many years, because ever since I had my thyroid cancer, I won't take it anymore, but when I did take it, I noticed a huge recovery boost. Now, if you can't take GH or you can't afford it or you can't find real GH, BPC57 seems to work really well with recovery as well. And so, I would recommend trying that at 200 micrograms per day. A few weeks ago, we had a a question about, you know, will will peptides effectively or the advancement of peptides ever effectively replace steroids. Well, this user wants to know if you could put together a quote max effective dose of peptides for those that don't want to be enhanced in his words as they don't compete. >> Um, I guess some sort of a max effective dose of peptides that in a sense could replace anabolic use. I don't think any peptides will ever replace anabolic use. Um, I think that if you didn't want to use anabolic steroids and you only wanted to use peptides, I would probably take something like two IUs of GH every morning, maybe 10 or 20 micrograms of IGF-1, long R3 post-workout. Um, if you have any injuries or anything that aches you, I put the BPC57 at 200 micrograms into that area. And if you want to be tan, you could use a little melanotan, too. But, uh, you know, I think that that would be your probably most potent stack of what's available right now that actually works. There's a lot of other stuff out there that's hype stuff that I don't know if I would use. Now, if you want to lose some weight, you know, you might use some T3 obviously, which is active thyroid hormone. You could use the GLP-1 agonists, you know, like like we talked about earlier, retrotide or tzepide, which is bonjaro. Those things work really well at once again slowing digestive tract down and and reducing appetite. But as far as getting bigger, I think IGF-1 and growth hormone are probably your two, you know, number one and number two in terms of building muscle. They're not going to be anything even close to taking anabolic steroids, but you will get something from it. I can guarantee that. >> Take a couple more questions. This uh user says that um they're postgastric bypass surgery. So, he wants advice on macros for 3,000 calories a day to put on muscle posts surgery. I was 342 uh back in 2024. Today, I'm down to 176. I was athletic my whole life, muscular, but in 2013, had some injuries, stopped training over the next 10 years. Uh, so I guess that's the question. I mean, as far as like a breakdown of a diet of 3,000 calories, um, what you would recommend postgastric bypass surgery? Yeah, this is this is a homework assignment. You know, I don't do homework assignments, but I will tell you this. I think about 200 to 250 grams of protein per day. Calories mean nothing. I'm not going to tell you calories. I don't know. You can sit down and figure them out after I give you the macros. 2 to 250 225 250 uh protein per day. I'd go for like 125 grams of fat, you know, coming mostly from good essential fatty acids. And and then the rest would be carbs. And it would really be dependent on how carb sensitive you are. I would probably start with like maybe 120 to 150 grams per day because you're if you were fat at one point, you're probably pretty sensitive to carbohydrates. See how you're doing on that. If you're looking too flat, increase those a little bit. If you're maybe putting on too much weight, you might want to cut them back. But I think if I if I was a good if I was a betting man, I would say that probably is a good macro breakdown for you. >> Uh we'll close out with this one. Uh, this user says, species user, when will ice coffee flavor be available in the 44 serving size? In his words, it is the best tasting whey flavor I have ever had. >> Thank you. Yeah, a lot of people like the coffee. They love it. And um I think because we don't put it in 44, it's got more uh more people want it more. In other words, sometimes it's good when people want your product. And it's, you know, it's just another skew I'd have to add. It kind of started off as a novelty item, but it seems like there are like a lot of regular users of the coffee isoliz. So, I've been ordering more and more and higher and higher numbers. You know, usually you start out normally with like 500 to a thousand. Now, I'm ordering like three to four thousand of these things at a time because we we sell that many of them. Obviously, people like them because they have it has real instantized coffee in there. So, not only does it uh give you the authentic coffee taste, but it's actually more of like a coffee and creamish taste, but it also you get a little bit of the caffeine jolt from it. So, I I know I use it in the morning if I have to go to the gym and and I love the flavors. I'm a coffee fanatic. I don't even care about the caffeine and coffee. I just like the taste of it. Um, will we put it in a 44? You never know. I I'll never I won't say never. What we what we do have coming out is this fall and hopefully within another like uh maybe another month, the by popular demand, backed by popular demand, pumpkin spice will be back in 22 serving uh while supplies last for the uh the fall season. So that that's going to be exciting. And uh you never know when I might come out with a new flavor. Right now, I think we have pretty much all the the really good flavors covered, but I'm always experimenting and being sent new flavor systems to try out. And if something comes up that I love, then I wouldn't rule out another flavor. >> And with that, that's going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave. Again, if you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. We have all new episodes of the after hours podcast of Heavy Muscle Radio, as well as part one of Dave Palumbo's in-person seminar at the NPC Northwest in Ohio, where he specifically talks about uh daily protein needs and specific to bodybuilders. So again, check that all out on the channel. Uh we're back to daily uploads. I know the last couple of weeks have been a bit hectic. Um but we're going to be putting up content every day now going forward and we have a lot to bring to you. Uh so again, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss this. And of course all that we have coming up for the Olympia, uh which is now less than 13 weeks away. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadik Farooqi. We'll see you next time.