Hello everyone and welcome to another exciting episode of the fitness view brought to you by species nutrition and quest nutrition. Today is Wednesday, June 24th and we are live in Westbury, New York. My name is Broo Cook and we have some super hot topics for you today. follow along with how getting you prepared for the competition and most of all some beautiful beautiful guests. I'm brought to you I'm brought to you today. I'm joined by I'm joined today with Lena Mission. Hi. How you doing girl? Good co-host. Good. And of course the one and only Tanil Ray. Hello everybody. How you doing girl? Good. Hi. All right. So we're going to go ahead and jump right into it. And I'm going to ask Miss Lena, how you been girl? I have been so busy like I don't even have 30 minutes to myself because team universe is coming up guys you know the nationals here in New York and I have Yes. Yes it is. Um I have three fitness athletes that were competing. One I you know we're going to put off till later on. But I got two girls coming in. One is Darina Wilson. Look out for her. And Gina Marie. They're both spectacular athletes. They're going to perform beautifully and their physiques are on point. And then I have a few figure competitors. So watch out and uh you'll see what's up. She just got the whole show. She got she got everybody. She done prepped everybody in team. So and Miss Tanil boo. How you doing? Just as busy as Lena. I get to speak to her at least like maybe for 5 seconds during the week because we're always so crazy. But I have alongside of Lena, I have some figure girls and some bikini girls. And I'm trying to get ready to do a little something myself. I see it, boo. I see it, boo. I better girl. You better not do it. I tr I thought I was going to do team universe, but yeah m when they just take too much of your time, it's it's hard. It's time consuming to work with people when you care. When you give a damn. Let's correct that. When you care, that's it. Like Lena and myself. And you know, you don't really have much time for yourself, but I'm going to try. I miss the stage. I miss the tanning. I miss everything. And I get to have a beautiful suit by somebody who's going to be visiting us soon. I can't see. And my makeup as well. Her suits are amazing. We'll talk about it later. Yep. Mhm. All right. So, let's go ahead and jump into our first topic today. Um, so the thing is, are competitions being too pageantry? Are they becoming too pageantry? Um, and is it too much? you know, um, are we more focused on the glitz and the glam or are we more focused on the bodies that are coming on stage? What do you think? Well, um, I think it really has to be a complete package. I mean, you got to come in with the right body, but, you know, everything has to be finished. Everything has to be fine-tuned. Everything has to be polished. You can't come in with a beautiful body and your hair is disheveled, maybe up to the side, you don't have the right makeup on, your tanning is off. You know, it's part of your preparation. You got to come in prepared, right, Tal? I agree. How many girls have you seen that have the most amazing and the suit? Oh my god. The c the crooked. No, off the rack. How about that? Off the rack. How about tar? A tar bathing suit. My first suit was off the rack. I ain't going to lie. Look, I ordered Look, I did. I didn't know what I was doing. It was straight off the rack. But you said it right. You said you didn't know what you were doing. The first competition was you know a lot of girls now there's so much information between rxmuscle.com and everything. You can find the information you need, right? So for you not to be prepared or ask anyone is a bit much. Well, back in the day when I was competing, there was no place to find information and you didn't know where to go for a suit. I went online and whatever was on the internet I ordered, you know, not knowing. But now there's so many people and there's so many resources. It made them a lot easier. Yeah. Nobody told you what to do. Well, speaking about tanning, does every do y'all think Well, obviously everyone needs to get tanned. Yeah, we are. Um, who do y'all think are the best tan? Who Who do you think are the best tanners? I have my own formula. I honestly do my own competitors. Um, I think protein is great, Jantine is great, um, you know, Liquid Sunray, you know, they they're all very good, but I just have my own formula that works for me. And so far, it's worked for my competitors. They never look too light. They never look too orange. They never look they they have just the right color. Vanessa and I actually came up with a little solution as well. So we do Sun on the Run, you know. So we either come visit you or you know you come visit us and the color that she designed is amazing. So it's working so far. And what was her name again? Vanessa. Vanessa Adams. Yeah. All right. Vanessa back. So, one thing I am going to have to I I wouldn't say necessarily disagree, but I'm going have to play the devil's advocate a little bit because me personally, I feel like if your body is on fleek, meaning if it's on point, you're bringing the package, why do I need to worry about having these big ass earrings in my ear? Why do I need to have all these bracelets and the glittery shoes? Like, why do I need that? Like I worked hard for how long? 16, 20, 12 weeks prep and then you want me to walk in some high heels. I'm dehydrated. I'm hungry. I'm frustrated. I just want to walk out. Mhm. Why? I need all that because it's getting more and more competitive. And I agree with you. You're not playing devil's advocate at all. I had a bikini girl and maybe later on I'll get to show her picture. Beautiful. Her makeup was tight. Eye candy of course. Okay. Her suit amazing. everything, color, everything. And she had a hairo that the judges weren't fond of. So they said, you know, we couldn't get past your hair. And her body is Yes. And her body is amazing. Color was it like blue? It was short, kind of like a afro, you know, and it was just amazing. So she didn't have like beach hair, but she had beautiful hair that complimented the shape of her face. And when she stood on stage, all you heard was, "Isn't that what you want?" Of course. Right. So, you know, so now we're going back to the grill. And I just feel like I think because 85% of the girls either wear their hair straight or slightly wavy, the judges are accustomed to straight and slightly wavy. So, if you bring something else, it's like you don't like it. Absolutely. You know, I totally agree with that because I've experienced that myself. As many of you know, I'm natural under here. This is a wig. No, girl. Girl, stop. Girl, I'm Malaysian. Yes, but this is a wig. Actually, I wore this wig when I went pro. I wore this red. This is the pro. Got to keep it. Got to keep it. So, um, you know, I've always have like that's the joke amongst me and a couple of my friends that compete is that don't No, we need pageantry hair for stage. You can't go on stage with, you know, natural hair, fro, etc. Yeah. But should everyone look the same? Like, do they all want that Barbie doll look? Do they all want that, you know? Um, but that's what the judges the judges want. But again, the judges, it it's what it seems is so hard to judge because it's very it it's what they like and you never know. These girls, they all look amazing. They all come in in shape, but it it's just very subjective to what they like, the look that they want that day. Well, it's a subjective sport. They wake up. I think all I think all the categories are except for bodybuilding. I think bodybuilding they have it pretty much across the floor, so to speak. Bodybuilding physique. Yeah, bodybuilding physique. It's still pretty much figure there was a girl, and I wish I remembered her name. She had like a bob and you know, the judges were just like, "Well, maybe if you, you know, if you change your hair a little bit." I thought like her B her waist was like a 19. I thought she was stunning in figure. She was actually in figure. What show was this? This was the Atlantic States. The Atlantic States. It was a bob. What class was she? It was probably my girl Danielle cuz she had her hair like that. Let me No, it wasn't Danielle. I know Daniel. Hi, Danielle. Hey, Danielle. Yeah, it was it was another girl and this it was her first show. Oh, okay. So, I just told her, "Maybe you're just paying a little rookie dues because she looks awesome." So, I just asked her not to be on stage when I'm convening. That's all. Well, then let's talk about the men. Yes. Cuz I don't think it's Here I go again. I don't think it's fair cuz now I do see a lot of men behind that they they be tag but they negotiate. Okay, let's stop right there. Why should one category be able to just pounce up on stage and then the other people, you know, we got to, you know, go through the whole glitz and glam routine. I feel personally that physique men should be able to at least have to wear flip flops. No, I'm not saying I'm just saying. I'mma throw that out there right now. They need to come out there in some glitter ass flip flops. Flip flops. Absolutely not. that girl point that toe. Point that toe. Point that flip-flop. A lot of got a lot of guys flipping on the floor. Point that flip flop. But we have to learn how to walk. They should, too. I'm just saying. Well, they have that little You got to with the flip in here, Lena. I next time. Next time. But now they're getting a little over the top, too. These guys, they're coming in. Their eyebrows are perfect. Their hair. My son with the freaking gel in his that gel his gel has to be he has to shave his no just just right. And mom I got messages three different types of shorts. Mom, what do you think fits me? I'm like, oh my god. Right. I got tortured. I had to go I had to go with my competitor Kelvin Harrison to buy shorts. It was like us going shopping. Coach, what do you think about these? What do you think about these? I was like, "Oh my god, are you getting married? You're just getting on stage. Bright color and let's go." Right. Yep. So, and I told him, I don't want the white around the waist because you're being tagged. It's going to bleed on you. But I like the white. It's good. So, don't ask my opinion if you're not going to take it. Right. Well, so true. Well, now let's go to bodybuilding cuz you you said um you know, obviously they just get to walk on stage. I personally want to know how much do those little ass draws cost? 30 40? No, they're $50. I bought enough of them. Okay. No. If you go to certain websites, if you go to somebody, if you go to some websites, they have them. The good ones, the good ones, if they're very well customed, they're 50. We can ask Candy about that, too. This is going to get kind of out of subject. But I'm feeling like, okay, they pay the minimum on on the outfit. They get paid the most for winning, right? And we get paid the least, but we get we have to pay more. With that being said, living with a professional bodybuilder, seeing him what he goes through when he prepares for shows, it's it's worth every penny they get. Trust me, they don't have enough energy to get up out of the bed and walk to the bathroom and they're suffering every step of the way to get on stage. So, the smiles when they're up there posing, that's all fake because there's an oxygen tank backstage and most of them like half passed out. Well, they deserve every dollar. I will say though, they eat a lot. I was dating a bodybuilder and he was eating 20 like I didn't recognize Phil from the bag. I should have known that. Come on. I mean, girl already. All right. Take a picture of Eugene. Put a picture of Eugene up there. We should have a segment. Who has the best ass in men's bodybuilding? Ah, next segment. Write that down. Oh, I thought you was asking me because I was gonna add I was I was gonna have to say, you know, I think Dexter Jackson has a very Come on. On a brother. Tony Freeman, too. Tony does. Tony, don't judge me. Tony will I have to say my my husband black man's ass. I am sorry. He has a round striated butt and you don't usually see that on a white boy. Well, I got I got to say we don't usually see that on a white girl either. So, y'all justicious. Nikki, let's see your butt. No, no. I gave it to my sons, not my daughter. Oh, yeah. They missed She missed the line. She got the lo. That's all right. She got the beauty, so she's good enough. So, do you think So, do you think that suits are per Just going back to our figure suits and physique suits, do you think that we're paying too much for them? I think so. And I think um one of the reasons why and I I'm going to keep plugging her all day because she's the real deal. But people are charging way too much. It's like you can buy a car. Now, she's re she's reasonable and she's eye is reasonable and she's using the right product. She's using Swasi Crystal. All these people want to use precious stones and then charge you $15 to $2,000 and they mix and they're mixing it. So they can sell it as a swing but it's but when they're on stage when they're on stage you can see the difference between the It's close. You really can tell. I mean we know. Look my first suit cost $230 and that was that suit I ordered. Hold on. But I rocked it though. But and I think my most expensive suit to date and I mean I know there's way more expensive suits, but to me I just spent $800 on my last suit and that I was like $800 on a suit on some string. Mm- you know I can do $800, but I would want to do $800. You know, the the worst part about it is you're paying the $800, not because it is $800, but because the other suit designers are doing research and they're going, "Oh, well, if this design is charging this, then let me up my price." Which is bad business. How long does it take to make these suits, too? We'll ask. Okay. Oh, I can't wait. I cannot wait to ask. Yeah, we'll ask. And I'm not saying that your time isn't important. I'm saying let's be realistic. If you want to stay in business, let's be realistic because people are no longer going to continue to pay obscene amounts of prices when they can get a suit from somewhere else. Well, that's true. And you know, we'll get more information on that when we bring our guest on. That's right. So, let's go ahead. Oh, there goes my suit. Hi, that is my $800 suit. And I'm proud of that suit. I rocked it. Yeah, it was pretty. It was very pretty color. I loved it. I loved it. I love that suit. And maybe the next one will be a,000. I'm going up in $200 increments. Personally, here's my here's my $1,000 body. Here's my thing. Your body was awesome and amazing and you were beautiful. Thank you. Now, do I look at your suit and I say, "Oh, did she she paid $800 for that suit?" I have no idea. No, I do. I know. But I would say, I know that's I would say, "Okay, well, she's done. She's done." and she will remain nameless, but she's done business with me before and she is a pro and she's beautiful. I don't have to rape her with a price. That's my personal That's true. All right. So, Oh, and my suit again. Oh, that's the best. We're just looking at the right now. We're just looking at the booty. Really? We're not. And the back. We're not looking at the That's some eight That's some $800 string right there. $800 string. Okay. Love it. Your next suit's going to be from Eye Candy. I said it. Mhm. I said it. So, let's go ahead and wrap this up. Yep. And um we'll be back with some uh more great topics. Um some great, beautiful guests, bikini competitors, and again, we're going to prepare you for the stage. And we are leaving out of here for now. Adios. The decadent taste of salted caramel. A thick creamy texture with a silky smooth finish. The best tasting shake on earth. A little help here, Gill. And a whopping 22 gram of protein in every scoop. Say hello to salted caramel. Another delicious reason to love your protein powder. Visit questnutrition.com. I have before Kim Williams. What species are you? I'm Seth Johns. I'm on the ASA national team and I snowboard hard every day. For complete joint health, I take Arthurize Elite species nutrition. What species are you Yes. Woo. This is ISFBB figure pro Heather D's and you are watching RX Television. This is a dirty secretary. Hi, I'm Lena Mission. Welcome back to the Fitness View. We're here at RX Muscle Studios and we have two lovely guests. They are bikini competitors. Liza Fret, am I correct? Yes, you are. And Jenna Vent. Yep. Welcome, ladies. Welcome. Hi. and we're going to have some great taste uh what's that? Taste tests on the new Quest bars. So, um let's get started. Tell us a little bit about yourself. Well, I'm Genevette. Um I just started competing May like I started a month ago actually. I did my first show. You started competing a month ago? May 15th was my first show. Wow. Nice. How long have you been training to get prepared for your show? I was dieting for two years prior. Wow. I started for one show or you was just dieting because you wanted to? No, I started out really I was 106 pounds when I thought about competing. So, I needed to put on some sizes. I'm Got it. I'm 5'7 so I can't be going on stage at 106. Right. Um and then I was strength training for about a year before my first show and I did one the 15th I did an OCB show in New Jersey and then I did another show. How'd you do? came in second place. Go, girl. Yeah, my first show, second place. All right. Pretty cool. Um, and then I did a show two weeks after that. Um, Long Island, NBC Long Island. Okay. May 30th. I came in fourth place now. Nice. Good for you. Yeah, it was it was a fun experience. I can't wait to get on stage again. Cool. Well, when will when is again? When is your next show? Hopefully November. We'll see how everything comes together and maybe sooner or maybe later. Great. Sounds good. Sounds good. And well, my name is Liza Fred. Uh, I come from Puerto Rico. Yes, she did. I got to meet Liza in Puerto Rico. She put on my tag. Yes, I did. She put my tag on and everything. Hook the girl up. Yes. Love for you to care of you, baby. Yes, you did. Yes, she did. I've been competing since uh 2011. Uh, my first four shows were in Puerto Rico. Then I started um doing shows in the States. My first show in the States was the Arnold. Nice. I took 14th place and then um it all kept I kept going and going and then I have my next show this next Saturday. I am she is doing team you. She is got to step on that team you stage and tear it up. She got a real nice booty, too. Real nice booty. Real nice booty. You know, it's interesting to say, but Jenna, you mentioned that when you were when you started out, you were 107 lb 106 lb and 5'7. Correct. Now, it's very interesting how bikini has evolved because back in 2011, 2012 when it first started, that was the desired look. It was very long, lean, almost like a Victoria Secrets model. So, I guess I came into this a little late, right? So, um, yeah. So, like I said, you know, if you had started way back, Yeah. it you would have been the perfect bikini body because that's what they're looking for. They're looking for bikini bodies. Oh, beautiful. Girl, you better work, honey. Hey, work. I like that. Love that. Well, we have some Quest protein shakes that we're all going to try. So, I'm going to be the mommy and hand it out. Thank you, guys. Now, you're dieting. Could you have a little bit? Oh, she can sip it. Okay, she could sip a little bit. You got to go. You can't have no protein. Well, well, we we'll we'll send this over to her just for like But I mean, I think it's just water and protein. This is peanut butter. That's my favorite favorite. Listen, you could do anything to peanut butter. It's going to taste like it's going to taste good. That's the only kind of um protein I actually buy, actually. Very good. Is the uh actually, you know what they should make? They should make a crunchy peanut butter shake. Imagine crunchy peanut butter. That would be amazing. Actually, it's pretty good. Tastes good. It is good. It is nice. It's like when Species does the Oreos, you can actually taste the pieces of Oreos. Quest, get on it. Yep. Add them chunks. Add them pieces. Oh, this is good. I like mine to be How do you like your protein? I like mine a lot um a little more watery. I'm an ice. I like it with ice. Yeah. But this is you can I guess you can find this on questnutrition.com. So if anybody's interested, this is the peanut butter protein shake from Quest Nutrition. Yummy. Okay. Uh ladies, um let's see how how much cardio do you guys do to prepare for a show? I'm just wondering like if the bikini competitors do just as much cardio as the figure competitors, the physique competitors, or the bodybuilders. Okay. I switch my cardio cuz I'm a Sumba instructor. So that yeah, that's a whole hour jumping, densing, twirling. Show us something, girl. Bust the move one time. Come on. Girl, imagine you're doing the meringue. Okay. So you're doing You're going here. Yes. You can't do it here. No, you got to go all the way now. There you go. Show us. Show us. Look at her little weight. Oh, yeah. Huh? Oh, how I do that? That's my girl right there. I do uh three classes a week. So, that's three hours. But on the days of training, I do from a half hour to 40 60 minutes. It all depends on the how near I am to competing. So, wow. I switch it up. And Jenna, how much cardio have you done? I was doing, you know, it's really weird because it was I'm a really hard gainer, but then when I was trying to lose, we don't like you. No, I She probably has 300 gram of carbs a day. Oh my god, I would die for that. It's not as fun as it sounds, let me tell you. It really is not as fun. I know. It's hard to eat. That's big. All that food. Look at that booty. Um, but I was doing I mean, a week in I was doing probably about two hours of cardio a day. Two hours of cardio. That's a lot. That is a lot for a bikini competitor. I mean, um I have done four to five hours a day because I always fall behind. So, like, oh my goodness. And my day goes like, okay, wake up in the morning, have a cup of coffee, get on the bike, and do 90 minutes of cardio. Get off the bike, eat a meal, go to the gym and train, go back to the house, do another hour of cardio, take a rest, do another hour of cardio, take a rest, eat, do another hour. My whole day was cardio. My whole day. Well, it worked because you look phenomenal. But I heard Iris Kyle does like four to five hours as well. It was like just at the end. But how could you get that peeled and not do cardio? Well, see, y'all just enlightened me because I figured that like I figured, okay, obviously bikini girls, they do a lot more, but then I figured the bodybuilders maybe went every now and then. And it's interesting how you say that girls because I'm going to ask a question and this is a topic I want to discuss. Okay. The evolution of bikini figure and physique. How has it changed? Like I said before, you uh when you started out at 106 pounds at 5'7, I'm trying to get my information correct. You would have been the perfect bikini competitor. Now, back in 2012, my daughter stepped on a bikini stage. My daughter is 5 foot nine. She's here right now. If she wants to just step up and say hi. Nikki, come up. Oh, Nikki, you're so cute girl. She was she ain't no little girl. She's all legs. She's uh she's now 5' n, but she stepped on stage because she needed she wanted a little confidence in competing. So, she was with 10 women. One of them was Gigi. She was in the first call out with Gigi Amorei back in 2012 and the posing was different in 2012. You did the hip to the side. Yeah, it was so simple. You got to do get it, Nikki. Oh my gosh, girl. Work. Get it, Nikki. Her face out. Leg straight out to the side. Just step and hip to the side. Remember that's always ready. And then you turn around and it was the same pose. Hip to the side. Yeah. Now she's not competing bikini. I know. That's right. It's evolved again. All right, you sit down. Thank you. Thank you, Nikki. But they were looking they were looking for those long legs. They were looking for the tiny waist again like a Victoria Secrets model. But now, because it's the MPC, the physique division, now these bikini competitors are becoming more muscular. The poses are different. Gina, gorgeous. Is that you, Gina? And you know, the back pose, now you're enhancing the glutes and the hamstring area. You know, I know why they're leaning, but you know what's really strange in bodybuilding? Didn't they ban that moon pose? They banned the moon pose. And the moon pose is when a bodybuilder, right, steps down. It's almost like it's almost like I'll demonstrate. She dropped something. The moon pose. This is the moon pose. Some stuff. Should have put the species bottle on her egg. Break the net. Break the net. But in bikinis, that's how they're that's how they're judging the women. you know, who has the tightest glutes, who has nice hamstrings, you know, their body shape, the the the the way it flows, and of course, the look, how they're put together. Is your hair done right? Is your makeup done right? Is your color done right? It's the total package. So, what do you think about that? Um, I mean, I think, yeah, definitely all of them have kind of started out a little bit smaller and it's definitely grown over the because even when physique started, the guys were nowhere near the sizes that they are now. And the girls too. Yeah. Bikini and even figure. I think everything. Um so I think it's just making it a little bit I don't know more of a competition. You're you're getting up against more competition than everybody kind of being a little bit smaller. So there's more work that has to be done and more time put in the gym and just a lot more involved. So when does stop already? Oh yeah. When's what's too big? Oh yes. Sarah Leblanc. Absolutely beautiful. And you know what though, she to me would figure all she could be easily and a lot of the figure girls dropped back to bikini because they weren't quite big enough for figures. So they went to bikini and they're still shrinking. But now look at Atlantic States for let's take Atlantic states for example. Everyone saw the bigger girls. Lauren is one. Hey Lauren. Um some of the girls were really big and muscular. And let's take a girl on stage that looked like she could have won physique and bodybuilding. Um, Lauren placed third. I know Lauren placed it Lauren. It was Lauren. And she might have placed second in another class, I think. But when I saw them backstage, they had shoes on and I was like, "Oh, physique." No figure. Her quality so separated. I like they look great. But all the rest of the girls that came in smaller, you would think that that's what the judges were looking for, but it was not. So, hence the a conversation that I always have with Amanda is, "Oh, you should really do, you know, you should really do physiques." And I'm like, "No, I want to do my figure." So, when I saw them place top three, I was like, "Yeah, go on big girls." But it's so hard because you don't know how to come in. Exactly. You know, one minute the judges say you got to be small, the next minute they say you got to be bigger. So, you just have to come in and be your best you. That's it. That's what you do. And now physique girls are physique girls have striated glutes now. And if you look at the rules for physique, it says no separation, no striation. They want full muscle bellies. But what are you seeing? You're seeing completely separated. You're seeing striated glutes. You're seeing these girls conditioned like a bodybuilder. And the rules say that's not what they want. But that's what you see. Now here's the bikinis. They are gorgeous. Now, I like that look, though. I'm not I'm just going to keep it real. I love that look. You can see their quads. You can actually see like I like that look. I think it's soft still. I think it's very feminine. I think um it's the perfect beach body. The perfect beach body. Now, she was a young girl. She was 18 years old. She had her pro card. She wasn't muscular like that, but she was Miss Olympia. What's her name? Natalie. Natalia. Natalia Melo. Can I say her body off the chain? Her body is off the chain, but she could do because she was too much. She could do figure if she wanted to, but her body is sick. It is sick. It is sick. Got to give it to her. Sick. Sick. But it's a little hard for bikini. She was She was my inspiration to start. She is amazing. Hi, Natala. On stage. Send her some love. Send her some love. So, um, what about the physique competitors? What do you think about them? Are we are they becoming bodybuilders or like what do you think? They they need to draw a line. Sometimes I see they get like Mhm. It looks like a bodybuilder. So they need to draw a line as you said and and stick to it. Yes. Stick to it. And cuz sometimes I see from state to state they change whatever they want. So they need to draw a line and say what what do they want exactly? Well, that's a good point. Would you be from Puerto Rico? What are they looking for? I'm sure like booty. Puerto Rico. They are big fuller. They are fuller. Judge what they see on stage. That's, you know, whoever out of that whole lineup, if they're all muscular, that's what you have to judge. Everybody that's muscular, but who has the best shape? Who has the best condition? Now, look at that physique lineup right there. And they all look amazing. I love it. Was that the year that Juliana won? Yeah, that's that's the year she won. Juliana looks bomb. And TC. Wow. Yeah, she's that's that's T right there. Yeah, TC. And you're right. She's not as big as the rest of the girls. Juliana isn't. I think she looks like physique should look. She looks like physique should look. A lot bigger than that. Yes, I've seen a lot bigger than that. The last physique showed. They they just they just Well, she said she was getting it softer. I don't think so. And then we go back to it where they said um Lissa Rice should do physiques. She won't. She won't. She, you know, I'm I'm with her 120,000%. No shoes, no switching. But I mean, she's g She's amazing. She's gorgeous. And to me, she's the epitome of figure. She's the she's the baddest figure girl I think to date. Along with Latoya Watson. She she agrees with me. And they're both from Vegas, but I think their bodies are amazing. love. So, of course, her body can't leave out her. Thank you, boo. I don't want to get no trouble. I don't want no trouble. It's all good. Just get outside. All right, guys. We're going to wrap up this segment, but we're going to come back with some more information about contest prep and suits. Oh, yeah. Don't miss out. Go change, Mama. Go, go, go. Changing. Yes. The decadent taste of salted caramel. A thick creamy texture with a silky smooth finish. The best tasting shake on earth. A little helper deal and a whopping 22 g of protein in every scoop. Say hello to salted caramel. Another delicious reason to love your protein powder. Visit questnutrition.com. I have before Kim Williams. What species are you? I'm Seth Johns. I'm on the ASA national team and I snowboard hard every day. For complete joint health, I take Arthurize Elite species nutrition. What species are you rest. This is ISFBB figure pro Heather De's and you are watching RX Television. Hey everybody, we're back and we're going to talk about suits. We have an amazing model from I Candy and we're just going to show you exactly what your suit should fit like. We're going to talk about the cost. We're going to go over everything. Get comfortable. And here we go. I'm introducing the one and only Candace I Candy Entra Porav Candace. Come on. Come on, Candace. Ready? Okay. And I'll talk about her for a while. She's also an amazing makeup artist. And meanwhile, we're waiting for her. We've just had the most amazing protein shake from Quest Nutrition. We want to thank them ever so much for not letting us starve and also giving us some really amazing products. So, please go to Quest Nutrition and purchase, purchase, purchase. It's so worth it. Uh, there's everything under the sun now. They have Thin Mints for God's sakes. I was a Girl Scout and I was a Girl Scout and that was like my number one seller and now it's in a bar. It doesn't get any better than that. So, welcoming Candace and the lovely bikini competitor that she's going to be entering. Oh my god, wait till you see her. The suit's amazing, the body's amazing, and she'll be a team you. So, oh, she dyed it down. She is. She looks gorgeous. She tie, y'all. She Y'all don't think they ready for this. Yep. Are they ready? Come walk up. Come out. Yeah. She ti Asuka is sugar. And she does look like sugar. Honey, it doesn't have She looks gorgeous. And this is a suit. This would be considered a basic bikini suit. And wait, I need to move this so you guys can see her. Really? Really? Let me move it this way. Look at her. Move over. Move that blue box. Okay, check her out. I'm going to move this chair, too. Let me just move. She looks amaz She's so ready. Somebody give her her pro card right now. Thank you very much. Go ahead and give her a shot. Is that okay, Steve? Babe, hook her up with that pro card cuz she bringing that package. But also mo most importantly, look at the fit of the suit. We have Candace here who is actually the designer of the suit. This suit has absolutely no bling on it yet except for the connectors. That's how you And it looks stunning. Yeah, that's really when you have a great suit. Can I push your hair? When you have a great suit and you have a great fit, you don't need the extras. We love the extras. I love the bling. I'm so Hello Kitty, but she's gorgeous without the bling. She can win a show without the bling. I wish you the best of luck. And you look awesome. Yeah, you look amazing. Yes. So, we're going to talk to Candace about the suit. Thank you so much, love. Thank you. So, Candace, let's my suit. Let's talk about Let's talk about her suit. How long did that take you to make without the bling? And then how long would it take you to bling it out? Um, that one. Grab the mic. Oh, there you go. Yes. Put it to your mouth. Talk into it. Come on. That one took about an hour. An hour. An hour. It has no bling. No. an hour. And how many times? How many times? Let's hold up some things. Look at the connectors. Look how strong it is. I'm Look how strong it is. Is that And they need to be strong cuz you don't care. You just be throwing stuff on. Say I can speak for everyone on this panel and say how long it's taken for someone to actually bring a suit to delivery through FedEx and UPS. Who wearing this? She's done this amazing job in an hour. Now, I'll say something about Candace and I candy. She has literally come to see my girls. She's placed colors on them and also has checked beading and what do you want and etc. I have ordered suits from people. I know they're hot, right? I've ordered suits from people and you don't get the right shade. You don't get what you expected. With her, you get everything you expect. The fit is amazing. You know, I like that she has enough fabric to cover your chaa because we've we've seen some of that slip out. Didn't we see that the other day? We have a picture. Wait. Yes. I want to see the picture. No, I have a picture. And also, I wanted to mention we seen some suits. Hold on. We've seen some suits without lining. How are you not going to have lining? I don't want to see your clitoris. Yes, please. I really don't. I You know, see, I say chaa. You went right. I went straight for the juggler. I don't want to see it. We don't want to see it. We want to see an amazing suit. And when your suit's amazing and your body's amazing, you can't lose. Sometimes it's just in the back. Okay. So, that's beautiful. Can you see? Can you see me? That's beautiful. I can see you. This is This is ridiculous. Look. You're not supposed to see that. That's not mine. And she did not make this. We do not We do not. I was going to ask if it was finished. That is finished. That's a finished suit. Finished suit. That's That's a finished suit. Look at all the pretty colors. And wait, this is who I bought my first suit from. Bye. Bye, Felicia. Bye, Felicia on that one. Okay, but I didn't know no better. We going to keep bringing that up. Right. So, most importantly, and she's really busy. So, don't think that she's Oh, she's not busy. So, she she has a full-time job. She drove her behind all the way to Brooklyn and she picked beads. Okay, stones with me, you know. Excuse me. I'm sorry. She corrected me. Stones. Saski, not cheap, not plastic, not precious stones, but the actual Swi crystal. And not only did she go the extra mile with helping me choose, but literally she says to me, "This is not going to work for you. This will work for you." A lot of designers need to learn from that. It's not about rushing and charging people over $800 $800 suit. Miss I Candy, what's making you pop from the rest? Well, the fit. The fit, but the quality. Okay. I mean, my fabric, you can just tell just compared to that, right? There's no comparison. Right now, I have a question. What is a basic suit like that? What you're holding in your hand, just just the flat fabric with the connectors. What does something like that cost? 180. That's reasonable. Very reasonable. Reasonable. Hello. Mhm. The stitching is professional. It's not going to fall apart after two washes or two shows. Double lining. All custom. When have you learned this artistry? Where did you When did you When did you start making suits? Why did you start making suits? Well, I started she felt sorry for people and the suits were falling apart and she saved them. Well, I started as a makeup artist. Okay. And then I wanted to be a one-stop shop for girls. Nice. Makeup, hair, suits, eyelashes. I do my own eyelashes. Put my eyelashes on today. Put them on. Thank you. Thank you. So then I just saw the quality of suits that are out there and I said, I can do this. If they can do it, I can do better. And I think I so far I've have I have a great response. And you know, no one's perfect. So I'm always learning. Do you have a background in sewing? Like have you've sewn? Yes. Okay. So that's you had a background. You know how to sew. You've been sewing before you decided to make suits. It's not like you woke up one day and says, "Oh, I'm going to make a suit. Let me buy I can do it better. But first, let me learn because there's it's different stitching there. I know there's a different machine. My my grandmother was a seamstress. You know, the old Italians. They came here and they s they sewed everything. But I I know there's different machines that you have to use. Three machines. I have three machines. The double stitching. The double stitching. The cover stitch. And then just look at you link. I know something. Girl, you better work. I know something. And then you just have your basic machine just to do let's say just for this one. What this does, this machine doesn't do. So it's all a technique. It's, you know, not some little home machine. So yes, that sounds very And the fabric that is the scrunch is on the inside so it doesn't bother. Okay. It's not made out of plastic like I've seen some other companies where they it the plast it's a plastic scrunch and it's real four-way stretch. Oh, I know the plastic scrunch. I was like, "What's that?" I know exactly what you're talking about. I think I have a swimsuit with a plastic plastic strip. So, what happens is it gets hard and it falls off, right? So then there goes your scrunch. You see, I've never worn a scrunch suit. I'm from Figure and Fitness and we don't lose bikinis. Let me ask now. Do you do figure bikes? You know, I need a bikini to match my figure suit or my, you know, so this way when I go tanning, I don't have the tan line. So maybe you can make a bikini for me. I'll pick out a fabric. You do that, right? Oh, that's awesome. And posing suits for the guys. Regular posing. Like sometimes you just need a suit to just pose in. You know, after you work out, you want to pose for an hour. You can get creative. Do you have any samples of your figure suits or you just brought the bikini? Um, posing suits. Pull that on and over. Cuz when I'm just posing at the gym, I just pose in the gym. The woman one. Oh, that's interesting. For But this is for a girl. Okay. Yeah, that's a figure. I've seen the hood in the front. So, it's a Brook suit. That's a future Brook suit. Wonder Woman. This is the top. I like that actually. For a regular posing, right? For the beach. For the beach or for a bodybuilder. cuz we know they need clean. Well, it looks like I'm going have to upgrade myself and get a pose like this weapons. Honey, you have one of these. Yes. For you in this size. In the sample size. But this does fit. It's got to be like an eye patch. As long as it covers the nipple. That's it. She said no. I'm learning something new every day. Every day. Yes, she does. Like a little iPad. I might actually buy this for you right now. Off the rack. Here's some bling. That's pretty. Oh, that's pretty. I said I never wear red. I don't know what's up with that red. I can't do it. Look at the shine. Look at the shine. Right on stage because But it is pretty. I want to wear this. Can I wear this? Beautiful yellow. Oh, I went pro in a yellow. Look, she had the special bag for the yellow. Oh, we have the bags for everything. We'll talk about that too. Speaking of which, what's too small? Yes. Okay. For a suit, what do you consider too small? For stage, I got to get dressed for stage or bikini. Okay. Let me get st You mean the top? How's that? How's that? What? That's too small for stage. Too small. Too small for stage. What about the bottom? Small bottoms. What do you think? Too small. If the top is too small, it's definitely going to be too small. You cut the bottoms to these. I would love to see I have this bottom. This is another camo print. I'm right here. I wonder if I can get away with this one. Put them on. Michelle can. Hold on a second. She's going to Everybody world star. Everybody want to see that ass and that booty shot. Booty shot. Turn it. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Ass action. One a little bit bigger. This one's a little bit bigger. No, you're not. You have the cool There you have the coolest mom ever. The coolest mom ever. This one's a little bit bigger. Let me see if I can get my I love that color. Oh, that is a nice color for you. That's beautiful. Beautiful. This is my new beach suit. I like that. So, do you make So, do you make um do you just cater to the women or No, I think you said that you make um Oh, this was men's. I just thought it was a big ass pair of somebody. I was like, "Somebody ain't stage ready. Somebody isn't stage ready." But okay, we going to roll with it. Okay, these are men's pose. They're dressed. They are men's. The bump in the front is the first hint. The bump in the front. They got a little hair. I'm going to go like this. I'm learning a lot of new stuff today. Oh my goodness. So, we didn't we didn't we talked briefly about it, but we did not go in full detail. So, we have her as a makeup artist as well. So, what's awesome is you get your suit from Candy and now you're sitting in her chair and what do what happens when you normally get your makeup done? The artist goes, "What color do you want?" Well, she's done your suit, so she knows exactly what color you you need. Very good point. But she doesn't do the ratchetness of the extra thousands of colors. I'm not going to match your suit. I'm not going to get red shadow girls like well I have a blue suit so I want blue eyeshadow not happening my makeup honest because my first show I wore a blue suit and I asked the makeup artist to give me blue eyeshadow and it was the worst thing ever disgusting that was a bad decision the judges gave me red like a reduction of points just because of that went on with turquoise eye shadow that's in the 70s the Drew entire show. Talking to the mic. Was that Mimi? Talking to the mic. Share. Share. I know. So, and this is also great, too. She has these cases and they protect your suit. Now, I know I can say it. I'm very classy, but I put my suit in a Ziploc bag. I was just going, but now you don't have to put your suit in a Ziploc bag. You literally put it in this cute little case and you close. And it's very compact. And voila. No longer having a ziplockc bag. And if you're traveling through the airport, you throw this in your pocketbook. Lady, stop leaving your suit in your suitcase. I do not always have an extra suit in my back pocket to give you. She does not always have an extra suit in her back pocket. You do need to carry a suit on. Carry your suit on. So, carry carry it just like this. Perfect. TSA approved. That is really cute. It is cute. Do you make different bags? Do you do they come in other colors? And there's a flowery one. Oh my god. Well, you see, I'm loving that floor. I love I'm going to need her here to make me a Hello Kitty one. But see, I have a question going back to the figure suits because like I do some stone work. I do a little bit of stoning for suits and my own suits. I stone my own. I buy a plain suit, it fits me fine, and then I put my own stones. I spend 10 to 12 hours, sometimes 16 hours, stoning a suit, trying to get both sides to match and gluing one stone on at a time. How long does it take you to do a suit? That's the money maker there. That's the money. That's what cost a lot. Talk to us, Candy. Let's go. Now, do you draw on the Do you have a stencil? Like, how do you do the stone? Once I draw on it, there's a a dress maker's chalk. Yes. that comes off. But you can lightly trace like let's say for instance she wants a very intricate suit and it has to be even. Yes. On both sides. So I would you know slightly trace her suit and then figure physique. It's not like bikini. There's so many colors, so many sizes, so many stones. You know, you can go all out and have a rainbow. So, you know, all those stones, it's a lot. I really wanted you have to let it dry. People think like, okay, you just put it on, then the glue, and then here, that's what I I'm one of those people. Look, my question, my question here is, do you base your price on how much time you spend on the suit, how much stones you or just the stones used? How do you base your price on what you're going to charge for a suit? On especially for figure physique, I base it on time and how many colors? I mean, let's say they're more expensive. colored swarskis. The AB stones are way more expensive than the clears. Sometimes what's the one I like the bigger so you have you know the 20 which is the 20 is the small one and the 40s. You have 16s. Mhm. What's the color that I like that two-tone color? What do you call that one? AB. No, but there's a transcending one. We'll talk about it. There's a transcending one. But all of the suits, if you need a suit, you need to give her a few weeks. There's no lastm minute nonsense. Although she might be able to save you. She's super super sweet. She may be able to save you, but she can't save the world. So So where can we contact you? Where is where's your info? Instagram, Facebook, all that. I know. Sorry. I'm on Instagram. I Candy MUA. I'm writing it down. I MUA. obviously makeup artists attached to it. But all my suits, everything contact information is on there. So, you know, girls always direct message me, they contact me, they email me. I'm very quick with responses. And she's patient. Patience. I accept every kind of payment. Every kind of payment. Patience. Patience, my dear. I love. So, I mean, if y'all are looking for the show, I mean, if y'all got a show coming up, you got to contact her. Instagram, Facebook, what was it? The good thing is I'm always at the shows. She's at every show. Every show. So, let's say something happens, uh, connector breaks, you know, you're there to fix. Candace to the rescue. So, is this the color that you're going to be wearing? This is actually the suit that I'm going to be wearing. Awesome. She doesn't even have the stones on yet, but I trust her. so much that I'm not stressing out. No need to. It fits perfectly yet. It fits perfectly and you look amazing and we want to wish you the best of luck as well. Just customized the top for me because I had to replicate I booies. My my old suit fit me amazingly. Um I needed a lot of fabric to stuff it and make up for other honest on the view. Honest. So, in previous shows, the other suits that I had, the cut was completely bad, wrong for me. I couldn't stop it and it was not proportioned. Yeah. She makes stuffable suits. This is making it happen for me. Stuffable suits. She's making boobs. She's saving you 5 to$10,000 on a boob job. She's making boobs. So, we will see you at We'll see you at team U. We wish you so much love. We're going to be making lots of noise for you. Thank you. And we want to thank Candace again for coming. Thank you, Candy. My bathing suit. I'm so excited. And now Lena's getting a bathing suit, too. So, hey, I want a suit, too. But we'll talk about that. But yeah, I'm getting a suit, too. Don't leave me. Oh, yes. I won't. I won't. Mhm. Awesome show. All right, everyone. So, that's the conclusion of our show today. Again, this was the fitness view brought to you by Species Nutrition and Quest Nutrition. We'll see you next month. Have a good night, everybody. Night night.