Heat. Heat. That's what I have in my hand. It is 9 lb 14za. A baby boy perhaps the nest met Welcome to Live with I'm I'm your host Dave Palumbo and I'm here with tonight's guest of the evening, 2015 NPC National Bodybuilding Overall Champion, Sergio Oliva Jr., Congratulations and welcome. Thanks, Dave. What's up, guys? You are the uh the newest NPC national overall champ. Uh, and you know, it's it's got to feel great to get that IFBB pro card and all that validation, but you know, it's interesting because your career was not an easy path. Uh, Sergio, you you really haven't placed at a very elite level until this year when you played second at the USA Championships. That was your first real breakout show. And then you follow that up with the win at the Nationals. Uh, I got to ask you, what what changed in your life? What changed in your mindset? What changed in in the way you prepared for this show that all of a sudden this became your breakout year? Uh, I know it's crazy because I was even just having that conversation with Labrada about how uh I feel like anyone who took a chance on me uh not really winning [\h__\h] uh was kind of really a big deal because really I mean I've been competing for 13 years but like you said I I haven't won anything. Um, I think the biggest change is I mean Dave, you know me. I'm I'm so I'm still pessimistic about trying to make sure that no one feels like I'm writing any coattails and I wanted to always make sure that I did everything on my own and sometimes even turning down help. And after junior nationals um two years ago uh when I I you know I was doing my own my own prep my whole career. I again last minute [\h__\h] it up like I always do. I realized that this isn't a sport that uh you really can do on your own. And I think that was the biggest change is that I kind of just came to my senses and realized that I do need to have help. Uh, and for sure having someone help me with my diet and having a sponsor and stuff like that was definitely a big help. Just having someone kind of help me through those times you start second guessing yourself. Uh, and that's when I first uh had Lee reach out to George Farah to help me with USA. So, you worked with George Farah for the USA and and obviously um it it was a good you brought in a much better look, but it wasn't your best. You weren't as polished. Your conditioning wasn't as good. What made you decide to say, you know what, I'm going to ditch Farah. I'm going to go to Kurt Aceto. And what was the difference when you started working with Chris from from the prep with George? Um, I think I just I kind of went off of, you know, George Farah and his he is who he is and, you know, this this awe around him. And, uh, I just kind of went in blindly with with that diet. And then about 3/4 in, I realized that, um, I don't think this guy was doing anything on purpose. I think he was just so busy that whenever I was sending in pics or asking for help, I was getting really like short answers or really a lot of [\h__\h] Um, and I actually talked to um, but it's George Farah, right? So, he is who he is. So, you kind of just have to just do it. And everyone was asking me how what do I feel about him and how do I feel about the prep? And my answer was, we'll see at USA's. And towards the end when uh, it was almost time to do uh, the show, I realized things that need to be coming in way before a month out weren't. And once I started asking him like, you know, how can I how can I work harder? You know, I'm sure he has so many people that are so lazy and all these gurus have people that are just not wanting to work hard. I was more asking about how can I do something to step up the game. You know, I want to bring my glutes in shredded. I want to bring my hams in. And the answers I was getting weren't weren't really the right answers. And I actually talked to someone else who had worked with him. Uh I'm not going to name any names, but he got them their pro card. And after they got their pro card, I realized they weren't working with him anymore. So, I thought that was kind of odd. And I talked to him and he said along the kind of same things that I was going through. So he he he told me some tricks uh to to do and to test him out and to see if really this guy is helping me or if someone else is just sending me a diet that's just a cookie cut diet. And that's what it was. I caught him in some lies and some stuff like that. And again, I don't think that he was doing anything on purpose. I think he just when you help 200 people, you don't you can't really spend that much time on someone in particular to help them, you know, nail their conditioning. And uh that's what I needed. And after USA's uh towards the end, I just started doing my own diet. I started changing things up uh I just started doing it on my own. And when after we've placed, you know, second, which was which was really which was was really good, especially the lineup. Uh I wanted to start again and get ready for nationals, I realized my diet was being the same [\h__\h] again. It was the same diet. And that's when I realized uh I can't go through this again. And it really was just chance. And man, this is that's how life is. Everything happens for a reason. I was at the Olympia. I was just talking to Chris Cormier, you know, just about the show. The Olympia, the pre-judging had just ended and I'm just, you know, talking to him and and here comes Aceto and and Nicholls and I was kind of just talking to them about how I felt and I just felt really lost and and man, I'm the kind of guy I I I'll work to the bone. I I'll do whatever you say. You tell me to eat dog [\h__\h] to win a show and I'm going to do it. But if you're telling me to stop doing cardio and stop doing things that really aren't gonna hurt, then I know something's wrong. And the way that Chris talked to me, he talked to me like a human being. Uh I really appreciated. Um he was just saying that, you know, he would help me if he if he wanted, but the best part is he wasn't like trying to like steal me away or anything like that. He he wasn't pushing the the the fact of the matter. What's He didn't poach you. No, he did not at all. It was it was me who was just kind of having a conversation with him and and that was it. That was the end of the conversation. And then the next day at the booth, I was working a little broader booth and he just happens to just be walking by and we had another conversation again. And man, just the way that he was talking to me. So, for instance, one of the first things I was told by Pharaoh was a list of hashtags and things that I'm supposed to put in my posts to try to try and help his career out. And already already that was kind of a little strange. But you know what? I don't care if if you're helping me out, I will help you out, too. But it wasn't until I talked to Chris and then again, the first thing he tells me is once we decide to work together, cuz of course I'm still in Pharaoh mode. I'm like, you know, I want to tell the world, you know, I want to I want to make posts about it. And Chris goes, man, I don't care. He's like, man, don't post anything. It doesn't matter. He's like, we're going to we're going to get you ready for the show. And just the way he worded certain things, like when I asked him, can you prep me? He said, no, I won't prep you. I don't do diets. He's like, "I'll look at your pictures and I'll adjust as we go and I'll and and I'll change your body." But just even the word prep and and doing your diet, he didn't like those things. That's not how he does things because in all honesty, if that is true, you're right. You already have a diet written up. When I send you 8week out pictures, you send me 8week diet. And that's that's cookie cut [\h__\h] And that's not how Chris was. And that was just the that's just him and his personality. But the actual science and like the the genius behind him was when I realized that I was I mean I'm not gonna lie it was hard. I I struggled for sure. But I was struggling in the right ways. I wasn't like killing myself and overdoing it and things that weren't unnecessary. I was just telling somebody that, you know, just little things. I'd ask him, you know, should I eat a sweet potato instead of a baked potato? And a normal guru would just be like, yeah, eat the sweet potato, do two hours of cardio. you know, always the harder way. And yeah, he just he was like, "No, you don't have to you don't have to do that. There's no reason to to to to drain your body so bad." Um, so I like that he he was really smart about things and he did work me to the bone, but he didn't overkill me and he didn't overkill my body. Uh, I think we we had certain areas we needed to focus on. We did kill those areas and yeah, the proof was is being on stage that those things worked. Uh I I think Chris uh Aceto helping me with the mentality of what a diet should be and the nutrition part of it and then Chris Cormier helping me with working out were the two biggest things that I changed from USA's to nationals. And that's the craziest part is I've only known this guy two months. I've only known this guy two months and we got a pro card and I look the best I ever have. What's going to happen after a couple years? I can't even I can't even imagine. Yeah. Yeah, I mean you you were significantly better. Um, and I I I first of all I want to just go on record. I I don't believe that George Farah would ever lie to you because that's just not in his makeup. But having said that, having said that, uh, let me ask you this question because obviously um, mental state is very important too. And you know, a lot of people were, you know, kind of counting you out after you kind of put up less than spectacular placings as you pointed out yourself, uh, at the junior nationals, at one year at the Nationals. I think it was 2014, oh, no, 2012, you didn't even place. Um, were you starting to doubt yourself at a point or did you always believe that you had the talent and the ability to get that pro card? Well, you always hear about these horror stories where the guy looked the best the next day or the guy looked the the best the day before, but man, it was the truth. That's really what it was. I mean, there were so many times and I I mean, just the Junior Nationals alone was the biggest one where I literally went to bed so excited. I was like, man, this is going to be the one we're going to win. And I do what I always do. It's, you know, it's either I I I think I'm too flat and you eat too much or you think you're going to spill over and you cut back too much. And I was always doing the opposite extremes. And yeah, I went to bed so happy and I woke up the next morning and I was in shock. I couldn't believe how shitty I looked. Uh, so I think the fact that I knew that I did see me looking really good kept me wanting to go. But it's funny, I was just having a conversation with someone about Blair and trying that many times to go pro. I mean, that guy tried to go pro as many times as I've done a show. And I can't I I can't lie. I can't say that I would have went home and been like, you know, babe, I swear I can do this. We're going to do it 12 more times. I I don't know if I would have been able to do it. So, I mean, yeah, my places weren't good, but I didn't feel like I was going to quit or anything like that. I wasn't getting to that level. But now, if I had just did that nationals, what I just did to my body in the last couple of months 12 more times, yeah, I don't think so. There's no way. You know, since you gained the weight back, you look a little like Phil Heath in the face, especially with that hat on. I don't know if anyone ever told you that, but let let's get to let me get to the the juicy question I want to ask you. I know everyone was was wondering if anyone was has been living with their head in the sand and doesn't know your dad was the three-time Mr. Olympia Sergio Oliva senior and uh also known as the myth. And we saw a little on the intro a little clip of him holding you up as a baby uh at that show. And you know, I have to imagine that it must have been I I can't even I can't fathom it, but what was it like growing up with him as a dad? Because a lot of people, myself included, I don't know very much about Sergio. I never got a chance to really speak with him very much, especially in his younger years. Um, what was it like having him as a dad and being in the household as a youngster? Yeah, it's weird because uh it wasn't until I got into bodybuilding that I kind of really realized and appreciated who and what he was. I mean that whole nickname of the myth. I mean it really it really does apply really well with him. You know just the measurements that he had. I mean if if someone said that that somebody was coming out today and had those measurements, you'd be like, "No, that's just a myth." But he still he was just my dad. And it's it's weird because yeah, we'd go out, you know, to dinner and people want his autograph and stuff like that, but it I never looked at him as like the Mr. Olympia. If anything, I looked at him as a cop because by the time I was born, my my dad was already done and he was a Chicago cop for 30 years. So, it was more of having a dad as a cop more than a Mr. Olympia. But once I got into the sport is kind of when I really realized that I mean, yeah, this guy was the [\h__\h] for sure. Um, but it's weird because my dad was like he was one of the best bodybuilders ever, but only on stage. The one of the things that I really liked about him a lot was that he felt like that was his job and that was it. I've never seen my dad flex. I've never seen my dad pose. you know, he wasn't the guy walking around with his shirt off and stuff like that. And I kind of like that. I liked the whole idea that uh he's not walking around with uh you know, invisible lat syndrome. Uh he never he never was that guy. Um but you're right, a lot of people don't know him. Like you were saying, he he got burned. He got he had so many grudges with with the with the business back in the day, which is something that no one will ever deal with. No one ever in the history of body will ever deal with being dark-skinned and being first Hispanic to ever win a Mr. Olympia and dealing with all the offstage stuff that was going on back in the day. The problem was that he didn't know how to turn it off. He didn't know how to turn off those grudges and leave it in the past. So, exactly. He was kind of really standoffish and he kind of disappeared and a lot of people never really got to meet him uh when he was in his prime. Um and yeah, he never told me any stories. Every story that I ever learned about my dad was always from someone else, some book, you know, something I read. Um, I can't imagine where I would be if I did get some help from him, even just in the gym or any kind of advice like that. I I could tell you I'd be a pro already, that's for sure. Did Did uh what was his relationship with Arnold? Did they talk at all? Was he angry at Arnold? You know, because he was the one of the few people who ever beat Arnold. A lot of people don't realize. And I have to imagine that, you know, he felt somehow that he was pushed out, you know. Yeah. I mean, for sure. And then it's funny because yeah, he that was one of the things he hated is that he was known for being the guy to beat Arnold. He felt like Arnold's the guy should be known for beating my dad. And uh it's funny because I think for sure there was definitely some hostility. I mean, you hear those stories. I mean, the one for sure is the one where Arnold tricked my dad to get off stage, you know, where they're talking to each other and they're like, cuz I mean, back then, what was there 10, 15 good bodybuilders back in the day making $1,000 maybe at the highest point for the Olympia and I think the conversation went where Arnold's like, you know, this were the best two in the world. And they're having this conversation while they're posing down on stage, which is really cool. And this shows the mental level of Arnold. And he tells them, you know, we should be getting paid more money. Let's get off stage. Let's ask for more money. and then we'll get back on stage and yeah my dad this is just part of the timer where you're just so gullible and maybe being a foreigner he's like yeah that's a great idea gets off stage and Arnold's like my dad quit and Arnold won that show so I think those for sure made my dad really angry in the beginning but by the time I was born they were really cordial and they were really friends what I think though is I think my dad was jealous of Arnold I think Arnold did certain things that my dad wasn't capable of doing. Um he he was able to kind of bite his tongue and you know like be ambassador of a sport. Uh I think sometimes my dad uh he wasn't able to I don't know show up at the show, you know, and and and and that's it, you know, because um my dad never dieted. Oh, he didn't? No, he he he never dieted. And uh it's funny because if you look at the 85 Olympia uh he you'll see that uh that's when he died at the first time. I think when he came back in '84 he thought that he could just do what he did back in the 60s. And when you're going against Lee Haney and guys like that you're going to learn real quick that that that whole pizza diet doesn't work. So he did he dieted and if you look at 85 I can't even recognize my dad. He looks like a completely different person. And that's what I think because when I asked my dad that I wanted to start into bodybuilding, he said no that that was it wasn't going to work. I think because when he tried it and he tried it the real way with dieting and cardio and things he never did and he still got the same place, eighth place, I think he thought that no one would be able to do it and I wouldn't be able to do it. Um I think that's why he really didn't kind of help me and push it and stuff like that. But I think he learned real quick uh that the game had changed severely and uh I think that's why that was the last year that he competed. So in ' 84 he wasn't a young man anymore. I mean his his prime years were probably the 70s and and that's when he kind of like he left. I think he went to to Waba, right? Or something like that. He went into Europe and was competing. Yeah. I think uh Albert Beckles, you know, he gets a lot of talk about being the oldest uh person. And then Vince Taylor, I think he came back. But my dad lied on his birth certificate when he came to this country when he did that 84 Olympia. He actually was almost 50. So I mean, yeah, it's amazing. I mean I mean he looked great, but I mean that goes back to what we're talking about. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter what you look like. It matters what you look like when you're standing next to other people. You're 100% right. Now you've overcome a lot of adversity in your life. Um you had a supplement company. I don't have to mention who it was, but you had an original supplement sponsor. um they kind of I don't know if they the right words would be they didn't believe in you uh they kind of disrespected you in a way and and I don't know if they dropped you or you dropped them. Uh was that disheartening uh to and and as a follow-up question to that when Labrada did sign you on and believe in you does it feel like you've been vindicated now that you're you're a pro? Um, I think I think with with bodybuilding, uh, I think people just automatically assume that I'm going to be a certain way, you know, like, you know, there's the whole silver spoon. And, uh, I think sometimes if I, you know, just ask for something or even if someone is mistreating me or or talking to me kind of rudely and I stand up for myself, it's automatic like, whoa, well, who do you think you are? You know, demanding stuff like that. And that was really hard for me in the beginning when I I felt like I needed to be respected, you know, just because I'm not doing anything wrong, but people are always going to treat me as my dad's son. And sometimes it's always going to automatically come off a certain way. I mean, it's just like, you know, if Arnold's son was competing and all of a sudden he's like, "Hey, I never got the supplements that I was supposed to get." You know, and then it's going to be like, "Well, who do you think you are demanding that you're going to be able to get that stuff?" you know, it's just automatically always going to come off like a certain way. And uh that bothered me a lot for sure. And then a lot of people don't understand that my dad burned a lot of bridges in the sport. I think a lot of people think that um my dad being my dad helps me. I think it helps me as in like yeah, I never had to worry about getting my name out there. I never had to promote myself and stuff like that. But I promise you, by no means were any of the judges or any of the powers to be uh opening any doors for me because of my dad. If anything, I had to show that I am not like him offstage. Um, and then exactly with Labrada. Labrada was just a a coincidence. It's so crazy because I'm such a crazy fan of the sport that I was at the Arnold um two years ago and there was this I went with some buddies of mine and of course Kai's there and there's a huge line for Kai. The show had just ended and the guys I was with, they're like, "Oh, let's go see Kai." So, we go to walk over and then I see behind Kai is Lee Lebron and I'm like, "Oh man, I'm going to go talk to Lee." So, I go to talk to Lee and me and Hunter, his son, are talking and we're just chitchatting and somebody just happened to take a picture of us and before you know it, somebody's like, "Hey, why don't we do an issue of, you know, Next Generation of Bodybuilding and me and him flew out to California to do that shoot." And that's when they signed me. It was all just coincidence just by me running into them, but Exactly. I mean, these guys took a big faith on sponsoring me. I mean, I don't know if a lot of people know, but Brad doesn't have any bodybuilders as sponsors, and they never have, and they don't have to. Putting Lee on the cover of a bottle is always gonna sell more than any upand cominging bodybuilder for sure. So, the fact that they were willing to one make me their first bodybuilder and take a chance on someone who's won some little local shows and that's really it, it really meant a lot. And I was telling uh somebody about how my whole career whenever I don't do well uh it sucks of course but I'm not letting anyone down and this was the first time where I had Chris to let down Cormier to let down LeBron to let down and that just wasn't going to happen. And if there was ever a time where you know I was getting a little sluggish or getting a little lazy that's are the people that popped in my head the ones that are are taking a chance on me and I haven't done [\h__\h] So I that actually fueled me a lot uh knowing that I have people in my corner and I want and I want to do well for them but I also don't want to let them down. What uh you know you we mentioned your father over and over again obviously um you know while he didn't really you know push you into bodybuilding. You obviously found the sport. Um what was the traction for you other than the fact that your dad was Mr. Olympia? Did you want to like uh did you see it as a way to prove yourself to your dad or did you just fall in love with the sport on your own? Um, yeah, I was actually just a little skinny track runner. Um, and then I just I I had some scholarships for track and I just didn't want to do that anymore. I I didn't want to run anymore. And uh I I bought like a little weight, you know, set. It's the the typical story in the basement. And I remember that I gained 30 lbs of muscle in like the first two months. And I remember thinking like, holy [\h__\h] like, you know, my body is definitely different. And uh I just started, you know, getting into bodybuilding. I remember I got the encyclopedia. I think uh Muscleme had one and then you know Arnold's encyclopedia and man Dave I hate school. School is not my thing. And I realized before I know it I'm reading these encyclopedias cover to cover and I'm like man even if my body is not meant for this I'm mentally loving this. And uh that's when I decided I wanted to join a gym. And that's when I realized how much my dad didn't want me to do it. Uh, I tried to join a gym in Chicago and uh, my dad, he he called him and told him to not let me join and you know, yeah, I think he's just so that Cuban old school where he only went to third grade. I'm sure he told everybody his whole life, my son's going to be a doctor, he's going to be a lawyer, you know, something. He just had this whole plan for me and then it doesn't happen. The only thing that bothers me is that whole video that you posted, uh, the whole holding me up. uh you can't hold me up and be like this is going to be the next myth and then now 18 years later that guy's trying to do it and you're like no and not only no you're trying to make sure that that doesn't happen. So once that happened I was kind of tired of it. Let me interrupt you for a second. Do you think that your dad there was any jealousy there at all? I mean because seems kind of unusual that you know that he wouldn't want his son to to to gain maybe obviously with the genetics you had to have the same you know potential opportunities that he had you know. Uh yeah that's what my mom thinks. He he says that all the time. I don't think so. I just think that my when my dad left he probably for sure if I know him was like I'm never going to come back and none of my family will ever give you business. And then [\h__\h] 18 years later now my son wants to get into it. I think he I think he had just he went out with such a a horrible like out that the last thing he wanted was for me to have to maybe uh kiss ass in the sport again. And that's what I was trying to explain to him that the sport is different. There's definitely politics for sure, but the whole having to kiss ass and struggle to be a colored person in the sport, it's just over. It's not like that anymore. Why did he think that he was being discriminated against? What was the like the his his in his mind? What was the uh the evidence of that? Uh people telling people telling him that uh no colored or Jew will ever win a Mr. Olympia ever again. Uh I've heard some pretty horrible stories and uh and and I know that they're true, too. Uh and it's just that's just the times back then. Um but I mean, [\h__\h] that's 40 years ago. So I um so after that after I realized that I was not only going to get help, but I was I was actually getting uh getting [\h__\h] blocked with my uh with my workouts. I moved to I moved to uh Florida um cuz my mom my mom competed too and my mom she knows what the sport eventually is going to entail if you want to get into especially to be a pro. But instead of like my dad where she's just going to like not help me at all, she's at least going to like make sure that I'm doing things right. So I I decided that I was gonna move out to be closer with her in Florida and that's when I started uh competing was my first shows at Panama City. Living with your dad originally. Is that is that the case? I lived with my dad till I was about 19 and then um me and him were just always buttoning heads, man. It was just about I think a big thing is that my dad being a Chicago cop, it [\h__\h] him up big time, too, mentally. No one calls the cops unless something's wrong, you know? And I think it's hard to turn that off sometimes. Everyone's a liar. everyone's a criminal and it it started to get to him especially when he got into that older age you started getting really scenile and we were just butdding heads all the time and uh I actually uh moved in with my girlfriend uh and her family and once I was there for about a year I was just like man I can't do this anymore and I moved to Florida so yeah I lived with him until I was about 19 and then I moved out on my own. What kind of an influence did your mom have on you because obviously you you know you obviously have a rel good relationship with her now. Um, you said she competed. Um, was she pushing you once you got into the sport to to be your best? Not pushing me to be my best. Uh, I think just if I needed help, she was there to to help me. It was more of like uh being there for support, but yeah, I mean, a lot of people don't know I spent more time in the gym with my mom than my dad. And every time I spent time with in the gym with my dad was for some fake photo shoot. It was always some fake uh relationship that didn't exist. And I and I really didn't like that. It kind of gave the wrong uh idea that he was helping me and uh it's that wasn't the case at all. I spent two times in the gym with my dad and they were both for a photo shoot. So she she really helped me out with a lot of things uh with that. But mostly it was just me learning on my own. You know, it's so crazy. I just learned how to pose a couple months ago with Chris Cormier. No one's ever gone through the mandatories with me before. It's really just me watching and studying and and thank God it's got me this far. But it wasn't until I started working with both Chris's that I realized, man, I didn't know [\h__\h] You you hit the uh the classic victory pose that your dad hits on stage, but you you kind of add your own little twist to it. I I even know Shawn Ray said something to you about you not hitting it correctly, and you said, "Well, this is the way I want to hit it." What give us give me the story behind that whole the victory part? Well, I think Sean was saying is that cuz sometimes I'll do it. smiling and you know sometimes I I'll look up and stuff like that and my arms aren't really together as much. But what I think what Sean was trying to say is that my dad's pose was very intimidating and it did it like struck fear into people's uh minds. What I was trying to tell him is that it's called the victory pose. So there's I have no business hitting the victory pose and I haven't won any shows. So So uh uh this is the first show I wanted and uh yeah I don't know. I I think someone was saying that I look up and I'm looking up to him and I think they they try and turn into more than it is and it's not. It's it's just how I do it and how I pull it off. I don't have any like sentimental reasons why I do it like that. But yeah, I mean I'm an idiot. I'm an idiot. I've been doing that pose since I was a middleweight. I'm 176 hitting the victory pose, you know, and then and then I get mad that people are putting that picture up next to my dad's, you know. So I'm just an idiot. But uh I think it's cool. I I'm such a big uh fan of the sport that I think that that's a really cool part is um seeing someone because I'm literally the living proof that the sport is living on. I mean, I am the whole age-old question of what would this guy look like if he had today's supplements and workout stuff. We're going to find out in the next couple years of me being a pro. Now, you now you are a very unconventional poser. You uh almost on the on the lines of Kai Green. Jose Raymond said it best. you're the you're the worst at the mandatories, but your posing is so enticing that your routines are amazing. Um, how do you respond to that statement? That's exactly what I said. It's it's the proof of someone who's just watched videos and videos and studied and actually never had anyone show them how to do their p mandatory poses. I'm the guy trying to hit the twisting Arnold pose and get that right, but then I don't know how to do my relaxed pose. So, you're working on that. In other words, I'll fix it. Don't worry. What what did you actually weigh on stage? Do you have an actual weight on yourself? I I don't know. I mean, I know that I lost for the weight from weigh- in to weigh in from USA's to nationals, I lost 10 pounds. Uh and it's probably just 10 lbs just in my ass for sure. Um but I I probably put on another eight pounds after I started carving up, but it still was the smallest I've ever been, which is really crazy because my whole life I've always been the smallest guy, you know, starting as a middleweight and having to work my way up to the weight class to finally be a super heavyweight. But it wasn't until after USA's when I got off stage and I asked everybody what they weighed and I weighed more than them. And that's when I realized I need to stop playing the size game and that's helped me out a lot that this is not a coincidence the smallest I've ever been in as a super and I win. Right. What What do you think will be your pro debut? Have you thought about that? Have you molded over? I know Steve Weinberger was twisting your arm a little backstage to do the New York Pro. Um when will we see you in 2016? Uh you're not going to see me in 2016. Uh you don't you don't tell the boss you're going to do this show and then not do it. But there's no way that I'm going to be ready by May. Uh I'm going to move to Cali in the next couple months. I need to, you know, get ready for that move and get settled in and I need I need to put some size on and I need to fix some structural problems in my body that I need to fix. Uh a big thing that I always do with shows is someone tells me I lost because of something, I overemphasis on trying to fix that. And that's what I did at USA's because I feel some of my body parts at USA's look better. My abs definitely look better. My chest look better. Um, but you know, my glutes, my hams look like [\h__\h] And they tell me that this is why you lost. I'm so tunnel vision that I just killed that area so much that I let some other areas uh slag a little bit. I want to fix those. And um, my whole life my quads have been the biggest part of my body. And a lot of people don't know for actually the last two years I haven't been training them. I haven't been doing really any quads. let my upper body catch up. Um, I haven't done arms. I don't remember the last time I've done arms. So, I'm really excited. So, now I can just go all out with my body. I'm going to make my legs look humongous. I'm going to make um my arms look huge. So, um I I need to fix some things, but I I want to come out with a bang, you know? I want to I want to of course, who doesn't want to win their first pro show? But, uh I think it's going to be the New York Pro of 2017. It's uh it's exciting to see that you're going to be getting on stage. You know, I I I'm sure a lot of people don't want to wait a year to see you, but you know, you got a good plan. You got a great coach. Uh you got a good support system now. And uh I just want to once again congratulate you on this big win at the NPC Nationals uh two weeks ago in Miami, Florida. Congratulations. It couldn't have happened to a nicer guy. And enjoy the spoils of your victory. I will definitely. It still hasn't kicked in yet and it probably won't for a while. But uh man, this is a dream come true. I can't even begin to tell you how many [\h__\h] told me that this wouldn't happen and have have just attacked me on so many different levels. And it doesn't matter. I've always done it for myself and I and I want to be one of the best in the sport, but I can't lie, it feels so good to know that all the decisions I've made my whole life were were right. I I was making the right decisions. Well, I like I said, congratulations on the win and uh good luck on the move out to California and uh I'm looking forward to seeing you on that stage in 2017. Thanks, Dave. Sergio Oliva Jr., our NPC national overall champion. For now that we're out of time, that'll take us to another end of another episode of Live with. I'm Dave Palumbo. We'll see you next time.