Find out which steroid I think makes you the most vascular. Stay tuned. How's everything with you? What's going on? I'll call you another time. I'm I'm recording. I have a guy doing a documentary with me. Jumbo. Yeah. Heat. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RS television, rsmuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Bodybuilding, non-Bodybuilding, diet training, supplementation. It is all on the table. We're going to go right into the questions. The first two questions on this show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Interesting one here. We often talk about different methods of tanning. This one is about tanning pills. Are there any tanning pills on the market that you would recommend? You know, years ago when I first started bodybuilding, this was back in probably the late 80s and going to the early 90s, you would see these advertisements for these tanning pills in like the back of the Weer magazines and they were what they basically were was like um it was like that carotenoid stuff. So you basically it turned you orange basically it made you into a carrot and it didn't didn't give you a good tan. Then they started advertising that Protan came around and I remember buying bottles of Proan. I wasn't even competing. I just wanted a nice tan and I would because they were selftanners at the time but they they were kind of made you a little orange too and the pro tan kind of gave you a nice tan but it was really dark you know and probably not good for your skin because it's like acetone so you don't want to be putting it on every day and stuff like that but uh then I remember I always said I wish they had something that would actually make you really tan like in other words things that would actually cause your body to produce melanin aside from just sitting in the sun or going to tanning and then they came out with melanotan melanotan too is usually what most people use and it's injectable. It's not oral, but it works. It definitely it makes the melanocytes produce melanin and you get darker from it. Key is you don't want to do too much because it can make you a little nauseous. It does have a a sexual side effect almost like a Viagra like effect. Um but once again, the key is not to take too much of it because if you do, you get kind of nauseous. So usually if you take get like a 2 milligram vial, you put like, you know, 2 mls of water in there. You could take literally five units at night before bed, you do it for like, you know, anywhere from like seven to to 14 days. And then what happens is, you know, you should get your color by then. Take it right before bed because it will it'll make you a little flushed and maybe a little queasy, but not not bad if you only taking five units of it. And then you go into sleep anyway. By the time you wake up in the morning, you should be fine. And after, like I said, about seven to 14 days, depending on how, you know, quickly your body produces melanin, you should have a decent tan. And you can kind of do it like once a week after that to maintain. Now, if you go in the sun with the stuff, it works faster and works better, but you don't have to. And that I think seems to be the best way to get color, especially for people who don't necessarily tan. Now, the only side effects, like I said, are you might get a little nauseous or sometimes you get if you have like very light freckles that you don't even know on your skin that there, you might just start seeing like like little beauty marks popping up that you didn't even know you had and you're like, "Where the hell did that come from?" And it's not that the the the melanotan is making you produce new ones. It's darkening up the ones that were there that you didn't even know were so light. Um, when you stop the stuff, it reverses itself. So, that is a good thing. Um it's not like a permanent thing, but you you'll find out where you have some marks that you didn't even know you had, but you you get good color. The the problem is also if you do too much of it, you can turn you start turning purple almost because your lips get too dark. You know, it tans your underarms, it tans everything. So you don't want to make yourself too dark. I I've told guys told my my friend Mike Z. I said, "Mike, you're purple." He was at the purple at the Olympia one year. You use too much of it. So once again, be an artist. Don't be an abuser. Second question. And again, these first two questions from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Um, your thoughts on some WWE wrestlers, you know, come and gone, Brock Lesnar, Triple H, Dave Batis to name a few. Uh, they're huge, had good bodies. I guess he's asking about gear usage in their prime and if so, you know, I don't know if you're talking era to era. Um, he wants to know your opinion. Well, back in the Hulk Hogan era, you know, with the the Macho Man and Hulk and uh you know, all the the big names, superstar Billy Graham, those guys all use gear because it wasn't illegal then. And then in the newer era, you know, once the Triple H came, you know, that era I call it, the guys get tested and now nowadays they get really tested strictly. So, um the the the physiques, you know, on TV you look a lot bigger than you know you do in person. So, I mean, like I'm working with Cody Rhodess. He doesn't take anything, but he, you know, and in person, you wouldn't even think he's big. He's he's ripped, you know, because we really work very hard on his diet. You know, we we did everything as perfect as we can get it. But on stage, it, you know, in an arena on TV, he looks big. You know, he's ripped and it that it really translates well. So, you don't, if you notice, the guys today don't look like the bulky mass of guys from the 70s and 80s. it just they're just because because they're not using the gear. Um I'm sure they would love to but they can't you know and that's the rules and you know and and so no one wants to break the rules because everyone's making big money over there and and they're super and they're you know big celebrities. So um you know I I really you know it's actually commendable in the sense I I I would love to see monsters up there but at the same time it probably prevents them from getting hurt because you don't really want like 300 pound guys you know falling on top of you from the top rope. But these questions are from the Dave Palumbo Experience app, by the way. And if you um want to sign up for it, you can download it from your Android store, the iTunes store. It's $29 a month. You get me as a basically a coach in your back pocket. It's a pretty good deal because you get access to all my writings, all the videos I've ever done in a very organized way in the app. uh my off-season diets, my pre-contest diets, my keto diets, the steroid cycles, offseason pre-contest, you know, detoxification programs, everything's in the app. Plus, I answer everyone's questions in an open forum, so you see everyone's questions and everyone's answers. That's a really good learning experience. I always loved reading muscle media back in the day because I like to read the questions and answers because a lot of times I don't even know I have the question until I see it and then I'm like, "Oh, shoot. I I just learned something I didn't even know about." And then I do a Q&A video every week. So you get an extra ask Dave, you know, on video uh for the app members only. So it's a great resource. You guys have been supporting it. I can't even imagine uh I never imagined having as many members as I do right now. Every every month we pick up a lot of new members and thank you to you guys out there. And when you support the app and you're on there and you have it, it inspires me to do more for the app. So it's a learning experience. It's like having an ongoing continuing education uh program right in your back pocket. So, thank you for that. We take questions now from our Instagram page, from our YouTube page, and uh from our various social media outlets. Um bit of a doozy here. So, we got a DM and he said, you know, this is pretty urgent that he wanted this asked on Ask Dave, so I wanted to oblige. Says he has a friend that he's helping with her diet. She recently went through the same thing that you Dave went about two years ago. She had thyroid cancer removed same process, same meds, and she where she was radioactive. Anyway, I was trying to incorporate a few easy quick meals while she was working. She's a kindergarten teacher. So, naturally, in the beginning, while she's getting back into diet mode, I put in a shake and even your protein pudding. She said her endo and also her sister who is a doctor told her not to have protein shakes. something about it interfering with thyroid absorption. Also was told some protein powders lead to chronic kidney disease. H the the misinformation that's on the market. It's unbelievable. You know, these doctors should just stay in their lane. I I I actually admire the doctors that tell people I don't know anything about nutrition or or supplements. You know, at least they're being honest. the guys that don't know anything that actually try to give advice based on what they see read on Tik Tok or uh some, you know, 80-year-old medical journals are [\h__\h] doing a disservice to uh to the public. Number one, people who take thyroid replacement, they take it first thing in the morning, okay? They take it on an empty stomach, so there's no interference with anything, right? Number two, protein powders don't interfere with with with thyroid uh medication absorption. Okay? It it just doesn't happen. There's there's no what's the mechanism. I love these doctors when they when they say these things and they have no they have no idea what the mechanism is. They just kind of throw [\h__\h] out there and hope it sticks to the wall. And number three, we know that protein powders don't cause chronic kidney disease. Okay? Or or half of think about how many people buy protein powders on a regular basis. Everyone would be in kidney failure and that's just not the case. So high blood pressure causes kidney disease and we know that uh definitively. So, you know, like I said, it it's doctors are a wonderful thing and some of them are very very dangerous because they give out really bad information and then what guess what happens? This person luckily they know someone who, you know, who who is knowledgeable, but if they didn't know someone, they would tell all their friends what the doctor told them and then that lie would be spread throughout, you know, the world, so to speak, and everyone would be saying, "Oh, protein powders cause kidney disease." No, they they they do not. It's ridiculous. So, for what it's worth, take, you know, as long as she's taking her medication on an empty stomach, she can use all the protein powders she wants. There's no interference. Uh question and our audience generally appreciates these kind of questions. Steroids that will make you more v or rather the most vascular. So, vascular in appearance, what gear would you recommend for that? Yeah, the only I can only give you my personal experience with doing that because I don't, you know, I don't know necessarily if if anabolic cause vascularity as much as they can enhance it sometimes. Number one, because if you're, you know, the more blood you have in your in your body, the more volume of blood you're going to have, you know, better vascularity. But I'll give you my impression on things that work very fast to create vascularity. Okay? Nothing beats a McDonald's uh burger and fries, by the way. That's probably number one on that the vascularity list. But taking a shot of testosterone suspension because it works so fast tends to really increase. Like if I took a shot of testosterone suspension now and ate a meal probably within an hour or two you would see like veins just popping out everywhere because it works super fast. It also disappears very fast. Um trendone acetate also very fast acting and doesn't cause any fluid retention really. So you really see the results of it. So that's why guys love trenacetate before a competition because it makes them really vascular as well. Now some people would assume like you know like something like anrol might cause a lot of vascularity but the problem is it causes a lot of fluid retention in a lot of guys too. So you don't really see it as well. Haloestine can cause a lot of vascularity too. So once again fast acting oral. It's just androgenic. It has no muscle building or anabolic properties to it. But androgenic means it stores glycogen. You're going to get a good pump from that. So th those the fastest three would be test suspension, halotestined and trenacetate. I would say, you know, long-term, you know, just stuff that causes vascular on a high on on a regular basis. I I noticed that EQ definitely increase my vascularity a lot. Probably because it increases red blood cell count a lot. And even the the the short act or the fast excuse me the longer acting trembolone uh trembolone and anthate which we used it was something different. It was parabol back in the day that caused vascularity but it wasn't like immediate. It was like while you're after you've been on it a few weeks. So short-term suspension hell tested tastes. Really good question here from uh raw muscle glutes often chimes in with good questions. something that you thought to be true or correct early in your bodybuilding career in terms of just bodybuilding, nutrition, what have you, that you now realize you were completely wrong about. Um, one of the few things I've ever really corrected in my nutritional advice was early on I was like I was like, you know, if you're going to eat, obviously we need to know we know you need to eat a high protein diet, right? I always was I was ad originally advocating that if you're going to eat carbs, you shouldn't eat fat at the same time. And if you eat fat, you shouldn't eat carbs at the same time because I was erroneously under the assumption that if you ate a lot of carbs that the carbs would cause insulin release, which they do, and that you would absorb the fat as you would store the fat as fat. But insulin doesn't cause fat storage as fat. Causes carb storage as fat. So I was wrong about that. That was very early on in my career. A lot of that information was on the internet because I was one of the first few guys writing for a lot of these these initial websites in the in in the early 90 mid 90s and that information was out there and I corrected it like a million times and every once in a while it rears its head. Someone said, "Oh, I I saw you say not to mix carbs and and fat in the same meal." And that's not true because that's not how insulin works and it's fine to put, you know, good essential fats into your, you know, meals with carbs and protein. That's there's nothing wrong with that. That was probably the the one big correction I ever made. As far as other things, there really hasn't been too many other things that I was wrong about. Um, at least, you know, and it wasn't that I came up with a lot of this stuff. A lot of the stuff was just information I read that I disseminated. But it wasn't like there was never anything that I was just like, "Holy mack, was I off the base on that?" And if there is, I I'm the first guy to correct myself because I I don't want to spread bad information. I'm like RFK Jr. if he if he if you can prove him wrong or you show him the study that that disputes what he's saying, he'll change his opinion. I'm the same way, you know, because we're always learning new stuff in science. And a lot of times I think the stuff we thought, you know, we knew it, we didn't know. Here's another good one. Um, no one really knew what caused muscle memory. You know, originally John Pill had postulated that muscle memory was just nothing more than the fascia around the muscle stretching out. So if you stretch the muscle and the muscle grows and then you stop training that muscle fascia that was surrounding the muscle had already been pre-stretched. So you can when you start training again you grow right back to where you left off because the fascia is already pre-stretched. That's not true. Muscle memory is is that when you grow and you put on new muscle you produce new muscle nuclei and those new nuclei which then enable the cells to get bigger um never change. They never disappear. So, if you stop working out and the actual internal components of the cell get smaller, hyper uh uh excuse me, what's the word I'm looking for? Um, atrophy when you start training again, you still have all those additional nuclei in the cell. They're just smaller, right? The cells, I mean, the cells themselves are just small. They grow right back to where they were because the memory of the muscle is located in the brain of the cell, the nuclei. So, the nuclei is the brain. So there is muscle memory was actually a good name they gave it because the nuclei remember where the muscle cells were at and they will go back to that point very rapidly. So that was that was also a mistake early on that was disseminated and now we know what the real reason was and the person who explained it to me best was Scott Connley who's I would consider one of my mentors and probably one of the foremost authorities in protein metabolism. Question about uh BP medications. Are BP medications a must on cycle or should only be taken if the blood pressure is elevated? You know, some some guys just don't have high blood pressure. I've seen guys on on a ton of stuff. They weigh 300 lb and their blood pressure is low. So, why would you give that person a blood pressure medication? Because they're going to go too low and they're going to feel terrible. So, yeah, you got to measure your blood pressure. The great thing is that a blood pressure cuff these days costs about 20 bucks an auto inflate. you can test your blood pressure and if it's high, you you know, you get on a blood pressure med because we don't want to destroy our kidneys, right? And if you're low or normal, then you don't you don't do it. The key is to take it throughout the day because you might be low first thing in the morning or you might be low after taking a nap, but then you know the rest of the day you're high. So, I would like to say as like a knee-jerk response, it's it's it's safe to take a blood pressure medication like a mild ACE inhibitor when you go on cycle to prevent any issues, but not everyone needs it. Just like not everyone needs an estrogen blocker. I have guy I know guys that just don't aromatize very much and and when you test their DNA, the DNA shows that they're not aromatizers. So why if their estrogen is already low, why would you make it super low? And then they lose their sex drive and their androgen receptivity is is down. So you got to go by blood work and and and diagnostic testing. So test your blood pressure. If you're a little high, even borderline high, it's okay to take a blood pressure medication. But if you're low, you don't want to do it. Uh when when we get questions about training, it's funny because I remember your answer would always be yes, right? We get questions about different variations, different training techniques. Well, this one is a interesting philosophical one. Uh it's from Balahid. I'm seeing more and more pros and amateur bodybuilders go for the pushpull legs than the bros split nowadays. Can you find justification for it? And is it a better training methodology to put on size? pushpull. And I remember hearing that uh back in like the late 80s when I first started training. I would see guys at the gym uh training pushpull. Uh so this is not something that anyone created recently. Push pull is push day is triceps, shoulders, chest. So anything you're pushing. Pull is biceps and back. Um I always found that the should I try I've tried the routine back in the day because I would copy what guys in the gym did. But push day was way too much for me. I thought shoulders, chest, and triceps, you'd be in the gym for three hours, you know, or even if you're in the gym for two hours, you just one of those body parts is is not getting a good workout because after you do chest, you're not going to be able to do shoulders maximum. And after you do shoulders, you can't do chest maximum. So, that's hurting. And then if your if your arms are not great, you know, your your triceps going to get a real crappy workout if they're going third, you know, which is usually the case. So, I don't I don't like that. Even back and biceps is a little tougher. Not as bad as the the push day, but I look, I've done this for a long time. I've experimented with every different routine. To me, one body part per day once a week worked perfectly. And you know what? I look forward to doing the body part. Whenever I did multiple because pushpull legs is you do it twice a week. It's like it's like you your neck, you just think you got over chest, you're doing it again in a couple days. It's it's too much. Uh, I would do chest on one day, shoulders one day, back one day, arms one day, you know, legs one day, you know, and that seemed to work really well, you know, if I and I even told you guys this at one point I prioritized arms where I was doing triceps on its own day with calves and I was doing biceps and forearms and I was doing an eight day split. By and far, a fiveday split with two days off a week seems to be ideal and it's it's the best way to be able to train hard, get maximum weights pushed yet recover enough to, you know, to be able to, you know, do it again the following week. That's just my experience. Our good friend uh Emily Emily ADC on Instagram wants to know that if you and I are going to be at the Pittsburgh Pro, which is coming up uh in May 10th. I know you and I have had some discussions. any idea if you are going to be in Pittsburgh? Uh, I know I'm probably Yeah, I talked to Jim Manion the other day. He called me. You know, we always chat every once in a while. And um I I think I'm going to go. Yeah. Because he's having a big expo there and Right. It's uh it's not the weekend I have my kids so I can do it. Unfortunately, New York Pro is the weekend I have my children, so I'm not going to be able to go to New York Pro. So, I'm thinking usually I go to New York Pro, but this is, you know, this is the first year Man is having that show. It's an open, first time he's ever had an open. He's got an expo with it. So, it sounds like something we we should probably cover. It's going to be a big event. They're giving away 100 grand, first place. So, I I'm pretty positive that I'll be at the Pittsburgh. And I'm assuming if I go, you're going to go. So, yeah. So, we'll be we'll be covering that for RX Muscle for sure. No, my plans are pretty much tethered to whether or not you go or not. But, yeah. Yeah, we got to I guess we got to book it. We shouldn't wait anymore at this point. No, it should be a good time. And obviously, you have an absolutely stacked lineup uh on the cards. Um, there's a question about Oh, I wanted I want to clarify something. We're getting related to Pittsburgh. I made a mistake. Uh, matter of fact, when Jim and I were talking, Robin Chang is actually running the uh the expo for for I thought Bob Lurmer was, Robin Chang's running it for Jim and then Bob I think brought in like the strong man and helped bring in some special acts, but but it was really Robin, I guess, who's running the whole expo. And I wanted to clarify that because I don't like to be inaccurate. And on the heavy muscle ratio show I had indicated that Bob was running the expo but Bob just is working on some of the acts that they're bringing in there whereas Robin is the the I guess the brains behind the back the whole expo itself. All right. Um you know we often do tease on the show that the show is about bodybuilding. It's about training and all that but we do like to expand a little bit to get your opinions on other things perhaps not related to bodybuilding at all. This question is about the Howard Stern show. Better era of the Howard Stern show, the Jackie or the Arty years. Well, you know, I'm a huge Howard Stern fan. A matter of fact, I might have be the only person who has actually a picture on my wall of Howard Stern, you know, in the studio, and I loved watching the show, not necessarily for the goofy [\h__\h] they did, although I picked up a lot of stuff that we used on on after hours and the original Heavy Muscle TV show from that. But I really liked his interview style and uh lately he kind of Howardson got very woke lately and I don't know what happened to him or what changed maybe just people when they get old they get you know they get kooky sometimes. Um but the two eras he's talking about when Howard was at his best and they both have a charm of their own. You know, Arty was was was a nutcase because he was he was a drug addict and it was really funny and that was what I you was went to high school with when Arty was on the show and then obviously that changed in when Arty got arrested and they had to get kicking off the show and they and they got the the new era. But I thought they were both great and they both had their own charm and I thought they were both uh had their own benefits which which just is a testament to how good Howard was. he was able to change the uh the flavor of the show with different people and still make it that successful because really the show is about Howard. And so as long as the the supporting cast supported Howard, the show was great. Without Howard, there is no show. You know, they have like they have their little other shows where they do the the interns and everything like to do shows and they're they're okay, but they're really talking about Howard the whole time. So Howard is the whole show and he always has been. I mean, the guy has got longevity obviously. He's still a great interviewer, but he, you know, he's just his his political views have really kind of got kind of weird over the last couple years. So, I I kind of haven't really been listening to show as much as I used to. Um, question about somebody that was just recently hospitalized after an intense CrossFit workout. Um, my body was unusually sore. I had to go to the ER. My CK levels were through the roof. And it turns out I had Rabdo and I had to get hospitalized for IV fluid replenishment. This happened due to not eating enough or and or how can I prevent this in the future? The workout was not too far off from what I usually do. So CK levels through the roof. Intense CrossFit workout and they ended up in the ER. Yeah. Well, you know, CrossFit is is is by nature just like endurance running is is a chronic you're in a chronic state of overtraining. Most of these guys never take days off, you know, and I did the same thing when I was a runner. And you know what the problem is? CK levels are or CPK levels, creatine phosphocinase levels are enzymes that are found inside the muscle cells. They convert creatine into creatine phosphate which helps with endurance obviously. And uh but what happens is when you break down muscle those that enzyme leaks into the bloodstream and it goes gives you high elevated levels. I always said you can tell about how hard someone trains by how high how high their CPK levels are. Mine used to be through the roof just from body from bodybuilding because you're breaking down an enormous amount of muscle. So for the average person if they come into the ER and their CPK levels are high and they don't really work out okay they have rap they get diagnosed with rabdomiolitis that means their muscles are breaking down for no apparent reason okay if you're a bodybuilder crossfit you know runner cyclist and you go into the ER with high CPK levels and the doctor diagnoses you with rabdo he's a [\h__\h] you have high levels because you break down muscle you're doing it to self your muscles are not spontaneously breaking down. Therefore, you don't have rabdomiolyis. You've have self-induced rabdomiolyis. Okay. So, all that means, you know, is it sounds like the person was very dehydrated. And that happens a lot with CrossFit because they sweat so much a lot of times. They're doing stuff outside or in unairconditioned like warehouses. And it sounds like the person just needed some fluid replacement, maybe take a day or two off because maybe they were overtrained. So, overtraining is very prevalent. Dehydration very prevalent in CrossFit. So I but I hate when I remember they diagnosed Larry Wheels a couple years ago or or a year or two ago with Rabdo also. I did a whole video on that. Yep. If you're an intense training athlete, you can't get Rabdo. Okay. It's impossible. You're you're inducing the Rabdo yourself. If you have super super high levels and you feel like [\h__\h] take a couple days off. It's nothing that is spontaneously going on. You don't have any disease in your body. You don't have some something that needs to be investigated. It's called training. Training causes high CPK which gets then misdiagnosed as Rabdo. And unfortunately, it happens all too much, especially when bodybuilders get freaked out and they go to the ER because they don't know what they're seeing. They all they see is blood levels and they're reading levels and they're not they're not thinking, "Oh, this person works out super intensely on a daily basis." That's probably what it's from. All they see is, "Hey, Mrs. Jones came in with this and she had Rabbdo. This guy must have the same thing." So, take it for a grain of salt. Uh, we used to get a lot more of these questions earlier on in this show. I remember we used to have people literally just sending you their cycle and what you thought about it. So, uh, Mitch wants to know he said he's eight weeks out, 500 tests weekly, 200 m weekly, 50 Winstrol per day. Is that time frame proper for the mast and the Winnie wants to now use nicknames or is it too long for the Winstrol in particular? How many weeks is he staying on it? Eight. He's eight weeks out. So yeah, that's exactly when when you should start it. That's perfect. Yeah. Uh let's see. Another one of those deep philosophical questions. When do you know that it's time to step away from competitive bodybuilding? That's a loaded question. When when you no longer love it anymore? No. You know, I I think that there's there's two thought schools of thought here. Number one is when you just when you've lost the that passion, where you realize, yeah, you know what? I it's not as important to me as it used to be and you know maybe I'm not looking as good as I did the year before that and maybe I'm I've stayed too long. Some people have have could actually come to that realization on their own. I did I said you know what 2004 I was like I wasn't better than in 2003. My shoulders were really hurting me. I'm like you know what my blood pressure is a little high. I'm on a blood pressure medication now. Maybe I'm getting a message from up above. It's time to step away because you know what? I don't want to overstay my my uh my welcome, so to speak. And I always said I wouldn't I would never go past, you know, 40. That was a a definite hard stop. And I was almost 35. So I'm like, you know what? This is a good stopping point for me. So I stopped. But there are other people that that I know guys that are 70 that that still want to compete like, you know, at the Olympian, you know, they have that passion that they just I can't get enough of it. you know those guys, you know, as long as you're healthy, then you know, stick around. You know, the president's calling you. Oh, King Kamali is calling you. Uh, then stick around. But the problem is that things start to happen, okay, with your body. High blood pressure, okay? Blood sugars are not good. Um, maybe you have some blockages in your coronary arteries, maybe your kidney function is not so good. th those are warning signs to you that you know what it's probably not a good idea to be 280 pounds right now. And so that's a second scenario where you have to kind of really have a hard look at yourself and say, "What are the benefits of me staying in the sport?" Okay. Versus, am I just obsessed with this and and is it really maybe I should figure out an exit plan at this point, you know, and still stay in the sport so I can make money from it or be, you know, what like a like I do, you know, like do have a YouTube channel, have a social media presence, be a critique of the sport and maybe start a business related to the sport, coach people. But you know when that time is the problem is most people say ah you know I'm going to do it anyway and that's when the problems happen. So I would never tell someone it's time to quit unless they had you know unless they were like you know Boston Lloyd and they had no kidney function left. But you know you know when it's time but you have to have a very honest talk with yourself. Some people are more honest than other people. I'm like a a person that looks in the mirror and if I don't like what I see I I don't even want to like show anyone anymore. I'm done. You know, that's it. When I realize I can't be better than I was the year before, I don't even I don't want to compete anymore because I'm I only want to show people my best. You know, now when you get older, you know, you could say, "Hey, look how I look when I'm almost 60 years old, you know, so it's a it's a different show your best." But when you're in the prime of your your career and you're at the best, you know, when you're at the highest level, you know, when you're not you can't do it anymore, you step away. And we've seen a lot of bodybuilders retire recently, right? And and they it was the right time. they got out on top or you know almost on top and now they're doing great things. So I I respect that. But you know, only you know when the right time to step away is. Sometimes you might need a little kick in the ass because you're maybe overstaying your welcome. But, you know, just be honest with yourself because let's face it, there is life after bodybuilding and you do not want to, you know, walk around with, you know, with no kidneys or you don't want to walk around with, you know, having, you know, open heart surgery because you're not, you know, you're pushing too hard or that, you know, you need every joint in your body replaced, you know, although that's probably going to happen at some point anyway. But the question is, you know, how much pain do you want to live in? my father always said and you only you can answer that. Take one more question. Um it's about Tessa Morelin. Where does Tessa Merlin rank versus quote peed fat burners? Um I guess then the secondary to that is what do you think your opinion is on the best fat burner out right now? You can peptide peed or what have you. I've ranked them before. I I haven't changed my mind in the last 20 years. Cluterol is the best fat burner you can use. It's the fastest acting, the most potent. I would put T3 or Cytol, you know, thyroid hormone, active thyroid hormone is probably the next best and they work seem to work very well together, which is usually what people use. We synergize them together. Everything else after that is is is not as good. Okay. So, does growth hormone burn fat? It does, but not as effectively as those two. Um, people always ask, we talked about this last week, I think, on the um on one of the TV shows about DNP. DNP burns fat really well, but it also kills you. So, that's we don't even that's not even in the uh in the conversation. We've removed that from the conversation because it's too dangerous, right? So, we have cluterol one, cytol or T32, GH3, and then you get your GH releasing agent. So, like the tessorin is is a growth hormone releasing peptide. So it can cause a little bit of GH release from your pituitary, but it's never going to be as potent as taking the actual growth hormone itself because when you put growth hormone into your body, it causes direct fat burning. You know, it mobilizes fat directly. You don't know how much GH your body is going to release and in in response to taking the tessimarelin or the GHRP or the, you know, uh, hexarellin or all all the different variety of GH to releasing agents out there. They all work a little differently. Nothing's as good as GH. So, it's it's clenbuterol T3 and GH are the top three as far as, you know, over-the-counter fat burners that work. Um, I'm not a big stimulant fan. I don't like overstimulating the body. It's like it's like going out into your car and saying, "Hm, I want to burn more gas in my car." You just as the car's in park, you just step on the accelerator and and crank that accelerator. Not good for the engine of the car. That's what stimulants do. So, do they burn a little bit more fat? Yeah, they do because you're revving your engine higher. Um, I like, you know, doing things a little bit more behind the scenes, you know, reensitizing your body to um to what is it called? To the peptide that makes you not hungry. What is what am I thinking of? Why am I I'm drawing a blank on it. Um, it's tricking the body into burning fat. Um, providing the the thyroid gland with enough of the right ingredients. I What is it? No. Zenic, right? No, no. I was thinking about the what what causes um the hunger to stop in the body. It's it's a it's a naturally released hormone. I can't remember the name. Not G relevant. It's the other one. I can't I'm I'm drawing a blank. But it doesn't it doesn't matter. But reensitizing yourself to those these these appetite suppression hormones is really good. Um leptin. Yeah. Thank you. Resensitizing yourself to leptins uh is is very important. You know, we make a product from Species Nutrition called Lipolyze. It reensitizes your body to leptin. It in in doing so, your appetite goes down. It also tricks the body into wasting calories as heat, which is a good way to burn fat, too, because it doesn't raise your heart rate. It doesn't raise blood pressure. It doesn't cause anxiety. Methods like that are are good, but not as effective obviously as clenbuterol and T3 and GH, but it's it's a good over-the-counter addition to throw in there on top of that. Now, um, ompic and and the GL GLP-1 agonists work really well because what they do is they reduce appetite between meals because they slow the transit of food through the intestinal tract and they do have some sort of a direct fat burning effect. Uh, what's erroneously reported in the news and on Tik Tok and and Instagram is that they burn they they cause metabolism and loss of muscle mass. That is not true. Okay. If you take these these GLP-1 agonist and don't eat anything, okay, and miss meals, you will lose muscle as well as fat. Just like if you starve yourself while you're not on those uh drugs, you will lose muscle mass, right? If we don't eat m protein every couple hours, you lose muscle. It's the same thing with this. So, what this this drug is doing is it's inhibiting your appetite. So, people go hours and hours and hours without eating. And of course, they lose they lose muscle. So bodybuilders and and people physique athletes who use Ompic and Mjaro and and and the other ones out there, they don't lose muscle mass because they're eating their meals in addition to taking this the supplement. They're just using the drug to not eat in between meals and cheat. And so that's a very effective way to lose body fat as well because it it's controlling your appetite really. But in terms of what drugs directly burn fat, it's clenbuterol, T3, and GH. And that's going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss anything that we have upcoming over the course of the next few weeks. Earlier in the episode, we talked about the Pittsburgh Pro. Well, that's going to be sandwiched obviously the New York Pro right after that. But it's going to be in the thick of the contest season. Detroit Pro next weekend. So, we're gonna have coverage, preview segments, iron debates, all that's going to be coming back. Um, so if you subscribe, hit the notification bell, you're not going to miss any of that and or more that we have on the channel. All new episodes right now of the After Hours podcast from yesterday. And then of course, Sunday night's episode of Heavy Muscle Radio. And then tomorrow, Dave, one on-one with Bob Chick. I'm sure there will be nothing controversial, nothing extreme stated in that one. And it was about Dave, what did you say? It was about two and a half hour interview. No, it wasn't that long. It could have gone two and a half hours because Bob and I both can talk for a long time. It was over an hour. I think people will enjoy it. It was it was very controversial in the sense that we talked about topics that are out there in social media right now and that people are arguing about and and and you know, trying to shut down Bob for. And you know, I was I was very defensive of Bob's right to say whatever is on his mind because freedom of speech has to be protected. I've said it over the last couple weeks over and over and over again. I support Bob's right to say whatever he wants, even if I don't agree with it because I don't agree with a lot of what Bob says. We argue all the time, but that doesn't mean that we don't like each other. It just means that that we argue about stupid stuff online, but he has the right to say it and people should not try to cancel him and shut him down. I don't like that. And so, we talk about that. We talk about the Arnold Classic, what happened, why he didn't MC the show. We talk about the um the athletes rep thing. We talk about Nick Walker. So, I think people are going to really like the interview. Check it out tomorrow on the RX Muscle YouTube channel for Dave Palumbo. I'm Sadi Farooqi. We'll see you next time.