 this peptide might just cause anaphylactic shock. You wanna find out what it is? Stay tuned. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work, I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you wanna be your absolute best, join the evolution. Energy pouches are the wave of the future and underrated muscles locked in is first to bring it to you. With between 50 and 100 milligrams of caffeine per pouch, you can dial in the quick clean energy and focus you need on the go. Simple, easy to use. Pop one between your cheek and gum to get you through your day, to get you through your workout. Code RS20, underratedmuscle.com. Get locked in today. RSmuscle.com. This is As Dave, your weekly 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. I'm your host, Deep Farukhi. Dave is joining us from India. Let me pull him up. There we go. Dave, you just flew in, 14 hour flight and you didn't sleep a single wink on the plane. How exactly are you feeling right now? I had a few cat naps, but I had some good meals on the plane and I had a few cocktails, so that was good. It's midnight here. I actually have been here for a while. I got a little cat nap here and then we went out for dinner. When I come to India, I'm like, you know, when in Rome, do like the Romans do. I eat only authentic Indian food. I don't eat anything that's even remotely close to American food here. I don't go for sushi here. I just eat all Indian food because I really like it. The authentic stuff is so good. You know what's weird about Indian food in India? It doesn't bother my stomach. If I eat too much Indian food in the United States, it's probably because they put preservatives and stuff into it. It affects me a lot worse. I can eat anything here. I'm not trying to jinx myself and it doesn't really bother me. I got to say that I do enjoy coming here. I'm in Mumbai. Our friend, Sherew, his big show that's coming up this weekend. It's going to be Friday, Saturday, Sunday. I didn't realize what the expo supposedly here gets over, you know, like two, three hundred thousand people. From everything I heard, it's really a very, very, very, I mean, FIBO is the largest as far as regionally. This is probably the biggest of the fitness expos in the South Asian region. What exactly is your plan there? I know you're going to be exhibiting, obviously, they're going to have, Alphalete, our distributor, is going to have a species booth at the exhibition. You have that. What else do you have planned during your time in India? Yeah, I'm doing some sort of a presentation at the expo. I don't know exactly what it is. They haven't really told me. One of the days, albeit the booth, you know, taking pictures with people and educating them on products, we're going to a gym tomorrow. I'm doing a gym appearance in Mumbai here. So if anyone wants to come to that, check it out on the Instagram. I'll be there for, I think, one thirty PM, East India time. And what else? I, you saw the ride I took. Oh my God, I took my hands, you know, one of those little Rick shots, except the one that I just wanted to see. I got into one of those. I had to take a ride back from drostanolone we went to today. What a crazy, you want to take your life into your own hands, get into one of those. I put up some Instagram footage, but I'm taking video for a full India overview video. I also have, as I know you guys love, I have some anabolic, underground anabolic videos that we're doing as well. So that, it always seems like that's the most popular video. That's the kind of stuff people love. But again, Dave is in India right now exhibiting. He's going to be at the Sheru Classic. That's going to be this weekend or during the course of the week. Friday, Saturday Sunday. Friday, there you go. So it's going to be a three day expo. So if you're in India, if you're going to Mumbai, Dave will be at the Alpha Leap also go check him out. Find out about our new products. And of course, species is going to be rolling out in India as we're very excited about that. So this could be the start of some more trips for Dave over the course of the next few months and over the next few years as we expand into India. Let's go to the questions. The first two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Dave, about a month ago, I took MOTC 5MG. I went into anaphylactic shock, almost passed out and ended up calling 911. Now I'm scared to take peptides. I've been taking form a compound, ACG and FSH for a week. I've been okay. Now when I take it, I go into baby shocks. Is there something wrong with me now that I should get checked out? I'm going to go do blood work on Monday. MOTC has some anecdotal and empirical evidence to suggest that some people do go into anaphylactic shock. There's a percentage. And that's why I tell people, is that peptides are not innocuous. They're not like things that don't do anything. They may, they work on the body. And so, but this particular peptide, some people are very sensitive to it. So just because you're sensitive to MOTC doesn't mean the other ones are going to cause that. I believe whatever you're experiencing from these other ones that you claim you're taking, these baby anaphylactic shocks, you're going to, I think that's just psychological. I think is you're very, you're worried. Hey, I would be worried too after what happened from the MOTC. You're probably, you know, in your brain, you're creating a problem that doesn't exist. The other peptides have not been shown to do that. It's just that particular when it drops blood pressure, when blood pressure drops and heart rate picks up, okay, it's a scary feeling. You feel like you're having a heart attack and that's, it can cause an anxiety attack on top of that. So that's why you felt like that. And once again, I would not take any MOTC if that's the case, but taking the other peptides should be fine. The growth hormone releasing peptides and the, I mean, if you even took a growth hormone or a growth hormone or insulin, that's a peptide hormone. You know, it just happens to be a prescription, you know, peptide hormone. Those should be fine. The healing peptides like BPC and TB-500 are fine, but MOTC in particular, and a lot of people don't know this, it can cause shock and circuit. Dave, you want to tell the folks a little bit more about the app. The second question for full disclosure is a repeat that we had on another platform Yeah, guys, with the holidays coming up, obviously we got Black Friday coming up. By the way, we're going to be having some sales this week for species nutrition next week, I should say, so they should check those out. But with the holidays coming up, you know, the Dave Palombo Experience app is a great little stocking stuff where you can buy your loved ones. It basically is Dave Palombo in your back pocket as your coach. You get all my writings, all the videos I've ever done in one place, organized well. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum so you see everyone's questions, everyone's answers, which is great because that's a learning experience. I always love to read Q&As because sometimes I don't even know I have that question. I see the question and then you learn a lot from the answers. We do a Q&A video every single week for the app number. So you can get to see a video Q&A. It's like another Ask Dave that we do exclusively for the app numbers. Plus I have all my protocols, my keto diet, my cyclical keto diet for men, women. I have my drug cycles on there for men, women, beginners in advance. Everything's in the app. It's constantly evolving and, you know, it's like I said, it's 29 bucks a month. You download it from your Android or iTunes store and it's great holiday stocking stuff. But it's a learning experience. It's something that never stops. It evolves every single month. We keep adding more and more content every week. So thank you guys for all the support on that. I know we have a sale set right for Titan Medical. Yes. So Titan Medical right now is called the Titan Transformation AOD-9604 ModCVF. I mentioned ModC, Tesla, Morelin, Ipum, Morelin, one shot. The Titan Transformation and Titan Medical Center. Yeah, this is a great opportunity to get in on this. Titan Medical has like the purest, best peptides out there. You know, I love the fact that they're compounds in and made right here in the United States. They get sent to you right from that pharmacy with explicit instructions. They send them with the syringes, everything. I love when I get my box. It's one of my favorite times of the month when I get my box stuff from them because, you know, I'm like a kid in the candy store and the most recent thing that they came out with was, and this is, I've been begging them to do this for quite a while now, but they had to do some technical issues and do it. Now they got it. It's TB-500, okay, BPC-157, which are the two healing peptides, and copper peptide, which is another healing peptide, which is really good for connected tissue. And it's all in one formula. So you make it one shot, three things. I'm so in love with this compound now because now I'm going to take three separate needles, one shot, and it's all in your system. And if you're getting old like I am and you need to be healed up on a regular basis, it's a great, great compound. Let's get, check them out at titanmedicuscenter.com and mention Dave Levo, RxMuscle. You're going to get a great discount. Let's go to the rest of our questions from our YouTube community page. Two questions kind of standing together. Wait, hello? Ted Luzi? You can hear me, right? I'm just moving around here. Okay, no problem at all. So two, I guess, relatable questions. One, whatever happened to the live witch segments, the interview segments in a second, can you do a long form interview with Pat Arnold? Pat is woefully underappreciated and forgotten for the role he played in basically creating the pro hormone and designer steroid industry, and it would be great for someone to get that history and patch role in it on record. Yeah, I love Pat Arnold. Him and I are very good friends. I've known him for years. We always got a long wealth. I know he had some very harsh statements about Victor Tante when Victor died recently, but you know, they had a big ball get out. So I understand that. They both went to jail over it. So I can understand that even more. I'd love to get Pat Arnold. And he's like I said, brilliant. He could talk about steroids better than anyone I know, because he knows the science of it. He knows how to create them. He knows the chemistry of it. And I totally respect that. Coming, the one thing I was very weak at in school was organic chemistry, which he is brilliant. He can spin molecules in his head, you know, like no one I've ever seen. So that is a very good idea to do the interview. As far as the live with, you know, we try to do, you know, a lot of content on RxMuscle. We found that sometimes the live with interviews, unless there's something to talk about specifically, never really got as many views as some of the podcasts we're doing. It seems like we're in a world of podcasts. People like these long format podcasts, where we talk about a variety of different topics. Once again, if I have someone who has a really good experience, I always like the feature, the winner of the nationals, the USA, the North American, and now we're doing the Arnold amateur. I like to get those bodybuilding overall champion. Because no one really gives these guys enough praise and the ability to really speak and talk about who they are. So I get those guys out all the time. But sometimes the pros, you know, you hear so much from them on their own Instagram and their own YouTube channels that there's not that much to talk about, because all the topics are out there. When we first started doing live with, no one had their own, their own little channels at that point. No one was doing a lot of social media stuff. So no one really knew a lot of what was going on with these guys. And it was much more relevant for me to get them on to tell people what their latest show they're going to do and what they're planning on and how much they weigh and all the little delays to grace that we like to hear from these guys. But everyone does it on their own social media. So I try to do more content that people are looking for, like information like Dave. What we do need to do, and we're going to start doing more of is Iron Debate, because I love that's always been my favorite show. Sometimes it's hard to coordinate people, but I would like to see us do more of that. So look forward to more episodes of Iron Debate. I mean, we always try to get the ball rolling on a pre-Olympia or pre-Onal Classic. Obviously that's what everybody's primed to want to give their opinions on the big upcoming shows, but we're going to look to make that more of a regular thing. And when the show is hot, that's exactly what we were doing, November, December, way before the Onal Classic. That's where we have topics and bring on some of the top minds, top opinion givers in the industry, and we'll look forward to doing just that. Let's continue with the questions. Your thoughts on the new melatonin heart failure study that was recently published, so I guess potential links between melatonin and heart failure? I think that was why I looked into that. Obviously I'm a big melatonin advocate. I've been taking melatonin for 25 years, and there's so much great research about melatonin from even when COVID was out, it helps. COVID virus inhibits melatonin production of the body, so they found that by providing melatonin, it helps the virus get rid of the virus quicker, it helps the virus stop replicating. But the anti-aging effects of melatonin, the antioxidant effects of melatonin on the cells is second to none. It's such a great pride. Now here's the problem, and this is how I went in and looked at the study. Studies flawed because it's a retrospective study, which means that they didn't give people melatonin and see what happened. They went back and looked at populations of people who take melatonin and then populations of people who died of cancer and heart disease and this and that, and what they found was there was a large percentage of people who died of heart disease that supposedly were taking melatonin. Now people who have heart failure or in heart failure, they don't just die tomorrow. It's a long, prolonged type of thing. They're usually on late six, they're on different medications to make the heart function better, but over time the heart fails and they die. Those people have a lot of trouble sleeping. So what they didn't take into account was the fact that because these people have a lot of trouble sleeping, most of them take melatonin to help go to sleep. Everyone always tries the natural approach first. And even if you're taking a prescription medication like an ambient or something that a lot of people combine with melatonin, especially in older populations, people, because we know it's a good anti-aging drug as well. So to look at populations of people who have heart failure and say just because they're taking melatonin, the melatonin caused it is idiotic. It's idiotic. More than likely these people started taking melatonin after they got heart disease, after they got heart failure, diagnosed with heart failure, because they couldn't sleep at night. So these studies are completely skewed. It has nothing to do with the fact that they were taking melatonin. And I would not worry. I wouldn't stop. I wouldn't even consider it even a risk factor. There's absolutely no reason whatsoever why melatonin would cause you to have heart failure and lutex. But these studies are out there. And that's the problem with studies. If you don't know how to read studies, you can believe anything. And that's what they do. They co-opt these studies to vilify things. Probably the pharmaceutical industry has pissed off that a lot of people are using now high-ghost melatonin, and they're not using ambient, and they're not using these other sleeping pills because they're not good for you. And we know that. They always told us when we first started taking melatonin back in the 90s, when I started taking food, you should never take more than even three milligrams at night. That's too much. That's too much. Now, if you read Life Extension magazine, they're advocating 10, 20 grams a day. I can't even believe that much. But they're saying that the benefits are dose-related, and that they're seeing even better benefits with super high dosages of melatonin. So I can guarantee you this is pharmaceutical industry rhetoric that they're putting out. Question about quote-unquote safe cycles for men in their 40s. What would be a safe dosage for 45 and up for men? 500 mg test, 250 deca or EQ a week. What would your thoughts be on that cycle? 500 mg test, 250 deca or EQ? First of all, those drugs are great drugs for people over the age of 40. People always ask me, what's the safe drugs to take over the age of 40? Long-acting injectables because they don't have any toxicity. Remember, steroids are not broken down by any other organ other than the liver. And the faster that the metabolism, the anabolic steroid works, in other words, the orals and the fast-acting injectables, those are required if the liver works harder because they have to get rid of the drug over a short period of time. Long-acting injectables release slowly so the liver has a lot more time to break them down. They're not liver toxin whatsoever. So as long as you're sticking to the long-acting injectables like EQ, deca, testosterone would fall into those categories, even if it would be a longer-acting masteron, would fall into that category. So those drugs have no toxicity. Likewise, even though anabar is an oral and it is south 17 alpha-alkylated, it doesn't really have a lot of toxicity. It's not a toxic oral. So you can get away with taking anabar, especially as a woman's dosage is a lower and then have to worry about toxicity too much. What would be a safe dose would be a dose that's not going to raise your blood pressure because you don't want high blood pressure when you're in your 40s and older because obviously that damages the kidneys long-term. So, yeah, I mean, you could use, you could even take 600 milligrams of testosterone. You could take 400 milligrams of deca or 400 milligrams of EQ and really have no problems, I find. But once again, monitor your blood pressure. And if your blood pressure does go up, you can take an ACE inhibitor like a Ram or Pril with synapril or even some of the angiotensin receptor block just like Dalsartin or Telumisartin. And, you know, whatever you seem to react to, I think the ACE inhibitor is a better person. I use them. They haven't been around for way longer. There's a lot of data behind them. But I mean, there's nothing wrong with taking the blood pressure medication. If anything, it's, you know, we take anti-estrogens prophylaxis so that we don't get high estrogen. Why not take blood pressure medication if you need it? You know, because your pressure goes up a little bit. Let's face it, if you take any kind of anabox and you gain 10, 15 pounds of muscle or even body weight in general, you have a predisposition to potentially raise your blood pressure as well. It doesn't mean that you're not healthy. It just means you just gained a lot of weight and it's more of a strain on your body. Your body has not used to it yet. So there's not, like I said, there's nothing wrong with taking a blood pressure medication. But I think those drugs are safe for people that are getting a little older. If I'm over 40, I would not be recommending you taking dianomalin, anadryl, and Trenacetate, which is fast acting, unless you're competing and you're only using it for like a six or eight weeks period. Oftentimes we get questions about creatine. It's usually about dosing, micro dosing. This one is more about the most effective way to get the most out of creatine. So I guess your general guidelines to get the most out of creatine intake. The most important thing with creatine is absorption of it because if it doesn't solubilize, which I've talked about this before, I'm not losing my mind, but it's worth repeating. When you mix creatine into like a liquid form, it's got to disappear, or most of us got to disappear. If it doesn't disappear into the solution, it means it's not solubilizing. It's not mixing. If it doesn't get into the solution, like if you mix salt water and disappears, right, and you get salt water, if you can't do that with creatine, you're not absorbing it. Because what's going to happen is the powder that's sitting at the bottom of the cup, even though it's just swirling around and gulping it down, it's not getting absorbed because it's not in solution. So what's happening is your body is throwing water into the intestinal tract after that creatine that's just laying in there and running through your intestinal tract, and after you need to die of reir, it could have saved stomach, and you're not absorbing that creatine at all. It's just going right through you basically. So solubility, the ability of the creatine to dissolve in water is the most important variable in how your body responds to the creatine. Take for instance the pre-alized product that we make for species nutrition. I went to them to my manufacturer and said, listen, we got this micronized creatine. Micronized creatine is they basically take the creatine granules and they grind it up into like a finer powder, which makes it have less surface area or more surface area, and it dissolves quicker. I took that micronized creatine and we ultra-micronized it. We pulverized it twice. So it's like almost like baby powder. And our carbilizes like that too. It mixes very, very, very well. And because of that, it doesn't cause any stomach distress or very, very little. It may be very sensitive to people. And you absorb more of it and it's more effective. And now creatine, just recently, there's been a lot of research to show that it really helps cognition, meaning that it helps your brain function better. So creatine is not just what we always thought it was just for muscle, right? It gives you better endurance. It volumizes the muscle, it gives you better pumps. Now we're finding it's good for the brain and that it can go across the blood brain area, but it actually has to get into solution to get into the bloodstream, to get up to that brain to help with cognitive function. And that makes sense because all cells in the body use creatine and they turn it into creatine phosphate and they buffer ATP in the cells so that the cells have more energy and more fuel. And in your brain, you can think better and think longer. It's going to do the same thing you would for your muscles, whereas it gives your muscles the ability to work longer, work harder and fatigue less. So it's a great all-around supplement. We're back in stock. I know it's species nutrition, so you can check out creatine-wise. And then, of course, we had those big sales coming up on Thanksgiving weekend. Don't tell what the sales yet. Would not do that. Question about injectable NAD+. What is a good, quote, maintenance dosage? There seems to be a few different opinions. I just started at 30 mg three times a week, but I've seen dosages as high as 100 mg. I'll tell you this about NAD. And I do use the injectable form of it. It makes you really nauseous when you first take it. And it can drop you, but talking about shock, I don't think it puts you in a fly to shock, but it can make you squeezy and it can make you feel terrible when you first inject it. I don't know what the mechanism is. A lot of B vitamins sometimes can do that, but this thing, it hits me really quickly. I recommend less being better with NAD+. You don't need a lot of it. 20, 30 mg per day is more than adequate. Once again, I would take it like three, four times a week max. You don't take it every day. You take it every other day. What I seem to do is I have certain days where I do less peptide shots, so I'll do it on those days. And I do expect for the first five to seven minutes to feel a little like crappy. It makes you feel a little crappy. You get a little nauseous from it, and then it just goes away. And sometimes if you do it on an empty stomach, it almost feels like your blood pressure has dropped. So I don't know if it has that. It might have a slight dilating effect in the blood vessels, which could potentially drop blood pressure a little bit, but it's a safe product. But just understand that if you take 100 mg of that, you're going to feel like diarrhea. And I have never done that much, but it might last a lot longer than a couple minutes. I do know that what I take, the dosage that they have me take from Pine Medical Center is I just get a little jolt of a little bit of like, it doesn't feel so good before I know it. It's gone. So I think you better off sticking with less being better. That's right. If you plus question about expedited recovery from an umbilical hernia repair surgery, can BPC-157 and TB-500 help in that case? While the quote ask your doctor is the most common wisdom. My surgeon hasn't even heard of those peptides. Yeah, most of these doctors will never tell you to take peptides because they don't know anything about it. Number one, and they did theoretically could be considered medical. Now practice things. These peptides are not approved drugs. So my suggestion is lift the skin up right around where the surgery was not on the surgery area. Put it under there. The TB-500 and BPC will definitely help and speed the recovery and healing of that particular area that you had surgery on. These peptides are very, they're not dangerous, but they're not approved drugs. A lot of the only approved drugs are like Cermar-Rellen, which is a growth hormone release and peptide. Obviously GH, insulin, IGF, what these are approved FDA approved drugs. So the other peptides are not approved drugs. So like if you see like, and I don't want to mention names, I know there's a lot of people out there doing it, but I'm crazy. And I think they're going to get arrested, but you see someone just selling peptides on their website. I don't care if they're, and there's some guys out there that are very well known social media people, people who do a lot of interviews, and they're just selling these peptides as if like they're selling protein powder on their website. You can't do that. It's illegal. Now, why are everyone and their mother getting arrested? Because the FDA doesn't have the time or the manpower to arrest everyone, but that doesn't mean it's a game of Russian roulette. Once you become too successful with it, you're going to go to jail for it, and you're going to have a problem. You're going to have to pay a lot of money for a lawyer and believe me, I went through that. It's not a fun process. So my suggestion is don't sell peptides if you don't have a license to do it. Obviously, clinics like Titan Medical Center who have doctors on staff and they have compounding pharmacies that make this stuff a different story. And like I said, I see a lot of bodybuilders selling it or they're basically promoting a specific black market website that sells it. And you know what? If you do that, you're liable to because now you're part of the conspiracy to sell these things that don't have prescriptions. And they're considered non-approved FDA drugs. So just be very careful with those. Take a couple more questions. RPE wants to know, whereas popular and effective as fiber lies is in the bodybuilding industry and arguably the best fiber supplement in the market, is there any way you can get this product on the shelves in the quote big box stores? I imagine some of these big box stores will put your product on the shelves knowing it's the highest quality, silly husk on the market. I know obviously that is one of the efforts that we do have for this upcoming year. Maybe not the quote big box stores, but at least some of the better known, like the Whole Foods types. What is the strategy for getting fiber lies on those shelves? You know, it's tough because when you sell a high end product,  plain, that's expensive. People will buy it's like Mercedes. I mean, it's not a Mercedes car. I mean, they make a lot of money doing that. But they're probably not going to advertise in Walmart that their cars are available because I don't think the Walmart shopper buys Mercedes. So if I'm going to sell a fiber supplement to the general public, I probably would have to do some kind of like a reformulation or not even a reformation but a repackaging of it, maybe put it in smaller dosages or in a more user-friendly bottle, that kind of thing, because obviously everyone should take this product. We know that. And 90% of women over the age of 35 have constipation issues. And probably 50% of men over the age of 50 have constipation issues. And that's just natural as we get older, the colon gets weaker and weaker and weaker, and fibers would stimulate it. Fibers would work the colon and makes it get stronger and builds better musculature and helps move food. Now also even with the addition of everyone taking the GLP when agonist out there, I mean, how many people are on Reddit, TrueTide, and Terzepetide, and Osepik, it's, if you don't take a good quality five or something, you're not pooping. If you don't poop, you're gonna get impact and waste in your colon. And that is not a fun thing to have to be taken out, especially if it has to be done surgically. So I think it is important now because of the GLP-1 drugs said that are on the market, that we start really marketing to the masses now because it is so important to take that five or something on a regular basis. Last one, and it's a good question from the perspective of you as a bodybuilder, your habits back then and what you preach now for your own clients. And it's about taking journals, journals of your workouts, journals of what you eat. You know, now, back in the day, obviously you had your notepad now, there are apps that you can use to track everything you eat, everything you do in the gym. How important is that to track everything that you eat and document every workout in the gym? I think when you first start out, it's really important because I don't think that people have good habits at that point. And by journaling it and putting it down and actually writing down, I ate every meal you write, every meal you eat every day, I mean, you can start to see a historical perspective of, hey, I made great progress in the month of March, what did I do? Well, I got all my meals in. And then in April, I lost weight, I don't know what happened. Well, you know what, I missed at least two meals every week. Well, that's data, that's irrefutable data. There's your data. So if I look at those two journals and you tell me, hey Dave, I was trying to add muscle and I did it one month and then the next month I couldn't, I lost my weight. I don't know what happened. And I looked at your journal, I'm gonna see right away what the progress. So it's good to get in the habit of doing that initially, writing down your actual exercise. I sometimes make people send me a food diary because they're not losing weight. I'm not, they must be doing something wrong. I have them write down everything they're eating, how they're cooking their food, what condiments they're using. And usually I find something wrong, either they chew on a pack of gum a day or they're putting certain condiments on their food that they didn't realize that they didn't have sugars in there or they're just doing silly, silly stuff that they just didn't realize. And so I think it is important to journal when you first start, write down when you work out, what days you're working out on, what body parts you're doing, put down, what foods you're eating in the course of the day, food versus and shakes into a journal. And it doesn't have to be, you could write it down in an notebook. It doesn't have to be done on a fitness app. The key is to get in the habit, because once you, it's like doing homework. The more you write it down and the more you keep reiterating it and copying it over and over again, the better you're gonna get at dieting. And it just, it's inevitable. If you tell your kids, why do you have to read every night? Because if you read every night, you become a better reader because you're practicing. Why do you shoot? Why do these basketball players go out and shoot a thousand hoops or a thousand shots every single day on the court after practice? Because it makes them a better shooter because they're practicing. So you gotta practice what you're doing, your craft, if you wanna perfect it. At some point you will hit a point where you're like, I know the food my body needs. I'm so brainwashed into a schedule of eating that I'm never gonna miss any of it. I'll never miss it, unless I choose to, because I know what I have to eat because I've been doing this a long time. So, but initially when you first get into it, it's almost like shell shock. You can't believe all these things. I have to take five, six meals a day. I gotta take my vitamins. I gotta take this. I gotta work out five days a week. I gotta make sure I get off days. I gotta do some party. So it's overwhelming at first. But once you get a handle on it and you write it all down, you realize, yeah, it's really not that bad. I just have to organize my day a little bit better. So Dave, this upcoming weekend, you have the Shuru Classic tomorrow. You have an appearance for those that are watching who are in Mumbai at Rewind Fitness tomorrow, November 20th at 5 p.m. local. Yes, I'm just checking the time on that. Yeah, that's 5 p.m. at the Rewind Fitness. And I'm told, so it's on Mullen West, Mumbai. If you say the word Mullen, it means, I think penis. But if you say Mullen the right way, then it doesn't mean that. So they warned me that you have to be very cautious on how you pronounce that, where that, the place where the gym is at. And supposedly Rewind is supposed to be a beautiful gym. I'm looking forward to working out there tomorrow night and seeing everyone at around 5 p.m. 30. So make sure you come down. Don't be a stranger, bring your camera. We'll take tons of pictures, tag me. You're having a great time. That's gonna do for this episode of Ask Dave. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not gonna miss this or any other shows coming up. Dave is gonna be making videos over the course of the next few days in India. You know, there's gonna be entertaining. And of course, he's gonna be visiting the, of course, the anabolic sources in India. So those are very popular, then of course, videos from this upcoming Sheru Classic weekend. And then of course, we're gonna be relaunching Iron Debate over the course of the next couple of weeks. So we're gonna have a lot on this channel for you. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. Instagram official underscore RS muscle for Dave Palumbo. So the Farooqi, we'll see you next time.