This cycle has the most potent effects with the least side effects. You want to know what it is? Stay tuned. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RX Television, RXMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your 30-minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Bodybuilding, non-Bodybuilding, whatever topics are on your mind, this is your forum to ask Dave whatever it is you want answered. We're going to go right into the questions. The first two questions on this show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. If I'm not going to do a show, but I follow your mass gaining protocol for a cycle, what is a basic cycle for muscle mass? Someone who's not going to be competing at a show? Look, I I get this question a lot. What is the most effective cycle to put some size on, but I don't want any side effects because I'm not really competing. There's no reason for me to risk it. And you know what? I this is the same advice I would give to someone who comes to me who says I'm 50 years old and and I want to do a cycle and I do want to compete because 50-y old guys, you know, we don't we our our bodies are not as resilient as the 20 year olds and the 30-y olds. So basic testosterone is always a good way to go because testosterone is the number one mass builder. All right? It's also the least the compound with the least side effects especially if you use a long acting esester like an anth or cipionate because first of all testosterone is not toxic to the body because that's what the body produces and secondly long acting esters take a really long time for the liver to break them down and it doesn't add any real stress to the liver because it's such a long acting type of compound whereas the short acting esters have to be broken down much quicker and that requires that the liver work harder in a shorter period of time. So obviously a base of testosterone and as we've said before the most bang for your buck is to stack two compounds. Okay, I know guys doing HRT, you're better off stacking 50 milligrams of decker and 50 milligrams of testosterone a week than taking 200 milligrams of testosterone a week alone. You'll get better results with those two mildly dosed compounds together as opposed to a single compound alone. It's just the way it is. We don't I you know you could ask me why that is. I don't know. No one knows. They two compounds stack together better than one. So if you're trying to put some decent size on looking for the least side effects, you go with the long acting anabolics as well. So that could be EQ or DECA. So my favorite, you know, cycle, let's say we're going to do a 16week cycle. You can do 600 milligrams of testosterone a week like cipionate or nanate. And you can do like 400 of Deca a week, 400 of EQ a week. And if you're lazy and you you could take it all in one shot. If you're not lazy, I would spread it over three shots a week. And what I would do after eight weeks, I would switch. So in other words, you're going to do testosterone and deca for for for um for eight weeks and then you can do testosterone EQ for eight weeks. And that to me would be a very non-toxic cycle that would give you really good results. Now you can go lower in dosage but you know the person who's asking this question is looking to get some some gains out of it. Um but you know you can literally do a 100 of Deca and 100 of testosterone for eight weeks and then 100 Deca 100 EQ a week for eight weeks and probably get really nice results too. But if like I said, if you want to get it to the threshold where you're going to put some good size on without getting excessive, you know, estrogen production and DHT production where you're going to get side effects, the 600 400 uh ratio to me is ideal. Second question, again, these first two questions are from the Dave Palumbo experience app. Does glycemic index of foods matter? The glycemic index is is coming kind of an arbitrary scale that uh the I don't know who put it together. It was the food and drug administration or the American I don't know who who exactly came up with that whole scale but it's it's a measure of or they it's a ranking essentially of how much insulin is released in um response to the food that you're eating specifically carbohydrates mostly. I mean you can do it with all foods but we look at it mostly with carbohydrates. Okay, they give a 100 rating to like pure table sugar, which would be I guess sucrossse or white bread, believe it or not, white bread, you know, is digested almost instantaneous. It's essentially like eating sugar in a in a fluffy piece of material. Um, what that tells you is that when you ingest that food, it gets absorbed so quickly into the bloodstream and raises blood sugar so fast that the pancreas has to produce a maximal amount of insulin very rapidly. Now, what's the what's the the problem with that? Well, the problem with that is that a lot of times when when the pancreas has to overreact to food that gets absorbed very rapidly, it releases too much insulin. So, what happens is you absorb all that sugar into your cells, muscle cells, fat cells, whatever, wherever it's going to go. And then blood sugars goes too low because your body has released too much insulin. And what happens when your blood sugar goes too low? You have to either eat more or your body then has to release counter regulatory hormones like glucagon or cortisol that will then push sugar into the blood and raise blood sugar and that whole little thing is not good. Okay? Because it usually results in in in fat gain. Okay? So that's why eating simple sugars and stuff that has a glycemic index that's too high, especially if you're not really monitoring quantities of food, can lead to, you know, fat gains. Uh that's why we tend to use, you know, lower glycemic index carbs in the offseason when we're eating a lot of food. When you're on a a a diet that has very specific amounts of carbs, you can eat high glycemic carbs like white rice because we're combining it with fats and protein and it it's not going to that's going to lower the glycemic index. It's only when you're eating the carbs alone, like if you if I were to just take a piece of white bread and just eat it now or eat a piece of candy with pure sugar in it, like a fun dip. remember Fun Dips, spike my blood sugar and then it would drop because my insulin release. But once you combine carbs with proteins and fats, it changes the glycemic index. So low glycemic foods like sweet potatoes have lower glycemic, brown rice, uh because they have a a husk on them and and it's a little and higher fiber content. It's harder for the body to digest those foods and absorb them. So they get into the bloodstream slower. Even pasta has a lower glycemic index because it requires a lot of digestion. And so therefore, you get a much more even insulin production. Usually the insulin release is more appropriate, meaning you're not going to overrelease insulin. It doesn't mean you still can't get fat if you're eating too many carbs. It just means you're the glycemic index or the amount of insulin you're going to release in response to that food is going to be lower. And that so it's a ranking scale. Obviously, if you were to say, what's the glycemic index of of me eating, you know, a chicken breast? it's going to be very low because the protein in chicken breast is not going to elicit much of an insulin response. It'll have a little response, but so it's going to be probably 10 or 15. Okay? Whereas, like I said, white rice, you know, potatoes are going to be really high, you know, up on that glycemic scale. The problem is it's very arbitrary and I don't know who ranked it and who made it. uh and it really doesn't have any real world experience other than to give you an idea of what foods you might avoid and what foods you might want to include in your diet. Okay? Because of the fact a lot of people can get reactively hypoglycemic, meaning that you, you know, you get that low blood sugar after you eat those high glycemic carbs and you feel like crap. And I've seen people pass out of jobs because they ate a piece of candy and then and I've seen people backstage pass out or people on stage. I helped this girl once. She was on like a no carb diet and she was eating like, you know, tons of sugar backstage. I didn't know it. She goes out on stage. She should have won the whole show and she she almost passes out on stage. They have to take her off the stage because the blood sugar went so low. So, you don't want to do stuff like that um that's going to cause that reactive hypoglycemia. Now, these two questions from the Dave Palumbo Experience app are very good, thoughtprovoking. Took me a while to answer them, but you get a lot of information from them. And that's what you get on the app if you subscribe to my Dave Palumbo Experience app. It's $29 a month. You can download it at the Android store or the iTunes store and you get Dave Palumbo basically as a coach in your back pocket. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum. So you see everyone's questions, everyone's answers. I do a video every week, a Q&A video. In addition to Ask Dave, you get a special private video on the app, also answering questions just like we're doing now. You also get a workout every week. All my videos that I've ever done, all my writings I've ever done in the app in a very concise, organized manner. It's a great resource if you're looking to constantly keep evolving and and learning about bodybuilding. It's a great tool for only $29 a month. And I want to thank all of you who subscribe and support me. Before we proceed to the rest of the questions, we have a sale uh from our friends at Tite Medical Center. 10% off all on all their medical weight loss therapies. Again, if you call them at 727-389-3220 or visit titanmedicalcenter.com and they have a form and in the form they ask for referral. So if you put in RX Muscle or Dave Palumbo, they will hook you up. Dave, you want to tell a little bit more about the weight loss therapies Titan has to offer. They have retrotride now, which is the the triple um GLP-1 agonist. Well, it has a GLP-1 agonist. It has a glucagon agonist. It has the GIP protein in there. So MARO was two drugs in one. This is now three drugs in one. Um I have a couple people who started taking it. They like it. Um the gold standard prior to this was the MARO version which they sell there as well which is Tzapatide and a lot of people feel like that they've got the best results from that. They're just you know they just came out with Retrotide. Uh so at least made it readily available just recently. So you might want to try that. If you've tried the Mjaro version, you might want to try this one with that added third compound and let us know how it works. But the good thing and the good news is one, number one, they have it in stock, which a lot ofarmacies don't. Number two, it's cheaper than most. Number three, they're offering 10% off this week only. So guys, check it out. So let's go to the rest of the questions from our YouTube community page, from our various social media outlets. I I love it when you know look throughout the course of the contest contest season you're going to offer your thoughts as far as what's going to happen at a show you may even offer your predictions and what happens many times I guess the backlash is that is between the competitors that you did not pick to win and extends down to their families and their friends and their followers they all turn on you response to essentially not saying that everybody's going to come in first place. You know, Sid, I've been doing this a long time now. I've been doing this almost like 20 years, at least analyzing the industry and and you know, reporting on it. And you know what? The only person that's ever happy with what I say is the guy who wins or the woman who wins. If if you give if someone thinks they deserve to win a show and you don't agree with that, you're you're villainized. And and you can't win. And that's why a lot of people don't go into, you know, journalism essentially or at least, you know, critiquing these shows because they're afraid they're going to piss off people that they're friends with. And it's sad that we can't separate friendship from an analyst or analysis because I have to go and critique a show. And if I don't think, you know, if I think that Derek deserves to beat Nick Walker, now all the Nick Walker fans are pissed off, which I don't care about, but then Nick Walker is pissed off, his family's pissed off. It's going to happen every time. Just like I'm sure Bonak, you know, thinks he should have beat won the New York Pro. And I'm sure anyone who said that Nick Walker deserved, Bonak's going to be mad at this. And that's just human nature. Now, I think what happens is eventually, you know, once the the uh the energy of that whole show and it kind of dies down and a month or two passes, people forget about it. And then I I haven't had anyone long term not like me, you know, short term. Yeah. because it it stings, you know, when you give your best and you look your best and you bring something to the stage you think deserves to be, you know, rewarded with first place and then you don't get it and then you have people, you know, agreeing with the decision. It's like all of a sudden they become the enemy, at least in your mind, because you're you're so hurt by the fact that you weren't able to achieve something that you thought was yours to take. And I and I think and I look, I said it right from the beginning. I said the best thing that ever happened to Nick Walker was that he lost Pittsburgh. Now, people say, "How can that be a good thing?" Well, you know, he got to do New York. He's the people's champ now. Everyone's rooting for him. He won New York. He's got three rings now. He's going to the Olympia. He's he's his career is in the right trajectory. Now, losing sometimes is is is not a bad thing. It's it's it's a good thing because it remotivates you and gets you even hungrier for what you're looking for. So, you know, 50% of the people probably think Nick Walker should have won. 50% think Derek should have won. The judges thought Derek should win and that's the only those are the only important people on God this day that matter. Um you know Nick Walker, I've been a Nick Walker fan for you know since the beginning and a big supporter of his and obviously when he looks his best you know I'm the first guy to you know commend him. uh you know, he has a mass monster physique kind of, you know, much better than my physique ever was, but I'm saying along the lines of mine so I can relate to his physique better and I love to see him win and I hope he wins an Olympia one day. Um, you know, but if I don't think he deserves to win a show and someone else looks better, I'm going to I'm going to report on that. Um, same thing with all the other guys out there and, you know, and like I said, I've only had a couple problems over the years that I know about that, you know, about people and it's tough. It puts us in a tough position because, you know, I know I've talked to Dennis James about this, too. No one's ever happy when you critique a show because they get mad at you if you don't say they deserve to win, especially if you're they're friends. And Dennis is friends with everyone. So, you know, everyone someone's going to be pissed at Dennis at some point in time or not. And same thing with me. You know, you know, you go to the shows, we hang out with these guys, we interview them, we talk to them, you know, we we know their family and you know, and sometimes we have to say, you know, bad stuff about them, you know, or bad stuff about their physique, not about them personally. And it's it's a tough position, but you know what? As we say here at RX Muscle, Sid, the truth hurts. So, speaking of Nick Walker, Olympia top competitors, we actually had a chance to interview Steve Weinberger, IBB head judge, and the promoter of the New York Pro. That interview is live right now on the channel. So, check it out. get Steve's thoughts on Nick Walker, his viability as a top Olympia threat, as well as his thoughts on Derek, on Martin, and really just about the whole gamut of the top Olympia competitors. So, very insightful interview. Go check it out. It's live on the show. I'm so excited that you went and did that, Sid. I can't wait to see it. So, uh, you know, I said, Sid, you got to get down. I know Sid trains at Steve's gym. Said, Sid, you got to get Steve on camera. We got to find out, you know, what his thoughts are about Nick from the Pittsburgh to the New York. Yeah. and what his future prospects are and and and Sid went down there, knocked it out of the park and uh you guys want to check this interview out. It's great. Let's go to uh Muscle Insight HQ. Shout out to him. Does a really good job. It's a new page, but uh if you go check out his page on Instagram, it's Muscle Insight HQ. Does really high-end graphics, infographics, really descriptive stuff, really does his re research. So, I wanted to give him a shout out. Uh, do you think the IBB could move towards offering appearance fees to top open athletes in the future to help strengthen lineups of smaller shows? You look, there's there's two there's two ways you can get top lineups. One way is what Arnold did. Let's give $750,000. You're going to get the best lineup in the world. Uh, another way, you know, is to try to entice athletes that you really want in your show by giving them some sort of guaranteed bonus. Now listen, this is not something that's new to sports. I mean, there's appearance fees in all types of sports only. It's might be new to bodybuilding, but listen, if I'm holding a show and I'm a promoter, let's say I have two million bucks to give away. All right, I have to figure out how I'm going to portion it out. If I'm running a show, let's say, let's say Sid, you and I going to run a show and someone gives us two million bucks and says, "Look, you put on the best show. I'm I trust you guys with the money. Put it on the best show. If I want to get top talent there and I'm and I'm worried that I'm not gonna be able to get, you know, or let's say I want Kai Green in my show, okay? Rather than take that $2 million and give it all in prize money to athletes, I could earmark some of that and say, you know what, I'm going to offer Kai 75 grand guaranteed. Now, if he wins whatever the first place is 100 grand, then you know, maybe we'll take some of it off. I don't whatever the deal is, but I'm going to give him some guaranteed money. this guy is going to show up at my show and now I can say I have Kai Green in my show and it it didn't cost me anything because I had that 2 million earmarked for prize money anyway and the athletes don't know that that that money wasn't going to be in there. They only know what the money I'm I'm telling people are. So, I think that more uh promoters should think about, hey, what guys do I want in my show because they're big draws? Nick Walker, let's think Nick Walker, huge draw, right? Um I'm sure if you enticed him with a little appearance fee money, he'd probably show up. Um, maybe Phil Heath. Phil Heath has expressed his interest. He goes, "Man, if the money's good, I I'll show up at the Masters Olympia." So, I think that appearance fees are going to be something in the future we might see, especially because the prize money is so high now. We might see guys saying, "All right, we got all this prize money. Let's earmark some of it for appearance fees. Guaranteed money for these guys to come." I know Brandon Curry wanted to do the Masters Olympia. I don't know if he's going to show up or not, but, you know, he'd be a draw. I'd like to see him in Bonak. They're both over 40. I'd like to see them battling for the Masters Olympia title. Remember, they battled a few years ago in 2019. They were first and second at the Olympia. Why not get those guys in the Masters? You know, all you got to do is offer them a little bit of money and, you know, pay their expenses. They'll go. Bonax hit every show this year already. Why not do Masters National Masters three shows already, right? You had three shows. Yeah. So, I think that I'm I'm not against it. I'm actually for it. I just think it has to be, you know, figured out. You know, if you got Phil Heath and Kai at the at the Masters Olympia, let's get him on there. Let's get them on that stage and create excitement. Look, Levrone did the Olympia. He didn't look good, but everyone was super excited about the fact that he was there, right? So, and and Kai is not that old. He still looks great. Phil looks great. We saw him, you know, at the Pittsburgh show. Can certainly see those guys on stage if they were enticed with enough money. And I think at this point, you know, those guys never made the kind of money that the guys are making today. So, if there was money put out there as an appearance fee, I think we would get those guys on stage again. Take one more question. Um, full disclosure, like we like to be honest with you. Uh, we are pre-recording this. It's Tuesday and uh we have after hours. The guys are about ready to rumble, ready to go. So uh we got nine minutes. We got we got a couple more questions. We got Oh, we got a Okay. Yeah. Does liquid peptide serums for hair such as RU58841 require finasteride serum peptide combo to keep the follicle? Or can the RU just grow new follicles? Asking because I know the combo is needed for people on steroids, but what about people who just lost their hair in the past from roids and now evenly receded hairlines? Would say a combination of ru minoxidil work? Uh I've been fighting the hair loss battle for many many years now and and I'm I'm still losing. But the one thing that I've used for the last 25 years that seemed to stop my hair loss was finasteride. I'm a very high DHT converter. So I convert a lot of testosterone to DHT. It's been confirmed on my DNA analysis. You know I sell these DNA kits on Dave Palumbo.com called DNA power. They test everything, you know, all. And one of the things that I found out when I got my test done was that I'm a very high DHT converter, which has been confirmed with blood work. Even when I'm off drugs, I still have high DHC. But when I take finasteride, it gets it down to the normal range. And when I started doing that, my hair loss stopped. So high DHT definitely a problem. As far as regrowth, minoxidal, roane, they never really worked for me at all. They only created like dandruff. They gave me dandruff. I didn't like it. Uh I haven't tried the RU uh the prostaglandin that that that people are using now. I just haven't gotten any good feedback on people regrowing hair, you know, reliably. That what that means is that some people every once in a while you get a guy who actually gets good results. Um most of the time there's no hair regrowth. The best way to replace hair is is right now is to go, you know, to go to Turkey or one of these hair restoration clinics. I got it done back in 2000 when it wasn't even as as as good as it is today. And I got some hair back. I still, you know, I got some hair on my head, but uh the new the new guys are that are doing it these days, I you know, Bumstead did it, Ian Balier did it, you know, all these guys out there that are doing it, they're uh they got a head of hair, so it works. You know, I think that's our best bet. And as that process becomes perfected even more and I think what the next generation will be is creating stem cells that can turn into hair follic because they said that's they told me 30 years ago they were going to be able to do stem cells and regrow hair. Still hasn't happened but I'm sure whoever breaks the code is going to be a very wealthy individual because that's uh guys in their hair. You know we want our hair back. Uh couple of programming related questions. One person wants the confessionals back. We are actually working on another show format with Lee. We discussed it with Lee privately. Uh he's he seems to be on board with it. He likes it. So, we will further flesh it out and hopefully we'll have an announcement soon, but the plan is to bring Lee back into the fold uh in a new and exciting feature which would actually involve you, the fans, with some live interaction as well. Uh so, it's going to be a lot of fun. So, if we get that going, um that's going to be a lot of fun. Um let me squeeze in this question. Uh, I'm 39 years old, 400 mg test a week, 200 uh master a week. Mind your low carb diet and lost 40 lbs. Currently 230 lbs. Still borderline pre-diabetic. My fasted morning blood sugar levels 104 to 114. Doesn't matter if I didn't eat carbs the night before. My last last meal 6 p.m. with no carbs. Fasted morning blood sugars levels range 104 to 114. I've been on metformin. Doesn't work. I know you've talked about insulin and I believe it'll help me. So, what dosages of long acting insulin do you recommend? or brand or type of insulin and at what time and how should I take it? Yeah, these doctors are are I hate to say it, you know, because I was going into that field there. Some of these guys are just completely ignorant. I have a client who has a also a high fasting blood sugar. He went to his doctor, asked for he said, "Look, I don't want to take metformin. It doesn't work. Um I'm I'm waking up with high fasting blood sugars. I'd like to take a long acting insulin like 2Jo, which is a once a day insulin. Uh 2JO trica are the two best. Um, if you can get a prescription for them and your insurance covers it, it's great because you only have to take it once a day. Uh, the other ones like Lantis, Novulin N, Novulin N, which is very popular because guys can go into Walmart here in the United States and pick it up for no prescription 25 bucks. Um, those require two shots a day every 12 hours because they're they don't last the full the full 24 like the trace to J. This guy says to I would like a prescription. Says to his doctor, his doctor's like, "Well, we don't do that. you know, our protocol is to give metformin first. And and and he's like, well, I don't want metformin. He goes, well, do you realize that if you know, if you take one single unit of insulin, it will drop that fasting blood sugar from 100 to 50 and you will wake up almost in a coma. This is what the doctor says to which which the doctor obviously has no idea about insulin or what it does. Rather than keep his mouth shut and not say anything and real real what an ignorant person he is, he goes and quotes what insulin does. But what he's quoting is what fast acting insulin does. So he obviously doesn't know the difference between fast acting and long acting insulin. Long acting insulin working in the background would never drop blood sugar that dramatically that quickly. Not one IU. And you could take 20 IUs and it wouldn't drop your blood sugar that that dramatically. So these doctors are ignorant. They don't know. Uh you're going to have a tough time getting a doctor to write a prescription unless you go to a clinic, you know, or and you have a a person who's, you know, who has good foresight. Some of the endocrinologists these days like my friend Lenny, they are thinking ahead of the curve. They want to prevent people from getting diabetes. And so by giving a long acting insulin, you take that burden off your pancreas. The pancreas doesn't burn out. It preserves beta cell function and you get better blood sugar control. And I know, like I said, it's kind of controversial because people don't want to think they have to take insulin. Matter of fact, people who who hear you got to take insulin, they think they're going to become diabetic from taking the insulin. But it's not the insulin that makes you diabetic. It's the high blood sugar that makes you diabetic. So if you lower your high blood sugar with a long acting insulin, it's going to prevent you from becoming diabetic. Diabetic has nothing to do with insulin. It has to do with blood sugar control. If you control your blood sugars and you keep them low and you keep that hemoglobin A1c under, you know, around 5.3, uh, you know, aside because most people are at in the high fives or sixes, you're not going to get those cumulative side effects that you get from high blood sugars in your pancreas. Excuse me. Your kidneys are going to be saved. your cognitive function is going to be saved, your extremities are going to be saved, the circulation, uh, and you'll thank me later in life when you're older and you don't have diabetes. But the the point is that these doctors won't prescribe it most of the time, and they don't even know the difference between long acting and short acting insulin. So, a lot of times you got to take the onus of responsibility yourself, go to Walmart, buy a Novan N, and you know, you know, if you're interested in learning the protocol, you can contact me. Uh, I can help you. I also have other people who are certified diabetes educators that will, you know, can also uh advise you if you have very very poor blood sugar control. That's the way to correct it, okay? Because don't let these doctors tell you this is the way to do it because the health care system unfortunately in this country is really geared at just treating symptoms, not not making you healthier. and um they don't want to give you cures or they don't want to give you the right solution because they want to keep you coming back, you know, and so it's unfortunate, but you got to take your own health into your own hands. Don't let other people give you ignorant responses and just accept it. Um if I have high blood sugars, like I I was waking up with some high fasting blood sugars. I took it into my responsibility in my own hand. Luckily, I have a doctor I work with who was able to prescribe me to jo. And you know what? My blood sugars are great. My hemoglobin A1c is 5.1. I wake up every day in in the se late late high 70s or you know early 80s and for blood sugar which is exactly what you want under 90 and I feel great. So you know what you can either listen to me you don't have to listen to me eventually you'll probably come to me and ask me for advice because this is the right solution. That's going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave. Again, reminder right now, all new episode of the after hours podcast, Heavy Muscle Radio, and then of course our one-on-one interview with Steve Weinberger live from Bev's Gym. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss anything that we have up and coming on Instagram, official_rxmuscle. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadique Farooqi. We'll see you next time.