 I know what I know what you guys your favorite animal, sorry, we all love it, we all love it, we love to hate it, okay, okay, and it's Trenbolon, right, because it makes you feel good, it makes you look great, but it also makes you into a maniac, right, so we got three different Trenbolons here. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition. If you want to be your absolute best, if you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. All right, guys, this is the video I've been waiting for. We're here in Mumbai, India, and I am here with a brand of underground anabolics that are going to blow your socks off. And they have everything. I don't think I've seen a brand that's so inclusive, so I want to show you all the stuff that they have. And we're going to start with the, let's start with the peptides for a little bit. Let's start with the peptides first. So right off the bat. And the brand is named Dyson. So if you guys are looking to, you know, if you're in India or you have access to Dyson, I highly recommend this brand. This is injectable L-carnitine, which is not a big deal, right? We've got to start light here, okay? But, you know, they have this. They have a bunch of peptides, so they have, like, their own GLP-1 analogs. This would be, like, similar to the semi-glutide or ozempic, as you know it from the United States. Let me look at it. It says that each vial contains one milligram of the GLP-1 agonists. All right. They have growth hormone-releasing peptide, or GLP-6. This one is one of the ones that I always used to use for appetite increasing. So it releases growth hormone, probably not that efficiently, you know, but it's obviously not close to real growth hormone. But the GLP, or this 6-septide, increases appetite through the root. Okay? I love the way they have these little boxes. They have little kits. Now, more exciting is they have recombinant IGF-1 Long R3. And how many vials come to this box? Let me look here. This is, each vial contains 100 micrograms. So you can pretty much make this a 10-day supply from each vial. And there's 10 vials per box. So you kind of have 100 days here. If you use my dosage, which you guys know I like less is better with the IGF-1. If you wanted to use 20 micrograms per day, obviously it's going to last you 50 days. They have the GH frags, which I'm not a big fan of. You know, I don't really think they work quite as well as growth hormone. They do have recombinant GH. This is the stuff that I would recommend. From what I hear, the people I've talked to here, they say this stuff is really good. It's 10 IUs per vial with 10 vials. This is 100 IUs of GH right here. Obviously, if you're taking, you know, 4 IUs a day, it's going to last you 25 days, this whole box. It's a great deal. And then, of course, in terms of peptides, this is my favorite. I think if I take this box, I'm going to be enough. BPC-157 and TB-500 combined. So you get each vial is 5 milligrams of both of these drugs, and you get 10 vials in each box. So this is a great deal. Really good if you're looking for healing purposes, or if you're old like I am, and you want to just, you know, get rid of some of your injuries. All right. That stuff, not as exciting, although the growth hormone on IGF-1 is pretty exciting. What is exciting is the anabolics, because they have a huge variety here. I mean, just looking at the testosterone right here, I haven't seen test suspension in a really long time. So you've got test suspension, testinathate, sustenone, which we know is a blend of four testosterone. They have test sippinate, and they actually have test propanate, but he's out of stock right now on it, which, really, I'm not a huge fan of test propanate. Anyway, but I haven't seen suspension. And he said the suspension is really smooth. It goes in well. As you know, it's basically powder. I'm going to open this one up here, just to show you what test suspension is. I don't think a lot of people have seen test suspension, you know, in their lifetime, especially the younger guys who are taking stuff. See, this is, it's milky looking. Because what it is, it's actually testosterone powder suspended in water. We shake it up, and then it goes into suspension, which is where it gets that name from. And then you would suck this up, like probably a CC, and you would take this pretty much every day. Because it doesn't, you know, it has a very, very quick half-life. I used to like to do this, like, the day before a competition. So, like, if I'm competing on a Saturday, like Friday night, I take a shot, and then Saturday morning, and it blasts your angiogens through the roof, and you get a pretty good glycogen-storing effect from this. This is really unique. Like I said, I haven't seen this in a really long time. All right, let's look at some more out of the box. He's got here, he's got boldanone. Unciclinate, that's EQ, essentially, okay, which we all love. One of my favorite drugs. He has Masteron, which is trust not alone, Propionate. This is the fast-acting Masteron. All-intenses, 10 ml bios. This is 100 milligrams per ml. Actually, the boldanone is 400. I've never seen this. That's a very high-potency boldanone. 400 milligrams per ml. You get a lot of bang for your buck. You can probably do half a CC twice a week of this and get enough. Then we have the two deckers. We have nandrol decanoate, which is a long-acting decker. That's also 400 milligrams per ml, which is really, really, you're getting a lot of your money on this one. And then the nandrolfenylpropionate, or NPP as it's known, 100 milligrams per ml. So we've got our deckers here, as I call it, Masteron and EQ. Those are probably all my favorite drugs right here. And then we have some more of the contest drugs. So Stanozol. This is injectable. Winstrel, it's 100 milligrams per ml. And I know you guys love your PrimaBone. PrimaBone and Anthony. 200 milligrams per ml. That's a really high-potency PrimaBone. Usually we see it at 50 or 100 milligrams per ml. And from what I hear, as you know, there is a shortage of PrimaBone. A lot of people don't have PrimaBone. They can't get it. Honestly, they have it here. And I understand, if I'm not mistaken, that they actually have PrimaBone acetate, too, available here. Which, we don't have a vial of that, but that's something I haven't seen since the 90s. It's a fast-acting PrimaBone. If I had access to that and I was competing these days, man, I'd be using that right up to the day of the show. Phenomenal stuff. Now, I know what you guys are your favorite antibiotics are. We all love it. We love to hate it, okay? And it's TrenBone, right? Because it makes you feel good. It makes you look great. But it also makes you into a maniac, right? So we've got three different TrenBolones here. We have Trenanthate, which is the long-acting TrenBone. We have Trenacetate, which is what we would use pre-constance, which is super-fast-acting, which has the most side effects, of course. And then we have, what is this TrenBone right here? Hold on a minute. Hexer. Oh, this is Hexer. So this is the one that used to be called Parable, if you remember from France. That's Trenhex. And so we've got three different TrenBolones. So think about this. This brand is not only high quality and not only is there a lot of, but they have, like, almost every different version of everything. Very rarely do you see three separate TrenBolones. It's usually you get either an Anthate or you get Acidate. That's it. And you don't get both. So he's got three different versions of this. So super, super cool. Let's see what else we got here. We did our, these are our pistachios. He has T3 pills. They're 50 micrograms each. So obviously you'd start with a half a pill, 25 micrograms per day. This is 100 tablets. You know, this, believe it or not, T3 seems to be very hard to get on today's market. I don't know why, because it's really, it's not even a controlled substance. But I see a lot of T4. I see a lot of T3, T4 blends. This is pure T3, which is what I recommend you use if you're on a contest prep. Now, if you're using T3, we know the best thing that works with that is, and I'm looking for where I put it, it was Clembuterol. I know we have Clembuterol somewhere. Oh, here it is. Here's Clemb, 40 micrograms tabs. My recommendation is to crack these in half, because you never really want to take more than 20, 25 micrograms of Clembuterol per dose. You want to space them out every like three to four hours. If you take too much at once, it can drop your blood pressure a little too much, and sometimes that can cause rapid heart rate. So Clembuterol really doesn't cause rapid heart rate, but it can if you take too much of one dose. So these are 40 micrograms, so I would crack these in half, which is good, because then you get like, there's 100 pills in there, but you're really getting 200 pills, if you think about it, at the 20 microgram dose. So this is good. So we've got our T3 and Clean. So far, I'm very happy with this. Now we have all our orals. We have our Winstrel orals. These are 10 milligram pills. This is something women would take probably. 10 milligrams a day is more than adequate. For a man, you're going to have to take like 30 to 50. You're going to have to take three to five pills a day. It's probably not worth it. I would use the injectable that he's got. Much, much better option. Oxangelone. These are great, obviously, for women. These are 10 milligram pills. Okay? For a man, you're going to have to take like five of these, you know, four or five of these days. I don't think that Anabar is a great option for men. It's just, unless you're not really using anything else, and this may be your first cycle. For women, this is great. You can use 10 to 30 milligrams per day. These look great. They test out perfectly from when I've talked to all the people here. I haven't tested them myself, so I can't go on record and say it's all authentic. But from the source they're getting it from, I have a feeling you're looking at a pretty good drug. Now, this is provirin. Probably, in my mind, the worst drug you can possibly use. I don't think it really does anything, to be honest with you. A lot of people like it. It's available a lot. Supposedly displaces testosterone from the binding proteins and makes more free testosterone available. I have never seen that come to fruition. I've seen people use it. I've seen blood work, and I don't see any difference in sex hormone binding lobulin or how much testosterone is free or bound. But you can use it if you want. Now, this is halotestin, which a lot of people can't get nowadays. These are only five milligram pills. Usually, two weeks out from a show, we'll take 20 milligrams a day. So you can take anywhere from 10 to 20 milligrams a day. So you can take four of these pills. But you only use them at two weeks out. They have no anabolic properties whatsoever. It's just a pure androgen. It really makes your body look good, especially because you're carving up. So it adds a nice level of hardness. It's great that they have this option to get this. I haven't seen halotestin anywhere in a while either. This is Dianabol tabs. These are 10 milligrams a piece. A lot of times in my off-season diet, I'll have guys start with some Dianabol just to kind of kickstart the diet, maybe 30 milligrams per day. You start taking too many of these things, it kills your appetite. But it's nice that they have them in the 10 milligram dosage so you can kind of customize how much you want. A lot of times they come in 50 milligram pills and I don't like that because you can't really customize how much you're going to use. This is Dianabol. We have Teranabol, which I always call the little sister of Dianabol. I don't even know if Teranabol is even worth taking, to be honest with you, because it's pretty much just weak Dianabol. And it's definitely too strong for women to take. I know women do take it. I think it's crazy. It's still highly angiogenic. Once again, if it was up to me, I would just take Dianabol. And then, of course, the father or the grandfather of all that college, Anadrol 50. These are 50 milligram pills of oxymethylone. Very hard to take this drug and eat. So a lot of guys use it pre-contest because it doesn't really affect your appetite when you're dieting. Nothing kills your appetite when you're dieting. But off-season, if you can't eat, you can't grow. So you've got to be careful with these. Once again, I wouldn't do cycles that are longer than four weeks on this stuff. But it's great that they actually have it available here, 50 milligrams, 100 pills in the bottle. And then this is a drug that I haven't really seen, methyltrianolone. I haven't used this. I haven't seen it in years. The person who created this product line did a lot of research and found that this is pretty highly angiogenic and highly anabolic. I really can't talk as far as the side effects go because I don't know. I have to imagine that it's strong, but it probably has some side effects. I wouldn't be surprised if it aromatized them real easily. And there's probably some toxicity available that comes along with it. So I wouldn't be using cycles of this for more than four weeks probably. But this is interesting because I have never seen this drug ever in the history of me doing this. And as you know, I've been dealing with anabolics for probably 30 years. So really, really cool. So I've got to tell you, overall, this Dyson line of products looks like one of the most comprehensive anabolic lines I've ever seen. It's here in India. I know a lot of guys are using it. I've talked to several bodybuilders who've used it, and I see what they look like. You can obviously tell that the stuff works. It's highly potent. I have to believe that it's pretty accurate. From where I'm being told it's coming from, it seems like the raw materials are 100%. And once again, I can't validate all this. I don't have testing kits with me, so I haven't tested this stuff. I'm pretty impressed. It's the comprehensive aspect of how many different compounds that have. And then they have a whole line of SARMs, too. This is BPC oral, because it is orally available. I think the injectors have. But Osterane they have, Testol, Stenabolic. All these are the SARMs. I'm not a big SARMs, as you guys know. I'm not a big SARMs fan. If you're going to take some, you might as well take some anabolics that haven't known quantity. But for those of you who think that if you're taking a SARM, you're really not on PEDs, knock yourself out. Once again, Dyson is pretty crazy with all the different compounds they have. Let me know. Give you your feedback. If you guys use this stuff. But once again, Dave Palumbo on the street reporting the best analogs throughout the world.