Does this anabolic steroid cause permanent side effects for life? Find out. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition Products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution, RX Television, RXMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. bodybuilding, non-Bodybuilding, diet, training, supplementation. This is your forum to ask Dave whatever is on your mind. We're going to go right into the questions. The first two questions on this show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. First question, your thoughts, Dave, on sublingual glutathione. You know, we've we've kind of discussed glutathione a lot and as you guys know, I really like it a lot. Um, you know, it does everything from detoxification of the body, especially pulling heavy metals out of the body. You know, I eat a lot of sushi, so like that that's important to me. But it's a great antioxidant as well. I mean, that's what the the body naturally uses to detoxify itself and to neutralize free radicals, which is what an antioxidant does. It also helps with liver detoxification and and a host of other things, immune system stimulation. Uh if you're trying to get your your girl pregnant, it increases sperm motility. So, it's good for the body. Like, it does good things in the body. So, elevating it definitely helps. I I personally take injectable glutathione every day, 200 milligrams. I get it from titanicalcenter.com and that they have a really really reliable form of it. It doesn't hurt too much. I know a lot of people say that, you know, when you take they take their shots of glutathon, it it hurts because probably the pH might not be balanced properly. You know, it does leave a little bit of like for like five minutes a little soreness, but then it goes away. It's just as it gets dissipated. But great product. The only drawback to glutathione is that you can't orally ingest it. Now, you know, people always say, "What about what about sublingual?" Now, sublingual means you're putting it under your tongue and there's a blood supply under your tongue, right? That that's pretty readily right there. And when you suck on things or you let it dissolve under your tongue, some things do go in through that route. But the research shows that even with sublingual, 90% of what you're taking sublingually is swallowed. Well, it's all swallowed eventually, and you're absorbing most of it, 90% of it. um you know via the the oral route. So I don't really think much if you did do sublingual glutathon I don't think a lot of it or a small only a small percentage of it would be actually absorbed and that's the problem. It's not reliably absorbed that way and if it goes into your digestive tract it's not doing anything. So my advice if you you know you might not have the the money to be able to take it every single day but you know what get a bottle use it a couple times a week you know as an adjunct. Robbie Robinson told me he uses it once a week. So, I mean, and this guy looks like he's incredible. He's almost 80 years old. So, my suggestion is, like I said, use it as you can. If you could afford it, do it every day like I do it. It's not that expensive, but I'm just saying some people are on a budget. It works much better injectively. Second question, again, these first two questions from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. I'm about to start a new mass cycle. I'm going to start a 750e uh test anate 100 trend ace three times a week for 5 weeks. 750 week test and 200 EOD deca six times a week or or X six weeks and therefore same but EQ question is is trend at the beginning of the cycle going to saturate the receptors for the rest of the cycle or is it better to begin with a softer anabolic like DECA or AQ or EQ and later on add the trend ACE you know that that's pretty much my if you if you belong to the Dave Palumbo experience app which is $29 a month. One of the things you get on there is all my cycles and you know for offseason pre-contest. We put all my diets in there, the keto diet, you know, carb rotation diets, all the writings I've ever done, all the videos I've ever done. It's all in that one place and I answer everyone's questions in an open forum. So, everyone sees everyone's questions, everyone's answers. It's a great learning experience. Plus, I do a Q&A video every single, you know, week just for the app members. So, you get an extra ask Dave every single week, which is a great learning experience in and of itself. So, it's like having me as your coach in your back pocket. And so, it's AI want to thank everyone for supporting that app because it's we've been doing it a number of years now. And the the membership keeps growing and growing and that's why I keep, you know, putting so much time and effort into it. And as it grows, the the the source of information grows is like a library that keeps increasing in size. And this cyclical every six week offseason uh cycle that I put in here that he's quoting essentially um is an anabolic with testosterone and it switches the anabolic every six weeks. The question is which anabolic to do first. It really doesn't matter probably but I usually start people off on EQ and and and test just because it's a little more mild uh not mild in sense mild in sense androgenically speaking. Yeah. So, but it doesn't there's no saturation of receptors for one particular steroid which ruins it for the others because they all bind to slightly they all bind to the androgen receptor in a in a slightly different configuration which is why they all cause different effects. So if you're taking tremblone first and it has a more androgenic effect on the receptor, maybe it makes you a little hungrier, a little, you know, more aggressive because it it it kind of affects a little more androgen receptor, you know, or it kind of activates more androgen receptors in there or androgen, you know, type behavior, I guess you could say. Then when you put Deca in after that, Decka is going to bind to a slight in a different slightly different configuration to androgen receptor and cause that slightly different effect. And that's why it's good to switch the anabolics every six to eight weeks um when you're doing that type of a cycle because it's really not the testosterone you get used to because your body always produces testosterone. You're not going to get used to testosterone, but what it's getting you what you're getting used to is the way the and the anabolic compound binds to that and receptor. So it doesn't matter which way you do it. Some guys like to start with traste because it kicks in quicker and and they feel it better. I always like to start with something like EQ. It's more stable. My appetite's good. I want to make sure that my guys are eating really well in the beginning of the cycle. It kind of gradually comes on so you don't get that steroid flu. Remember, if you've been off for like 10 weeks and then you start a cycle with trenacetate, it might just be too much too soon and sometimes you get that like that flu-l like symptoms. So, I always just by convention start with test EQ or test and deca and then I usually go to like a trendone uh you know for six weeks. I try in the offseason to do like a trenanate so it doesn't have such an a rapid onset but I mean you can do trendate too and then the the third you know mini cycle I usually go to like a test and deca deca is a little lower acting it's it's anti-inflammatory so by maybe by that time you've gained you know 10 15 20 pounds your joints might be a little sore perfect to adjunk to end the cycle with the with the deca you know component so that's just by convention that I've always done I did it myself that way and uh that's why I put it in the app that Before we go to the rest of our questions, we have a sale from our friends at Titan Medical. Uh this week's therapy, Dave, is uh 25% off Massellin oral therapy. Uh mimics your body's natural gurelin hormone to stimulate powerful growth hormone release. Promotes lean muscle, improves strength, fat loss, metabolism, recovery, and bone healing. Again, that is the weekly special at our titanicalenter.com. Yeah, massarellin is an interesting compound because I don't I think that they just started selling it. The the interesting thing about it is it mimics the hormone grelin. And what Grelin does is it actually stimulates appetite. Okay, so when you're hungry, okay, where you haven't eaten for a while, your body increases grein production, which causes appetite increase. So this probably wouldn't be the right therapy to use if you're dieting, okay? Because it's gonna make you hungry. All right. But the side effect of Grelin in in the brain is that it actually causes growth hormone release. So, and it's orally ingestable. It's like kind of like M MK-677. So, you're going to get growth hormone release and appetite increase. So, offseason, great great compound. You're trying to put some size on, maybe your appetite isn't that great. Uh you want to get a little extra growth hormone for recovery and muscle building. This is a better therapeutic. Whereas, you know, the MK6777, it does cause all all these things cause a little bit appetite increase because they all kind of affect Grein a little bit, but it's less of an appetite increaser than the G than this Master Morellin is. Um, I would give it a shot if you're offseason and I know a lot of guys that I work with that have trouble eating. This is a good compound that you might want to throw in there. They're giving 25% off. Make sure you mention Dave Plumbumber RX Muscle. That's at titanmedcenter.com. Let's proceed to the rest of our questions. Again, we're going to take questions from our Instagram, from our YouTube community page, and our other various social media outlets. Um, raw muscle glutes, did you ever try Stenmbbalone back in the day? Uh, was it any good? Why isn't it available anymore? You know, I I actually had to do a little Google search myself, and I'm honest when I when I, you know, I don't pretend to know everything. Um, back in in in when I was competing in the 90s and the early 2000s, there was a compound called Sten. I know Valentino loved it. He had he had oodles of this stuff. And Sten was actually like a combination of several test. It was like test sip, test propanate and DHEA, not DHT, DHEA, the the adrenal hormone. It was sold in Mexico and it was it was like a South American type, you know, steroid that was available mostly in Mexico and a lot of guys used it. It was so basically like for testosterone the you know, it was like a susten it was like a cheap man sustenon essentially. Sten was not the same thing as Stenbalone. Stemblone was a compound that they developed. I don't think they ever Syntax actually made it. The the company that actually created anadrol made stemlone. They I think they were trying to make a a compound that wasn't as um side effect ridden as an wound up releasing it. But you know, you know how that goes. When they don't release it, someone else makes it synthetically, you know, underground, all those type of things. I never used it personally. I I didn't even see a lot of it available. I mean, I was pretty um aware of what was on the market back then, but you got to remember in the early in the 90s and and and early 2000s, guys just used whatever was made from pharmaceutical companies. There wasn't this big underground thing. The only thing that was really underground was people were making their own trenet, but nothing else was like that. So, there wasn't really a lot of stem blown around. I didn't see it. Probably nowadays more because people just order raw materials from, you know, China and they make their own. Um it looks like at least on paper that it's like not as androgenic, not as anabolic certainly as anadrol. So you can't call it an like you can't call it like anadrol injectable anadrol or Anadrol's little sister. It's not even comparable to it. The only reason people say that is because it was made by the same company originally. So um and a lot of people think it's good for women, but it's not. You'll get side effects from that. I would not take this if I was a woman. So, I don't really see the advantage of using it if it's not as good as anadrol and it's weaker and it doesn't really uh you know the only good thing I can say about it I don't think it aromatizes so much from what I'm looking at the molecule and and what I'm reading about it doesn't look like it aromatizes very much and it doesn't seem to have much liver toxicity. Um, once again, I haven't used it, so I can't compare it to anything. But, you know, when I see all the different compounds out there that I'm like I'm like this Decker and Masteron and and EQ and and and you know, Trenbalone, I'm like, I don't know why people are always looking for these esoteric like drugs that like don't have any advantages over the stuff that's out there that we is a known commodity. We know what works. We we know what the known commodities. There's no new steroids that that people don't know about that are super steroids that are going to do something that these other compounds are doing. I think people are looking for the magic bullet and there's just no magic bullet. The magic bullet is is what's out there. Those things work reliably. We've known that they've worked for 50 years now. Um just listen to the what we're telling you to do, you know, and the wisdom that's out there and and I guarantee you if you eat right and you train hard, you're going to build muscle. Let's go to uh Jeff KK. I saw an interview with a female bodybuilder where she said the side effects of Anavar are for life. Do you think this is true specifically for females? So I mean I guess if you want to extrapolate for males and females, but is it more so for females? Well, for females, any side effect you get, okay, assuming that you don't, you know, stop the compound as soon as you start experiencing them can be for life. Now, Anavar is not is I mean, look, I've I've worked with a lot of women who use Anavar. doesn't have many side effects at all if it's real. The problem is that there's a lot of fake uh Anavar out there. I mean, I know someone very close to me who's who, you know, would swear he his girlfriend was using real Anavar and they tested it with my kits and and and it came back fake. So, and and it was shocked because, you know, everything else this person, you know, gets is is good. So, a lot of people don't even know that this stuff that they have is fake. And it was Dianibol. So, if you take Dianabol thinking it's anavar, yeah, you're going to get side effects. You're going to get a deeper voice. you're going to get hair growth on your face and a lot of that and that that stuff is is irreversible. But I don't see Anavar causing irreversible. I don't see Anavar causing many side effects if it's real. That's why I always recommend that people try to get it from a rejuvenation clinic or get, you know, prescription or at least go to my site, get the Roy tests at the atlumbo.com and test the stuff. I mean, it's 20 bucks. I mean, why would you risk it? You know, why would you risk it on anything? If I'm a bodybuilder at a at a at a high level and I want to make the best results, I want to know that everything I'm taking is real. And for 20 bucks a tester, even a hundred bucks for the GH tester, it's worth it. It's worth it for because you're saving yourself time and money in the long run. You have to look at it from that perspective. But any side effect to a woman that she gets could be permanent. So to say anavar causes permanent side effects, well, so does Winstrol, Primaabolan, EQ, everything is permanent. Okay? Especially voice change. If you don't catch the voice change when it starts first getting raspy, it's it'll those vocal cords will uh become scarred over and then once they're scarred over which has happened what's happens in men when they go through puberty you get a deep voice permanently and so that's not going away. Hair growth I mean you can get laser hair removal but you know I mean that's a side effect you know if you take the wrong steroids and your jaw grows you know that's a permanent side effect that's not going away. So you know that's why as a woman you really should consider what you're taking. You know, when I see bikini girls taking Trenmbolone, I'm like horrified by it because I'm like, what are these girls doing? They bikini is like beauty and and and and and femininity and and and sensuality. Why would you want to turn yourself into a man? It just doesn't make sense to me. But people have bad adviserss, bad coaches, bad boyfriends, husbands who don't know any better. And you know, if you're a woman, you want to really go to someone who knows what they're talking about, who's going to take your, you know, you know, your interest as a woman into into consideration. I always tell people I treat you if as if you're my sister. You know, would I want my sister doing this? If it's the answer is no, then I'm not going to recommend you do it. Question about um resolving injection site soreness. Again, this is a question that you do get fairly often, but new audiences, this is uh good information to have. It depends what's causing the the injection site soreness. A lot of times it's a prostaglandin reaction um which is you know local acting hormones that which prostaglandins are that are released and they cause pain a lot of times or they can cause inflammation or they can cause flu-l like symptoms. Uh we've all experienced this test proponate is is the the main culprit that causes this on injection site. And so what I found is number one you don't want to start taking a lot of non-steroidal anti-inflammatories like ibuprofen because those inhibit muscle growth. We know that. Okay. What doesn't inhibit muscle growth, but still inhibits this prostaglandin production is uh Tylenol, acetaminophen. Okay. And you don't want to be taking Tylenol, you know, every single day your whole life because it's it could be liver toxic to you. I mean, it's not kidney toxic, but it's liver toxic. You take too much of it. But if you're taking like two Tylenol every, you know, four hours for for a day or so because you you got severe injection site soreness that's causing flu-l like symptoms, it instantly takes it away. it it'll disappear overnight and you'll be like, "Holy mackerel, I can't believe I've been suffering with this for that long." So, two Tylenols, two acetammenophins, um, and it's going to go away and you might have to repeat it every, like I said, four to six hours as it wears off, but usually after one or two dosages of the of the Tylenol, it's usually fine. It's because once you stop those prostaglandin reactions from occurring, the injection site itself is not sore. It's the prostaglandins that cause the soreness. I I found that sometimes, you know, you know, when I used to do like the um the sight injection oil in my arms or something like that, you know, before the painless pumps was available, there was the Chris Clark and it worked great, but it it definitely left you a little sore. I would take two Tylenol before I to did the shots and I never needed to take another dose after that and it worked really good because it stopped that prostaglandon reaction. So, give it a shot. Let me know how it works. We'll take one more question. Um, we haven't answered anything about Vmin Mineralize in a while, so I wanted to get this one in. Your recommended protocol for taking Vmineralize, all P pills at once or better broken up throughout the course of the day. And how many, for those that don't know, how many pills do you recommend taking during the course of a day? The serving size is 10 pills, which is going to give you what you need. Okay. Ideally, especially with water soluble vitamins, which some a lot of the stuff in demineralizes water soluble, especially the minerals. If you could spread it out throughout the day, that's the best way to do it. I mean, if you did three pills three times a day or you did maybe four in the morning, three in the afternoon, three at night, you know, with meals, of course, that would ideally be the best way to do it. But I know that people can't remember to take pill. I can't remember. I take five in the morning with breakfast and I take five at night with my with my dinner or my last meal before bed. And I think that spacing works well. If I was super neurotic and maybe I was still competing, I probably would do a, you know, I would do three, four, three, and three. Um, but that gives you what exactly what you need. There's really not much you need to add to that. The only thing I tell people to take in addition to the Vmineraliz, there's a little extra vitamin D3, another 5,000 units, and you can get the D3 with K2. Vitamin K2. Life Extension makes a a brand which is what I use, the vitamin D3 and K2 complex together. In the new version of demineralize that will be coming out in the near future. We will have everything in there in the right dosages including the vitamin K2 and some other great stuff that I will let you know about as we get closer to putting that product together. So, you're never going to have to take anything else. You'll just have to take your Vmineralize for your vitamins, minerals, trace metals, antioxidants, and then you'll take your Omega for all your essential fatty acids and that'll be complete. But, uh, that's my that's my new project for this coming year. Uh, probably toward the end of the year, we'll see that product out there. But, for now, yeah, you just you want to space those those out. Remember, it's impossible it's impossible to put what you need on a daily basis as a as a hard exercising athlete into one or two pills. So if you if you're taking a one a day or a two pill a day, you're really doing nothing. You're almost taking absolutely nothing. You're taking a sprinkle of everything, which is not giving you any effective dosages as anything that you're taking. And I know it's sad to say the marketing is good on those products because it seems as simple, oh, you take one pill a day, you take two pills a day. It doesn't work, guys. You need volume. I mean, the minerals thems the the calcium and magnesium alone takes up several capsules. uh especially if you're using a chelated form of of these minerals, which is the only absorbable form you really should be using. Uh and most companies don't even use chelated minerals because they're expensive. So when I tell you that I research this product more than anything and it's and it you know what the funny thing is on we sell on Amazon obviously too. Amazon.com on Amazon.com. It's one of the best selling vitamin mineral mixes out there. And I and and that's from non-Bodybuilders too because these people know they look at the ingredient list. They see the quantities of what's in there. The people who are educated know that there's chelated minerals. They see there's blueberry extract and lycopine in there which are the the most powerful um extracts of fruit and vegetables that you can get and they see that there's a lot of quality in this product and there's and there's there is actually effective dosages. People buy it. I'm telling you it like I said I made this product for myself and then I said I wonder if I can sell it because this is what I wanted when I was competing. These are the ingredients I wanted in the dosages I wanted. So, and it's like I said, it will constantly be an ever evolving product as we find out more about nutrition and we're going to be putting the methylated form of folic acid in there as well in the new in the new version as well. So, everything is constantly being updated and and is evolving and that's why we call ourselves evolutionary nutrition. So, there you have it, Vmineraliz. You can get it at speciesnutrition.com. That's going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave reminder right now on the channel all new episode of the after hours podcast. Earlier we had a question about Stenbalone and why it's no longer available. Well, yesterday we had a full discussion on band supplements that were very popular in the bodybuilding scene but no longer available. Go check that out. That episode is on the channel all new episode of Heavy Muscle Radio. Dave Palumbo and Chris Aceto this past Sunday night. If you like what you're watching, hit the like button, comment below if you haven't already done so, subscribe, and hit the notification bell so you won't miss anything that we have up and coming on this channel. Of course, the Pittsburgh Pro in a matter of two and a half weeks. Dave, Chris, and I, Dave Christo, and I will be there. Uh, we will offer you live wall-to-wall coverage, interviews, wrapups, everything that we would do on Olympia weekend, but at this show, which is going to be a quasi Olympia at the Pittsburgh Pro. And then of course then we are off to the races with the contests season. And of course all the coverage will be here at RX Muscle. Thank you for watching. We'll see you next week.