Will EQ Baldinone actually turn your blood to cement? Stay tuned. I c I created species nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition Products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution RXVision, rxmuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your 30-minute question and answer show. Your weekly question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Whatever is on your mind, be it bodybuilding, non-bodybuilding, it is all on the table. We are in March. So, we are now 8 and 1/2 weeks from the Pittsburgh Pro and the New York Pro and the thick of the contest season. We have the Detroit Pro big show coming up in two and a half weeks. We're going to go right into the questions. the first two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. First question, I've been experimenting with higher volume and felt exhausted, feeling like I need to take a nap in the middle of the day, also mentally drained during the day. Is this a sign of overtraining? But I go back to the naps because Dave, you've always been a big advocate, especially during your bodybuilding career, of taking midday naps. Yeah, I mean, a nap is not and being tired during the middle of the day is not necessarily a sign that you're overtraining. Uh, my body always seems to want to get a nap after a tough workout, like for recovery purposes. But three definite signs that you're overtraining are number one, exhaustion all the time. If you're always exhausted, you're definitely overtraining. Okay? If you're walking around and you you say to yourself, you know what, I wish I didn't have to go to the gym today, but I'm going to go anyway because I know I have to go. That's not a good sign. So, you should want to go to the gym. you should have this like I can't wait to get to the gym type of attitude and if you're getting weaker at the gym in other words you're not you feel like you know your strength is going down that's another sign of so if you have those three signs more than likely you're overt training now there's other you know symptoms they say if your resting pulses in the morning are high whereas you should be lower in the morning if they're going high that's a symptom because what happens is when you overtrain and this happens a lot when people do high volume you're exhausting the neurotransmitters and I I discussed this before, but I think it's warrants repeating again because we always have a new audience coming in. The muscles and the nerves don't touch each other. Okay? So, for the nerve to tell the muscle to contract, it has to release a chemical into this space between the nerve and the the nerve ending and the muscle, which is called the neuromuscular space or the syninnapse, it releases a neurotransmitter. Now, there's different neurotransmitters in the brain. We use serotonin, dopamine, you know, GABA. uh in the muscles usually it's acetylcholine um or or epinephrine and you get you know these chemicals that get released get used up. So if you're constantly exercising you know at a at an extreme level and exhausting the use of these neurotransmitters eventually you can run out of them. And when you run out of them what happens now is the the nerve can't communicate well with the muscles. So you get weaker. You don't get the in your brain you get like fog, right? You don't think as clearly. You you're tired more because your brain your body is saying, "Please rest. Sleep." Because sleep is what helps recover the neurotransmitters and rest helps recover the neurotransmitters. Your body is giving you these signals and it's saying, "Stop doing what you're doing. You're doing too much. We can't keep up with what you're doing." And so that's why I always found the best way not to overtrain is to do lower volume. And I found that by doing lower volume and heavier weights, I actually grew way, way better. Now, different people can overtrain at different rates. I think Ronnie Coleman, I've seen some of the volume he does with the heavy weights and he was training each body part twice a week. How he recovered from that is a testament to his how great his genetics are. I knew what my limitations were, so I had to do less and I took more of the Dorian Yates approach and it worked for me very well. When I was doing more volume, I was feeling that feeling of overtraining and I was getting smaller and actually weaker. So, you know, I think that if you want to be a bodybuilder and you want to build a lot of muscle, brief under an hour workouts, high intensity, good form, full range of motion, you know, heavy weights is the best way to build muscle and recover adequately. You know, don't look at what the genetic freaks do out there because they can do anything and and and recover and respond and grow. It sounds like you're definitely going through some overtraining symptoms. Second question, again, these first two questions from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Um, what would be a good cutting/summer cycle for a non-competitor? Would I do a modified pre-contest cycle or something close to it? It is March. We're a few months away, but you're going to start to get those kind of questions. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I love the the cutting cycle. Remember, steroids don't burn fat. they build muscle and repair help repair. So, anything you take is going to help you in that regard. There's no specific drugs that do one thing better than another. By convention, a lot of people take the drugs that don't make you hold as much water when they're dieting because you want to see the results a little nicer. Now, if you're not a competitor, there's no reason to do like, you know, thousand milligrams of testosterone a week, unless you want to actually build a lot of muscle. Uh if you just want to look good, you know, you can do some EQ, you can do some Asteron. You know, if your if your attitude or your your personality is is is such, you can do a little trenbolone. Uh you know, I would always put a base of testosterone in there, but you could probably get away with a lower base, you know, if you're just looking to, you know, lean out and just look good for the beach, you know, which is what it sounds like this person is. So, you can do maybe do 500 milligrams of testosterone a week. maybe do, you know, you know, three 400 milligrams of Masteron a week and maybe add in, you know, you know, 50 milligrams of of Winstrol every other day, you know, something like that. That would be a good cycle. Uh, you know, or you could do less, you know, you can do 500 tests and you could do, you know, just some Masteron with it and then that would be enough because you're not looking to, you know, get on stage. It really depends on what your goals are. You know, it looks like you're just looking to get lean. To me, the most important part of the lean part is the diet, the cardio, and the fat burners. Now, I would I would use some clenbuterol if if I was you because clenbuterol is the most p potent fat burning agent on the on the planet as far as I'm concerned, you know, would that as far as fat burning in in terms of not killing you. DNP might be a little more, but we've talked about why you shouldn't use that because you could die from that. I think that would be the way to go if I were you. Now, these two questions are from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. It's my app you can download from the Android store or the iTunes store. It's $29 a month. You get me as a coach in your back pocket basically. All my writings, all my videos organized in one place. All my protocols, drug offseason, pre-contest, drug cycles for beginners, advanced. There's uh diets for men and women. My keto diets on there, my rotation diets are on there, carb cycling diets. It's it's a very great resource. There's a lot of workouts we put up on there. I do a Q&A video every single week exclusively for the app members. So, that's an extra video, an extra Ask Dave you get every week on there. and I answer everyone's questions in an open forum on the app. So you see everyone's questions, everyone's answers. It's a great learning experience. And actually last month we had a stellar month. We had a lot of people sign up. So I want to absolutely thank all of you guys out there for, you know, supporting the app, subscribing to it. I know you guys love it and I appreciate you recommending it. It really inspires me to do more for the app and keep it going. So thank you. Uh D before we go to the rest of our questions, our friend at Titan Medical Center, they have a sale on muscle building therapies. This 10% off until the end of the week. Uh CJC1 1295 with Iba Morellin, Hercules Potion, IGF-1, LR3, Hexarellin, MK-677, and Tessa Morellin. Uh 10% off at Titan Medical Center. Yeah, they have all the uh the growth hormone releasing peptides. They have different ones, and you can ask them which ones, you know, they recommend. There's different combinations of them. the IGF-1 is is is is real. That's what's, you know, a lot of people always ask me, hey, is that long R3 IGF-1 they sell on all these uh websites, you know, the illegal ones. Are they good? I'm like, I don't know. But I can tell you one thing, the one on Titan Medical Center.com is real because they compound it in a US pharmacy here. And so if you're looking for real IGF-1, long R3, they have it. So, the best place to get it would be from a clinic like that where you know it's coming from an approved US, you know, created compounding pharmacy. If you start going online and playing guesswork, you don't know what you're getting. You know, I had Bruce Neller on the TV show about two years ago and we were talking about, you know, he's an expert on China and he said a lot of this the peptides just coming out of China that people sell on their random websites. Most of it's just GH, you know, releasing agents and it's the same thing, you know, for everything. It's every every peptide is the same and you would never know because there's no one can test it. So, it's very important that you get it from a good place. T our friends at Titan Medical Center are running a 10% sale this week on these modalities. Plus, if you mention Dave Palumbo, RX Muscle, you're going to get an additional discount. They're very good at recommending. They're very helpful. Uh, tell them we sent you and, uh, I think you'll be very satisfied. Let's go to our questions from our YouTube community page, uh, Instagram and Facebook. Uh, all right. There was the question I was looking for, the one that you teased the beginning of the episode. Where does the myth come from that EQ in particular quote turns the blood to cement? Does EQ even raise RBC and hematocrit more than any other androgen does? All anabolic steroids, including testosterone, raise red blood cells. They all tell the bone marrow produce more red blood cells. That's why you could be on a 100 milligrams of testosterone uh replacement dose per week and and you still have to go every couple months and and donate a pint of blood because even the light the slightest lowest amount of testosterone will do that. Um, EQ for some reason has always got had this reputation of thickening the blood because they give it to the raceh horses and the raceh horses need high red blood cells because it helps them run better. Better oxygen carrying capacity. So it it has this like um reputation for raising red blood cell count. But the truth of the matter is that all anabolics are a deca does the same thing. Anadil believe it a lot of people say why would they why would they create such a toxic drug anadrol? because they created for kids who were anemic, believe it or not. Even though it's it sounds insane, right? Because it's got all those androgenic side effects. They they didn't know how to stimulate, you know, uh red blood cell production. They didn't have the the uh the synthetic hormone ariththropoetin at the time. Uh so they were using anrol to raise red blood cells. So it did it really quickly and kids don't like shots. And they were doing it, you know, they can pop the pills and that's what it was created for, believe it or not, because all anabolic steroids do raise red blood cell count. And they all do it to pretty much the same extreme. So Anavar will do it as well. Win will do it. Everyone, everyone seems to respond a little differently to these different drugs. Some people their red blood cells go through the roofs. Other people they don't. I think a lot of times also is there's limiting factors. So when you have to produce more red blood cells, you need enough vitamin B12 present. You need enough iron present. So if you're a little deficient in those, you might not see your red blood cell count go up as high. Whereas people who take a lot of vitamins and who, you know, fortifying with the right stuff, their red blood cell count goes high. Mine goes real high because I'm I'm, you know, I'm on demineralize, I'm on omega, on all these, you know, replace, you know, I take extra vitamin C, which helps absorb iron. And so when you do all that, you you're maximizing your ability to to build red blood cells. Then I put that stimulus in there, just a little HRT I take. I take 80 milligrams a week and I'm down to and I'm still, you know, raising my red blood cell count. Every every two months I have to give a pint of blood to keep myself normal. So, uh, EQ doesn't do it anymore than anything else. It's for some reason it's got this reputation, but it's really unwarranted, you know. Next question. Again, this this one from our YouTube community page. Again, we've been asking or well at least we've been posting, you know, for Ask Dave uh on our YouTube community page a lot more frequently now and we've gotten a great response. So, thank you. Thank you for participating in your contributions. Again, a lot of these are great great questions that we're uh adding to the show. Uh if I'm a poor converter of testosterone to dehydrosterone, dehydrotestosterone, what will be some of the safe compounds to use? Uh, and then I think he meant to say trend, but it kind of autocorrected his trend be good in this situation. I think he's asking if he's he's not really a poor converter. I think he means if he's a high converter of testosterone to DHT. I think that's what he's asking. I believe that's the question he's asking because if you're a bad converter, that would mean you don't convert a lot to DHT so you don't have to worry about it. But I think he's worried about his DHT levels going too high. You know what I always recommend for people is you're not going to know what kind of a DHT converter you are until you get your DNA tested. I sell a product called DNA power uh DNA testing on Dave Palumbo.com. You can buy the kit. It's you swap your cheek. You send it in and they set up they'll send you the results plus they set up an appointment with you with Carmen over there and Carmen will go over your DNA test results with you. So, you know, when I got my DNA tested and I found out I was a super super super high converter of testosterone DHT, I realized, man, I should have been taking a DHT to blocker all, you know, for my whole career. That's why I had acne, and that's probably why I got hair loss. I'm not saying it would have stopped everything, but it would have certainly alleviated some of the symptoms. Now, I have a we have a product from Species Nutrition called Testalize that has a tremendously potent natural DHT blocker in there. It's it's in the salt palmetto extract that we use intestinalize and I give it to girls, teenagers, boys, girls to block it helps their acne, people who are losing hair, it'll stop that. It if you're if you very prone to hair growth on your face as a woman, it'll it'll curtail that because what it does, it blocks some of the conversion of testosterone into estrogen. And women have testosterone in their body too and they convert it to I mean testosterone to DHT, excuse me. And women have it as well as men. And some women's testosterones are higher than other women's and they convert highly to DHT. So if he's a bad converter, he might either number one would be to get your DNA tested, find out how bad or just go for blood work and see how high your DHT levels are. If they're super super high, I would get on finasteride at a milligram to two milligrams per day. Um, if you're not crazy high, but you're just a little high, I would try the Testelliz product and take three pills twice a day of that. That's more natural approach to it. Sometimes if you take the finasteride, it can it can lower your DHT too much and then you lose your sex drive. And so you don't want that to happen. So managing DHT is really not about which drugs I should take. It's just I always feel it's just managing the conversion of testosterone to DHC. And if you can do that, then you don't have to worry. You can take any drugs you want. Just like managing estrogen conversion. If your estrogen conversion from testosterone is very high, you take an aromatase inhibitor like arimidex, famra, aromomasin. And if you don't convert a lot, you don't take it or you need less of it because you don't want to lower your estrogen too much either or you lose your sex drive and your ability to grow. So, it's all about balancing. And that's what the Tesla product was designed. It was an it was a testosterone optimizer, I call it. It's not a a testosterone booster, per se. It optimizes the levels. So if your testosterone is not converting to estrogen and it's not converting to DHC at high levels, then more stays as testosterone and it gets higher your levels. So you can raise testosterone by influencing what the the other hormone production uh is is doing in your body. And the only way to really know that is to go for blood work and check your estradiol levels, check your DHT levels. If one of those is super high, because it's usually not both, then you address it. If they're both high, you address both of them. If then neither is high, you don't do anything and and that's the best way to go. But the only way to know would be to go for blood work. Uh this question starts and I mean again uh debatable now considering you know today's era. You could very well say that we're entering into another golden era of bodybuilding. He starts the question by saying everyone agrees that 90s era was king. But if we put that aside, do you think that that is the case? because they may have stayed off growth till later in their careers because was it wasn't as much available or readily available and bene benefited from muscle maturity before adding the mass. Yeah. I mean guys um I think the guys in the 90s were using GH they weren't using as much because it was very expensive and it wasn't as readily available. Um so you know guys would use two to four IUs the most. If you used four IUs you had a lot of money. Most people, you know, didn't do that. But, uh, I think the pros once they started earning money by winning prize money, they started using about four IUs a day. I don't I don't believe I don't know anyone that was using more than that in the 90s. You know, maybe toward the end and guys were starting to get it a little cheaper and they were starting to to bump it up a little bit, but by and far anyone who used GH in the 90s was using like two to four IUs a day and they were getting very good results out of it. But in the 90s, one of the things that people really really emphasized was training because you had Mike Menser during the eights really really pushing the whole training high intensity, you know, uh less volume, super heavy weight, maximum contraction. It was I call the 90s the training era. Like that's really where I learned how to train myself. And that was there was a huge emphasis on that. And there was a lot of free weight movements. There weren't as many machines as there are today. So hammer strength just came out and guys were really getting into that. But there was a lot most of if you look at the old training stuff in Flex Magazine, you would see Flex Wheeler, Chris Cormier, you know, Rico Mcclinton doing, you know, incline barbell bench presses, you know, and dumbbell presses and dumbbell flies. You didn't you weren't watching them on a machine doing that. Now if you go on Instagram, everyone's on a machine, right? Doing something. So, I think the free weight movements that were being emphasized and were really building a better base. You know, if you look at the mass of guys today like Nick Walker, this is a guy who was not didn't build his physique on machines. You know, he built it on on free weights and we've seen all those videos of him in the early part of his career doing that. So, you have to understand that the the training was was there was a big emphasis on that. I think we saw that's why we saw better developed physiques. Nowadays, guys are just the guys are bigger today. There's no doubt about it. I mean, you know, to say that the guys were bigger in the 90s is not true. You know, the guys are bigger today and they might be better, you know, but I think that there was a lot of just amazing genetic genetic gifts or genetically gifted guys in the 90s. I mean from Paul Dlette to Vince Taylor, Flex Wheeler, I mean the these guys had the most Chris Cormier you got throw in there, Shawn Ray. These guys had really really gifted you know structures and you can't create that. You know we have now I think at the top level of the sport some of the best that we've seen since the 90s. I really do. I think this is we're really coming into a new uh age of bodybuilding where we're seeing a lot better guys and I think guys at the top are realizing that they have to really push it in the gym now. It's about training. I think they're I think it's finally they're waking up to the fact that they really have to focus on the training lot and we're seeing that a lot more now. I noticed that in the last like two or three years guys really focused on training. Um, I remember I'm watching videos from Derek, you know, out in in this Tampa over there training with Matt Grego and, you know, we've seen Nick Walker, obviously the the crazy workouts he does. And I think that we're people are getting the message. It's about training. The drugs are the same. The drugs will do will be around forever. Steroids have not changed for 50 years. You know, yes, we've added GH. We've added some peptides, but the bottom line is the reason why guys are, you know, growing is because we know more about diet. The nutritional supplements are better and training. The training will be the key. Once people realize that that training is the most important thing you're going to do and and and making sure that you're lifting heavy weights and doing full range of motion together with the drugs and the nutrition, we're going to see guys that are going to surpass the 90s. I promise you, in in the next 5 to 10 years. Well, sticking on the uh theme of training, this next question is about Mike Mener. Uh Ricky says he's been on a binge of Mike Mener videos. As a natural lifter, his philosophy on muscle growth and the process is very eye opening. Your take on highintensity also did you know Mike? Any stories or takes on Mike Menser? I I've told the Mike Menes my my my one encounter in person with Mike Mener when when I told you I was it was two he was 319 pounds posing in the parking lot of Gold's Venice and Mike got out of his old Aari and uh station wagon there and he he walked past me and then he did a double take and came back and he started circling me and saying holy this guy's a freak he's a freak you're a freak I said Mike I'll say I'll take that as a very very high compliment coming from you he's like I got to go train someone and he took off so That was my one encounter with Mike Men. But Mener was it was interesting because he was very very um philosophical about training. The problem is a lot of times when you get guys that get too into their head about doing something. He reduced bodybuilding too simplistically down to basically one, right? He went from lower volume builds better muscle because you can do higher intensity. And then he said, "Well, you know what? maybe we don't maybe we don't need to do six sets. Maybe we can do one set and accomplish the same thing. And I think that's where he lost me. So I was I would read all his articles in in all the magazines and I would, you know, follow his his protocols and then I at some and I lowered my volume and I got very good results. You know, the last set is the most important set, the heaviest set. That's where you're growing from. And then he said, you know what, you don't need to do more than two exercises, one set for each exercise. So, two sets you're basically doing per body part. I couldn't wrap my my hands around that. I just it wasn't enough. I don't care how much intensity you generate on those two sets. It's just not enough. Maybe if you're at Dorian Yates level already of development, you don't really you're just maintaining. I don't think you're going to make improvements. I think he reduced it too much because he got too into his head like I can make this even more simplistic, even more simplistic, even more simplistic. And he went too much to the extreme. But the whole concept of taking that 80s, early 90s mentality of high volume, we were in the gym for three hours. I mean, Arnold used to train for five hours and saying that's overtraining. You're not allowing your body a chance to recover. You need to take days off during the week. Once I incorporated those those tenants of his of his training philosophy, my whole body changed and I realized, holy you do need to take days off. You can't treat bodybuilding like a long-distance runner who never takes days off and he runs every day. And you and you have to maximize what you're doing in the gym. You can't just be there. I would be trained with this f my friend Frank. We would do like a whole, you know, chest workout, which would be 20 sets, and then he would run around and do extra set on top of that. And I would feel like, well, I'm missing something. I better go do it with him. And all we were doing is just overtraining. And I was realizing I wasn't getting any bigger at all. I looked exactly a matter of fact, I might have been getting smaller. So, I cut the volume back after reading Mensor and I and I said, "You know what, Frank? If you want to go finish and do more, that's good. My 10 sets or 12 sets we just did, I'm fine." And I would leave the gym. And you know what? My body changed dramatically. So, Menser was huge and and really popularizing lower volume, higher intensity, but I think he went too far with it. Question about electrolytes. Your thoughts on managing electrolytes. How does one assess the proper amounts and what exactly to take? Yeah. Well, the easiest thing would be to to take in an electrolyte drink. I eat an enormous amount of salt in my diet, which is really most people are sodium deficient. They're really not potassium deficient. Uh it's the sodium deficiency, and a lot of bodybuilders don't like salt. They restrict it because they think they're going to lose weight faster, which is the most the the absolute wrong thing to do. You want to eat as much salt as as you can because what that does is it makes you less sod sodium sensitive. The more sodium you take in, the lower your eldoststerone levels go. And aldoststerone is a hormone released from the adrenal glands that is responsible for sodium reabsorption. So if you don't eat sodium all the time, your eldoststerone levels go really high in your body. And then every time you do eat something with salt, you retain the salt in the water, which is not good. If you eat a lot of salt all the time, eldoststerone levels go super low and your body just keeps what it needs and it gets rid of the extra. So I mean that that that's the way to do it, you know. Now, if you want to take in a little bit of extra electrolytes, what I what I did was when we created Amino Evolved, which is our our fermented amino acid product. We don't use hair like most amino acid products to get the amino acids. They use human hair from the Chinese barber shops. We use a fermented amino acids and in amino evolved. And we have a tremendous flavoring system. It tastes absolutely delicious. We have the mango flavor, excuse me, we have the strawberry watermelon. We have blue raspberry. And we have the iced tea, which is if you like iced tea, it's it's better than country time iced tea. You'd think there's sugar in there. And we put sodium and some fat. We put an electrolyte balance in there just so that when you're because a lot of people sip it while they're working out, you know, and if you do that, at least you're replacing electrolytes as you're sweating, which is a good idea. That's that's why we put it in there. There's no carbs in there, but you're getting your essential amino acids, branch chain aminos, and electrolytes. And that's why I put it in there. I think it's a a smart thing to do, especially if you're not eating enough sodium in your diet. You know, a lot of people, like I said, I have friends that just don't like the taste of salt. Now, it's interesting. I talked about the DNA panel I ran on myself, you know, that we sell from DNA Power. And one of the things I I learned about myself is that I don't taste salt like other people do. So, in other words, what tastes salty to another person might taste a little bland to me. So, I tend to overs salt my food probably because I don't have I don't taste salt as as as uh I guess as sensitively as maybe you might. So, which is good for bodybuilding, right? Because because I make sure I get enough sodium in my diet because I can never salt my food enough. Whereas other people are very salt sensitive. They they they taste salt very well. So, for them, they don't want to put salt in their food because it it might taste too salty to them. So, a lot of times those bodybuilders have hydration issues and they they can't get pumped in the gym and they feel dehydrated a lot because they're not taking enough salt. And in a situation like that, you want to take an electrolyte drink like like the Amino Evolve because that's the only way you're going to get enough sodium in your diet. I can't hear you, sir. Still can't hear it. He's got himself. I did it again with the with the mute button. Question about hair loss on TRT and finasteride dosing. Do you feel 1 mg every other day is generally enough to stop DHC while on TRT? How much of a potential negative impact on hypertrophy would take place if you increase finasteride in conjunction with an increase in testosterone administration for times when you're quote unquote blasting? Yeah. When you start finasteride, if you're going to start finasteride, which is a DHT blocking agent, we talked about it earlier for hair loss, you have to stay on it. If you go off it, all the hair that you've recouped from the the from blocking the DHT production, your body, you could potentially lose again. So, you got to stay on it. So, the minimum dosage is one milligram per day. I uh started in 2000 when I first got my first hair graphs back then. And the guy, he told me, "You got to stay on it." And so, the one milligram was wasn't really being effective for me and I and I and probably one milligram for an average person who doesn't take steroids would work but I was taking you know I was on steroid cycles I was competing back then so I decided because after discussing it with someone else who also was going through the same thing that 2.5 milligrams would be ideal now the advantage of that is you can get a prescription that your insurance company will cover for for prosar is like for for prostate enlargement so if the doctor writes you a 5 milligram Proscar prescription and you crack them in half and you take two and a half milligrams every day, you're going to get good protection and that your insurance will pay for it. If you do the Propecia, which is the one milligram dosage, that's considered cosmetic and insurance won't cover that. So, you're better off getting the five milligram pills and just cracking them in half every day because it'll be a lot cheaper. And uh I found that once again, the 2.5 milligram dosage is really what I need. I take 2.5 milligrams even when I'm not on anything. Like when I was trying to do my baby making protocol and have my three kids, I still stayed on the 2.5 milligrams because I'm a very high DHT converter. And so when I would go for blood work and I would test my DHT levels and I was on no steroids and no HRT, I still was just in the normal range with 2.5 milligrams of finasteride. So once again, it depends on how much you convert, but I would if you're going to do it for hair loss, I would try 2.5 milligrams, especially if you're going to be on a cycle. I'll take one more question. This one is about uh best movements for lower abs. Uh we have gotten this fairly often, but again, new audiences, so I guess people want to know your best exercise to target the lower abs. I used to do leg lifts. So I would lay on the floor. I I don't believe in using weights for for abs. I always do body weight, but then again, my body weight was always heavy. So, um maybe it was like using weights, I don't know. So, I would always lay on the floor and put my legs up on my couch and I would do crunches where I would just basically lift my shoulder blades off the ground and then I for that for the upper portion of my abs and then I would do leg lifts. So, I would actually I'd be on the floor and I'd left lift my legs six inches off the floor and I would come down. I wouldn't touch the floor obviously and I would just do like, you know, sets of a hundred of those, maybe two sets of those. So, I would do two sets of 100 of the leg lifts and then I would you got to build up to that. You're not going to be able to do it all. You might be able to do 10 reps when you first start. And once again, you're not lifting your legs all the way up. You're only lifting them six inches off the floor. And that kind of, you know, targets those lower abs. And then the crunches, you know, are going to target the upper abs. Now, once I stopped competing, I started just doing the ones on the floor, my crunches, and I noticed my lower abs look great. So, I I don't know. I I don't know if you even need the lower ab the leg lift exercises, but I do know you need to train your abs. I train my abs every day, usually f six days a week at least. And I don't do a lot of sets, but once you get good at doing them, you you can work up to doing one. I do one set of 200 reps. And I, you know, I'm doing it while I'm watching TV. I stretch first and then I do abs. So that's what I recommend. I always did that my during my entire career. you know, you do work your abs indirectly when you're doing all kinds of like squatting movements and deadlifts and bent over rows because you're stabilizing with your core and everything like that, but you should do direct ab work, too. And then I I always do those if you if you ever seen our video, my intestinal breathing exercise video where I work the transverse abdominis. It's kind of like doing vacuums, but it's it's a little different. And that video has a lot of hits on our if you just put intestinal breathing exercises RX muscle, it'll come up and you'll see uh my suggestions on that. But yeah, that's enough. I wouldn't be doing weight. I know Milos likes to do rope crunches and stuff like that. I'm not really into that to be honest with you. I had to squeeze this one in only because somebody asked it and I remember this brings me back to like 8th grade health class where our teacher told us that if you start lifting at an early age that it was going to stunt your growth. I don't know if there's any truth behind that. But again, the question here is the best age to get children into weight training. Um, what would you do with your own kids? And is there any truth to that that if you lift at an early age before you're fully developed that it would stunt your growth? You know, possibly if you're lifting super super heavy weights, you know, they this this study about really comes from gymnastics because in gymnastics these kids are are are flipping around and they're landing and they're they're they're smashing, you know, their theirh bone plates together. And I think sometimes that you can damage the bone plates and it could stunt these kids growth that the excessive, you know, and then don't forget these gy gymnasts will train eight hours a day. It's crazy how many hours these kids will train and they find that that those kids sometimes have stunted growth from that. But weight training is not going to do that. And most kids are not lifting super heavy weights anyway. You know, a boy doesn't hit puberty what till he's like 12, you know, maybe. So, you know, any lifting before that should be more body weight stuff, pull-ups, push-ups, you know, sit-ups, you know, maybe some light, you know, curl, arm curls, but once you hit 12 and the boy starts releasing testosterone, then you can kind of the weight training actually makes sense. Same thing with a girl. You know, I would be be doing more body weight stuff until they hit, you know, kind of like that 10 years old, 11 years old when they hit puberty and they can start, you know, releasing some hormones that actually can help build some muscle. You know, it's always good to start kids, you know, early with sports and and exercises and and stuff like that. Most kids are not disciplined like they're going to do it. But then there are some those those want kids that just get completely consumed with it and they love it. And so I don't think it's I don't think there's an age that's too young to lift weights. I just think how much weight you're lifting is the key. Once again, because you're not going to build massive amounts of muscle at a very young age because the hormone levels of the kids are not there. You're better off let if they like to train with weights, just have them do light weights and just reps and stuff like that. Just so they learn, they build those mind muscle connections with, you know, how to feel the biceps, how to feel the back muscle, how to feel the chest. Doesn't matter how much they're lifting, but they're learning the the routine so that when they do get, you know, a little bigger and they do start producing hormones and they have the ability to build muscle now, they've already learned the motions and they can go through it and do that. Um, you know, if my kids want to lift weights, I'll I'll show them how. I'd ra I'd rather teach them the right way to do it than have them learn the wrong way to do it. That's for sure. And if they don't want to do it, then they won't do it. So, I you know, I don't push it on them because as soon as you push something on your kids, they'll push back against you most of the time, you know. And that's going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. Uh we have all new episodes of the After Hours podcast, of course, Heavy Muscle Radio. Um we have an interview with Sergio Lea Jr. from this past week's uh LA last week's Arnold Classic Expo and then of course all of our content uh recapping the 2025 Arnold Classic. If you like what you're watching, hit the like button, comment below, and as always, we appreciate all of your support. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadiq Farooqi. We'll see you next time.