If you want to know how to get rid of stinky contest breath, stay tuned. How's everything with you? What's going on? I'll call you another time. I'm I'm recording. I have a guy doing a documentary with me. Heat. Heat. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RX television, rxmuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Bodybuilding, non-bodybuilding, life, whatever is on your mind, it is all on the table. We're going to go right into the questions. The first two questions on this show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Question about macadamia nut oil. He he says that you he's heard you say that it makes your metabolism raise that will it work for him? He's a natural looking to gain strength and size. You know, one of the biggest mistakes a lot of natural guys do is they don't take in enough dietary fat. And if you're natural, remember all your testosterone, all the steroidal hormones in your body are made from cholesterol, you know, and made from fats essentially. You know, obviously animal fats are the fats that contain cholesterol, but in general, I find that when natural athletes don't get enough dietary fat, and I experienced this myself when I was first being a natural athlete as well, you just don't grow as well. you don't grow as well when you're when you're a steroid using athlete as well, but you can kind of cheat a little bit more when you're on the steroids because the steroids obviously are raising your your testosterone level artificially. But the idea that, you know, fats comprise the cell membranes of all the muscle cells that we're breaking down, when you repair those muscle cells, you actually need those fats as well. So, you need to have sources of fat. And what I recommend is that you vary the sources of fat that you you ingest. Some saturated fats coming from like you know meats and and whole eggs. Some monounsaturated fats which we know are the heart healthy fats which also raise metabolism. Those are your like macadamia nut oil, extra virgin olive oil, avocado oil and then and then your essential fatty acids which would be like your fish oil which you get your omega-3s from and which is contains the DHA EPA and the omega sixes, evening primrose oil, barrage oil, great sources of that to get that gamma linolic acid and the GLA that we need, you know, because we body can't synthesize these. So you need all these fats. But getting back to macadamia nut oil, once I started using a lot of monounsaturated fats in my in my diet, whether it be come from avocados, whether they come from extra virgin or macadamia nut oil, I noticed that I started not only growing better and recovering better, my skin looked better, my hair looked better, but I also noticed that my metabolism was revved up, and the more of the stuff I ate or ingested, the faster it would go. So I I literally now I pour macadamia nut oil. If you watch me in my house, I pour it on my food and it really revs up your metabolism. It's really hard to store calories as fat eating monounsaturated fats. Now, let me make a proviso for that. If you're contest dieting, you can't indiscriminately eat whatever you want because you're not going to lose weight. You might not gain any weight, but you're not going to lose weight. So, we the goal is to lose body fat. So, you can't just indiscriminately pour oil on your food. Uh that's why guys that even cook with the Mac Oil, I tell them to kind of curtail that when you're contest dieting because it adds extra, you know, fat calories that we just don't need. But offseason is great. Now, I was always an extra big extra virgin olive oil fan until I realized, you know, number one, that a lot of the extravirgin olive oil on the market is fake, meaning they actually put soybean oil in there. They've done studies. It's it's terrible. the the really expensive ones are good, but you know, another problem with olive oil is if you once you open that bottle, you got about two to three weeks to use the thing um before it get becomes oxidized and goes bad. So, if you have a bottle of olive oil on your shelf for like six months, throw it in the garbage if it's been opened. Likewise, if it's exposed to light, it destroys the the the because it's because olive oil is very sensitive. It's it gets oxidized really easily. These are not good things. Likewise, you can't cook with olive oil. So people who put it in the pan and and and start cooking and think they're eating healthy. Olive oil burns. It has a very low smoke point well under 400 degrees. So you can't really cook with it. You're supposed to add it on your foods afterwards for taste and and and that kind of thing. And if you know anyone who's like a good Italian chef like my grandmother, she would cook with regular cooking oils and then she would add the extra virgin to the food after it was cooked just for taste and and for consistency. When I found out about macadamia nut oil over 10 years ago and I discovered that it's it's just as good. Matter of fact, it's got more monounsaturated fats than olive oil in it and I realized that it can it has a very high smoke point 425 degrees. You can cook with it. You can deep fry with it. You can you can sauté with it. You can heat it up. It doesn't go bad. It does it's not light sensitive. And it tastes like butter. I put it on my kids like bagels and toast. They don't even know. They think it's butter. That's how that's how delicious it tastes. And olive oil has a little bit of a bitter taste. So I've substituted all my extra virgin olive oil use with macadamia nut oil. And matter of fact, as you guys know, I sell a brand of it now from I've been doing that for the last eight or nine years. And it's a huge seller for us because there's not many people who sell macadamia nut oil because there's not that many places to buy it. It's not like olive oil where everyone grows olives everywhere, you know, so there's a ton of that available, but there's not a lot from maca. I have a very good source of it in South Africa. And you know, we have the soil in South Africa is is is very rich in nutrients. So, it's a very it's a bold tasting macadamia nut oil. If you haven't tried it, I I really really encourage you to go to speciesnutrition.com. You go on Amazon and pick up a bottle. It's it's absolutely delicious. And like I said, it's it's really a healthinducing oil, meaning that you're going to you're going to lower your LDL cholesterol on it. You might improve your HDL cholesterol on it. Um you're going to increase your metabolic rate on it. Uh, it's just and it's just good for your heart and I I think it has a blood pressure regulating effect as well. I noticed that when I'm using a lot of it, my blood pressure is on the lower side. So, give it a shot. Like I said, it's probably one of the most hidden oils that people don't talk about. And the reason a lot of people don't sell it is because it is more expensive. But, um, you know, we sell at a very fair, reasonable price. It's it's definitely priced right there with the most expensive olive oils, you know, with the mo with the best quality olive oils, I should say. And, you know, watch out. We do sales on it every so often. I know we have a new load coming in. Once we get the new load, we might actually do a sale on whatever we have left in inventory. The great thing is the stuff doesn't go bad. You can crack the bottle. And I'm sure you're going to use it quickly because it's so good. But if it sits for six months, it doesn't go bad. It doesn't oxidize. Great oil. Check it out at speciesnutrition.com. Second question. Again, these first two questions from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. uh offseason on non-training days are the protein, carbs, and fat intake the same as in on training days or are the carbs reduced? This is a good question and you know I we've been asked it before but it's warrants repeating the answer. You know people think that they should eat less food on the days they don't train. Let me just tell you something. First of all, the training you're doing is not burning that many calories. All right? If you're doing an hour of weight training, you're probably burning very minimal amount of calories. you know, you you are burning something, but it's not it's not like you're not burning like 300 grams of carbs. You're probably burning like 35 or 40 grams of carbs during the workout. Okay, that's number one. Number two, on the days you don't train, you're actually body is metabolically doing more because it's trying to repair the muscle that you broke down from the the days you are training. So, you need to eat just as much protein, just as much essential fat, and just as much carbs offseason when you're not training as when you are training. Okay. It's not like you're laying in a hospital bed. That's a different story, you know, and even then you, you know, if you if you had a surgery, you're recovering from the surgery. So, I never take away food, okay? Uh especially in in a scenario where you're trying to grow. It's just not a good idea. Now, if you tend to get fat easily, you might want a carb cycle in your offseason, meaning that some days might be higher days than other days, or you might be at a static amount of carbs, which is what I do with my clients. And then if I see them getting a little too putting accumulating too much body fat, I might cut them back a little bit or give them a little cardio. But you don't want to restrict just because you're not going to the gym that day. That's like a mental like thing. And look, I've gone through it, too. You think, "Oh, I'm not I'm not exercising today. Better not eat as much. I'm going to get fat." That's not the case. Don't fall into that trap. By the way, these are two questions from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. If you guys have not subscribed, it's $29 a month. You can download it from your Android iTunes store. It's all my videos, all my writings I've ever done in one place. It's all my diets and protocols and drug cycles. We do a Q&A uh video every single week just for the app members. So, it's in it's like a separate Ask Dave and I answer everyone's questions in an open forum in the app. So, you see everyone's questions and everyone's answers. It's a really good learning experience and it's like a constant continuum education type of uh situation you have in your back pocket because as I learn or as I come up with new things, I put it onto the app and that's what you want to continue to do. The day you stop learning is the day that you stagnate and you fall behind everyone else. So check out the app and thank you guys for all the support over the years. I can't hear you. Said of course I always have that mute button. Uh those two first questions were from the D Palumbo experience app. We now take questions from our Instagram page, from our YouTube various social media outlets. Mincchenator PT, the best way to control bad breath on a contest diet. Is it just a high protein, low carb diet that does it or does the upped drugs run contribute as well? Brush and cargo all that I can. There's three reasons you have stinky breath. Okay. Number one, and this is probably the the number one reason I think that most contest people uh and I've dated girls and so I I I you know they've had stinky breath. The reason they get stinky breath is because you tend to overspice your foods when you're dieting because you're so hungry and you want things to taste so exquisite, the small amounts of food you're doing that people tend to put a lot more spices on their food. I noticed in the in the pre-contest, a lot more onions, garlicky stuff and and I noticed that people get bad breath. I my my ex ex-wife my first wife she um she would eat like almost a whole onion at every meal like because she thought it was like free calories and the onion smell coming out of her breath was horrendous and and I had to tell I said listen you can't be eating this much you know a little onion is fine you can't eat a whole onion you know three times a day so a lot of that bad breath is from the the spices that that that people use these because ketone breath which a lot of us think of as is bad breath is not bad breath If you have ketone breath, meaning that you're in ketosis because you're on a low low carb diet and your brain is burning, you know, ketones for fuel and you're breathing them out because some of the ketones acetone comes out of your breath. It's actually a fruity smell. So that does that's not a bad smell of the ketone breath. Um, so it's usually the spices. If you have like an ammonia smell, which is a nasty like bad breath smell, which is not from your breath, it's from it's an internal odor. That usually means that you have too much ammonia. You're or you're too acidic. And a lot of times you got to do something like a liver detox, you know, like something a product like I sell on Dave Palumba.com, liver stable is good or buy some TUDCA, you know, uh or you know, take some apple cider braggs apple cider vinegar to try to neutralize some of the acidity in your body. That that that can happen sometimes, too. There's actually a fourth proviso, too. Back I don't really see guys doing it that much this these days, but back in the 90s, we used to use DMSO. We would rub it on like in with the with the triacano cream and and thou mucase because we thought it would dehydrate and make the you know the shrink the fat cells and if you use DMSO it's a great anti-inflammatory but it gives you the worst breath. It's like a garlicky breath. Uh that's probably the fourth but that doesn't you know that's not related to necessarily contest prep. A lot of times guys have that in the offseason because they're doing it as an anti-inflammatory. But the three things in contest is fruity flavor from ketones. That's not bad. Over spicing the food, I think, is the number one reason. And then over acidified or or toxic um smell is not good either. I had a friend who who was having a smell. I kept telling him said, I said, "I smell this ammonia smell coming off you." It was he thought his clothes weren't getting cleaned in in the washing machine. I said, "Listen, it's coming from your sweating it out." And I think he was just he was drinking too many beers, you know, and I think his body his liver couldn't keep up with the uh detoxification of the of all the alcohol. And I think that it wasn't alcohol coming out, but it was actually an ammonia smell because as his body was getting a little toxic as soon as he stopped and cut it back, smell went away. So there you go. I I have to ask during your peak and you were, you know, you experienced the same thing. How often would you brush gargle or whatever during the course of a day when I have the sweetest breath of all time? No, I you know, you know what I would do nowadays? You know, um, my friend Charlie Arms would always say if any whenever he was walking around, if someone a friend of his had bad breath, he'd hand him a stick of gum, a stick of like minty sugar-free gum. He'd be like, "Take the stick. You need it." You know, but um I, you know, I was a neurotic, um, I'm a neurotic flosser, you know, that, Sid. So, I floss a lot during the day and I'll, you know, I don't really brush my teeth in the middle of the day, but I might, you know, chew a piece of sugar-free gum or something like that just for to get that, you know, taste out of my mouth in between meals. For a while, I was wearing Invisalign. I don't remember what year that was. It was probably like 04, 05. I was wearing Invisalign. And Invisalign are these like little retainers that pop into your you pop them onto your teeth and they start and they and they correct your bite or or something or, you know, they can align your teeth properly, but you have to take them out when you eat. So every time I would take them out, every meal, I had six meals a day, I was flossing and then brushing my teeth and then putting the the retainers back in. And that was that was a neurotic, you know, OCD type of thing I had going on. But um on a normal basis, like now I might floss a couple times a day, um after like meals and stuff like that just to kind of get the the the remnants of the food out from, you know, so you don't get gum disease. But I'm not a neurotic like brusher because I think if you brush your teeth too much, you actually wear away your gums. That's what I I I've read and the dentist told me the same thing. So, you're better off flossing, you know, and then, you know, if you're not dieting, you know, you can put a piece of sugar-free gum in your mouth and that kind of, you know, gets the saliva going and kind of cleans up your teeth without that forceful brushing that you're going to be doing. You know, if you brush six times a day, not good for your gums. Question about crisper, mRNA, etc. advance the technology uh that we will have a real myostatin inhibitor in the next 5 to 10 years. How much of a game changer would a true myostatin inhibitor be? Would it be the ultimate peed to end all peeds? I think if I think right now we have the technology to cut out the myostatin gene and it might even be out there already. I I don't know if it's floating around the bodybuilding circles yet, but it's certainly in the labs where they have the technology to probably remove the myostatin gene. Uh it's a little scary because, you know, you're you're per you're permanently changing your DNA. You're cutting out a gene that's in all your cells. I don't know what the ramifications are that of that. Let's let's assume that there are no negatives because there are people who have no myioatin. Flex Wheeler has no myostatin. He doesn't produce any. And there are babies that are born all the time that are myostatin negative uh with no myostatin production. So we know that it's not like a situation where you're going to die from it. So let's assume we can we can trim it out of the the body accurately, you know, and not have any negative side effects to it. How much muscle growth would we get from it? Well, I mean, Flex Wheeler doesn't have any. He was big, but he wasn't like bigger than Ronnie or or bigger than Dorian. So what I think it'll enable you to do is is reach your true potential easier. Okay. In other words, you'll grow easier. I don't necessarily know if um if you'll be bigger than everyone else because of that or but I think I have to imagine that bodybuilders will get bigger than they are now. Bigger in what direction? That that that remains to be seen. Maybe guys won't work as hard. You know, maybe it'll because it'll come easier. People won't train as hard as as they did when they didn't have the myostatin inhibitor. So, we might not see guys that much bigger. You might see one or two freaks like you might see another Ronnie Coleman pop up out of nowhere because you might have someone with that mindset that I want to be the hugest monster in creation and they're myostatin negative and they got all the other drugs on top of that. You might see one or two random people pop up like that. But I think in general we're going to see guys a little bigger, maybe 10% bigger. I don't think we're going to see them be 25% bigger though. I just don't think that's going to happen. Once again, when things come easier to people, they don't tend to work as hard, and that's just human nature. So, I think it's going to make it easier to get bigger. We might see more big guys, but we're not going to necessarily see guys that are like 350 pounds on stage. We've been doing the show for I want to say about a decade now. So, time and time again, you are going to get people who just want to know your opinion. Name the anabolic, name the peed. Uh, and obviously it'll be an opportunity for you to give a bit of a refresher on your takes. Alpha Genetic wants to know your opinion on Anavar. Great drug for women. I have yet to see Anavar cause any serious side effects in any women. Once in a blue moon, like I've had maybe one or one I think it's only been one client that actually got a little raspy in the voice from it and we had to stop it. Um, I've never seen Adavar affect anyone else's voice except for this one woman and maybe she just was very sensitive to it. Um, or maybe she was taking something else that I wasn't aware of. But it's very well tolerated for women and it builds muscle because you got to remember women have very very sensitive androgen receptors. Why is that? Why are their androgen receptors better than men's androgen receptors? Well, because they don't produce a lot of testosterone. They produce a hormone from the adrenal glands called DHEA, dihydroepiandrosterone. and a small percentage of that converts to testosterone in their body. So whereas a man's total testosterone could be up to 850 naturally, a women's a woman's natural testosterone is probably like 25, you know, so it's way lower. So in order for the the the androgen receptors, the muscle building receptors to respond, okay, in a woman's body, they must be very sensitive and there must be a lot of them because there's not a lot of testosterone naturally around in a woman's body. So when you put anything anabolic any kind of male hormone into a woman's body anabolic hormone that is they respond very very very very well. So you put you know 10 20 milligrams of anavar into a woman's body it's like a guy taking dianabol because they are so sensitized their receptors that that that the anavar has a much greater effect and that's why you can as a woman you can get away with staying on only anabar. Now there are there women that use drugs they shouldn't be using like EQ and Masteron and testosterone and tremble. Yeah, you know and that's fine because there are women at different levels that want to get to a different level. They want to be bodybuilders and and they might have to use something a little stronger. But for the intro woman or the woman who wants to be a bikini competitor or figure competitor, there's really no reason to to do anything, you know, more than Anavar if you don't want side effects. Now, if you don't care if you get a little bit of side effects, then you can kind of creep up to something like, you know, Winstrol, but this is not about women. It's about Anavar. So what does Anavar do in a man? Well, even if you take Anavar as a man and it's your first cycle, you'll get some gains from it, but you're not going to get anything exorbitant because once again, your androgen receptors are not as receptive as women's. So when you take that same dose or maybe even a little higher, 30 40 milligrams a day of anavar, you're going to get a little bit more muscle growth, but not that much more because it's not stimulating the androgen receptor that much. Um my first cycle I've talked about I took took Prima Bone and Winstro which are a lot stronger than Anabar. Anabar is the weakest and and I got gains. I made, you know, I gained over like, you know, 12 weeks, I think I gained like about eight or nine or 10 pounds of muscle, but I had very well-trained muscle at that point, you know, and and, you know, I got to remember anavar say primo don't really suppress your natural testosterone that much. So, I had my own natural plus the stuff I added in there. So, I I made good gains with it. But after doing a couple cycles of that, it doesn't work any, you know, it's not strong enough anymore. So, uh, Anavar is kind of like a weak drug. You know, if I'm a man, I would rather see you as a first cycle, like I said, do some Winstrol and Prima, uh, if you're not looking for any side effects. Anavar is kind of weak. I know it's more readily available now, especially at these at the rejuvenation clinics and stuff like that. So, maybe even a Winstrol Anavar cycle would be something that you could do, but I taking Adavar alone probably not going to get very much gains from. I am very glad this question was brought up because this has sort of been um this is right up your alley and I think it's up the alley of a lot of people who were always looking to you know try more healthier healthier alternatives to what's you know currently in the food supply right now. Obviously seed oils is a huge topic of controversy and one that this current administration is trying to phase out. Tallow beef tallow in particular. Yeah. from what you know, is it better than seed oils? And obviously there was a video about RFK. When was it that restaurant that he went to where he was trying out the fries that were that were prepared in beef tallow? And the question is, I guess from a taste perspective, is it better than food or fries in particular uh that are prepared in seed oil? So your opinion on beef tallow, is it healthier than seed oils? And is there any ramification on taste? Well, beef, you know, is an animal source of of fat. You know, lard is also fits in that category. It, you know, it's very stable when you heat it up. So, saturated fats, even butter for that instance. You're better off putting butter in a pan, okay, than using, you know, like margarine or or or spray oils like, you know, sunflower oils and stuff like that or seed oils because they burn and when they burn, they become rancid and they become very unhealthy for you. So, you can't heat those oils up. Okay? So, when you're deep frying French fries in, you know, sesame oil or or sunflower oil or whatever they're using, soybean oil, it it's it's like a toxic, you know, you're producing toxic byproducts. And that's what what Kennedy's talking about. You know, frying fries in beef tallow or butter or whatever other saturated fat you want to use, coconut oil, right? They're all the same pretty much. Um, I don't think people would use coconut oil because it would taste too coconuty. But my point is if you use saturated fats, okay, you're you're not going to get the toxic byproducts, but it's still ne necessarily a healthy food. It's just not toxic to you like the seed oils. We know the seed oils are inflammatory in the body and they can in, you know, damage the blood vessel walls and they can cause plaque formation and stuff like that because of that. So, the government originally thought, and I don't know if they really knew this or they just they just guessed it. They figured, well, saturated fats they thought were terrible. They thought s cholesterol is what caused cholesterol buildup. They didn't realize that it was really sugar consumption and and and seed oils that did it. Okay. Why they didn't know this, I don't know. And why they took so long to correct it, they still haven't corrected it, right? I mean, we probably know this for 15, 20 years already. And and finally, you know, Kennedy's coming around to to trying to fix the problem. And you know, is it better for you health-wise? Yes. Is it still healthy? No. It's still French fries is still not going to be a healthy food. You know, it's still a junk food, you know, or still like a cheat meal type issue. Uh I don't think the taste will be that much difference. I think the taste will actually probably be better with the beef tallow, but um it probably will be un undicernable. You know, after a while, you won't even remember what the difference is. Um it's probably cheaper to use beef tallow, I would think, than it would be to use these seed oils. But, you know, we love we love our uh our seed oils in this country because we we make them here, you know, we produce them here. Uh we we love corn, right? We have huge corn. We make everything. We make gasoline out of corn. We feed corn to the to the um to the cows. They not supposed to eat corn. They're supposed to eat grass. We feed corn to the chickens. They're not supposed to eat corn. They're supposed to eat seeds. We make corn oil and we cook in it. We're not supposed to do that because it burns and becomes toxic byproduct. So, we don't know what to do with all the corn we have here. We have so much corn that we just make we make high fructose corn syrup out of it, which we know is the most toxic sugar you could possibly put in the body. Turns off the fat burning machinery, causes syndrome X and all kinds of metabolic diseases. But yet, we keep forcing corn on everything. Can we just keep corn as popcorn? Corn on the cob. We don't need to turn it into anything else because it doesn't do well when you turn it into other things. That's the bottom line. We go from corn to injectable glutathione. If a person does not have glutathione injectable for motility, yeah, what should they do for it while they're using uh HMGHCG Clomid? He's referring to the fact that I in my baby making protocol that I give out for free and if you want it, you can email me at huge285aol.com if you're having trouble with fertility with your wife or girlfriend, whatever. I I am responsible for probably thousands of babies out there. Now, once again, I give this freely because I want to see as many children uh born as as as is wanting to be born. Uh I what I discovered by accident on my third kid when I was uh when I got my ex-wife pregnant, she was um I wasn't on anything. I wasn't on no fertility drugs at that point, but I was taking glutathione every single day. And what I read after because I so I couldn't believe I you know I got her pregnant because I needed the the glut I needed the HCG and the HMG before that and I looked up glutathione and I realized it increases sperm motility the ability of sperm to swim. So a lot of bodybuilders have enough sperm numbers they just the sperm just don't move and if they don't swim then they don't they don't do the job of fertilizing the egg. So glutathione is really good at that which tells you if it can make the sperm healthier it's obviously going to help our bodies also be healthier. Not everyone has access to it. My suggestion is if you are trying to get uh you know your girl pregnant, go to titanmedicalcenter.com, buy the glutathione from them. I take it every day, 1 cc, which is 200 milligrams. Um you can do it every other day if you want to conserve money a little bit, but it's definitely going to be helpful to to do that. Um once again, I had a lot of people, you know, sometimes I get push back from people when I send them the protocol. They're like, "Oh, the HMG, it's expensive and this is expensive." I said, "Listen, if you can't afford to pay for HMG, HCG, and glutathione, you shouldn't be having a child because diapers, formula, and everything else that goes along with the kids cradles, and sleep things, and diapers, it's very expensive to have a child, let me tell you. And the older they get, the more expensive it gets. I just bought my son an ebike. It's You don't even want to know how expensive it was." So the point is that if you're going to have a child, you're going to make a financial, you know, contribution to this whole child's life. Don't cheap out because you know what? If you take two years, three years to get your girl pregnant, she's going to drive you nuts and say that it's you're the cause of it. Don't cheap out. Buy all the ingredients you need in the protocol that I send you and you'll get her pregnant as quickly as possible and all will be peaceful in your house. I'll take one more. We spoke on the phone the other day. You said you were making a video about Dorian, so it may be related to this very topic. Uh what did you think of Dorian's suggestions for highintensity training three times a week? Chest, shoulders, triceps, back, biceps, legs? Did you agree or would or what would you recommend if you were to do three times a week uh workout? Any suggestions? Yeah, if you only have three days to train. Yeah, I I think that you know his suggestions are first. First of all, I I don't 98% of what Dorian says I agree with. Okay. There's one thing and I'm going to I put out a video that recently he had said something about insulin usage and I wanted to clarify that and and that'll be out probably this week. Um also, you know, I was gonna ask you said, "When is the uh Dave Palumbo uh uh Jumbo Palumbo documentary being released?" I think um Alexi said he's sending us the final copy in the next day or two. We could go. Uh what I was thinking of was I mean obviously it might be a bit of a stretch but there going to be a lot of eyeballs on us over the course of you know that Pittsburgh weekend. So I was thinking you know if we ramp up uh I think we should do it before that because it's going to get long before that. Yeah, it's going to be a stretch. Maybe next let's try to aim for the beginning of next. We'll nail we'll we'll nail down a date and we'll we'll put out a big you know this date it'll come out or whatever the case. We might even set one of those big like, you know, on YouTube where you could set like an far far far advance premiere or whatever the case be. I think we'll do something along those lines. So, uh, it's March 26th. Well, what would you say you want to do? Sometime next week or in a couple? Yeah, I think it's the beginning of next week. It'll be good if we if Sounds good. We'll we'll lock down a date and the Jumbo Palumbo documentary will go live next week. So, when are we going to release the single the single the Jumbo Plumba single on on iTunes so people can download it to their you their we need the full version. Do we have the full version of the song? I will get the full version from No, because we need that. Like that is uh you got to have that in your in your rotation of songs you listen to while you're training. I mean that we're talking about like gym workout mixes. That's how you know we we need that guy who does the mixes for us. We got to have him do like a like even a better mix. Oh, you got to be a freak. You got to be a freak. Yes, we gota get you gotta be a freak. We gota Yeah, we got to get him on this. Yeah, that that that would actually be epic. Yeah, we'll send him that mix. Whatever. He could have Dorian. Getting back three days a week. Yeah, I I think that, you know, high intensity, you know, workouts. I would probably do chest and arms, maybe. Uh shoulders or even I would do chest and biceps, probably shoulders and triceps, and then back. We got We got to do legs, too. So, he only has three days to work out. So, I would probably do I I think you got to do legs on its own day. And you got to do chest and arms and then shoulders and back together. That's what I would do um on the three days. And I would do once again low volume, you know, like Dorian suggests, high intensity type workouts. And then I I think that that I think that's the way to go. And you know, I've done I've done three-day splits, you know, when I was having my kids and stuff like that when we were my kids were babies and I didn't have a lot of time to get to the gym and it worked fine for me. You're just in the gym a little bit longer. That's all. Um because even if you're doing high intensity, you still have to rest between sets. So you're doing a lot of, you know, body parts at the same time. It takes a little longer, but you know what? It's only three days, so you might be there an extra half hour. And so I I I think that's the way to go. And that is going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave. reminder right now on the channel all new episode of the After Hours podcast which featured I don't want to say a cameo but it did have uh Lee jumping in towards the latter half of the episode. We also had John Hansen um rumors of Rory Leer Meyer make possibly making a comeback. So we also got the the historic perspective from John Hansen. It's a really really really good good episode. We had about like nine 10 people on the show. So but uh great great episode. So, check that out on the channel. Of course, uh, Heavy Muscle Radio with Dave and Chris. And then Dave doing a reaction video to the news of Derek Lunsford entering the Pittsburgh Pro. Uh, taking the angle of obviously what it would mean from a historic perspective, from a legacy perspective, from a money perspective. Um, you know, as far as all the positives, you know, as far as this being a quote unquote potential grand slam of bodybuilding, should he win Pittsburgh, should he then decide to go to New York, win that, he already has the Arnold Classic under his belt, and then lo and behold, if he goes on to win pits to the Olympia in October, I mean, who who else has ever done that in bodybuilding history? But but the the retraction to that, the downside to that is that doing all these shows, what kind of potential ramifications may that have on Derek for the Olympia being able to peak now theoretically for a third, if not fourth time come October. So check that out. That video is live on the channel. And then the Jumbo Palumbo documentary, uh we're going to lock down a date, but let's look at next week for it to go live on the channel. Yes, we will get the full MP3 of the Jumbo Lumbo Jumbo Columbo theme song so that you can download that, have fun with it, and then of course run around singing this song. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss anything that we have upcoming. Of course, by the way, forgot the Detroit Pro this weekend. Yeah. So, I'll be MCing, but I'm saying this more from the perspective of RX Muscle. Uh, a lot of big names are going to be there. Uh, Samson Dow is going to be there. Uh Seth Barose is going to be there. Obviously Fouad's going to be there. So there should be some prime opportunities for some interviews. And then obviously we'll grab whoever wins the open class, whoever wins the class physique. So we'll have loads of content from the Detroit Pro this weekend. So if you haven't done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss anything that we have up and coming. And then of course the Pittsburgh Pro and New York Pro six and seven weeks away for Dave Palumbo. I'm Steve Farooqi. We'll see you next time.