Can proviron increase your sex drive and make bedroom time just a little bit better? I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RX Television, RXMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your 30 minute weekly question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. I'm your host, Sadique Farooqi. Glad you could join us on this, the 10th day of September in the year 2025. We are about about a month away now from the Olympia. Hard to believe, but we are just 4 and a half weeks out from the Olympia. And between now and then, we have a whole line of programming planned for you. Uh we're planning on recording our first episode of Iron Debate, a pre-Olympia episode of Iron Debate, where we'll talk about obviously Olympia related topics or Kosinski and everything that's come about with his win uh this past weekend at the Italy Pro and a lot more uh of the juiciest topics in and around bodybuilding. And then of course we're going to line up athlete interviews, all sorts of other segments over the course of the next few weeks. And then of course on Olympia weekend, Dave, myself, Chris Aceto, and the entire gang will be there. We will be providing you wall-to-wall coverage of the 2025 Olympia. We go right into the questions, the first two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo Experience. That first question, it's a question that unfortunately uh time and time again we do get asked on this show. Um, and it is about, I guess, the recent rash of deaths in the bodybuilding world. But this is specific to saying that a lot of these deaths are with people carrying a lot less muscle than say an openass bodybuilder. Is it due to blood clots? How do you explain this? >> Yeah, you know, it is kind of weird because we we've have we've seen a lot of deaths throughout the the whole athletic industry, not just bodybuilding. And we've seen it in in sports like regular athletics and young people and you know I mean we have to I have to believe that co had something to do with it whether that or the you know the this thing or you know it's hard to tell but I have to believe that there's some correlation because we do know that that there is an increase in blood clots and athletes you know because they're exercising at such an elite and high level and pushing their body so hard a blood clot in an athlete is going to be much more deadly than the blood clot in someone who doesn't do anything. So, I think that's why we're seeing that. Also, you know, and even in the bodybuilding world, we're seeing some young women dying and usually don't see women. Women don't get heart attacks and stuff like that. It just doesn't happen, especially not young women because estrogen kind of protects the blood vessels and the heart and stuff like that. So, I have to believe that there is some correlation to that. Obviously, we're we're getting deaths, you know, in addition to just medical stuff. I you know there's been suicides, drug overdoses and remember we have a fentinyl uh epidemic in this country. So there is a lot of other contributing factors and we're seeing that not once again not just in sports and in bodybuilding we're seeing in general in life in general people are dropping like that. So you know the bodybuilding world is not immune from what's going on in the rest of the world. You know we think we are because we think we're so healthy but we do you know a lot of the bodybuilders do the same things that everyone else does. they go out and they get the same diseases. They, you know, they do the same drugs sometimes, unfortunately, and life happens, you know, and uh it's unfortunate, but that's just the case. I I don't I have to I I would I would completely be lying if I didn't say I didn't think there's a correlation, however, to COVID in something in some capacity. And I I hope at some point in the future we can elucidate exactly what's going on. It seems like there is a clotting uh issue with that virus. it seems to cause coagulation of the blood which leads to clots obviously and if you block up the circulation to certain organs they die and that's unfortunate and uh it's it's a scary thing and that another reason why as people who work out at an elite level we need to take a lot of essential fatty acids because those inhibit clotting I I've told the story many times I've gotten surgeries where I didn't stop taking my uh omega uh essential fatty acids And I bled so much so I had to get a transfusion. And and that was only and I had stopped them, but I only stopped them for a week. So you really have to stop all nutritional supplements about two weeks prior to doing any kind of surgeries that that could cause bleeding or you will bleed more. Vitamin E is a tremendous anti-coagulate. So I mean if you take like Vmineraliz for instance, these are stuff you have to stop before surgery. So if you're on them on a regular basis, you take your omega, you take your vmineraliz on a regular basis, your likelihood of throwing a clot is very low. And I think that that's something that a lot of people if if that's not enough of a reason to take those supplements, I don't know what is, but there is obviously plenty of other reasons to take essential fats and and vitamins and minerals and trace metals. I'm not going to go into that right now, but once again, if you want to prevent clotting, it's a good idea to take your essential fatty acids and to take, you know, the vitamins, specifically vitamin E, because that's a great anti-coagulant as well. >> Second question, again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo experience app. Um, I'm doing a lot of reading and I'm wondering if proviron will help increase my sex drive while on cycle. I looked into some different papers and it seems as if a lot of guys are adding that to keep sex drive high. My estrogen is good but drive is low. Uh and then I guess it goes on to ask what is proviron use for but let's keep it specific to proviron as something can aid in assisting with sex drive while on cycle. >> I'm laughing because proviron is probably the most one of the most asked about drugs. I don't know why people are obsessed with this. I don't know if it's because it's easy to get or because people like to prescribe it. It It has zero anabolic properties. It does not build any muscle whatsoever. It has a slight hardening effect because it has a slight androgenic effect on the body and we used to think it inhibited estrogen receptors uh back in the day because that's what Bill Phillips told us that was wrong. And supposedly it kicks um testosterone and androgens off the sex hormone binding globulin. So it it displaces it making more free drug available. Theoretically what it does. The problem is when you take exogenous uh anabolics whether it be testosterone or anabolic steroids your levels in your system are so high that the amount of extra that the proviron might kick off the the binding proteins is is negligent and and no one notices a difference. There's there's no significant difference whatsoever. So it to me it's kind of a waste of a drug. I mean, if a woman took it, I wouldn't recommend women take it, but if women do take it, they probably will get a hardening effect from it because it is it is an androgen in a sense. Uh, as far as side effects go from it, I I've never I don't think anyone's ever really quantified it. The reason I I don't recommend it ever is it has no anabolic properties whatsoever. And I don't really think it increases sex drive, though. I don't know anyone. And maybe in a woman, like I said, it might do that just because of the androgenic component of it. uh if you're t if you're off cycle and your sex drive sucks and you take proviron well then you're going back on cycle again so you're trying to clean out you don't want to take an anabolic steroid or androgenetic steroid in that sense my suggestion is when you if you're on HRT levels and I and I've I just had a conversation with someone the other day about this it's an interesting conundrum u there's what we call pharmacological effects of testosterone and then physiological effects if you take a physiological dose of testosterone, it kind of replaces naturally what you have and you feel good. You kind of get those levels up to when you were 18 and you get a good feel for that and usually have a good sex drive and everything feels good. And then if you take it a what we call a pharmacological dose, which would be, you know, probably over 4 500 milligrams a week, you get a drug a drug muscle building effect, you know, the you build muscle at an accelerated rate and and things happen that don't happen when you're on a physiological dose. It's called the pharmacological effects of of of steroids and that's what we all right when we're competing and we're trying to put muscle on that's what we're trying to achieve. If you go in between the physiological and the pharmacological because there is an in between and in every person it's it's completely different the dosage like in other words I and I've told you this before I take uh 40 milligrams of testosterone twice a week which is 80 milligrams a week which seems like nothing almost but for me that gets my levels up to my the high normal. If I take a 100 milligrams a week, I go I go too high. Like I can get I and I get to like 1,200 and I and what happens I find I lose my sex drive a little bit. Um because I'm not really at the pharmacological but I'm below physiological and for some reason when you're in that like that like limbo area sometimes you could lose your sex drive because I think what happens is estrogen can get too high but testosterone is really not that high. So your estrogen to testosterone ratio is off. It can screw you up a little bit. So, and other people, they could take 200 milligrams of replacement a week and and they're barely at 800. So, everyone's body utilizes testosterone differently. So, you you have to go for blood work and test your total testosterone to see what it is. And you want to kind of keep it in that 850 to like no more than 1,200 range. Once you go a little higher than that, you can have problems with sex drive. And it I and I think it's because estrogen gets too high, but but it might not be. it might be other hormones that are getting too high until you get to that pharmacological dosage which overrides everything and usually you have a great sex drive when you're on that and and that's my suggestion test your blood work see what you your your um your testosterone level is and that's usually a problem now I also sometimes people annihilate their sex drug they take too much anti-estrogen or they lower their DHT too much um I always took finasteride for years and 25 years I've been on finasteride for hair loss didn't help that much But I still take it because I have high DHT levels. I switched to dutasteride at the recommendation of a doctor because they said it would work better uh for two months and it annihilated my sex drive. It took me almost six months to get it back after being off that detached. So sometimes that can happen too. Too low of a DHC level or too low of estrogen or both, you know. So you got to be careful with that. These two questions, great questions, by the way, coming from the Day Palmo Experience app. It's an app I offer for $29 a month. You can download it. It's You get access to all my writings, all my videos in an organized fashion. All my diets, keto diet, off-season diet, carb cycling diet, men, women, uh all my cycles, offseason, pre-contest, everything's in one place. It's a great resource. It's a constant learning experience, too, because we put up workouts every week. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum, so you see everyone's questions and answers, which is a great learning experience. And I do a Q&A video every single week for the app members. So 52 videos extra a year you get as an app member for $29 a month. It's a it's a if you're interested in constantly evolving your education and your knowledge base, it's a great app. Tell your friends about it. Sid, we also have a sale at Titan Medical. >> Yes. Yes. I was just getting to that. Um so this week again flu season is upon us. So this week they're running a sale on specifically on immune boosting therapies. glutathione, uh TA1, zinc, vitamin C, methyl B12, and a few others. But again, this is to help uh you boost your immune system. >> I um use glutathione every day. 200 milligrams when I remember, you know, sometimes when I travel, I don't use it, but I love it. It's great for the immune system. But when I get sick, which is very very infrequently, very infrequently do I get sick. But when I do, I I do the triimmune, which is the zinc, vitamin C, and the glutathione in one injection. It hurts a little bit because the vitamin C can be a little a little dicey. Um, but it only lasted a few seconds. And I'm telling you, that stuff I get over whatever I have in in in day in like a day or so. It's uh it's tremendous. So I I keep a bottle of that in my fridge to trymune to use when I feel like I might be getting sick or run down a little bit on a regular basis. However, I take the glutathione every day. So my suggestion with this with the sale they're doing, you can you can pick up I would pick up two bottles of glutathione and a bottle of tryimmune. Keep it in your fridge. Use it. I promise you you're going to you're going to really really feel awesome on it. Your immune system is going to be great. Glutathione is great for detoxifying the body of heavy metals. It helps the liver detoxify the body. It's it's it's you know, Robbie Robinson told me years ago his secret to his longevity. He's been taking glutathione for, you know, for 50 years. He probably knew about it before any of us knew about it. And look at Robbie how great he looks. So check it out. Head over to titanmedcenter.com. Tell them Dave Palumbo RX Muscle sent you. You're going to get a great discount for the week. >> So check them out. Titanmedicalcenter.com. As Dave mentioned, mention RX Muscle, mention Dave Palumbo, and they will give you the royal hookup. We go to the rest of our questions from our Instagram, Facebook, uh, and most importantly from our YouTube community page. Uh, but our good friend Jim Nation, so you know, we featured him last week and the great work that he's done all these documentaries, in particular, the recent one that he did on Dallas Macarver. He has an observation about what we saw at the Italy Pro, but this has to do with the background and the lighting. So, he says that at the Italy Pro, I noticed the dark background seemed to make the darker skin athletes lose detail while stood out more. Do you think the stage setup there favored him because of the lighting and the backdrop contrast? >> Those racist Italians, they did it purposely. Just kidding. You know, it's an interesting it's an interesting um observation. I didn't even think about it, but you know, it's possible. Ers had a great tan. Let me I mean, probably one of the best I've seen in a long time. Remind me Jay Cutler. Jay always had a great tan. And uh you know what's his name? Um what am I my Oh, Quint. Quinton. >> Quinton. Quinton uh has a very dark skin and when he puts the pro tan and all the tanny stuff on he's he's really dark. Um so if the lighting isn't really ideal um I could definitely see how you he kind of like almost blend into the background a little bit. Uh I don't think that that hurt him on stage but it might have you know it might have. I wasn't there in person. If I was there in person I'd be able to give you a better appreciation. the pictures and videos sometimes don't really capture what's going on there. It might not have looked bad in person, but but think about when you take a picture, it's like the the background is like you're only seeing two dimensions. You're not seeing three dimensions like you would in person. So, I don't think that that was the case in person. Uh, you know, it was a clo look, it was very in my mind, it was very close and I and I think you could have flipped the coin. Uh, I you know, I wouldn't have had a problem with either one of those guys winning. It was nice that Ers made his pro debut in in open and won his first show. Obviously, he's going into Germany next week to try to it's going to be a a rematch between those two guys. And, you know, it's going to be hard for Quint to beat him because, let's face it, he's he's German. I mean, he's gonna be competing in Germany. He's gonna have a lot of fans there yelling for him. It's gonna be hard for the judges if if he looks as good as he did this past week to get not give it to him. And so, uh, we all want to see Quinton on that stage in, uh, Las Vegas at the Olympia, but I don't know what's going to happen. >> So, yeah, that show, the IFBB Europa, as Dave mentioned, in Germany this weekend, that is going to be the final Olympia qualifier. Uh, Dennis actually messages me. I'll put the, uh, live stream information, the article below. So, again, check it out. Um, if we have the capacity, we may do a live reaction show as well. But again, that's going to be the final Olympia qualifier for this 2025 Olympia. Uh, Christ Angeletti, what is the best way to approach a bulk diet from being on caloric deficit? And does the body respond faster in a weight gain scenario? When you come off a really good depletion diet where you actually were in the best shape of your life, you had zero body fat, your body wants to build muscle worse than anything else out there because it wants to store store because it was it was deprived for so many weeks in a row that it wants to build muscle. So that's why when I have guys come off a show, I have them just start cleaning out immediately because they have enough drug in their system. It's going to last the next three, four weeks anyway. And when you come off the drugs, your appetite opens up because the key is eating enough food, getting enough nutrition in while you're training to get that rebound going. And I think that that's important. I think a lot of guys um who stay on drugs after a show thinking they're going to get a better rebound actually don't because they can't eat enough. Even though they're they're hungry, it's like they kind of feel toxic from all the drugs. So, I always found that coming off the drugs after the show always led to a better rebound for me. And I do that with all my clients now. And everyone says the same. They're like, "Man, I can't stop eating. I It's unbelievable." And the more food you can consume, obviously within reason. You don't want to be eating all junk food. But assuming you're eating good food, everyone gets a rebound. I see it on women. Women stop drugs. They don't even have their own drugs in their body. You know, they don't even have testosterone in their body, and they still get a great rebound because the body's natural inclination after a show is to build muscle. And that's why it's a huge mistake, I think, when guys take two months, a month off after a show, I got to rest my body. What are you resting for? Rest when you're done. competing. You know, you just you haven't trained for ostensibly Thursday, Friday before the show. Saturday was the show you didn't train. Sunday you didn't train. Go back to the gym on Monday. I'm not telling you to go in there and try to set records. Start training on Monday. You don't need you don't need six weeks off after a show. You know, uh people said, "But but Ronnie Coleman took Ronnie Coleman is Ronnie Coleman. You're not Ronnie Coleman and you haven't you know what I mean? Once you're Mr. Olympia and you've achieved the level of muscularity that you need. If you want to take a month off or two months off, you can do it. But the average person can't afford to miss that rebound after a show where they need to put on that muscle. And so I think it's a big mistake if you don't take advantage of that. >> I know that uh the body or muscle rather doesn't know exercises and routines, but do you think a guy in their 50s can still build muscle with training with moderate weights and higher reps? I mean, he he puts on a really wide range of 8 to 20, but I guess your general guidelines for building muscle as you get into your 50s. >> Yeah. You know, I I hate to say this because it's it's it's depressing, but it's true. If if if you've achieved a certain level of muscularity, you know, because you've been training your whole life and competing when you were younger and now you're 50, more than likely you're not putting on any new muscle. Okay? You might improve the quality of your muscle because it might become more convoluted and we call mus muscle maturity, but you're probably not adding any significant muscle to your body at this point. If if you've already achieved a level where you've had a lot of muscle and you've competed at a high level. If however you started late like I know guys that I was interviewing the guy who won 70 and over at the Masters Nationals and he was he didn't start till he was like you know 40 actually I just talked to a guy who was even older than that. This guy was um 72 years old. He was doing the Masters uh over 70 pro division and he didn't start working out till he was 44. So, he definitely was putting on muscle in his 40s and 50s and even into his 60s because he started late. So, the question is, you know, I'm not sure what this person's level of expertise is. It seems like he's been bodybuilding his whole life. And now that he's older, he's training with less weight and higher reps, which is smart, by the way, because you don't need to get hurt. But are you going to build muscle? Probably not. If if you had a if you had a considerable amount of muscle at one point. If you had a lot of muscle and then you lost it because you took off a time period and then now you're back to it. Sure, you can put back the muscle because you have muscle memory. you know, remember if I go back to the gym and start eating like a maniac six times a day and lifting heavy weights, you know, I'd probably die, you know, of some of the heart attack or something like that, but I could absolutely put another 30 I could put 30 pounds on probably in in, you know, in three months if I really wanted to. Wouldn't be smart to do that, but I can do it because muscle memory. So, but that wouldn't I wouldn't consider that gaining new muscle. So, it's it's a different philosophy. Gaining back muscle you had is different than new muscle. new muscle at 50 something years old, unless you're starting late, it's probably not happening. >> Does it make sense to stack testosterone, let's say at 250 mg per week with 250 mg of EQ per week for a bulking cycle and on top of that adding a DHC derivative like androl orone to maximize muscle gain? You know, I I did a um rather extensive explanation of this for the app members on my app, but it it warrants mentioning here. My whole philosophy about the offseason is that you grow by training heavy, right? High intensity type training, heavy weights, full range of motion, eating enough food, and taking the right drugs, right? A threshold amount of drugs is going to help you build that muscle. But the hardest part of the whole equation for most people is getting in enough food in the offseason. And I I can't tell you how many people contact me and say, "I can't eat all this food. I don't know what to do. I I can't get it down." And I tell you I tell them, I said, "Listen, you're not going to always be hungry. Eating is a job in the offseason. It's not a pleasure. I've said it before. I'll say it again. Eating is a job. It's not a pleasure. It's it's just as important as getting to the gym, you know, five days a week and doing your weights and getting enough sleep at night and taking the right drugs, but yet it's the hardest thing to accomplish, right? Because it's it's it's easy to follow a diet because you're starved all the time, right? So, you're not going to miss meals. But when you're not hungry, trying to eat is really tough. So, taking orals like anadrol, dianabol kill your appetite. They completely annihilate. I don't I don't know. I know people have told me, "No, I can eat on it." No one eats well on it. Okay? And most people can't eat at all. It just kills their appetite. It did it for me. So in the offseason, I never use orals. I always use long acting injectables that have the least amount of toxicity. Test deca EQ maybe a little um trend and things that are not going to uh create enormous toxicity in your body, which because the toxicity in the liver is what kills your appetite usually, right? because your liver doesn't want to have to digest food when it's dealing with, you know, trying to break down anrol 50. So, if you stay away from the orals, the anabolics, injectable anabolics are just as strong and will build just as much muscle. The key is to get enough food in. So, save the if you're going to use or I don't like orals at all, but if you're going to use orals, I have no problem with it. Use it when you're dieting for a competition because at that point, blunting your appetite might not be a bad idea. you know, I mean, it's not going to have any negative effect. No one's missing meals on their on their on their contest diet, even while on anrol or dianabol. Um, the only time I'll actually use maybe a little dianol is in the beginning of a cycle when you very first start, you know, a mass building cycle. Maybe just to kickstart it a little bit, maybe for two to three, four weeks the most. Maybe, you know, 20 to 30 milligrams a day. But other than that, I stay away from there's just no reason for them. And once again, if you can't eat, you can't grow. Take a couple more questions. Um, do you agree with all the YouTube Mike Spencer videos where he says close grip palms towards you pull downs are the best biceps exercise ever. >> I I always think it's a mistake to try to train a body part while training another body part. So, in other words, if you're doing back to try to train biceps doing back is probably not a good idea. Matter of fact, if you're lifting too heavy, pulling down in this position, your biceps are very vulnerable to to to tears. Uh, so I I'm not a big fan of doing that. Like I said, even, you know, you see people do chin-ups like this, you know, it's a lot of bicep. I just think you're, you know, and especially if you're yanking yourself up to pull yourself up. It's just you, it's like a bicep injury waiting to happen. When you train biceps, do bicep exercises, dumbbell curls, cable curls, you know, barbell curls, you know, hammer curls, you know, preacher curls. There's so many bicep exercises. I I don't buy into this whole trying to do biceps while doing, you know, back exercises. I just it just it's a recipe for disaster. >> Um, your thoughts on and I'm glad this is asked because I do see people using this and um more and more now. your thoughts on the use of the assisted pull-up machine as part of a back training program. I don't see many bodybuilders using it for some reason. Is there some drawback for employing this device? And I'll add to that. Is there some sort of a stigma attached to using this kind of an advice device? >> I I got to be honest with you, I love the I love the thing. You kneel in it and it helps you know you can set the weight stack and it takes what it basically does by you kneel it'll take off body weight from you because it assists you essentially in doing pull-ups. I because once I hit a certain body weight I couldn't pull my body weight up at 300 lbs I couldn't do pull-ups without you know a little assistance. It was I was just too heavy my body when I was 240 I was doing pull-ups but I got to a point where I just got too heavy and I couldn't pull my weight up anymore. So I started doing I and but I like pull-ups. I think it really hits the lats really well. And so I I did them with the assistant machine. I don't know why people don't do it. They have one I know there's one at Crunch. I I I use it even now and I'm weak as [\h__\h] right now. Pull-ups because probably in my shoulder replacements, they're not really conducive to pull-ups. But uh I think it's a great machine and I think more people should use it. I'll tell you one thing, the most impressive pull-ups I've ever seen is Big Sean Allen. I gotta give him the props even though he tries to, you know, trash me every once in a while. Big Sean Allen at over 300 pounds and the guy was like six foot five doing pull-ups, like 15 good pull-ups. It might even been more than that. Perfect form with his chest right up to that bar. Never seen anything like it. I mean, the the guy had a great back, but that was one of the most impressive pull-ups I've ever seen. uh question about modanaphil not I guess for the typical usage as far as like the staying awake properties or the whatever other down there properties as a preworkout. Uh user says that >> he has a friend in Mexico that swears to buy it madanaphil as a pre-workout. Your thoughts? >> I'm not a like I said not really a big stimulant fan. Uh it it works. It's like taking like uh it's like an ADHD medication almost, you know? It it it stimulates you. The problem is it kills your appetite. Those those long acting stimulants, they and and modell is not not that long acting, but it's long acting enough. They they just blunt your appetite. You can work. You could get on a computer and work. You could probably write a whole novel on the stuff. It's it's that you're that focused and I'm sure you get a great workout on it. The problem is after the workout, you don't want to eat anything. And so once again, if you don't eat, you don't grow, you don't recover. So, should you use it in a pre-workout? Not a good idea. Finally, last one. Uh, biggest difference between Tyrannobal and Anavar. >> Tyrannobal is is much much stronger. It's like it's like baby Dianal, I always call it. It's it works almost as well as Dianibol. It's a little weaker. That's that's why I never understood why guys use Tyrannol. Like, I'd rather use Dianibol because it's strong. It's much stronger. And um it pretty much has the same side effects as as tyrannol in terms of toxicity. Uh you know originally tyrannol was actually made for women. The east German women were using it and they said oh it's so safe for women but but if you remember the east German women were hideous looking. They were so masculineized and everything like that from taking the tannable. So not a good drug for women to take obviously even though probably I'm sure there's women out there using it. You're crazy if you do. Uh not a great drug for men because if you're going to go that route you might as well use Dianibol. Uh so but comparing it to Anavar, it's a thousand times stronger than Anabar, but it has a lot of side effects. So for a woman, Anavar is an ideal drug because they get no side effects from it and they get a lot of muscle building from it. That's going to do it for this episode of Ask Date. Reminder, if you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. We have all new episodes of the after hours podcast as well as Heavy Muscle Radio as well as coverage from the 2025 Italy Pro. We saw Oruris Kalisinski win in his open class debut and he will be competing against alongside Quint Naria this weekend at the IFBB Europa Pro in Germany. The final show for Olympia qualification at the 2025 Olympia for Dave Palumbo. I'm Sadique Farooqi. We'll see you next time.