Look what we found here. Sometimes you got to ask. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. All right, guys. We're heading to the pharmacy. As you know, every time I go to another country, we always got to check out and see what what anabolics they got at the variousarmacies throughout the world. Here in Hyderabad, India, I hear they have a a decent selection. Hopefully, we picked the right pharmacy to go to. As you can see, see the driving here is insane as always. Always a lot of traffic here. People drive in 14 different directions at the same time. No traffic lights, no stop signs, nothing. And uh that's the way it goes. That's the way I like it. No waiting. Just step on the gas and go. All right. Dave Palumbo here. We are at more pharmacy here in Havabad, India, and we're going to find out what anabolic agents they have at the pharmacy. I hear there's a wide selection here. Let's see what they got. >> Hello, sir. >> Nice to meet you. Would it be possible to see some anabolics that you might have like some Do you have testosterone here? >> Anabolic. >> Testosterone. Do you have >> No. No. We have nandelone. >> You have nandelone. Can I see it? >> Injectable. >> Yes. Can I see? Can I see it? >> Can I? >> Uh, Ganesh. >> All right, guys. The first thing I found here is HCG. This is the BV. I think it's BVP brand. HG's 5,000 IUs right out of the refrigerator. Just a little small vial. Very cool. Available. You know, this is not the pregnant brand, so they have their own brand here. Love it. What else we got here? I'm going to put my glasses on here so we can see exactly what we got here. So, we have this is Testosterone and an orviron depot. This is this is the brand name that they we always used to buy back in the day. It's a 250 milligrams per vial and I think it's what is it? How many vials? It's a 1 ml vial. So this is but there's 10 ampules here. So this is like a 10 cc bottle essentially you're getting all in one box but they're single ampules one at a time. >> Then we have oh this is testosterone underway. Right. This is also known as Nidto. It's not called Nito here but this is probably a generic brand. It's 1,000 millig for one shot. You only have to take it every 9 weeks. So if any of you guys a lot of you guys haven't seen this long acting um testosterone, it's called testosterone undeanate and it's a long acting injection. The interesting thing about testosterone underway is that in the oral form we call that andreol and it only lasts 2 to three hours in the system but when you inject it, it can last up to 9 weeks. So this is a very common uh HRT type of testosterone that they're selling nowadays. I have never seen a bottle of this. So this is kind of interesting. And then we got This is decadabin. So this is 100 mg per ml. It's kind of cool. They got their own little syringe in there. And so you get 100 milligs of deca. This is name brand Deca Dablin. And this is kind of cool. I don't know what what does this cost? >> Yeah. >> How much? This is six. >> So what does that work out to American dollars? >> It's about $10. >> Okay. That's not bad. This is actually very reasonable. $10 for one shot of DECA. And what is what is this here? Oh, this one growth hormone. >> Oh, this is grow. They do have growth hormone. They were holding out on us originally. I thought they didn't have it. This is summatropen. These are four IU vials of growth hormone. Let me see what what what brand name is this? This is called Headon. It's probably a generic brand that they make here, but it's, you know, it's all official stamped everything like that. This is really cool. Usually when you see 4 IU GH, it's it's 100% real because no one fakes for IU files. But this is the way it's supposed to be thing. This is like you would take one of these a day or one of these every other day. So you got your growth hormone here. We have HCG for your postcycle therapy. You got your decadabin. Okay, if your joints hurt, you got your testosterone and amp. Oops. If you want to do HRT or you want to do more than that, you can buy that here. And then of course you got your Nidto, which is your long acting. Um, so you really have a lot of options here that you can actually walk into a pharmacy and buy. You don't need a prescription. It's super easy. No one cares here. Uh, as you can see, they handed it over to me. We don't even know these people. And they were really very kind. They let us in and they showed us all all the products they have. Now, is there is it What about Winrol? You guys have Stazzol? >> Stanzol. >> Do you guys have that? >> Yes. >> Yeah. >> You got to Somes you got to ask. We look what we found here. Sometimes you got to ask. Can we just look at the doses on these? >> Um, this is Stanzol, also known as Winstrol. There is 20 tablets in here and there two milligrams of PC. See, you kind of have to take a lot of it. You probably have to take half the box every day, but they have it. This is like the way it comes in America, too. And Americanarmacies back in the '90s used to sell 2 milligram tabs. And cuz they they give it to men and women. Usually don't take a lot, but bodybuilders usually do at least 25 milligrams per day of this stuff. So, you probably have to take, like I said, half the box, at least 20 milligrams a day, uh, to get any results. But, this is good. You can stack this with the other drugs. I did find out you do need a prescription in India to get these products. However, I don't think it's very hard to get a doctor to write a script. It's not like a triplicate script in the United States where it's a controlled substance. This is like probably getting an antibiotic prescription. It's very easy and all the bodybuilders I talked to at the gym seem to have no problem coming into the pharmacy and getting what they need. So, um I I I'm sure there is a black market here probably because the pharmacy stuff is a little more expensive, but if I lived here, I'd be getting stuff all in this pharmacy because you know it's 100% real. I mean, they got everything you need from growth hormone, they got windshield, they got deca, they got testosterone, they got long acting testosterone, they got HCG, and I'm sure if I asked for aromatase inhibitors, they probably have all that as well. So, there it is in India in higher and they have anabolics. Of all the countries I've gone to, this is probably the most legit that I've seen because in Mexico, you know, it's it's a crapshoot what you're getting. It's usually overpriced and it's usually not even real, I got to say. I'm pretty happy with what I see. I hope you guys enjoyed today's video. Dave Palumbo signing off from the pharmacy here in Hyberad, India. rxmuscle.com