 can pro-virin increase your sex drive and make bedroom time just a little bit better? I created species nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of species nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RxTelevision, RxMuscle.com, this is Ask Dave, your 30-minute weekly question-and-answer show with Dave Palumbo. I'm your host, Hadeep Farooqi. Glad you could join us on this, the 10th day of September in the year 2025. We are about a month away now from the Olympia. Hard to believe, but we are just four and a half weeks out from the Olympia. And between now and then, we have a whole line of programming planned for you. We're planning on recording our first episode of Iron Debate, a pre-Olympia episode of Iron Debate. We'll talk about, obviously, Olympia-related topics. Or is Kowalsinski and everything that's come about with his win this past weekend at the Italy Pro and a lot more of the juiciest topics in and around bodybuilding. And then, of course, we're going to line up athlete interviews, all sorts of other segments over the course of the next few weeks. And then, of course, on Olympia weekend, Dave, myself, Chris Ossito, and the entire gang will be there. We will be providing you wall-to-wall coverage of the 2025 Olympia. We go right into the questions. The first two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo Experience. That first question. It's a question that, unfortunately, time and time again, we do get asked on this show. And it is about, I guess, the recent rash of deaths in the bodybuilding world. But this is specific to saying that a lot of these deaths are with people carrying a lot less muscle than, say, an open-class bodybuilder. Is it due to blood clots? How do you explain this? Yeah, you know, it is kind of weird because we've seen a lot of deaths throughout the whole athletic industry, not just bodybuilding. And we've seen it in sports, like regular athletics, and young people. And, you know, I mean, I have to believe that COVID had something to do with it, whether that or this thing. Or, you know, it's hard to tell, but I have to believe that there's some correlation because we do know that there is an increase in blood clots. And athletes, you know, because they're exercising at such an elite and high level and pushing their bodies so hard, a blood clot in an athlete is going to be much more deadly than a blood clot in someone who doesn't do anything. So I think that's why we're seeing that. Also, you know, even in the bodybuilding world, we're seeing some young women dying. And usually I don't see women. Women don't get heart attacks and stuff like that. It just doesn't happen, especially not young women, because estrogen kind of protects the blood vessels and the heart and stuff like that. So I have to believe that there is some correlation to that. Obviously, we're getting deaths, you know, in addition to just medical stuff. You know, there's been suicides, drug overdoses. And remember, we have a fentanyl epidemic in this country. So there is a lot of other contributing factors. And we're seeing that not once again, not just in sports and bodybuilding, we're seeing in general and life in general, people are dropping like that. So, you know, the bodybuilding world is not immune from what's going on in the rest of the world. You know, we think we are because we think we're so healthy. But we do, you know, a lot of the bodybuilders do the same things that everyone else does. They go out and they get the same diseases. They, you know, they do the same drugs sometimes, unfortunately. And life happens, you know. And it's unfortunate. But that's just the case. And I don't, I have to, I would, I would completely be lying if I didn't say I didn't think there's a correlation, however, to COVID in something, in some capacity. And I hope at some point in the future, we can elucidate exactly what's going on. It seems like there is a clotting issue with that virus. It seems to cause coagulation of blood, which leads to clots. Obviously, if you block up the circulation to certain organs, they die. And that's unfortunate. And it's a scary thing. And that's another reason why, as people who work out at an elite level, we need to take a lot of essential fatty acids because those inhibit clotting. I've told this story many times. I've gotten surgeries where I didn't stop taking my omegalyzed essential fatty acids. And I bled so much so I had to get a transfusion. And that was only, and I had stopped them, but I only stopped them for a week. So you really have to stop all nutritional supplements about two weeks prior to doing any kind of surgeries that could cause bleeding, or you will bleed more. Vitamin E is a tremendous anticoagulant. So if you take like demineralized, for instance, these are stuff you have to stop before surgery. So if you're on them on a regular basis, you take your omegalyzed, you take your demineralized on a regular basis, your likelihood of throwing a clot is very low. And I think that that's something that a lot of people, if that's not enough of a reason to take those supplements, I don't know what it is. But there is obviously plenty of other reasons to take essential fats and vitamins and minerals and trace metals. I'm not going to go into that right now. But once again, if you want to prevent clotting, it's a good idea to take your essential fatty acids and to take, you know, the vitamins, specifically vitamin E, because that's a great anticoagulant as well. Second question again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. I've been doing a lot of reading, and I'm wondering if Proviron will help increase my textile while on cycle. I looked into some different papers, and it seems as if a lot of guys are adding that to keep my textile high. My estrogen is good, but drive is low. And then I guess he goes on to ask, what is Proviron useful? But let's keep it specific to Proviron as an aid in assisting with sex, drive, while on cycle. I'm laughing because Proviron is probably the most, one of the most asked about drugs. I don't know why people are obsessed with this. I don't know if it's because it's easy to get or because people like to prescribe it. It has zero anabolic properties. It does not build any muscle whatsoever. It has a slight hardening effect because it has a slight androgenic effect on the body. And we used to think it inhibited estrogen receptors back in the day because that's what Bill Phillips told us. That was wrong. And supposedly it kicks testosterone and androgens off the sex hormone binding lobulin. So it displaces it, making more free drug available. Well, theoretically, what it does. The problem is when you take exogenous anabolics, whether it be testosterone or anabolic steroids, your levels in your system are so high that the amount of extra that the Proviron might kick off the binding proteins is negligent. And no one notices the difference. There's no significant difference whatsoever. So to me, it's kind of a waste of a drug. I mean, if a woman took it, I wouldn't recommend women take it, but if women do take it, they probably will get a hardening effect from it because it is an androgen in a sense. As far as side effects go from it, I don't think anyone's ever really quantified it. The reason I don't recommend it ever is it has no anabolic properties whatsoever. And I don't really think it increases sex drive. I don't know anyone. Maybe in a woman, like I said, it might do that just because of the androgenic component of it. But if you're off cycle and your sex drive sucks and you take Proviron, well, then you're going back on cycle again. So you're trying to clean out. You don't want to take an anabolic steroid or androgenic steroid in that sense. My suggestion is if you're on HRT levels, and I just had a conversation with someone the other day about this. It's an interesting conundrum. There's what we call pharmacological effects of testosterone and then physiological effects. So if you take a physiological dose of testosterone, it kind of replaces naturally what you have and you feel good. You kind of get those levels up to when you were 18 and you get a good feel for that. And usually have a good sex drive and everything feels good. And then if you take what we call a pharmacological dose, which would be, you know, probably over 400 or 500 milligrams a week, you get a drug muscle building effect. You know, you build muscle at an accelerated rate. And things happen that don't happen when you're on a physiological dose. It's called the pharmacological effects of steroids. And that's what we all, right, when we're competing and we're trying to put muscle on, that's what we're trying to achieve. If you go in between the physiological and the pharmacological, because there is an in-between. And in every person, it's completely different, the dosage. Like, in other words, and I've told you this before, I take 40 milligrams of testosterone twice a week, which is 80 milligrams a week, which seems like nothing almost. But for me, that gets my levels up to the high normal. If I take 100 milligrams a week, I go too high. Like, I can get, and I get to like 1,200. And what happens, I find that I lose my sex drive a little bit. Because I'm not really at the pharmacological, but I'm below physiological. And for some reason, when you're in that, like, limbo area, sometimes you could lose your sex drive. Because I think what happens is estrogen can get too high, but testosterone is really not that high. So your estrogen to testosterone ratio is up. It can screw you up a little bit. So, and other people, they can take 200 milligrams of replacement a week, and they're barely at 800. So everyone's body utilizes testosterone differently. So you have to go for blood work and test your total testosterone to see what it is. And you want to kind of keep it in that 850 to like no more than 1,200 range. Once you go a little higher than that, you can have problems with sex drive. And I think it's because estrogen gets too high. But it might not be. There might be other hormones that are getting too high. Until you get to that pharmacological dosage, which overrides everything, and usually you have a great sex drive when you're on that. And that's my suggestion. Test your blood work. See what your testosterone level is. And that's usually a problem. Now, I also, sometimes people annihilate their sex drive because they take too much anti-estrogen or they lower their DHT too much. I always took finasteride for years and 25 years. I've been on finasteride for hair loss. Didn't help that much. But I still take it because I have high DHT levels. I switched to dutasteride at the recommendation of a doctor because they said it would work better for two months and annihilated my sex drive. It took me almost six months to get it back after being off that dutasteride. So sometimes that can happen too. Too low of a DHT level or too low of estrogen or both. So you've got to be careful with that. These two questions, great questions, by the way, coming from the Dave Paloma Experience app. It's an app I offer for $29 a month. You can download it. You get access to all my writings, all my videos in an organized fashion, all my diets, keto diet, off-season diet, carb cycling diet, men, women, all my cycles, off-season pre-contest. Everything's in one place. It's a great resource. It's a constant learning experience too because we put up workouts every week. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum so you see everyone's questions and answers, which is a great learning experience. And I do a Q&A video every single week for the app members. So 52 videos extra a year you get as an app member for $29 a month. If you're interested in constantly evolving your education and your knowledge base, it's a great app. Tell your friends about it. Sid, we also have a sale at Titan Medical. Yes. Yes. I was just getting to that. So this week, again, flu season is upon us. So this week, they're running a sale specifically on immune-boosting therapies, glutathione, TA1, zinc, vitamin C, methyl B12, and a few others. But, again, this is to help you boost your immune system. I use glutathione every day, 200 milligrams, whenever I'm – you know, sometimes when I travel, I don't use it. But I love it. It's great for the immune system. But when I get sick, which is very, very infrequently – very infrequently do I get sick. But when I do, I do the triimmune, which is zinc, vitamin C, and the glutathione in one injection. It hurts a little bit because the vitamin C can be a little dicey. But it only lasts a few seconds. And I'm telling you, that stuff – I get over whatever I have in like a day or so. It's tremendous. So I keep a bottle of that in my fridge, the triimmune, to use when I feel like I might be getting sick or run down a little bit. On a regular basis, however, I take the glutathione every day. So my suggestion with this sale they're doing, you can pick up – I would pick up two bottles of glutathione and a bottle of triimmune. Keep it in your fridge. Use it. I promise you, you're going to really, really feel awesome on it. Your immune system is going to be great. Glutathione is great for detoxifying the body, heavy metals. It helps the liver detoxify the body. It's – you know, Robbie Robinson told me years ago his secret to his longevity, he's been taking glutathione for 50 years. He probably knew about it before any of us knew about it. And look at Robbie, how great he looks. So check it out. Head over to TitanMedicalCenter.com. Tell them Dave Palumbo, RxMuscle Center. You're going to get a great discount for the week. So check them out. TitanMedicalCenter.com. As Dave mentioned, mention RxMuscle, mention Dave Palumbo, and they will give you the royal hookup. We go to the rest of our questions from our Instagram, Facebook, and most importantly from our YouTube community page. Our good friend Jim Nation. So, you know, we featured him last week. Yes. Great work that he's done in all these documentaries, in particular the recent one that he did on Dallas McCarver. He has an observation about what we saw at the Italy Pro, but this has to do with the background and the lighting. So he says that at the Italy Pro, I noticed a dark background seemed to make the darker skin athletes lose detail while Orz stood out more. Do you think the stage set up there favored him because of the lighting and the backdrop contrast? Those racist Italians. They did it purposely. Just kidding. You know, it's an interesting observation. I didn't even think about it, but, you know, it's possible. Orz had a great tan.