This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the 2010 IFBB North American Championships. I'm here with our Figure Masters overall and new IFB Pro Card winner, Tiffany Proopio. You've been banging away for quite a while. How many years have you been trying for? Four years. And I'm a competitor. I don't give up. You could have given up because you were you were very close a lot of times. And I know you were very upset a few times out there. Yeah. It goes between me having too hard muscle, too many veins, and I just kept at it. Kept at it and changed a little thing and did my best. Were you from the original guard where the figure competitors were more muscular? So, you had to drop muscle at some point. I had to um soften it and I also had to deplete muscle, overtrain it, work it a little different. It was hard. It's It's not easy when you're 40 to 40 years old. No way. Old with two little boys and it's tough, but um I'm in for the long haul. How old are your kids? Uh five and eight. Wow. So, you're really chasing around uh two active ones. Yeah, absolutely. Keep me busy. It's tough to diet and have, you know, a family life and and and train and teach, but I'm all about it. What what do you do for a living? I'm a personal trainer, fitness instructor, competitor, mom, wife, all the above. We can't leave mom and wife out because that's a that's a full-time job. Full time job. Full-time job for sure. You win. All right. You've been knocking away. You finally get this pro card now. Are you going to use it? I'm going to take a little time off, I think. Um I don't know how long. We'll see. Check things out and re-evaluate, retrain. Will we see you next year? Absolutely. On a pro stage? For sure. For sure. Um, when you thought back to originally when you wanted to get a pro card and you said to yourself, you must have had some kind of a vision of what you wanted to do eventually with this. In 2000, I did the Monica Brandt Body Rock and um Monica said to me, Tiffany, you have what it takes. Do the show, do well at it, and keep going. I didn't look back. I kept going and going. I don't care if I got 15th or 10th or got second or third. I said, I will be a IFBB pro one day. And she and she is Tiffany Proopio, new IFBB pro here at the 2010 IFBB North American Championships. For now, I'm Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.