Oh my god. Aaron Sarman here at the Arnold Classic Europe standing here at the Power Fit Nutrition booth with Tony Freeman after his fifth place finish last night. Fifth place. Uh before we even get going, I guess in case people don't know what happened, kind of bring everybody back. You're in very good shape. Is good. You know, you've been consistently in good shape. You get on stage last night thinking we're I thought you were going to be in third. What happens? I don't know. They gave me fist. I I have no idea what happened. Um I was better at the night show than I was in the morning. So um that that really made me confused. Uh I I used um a tanning product that I don't normally use and we all used it and um I didn't I wiped most of it off. So I was like maybe it was my color but then I was like yeah whatever. So I don't know bro that just really proves the point. You know, I I you ask anyone, people that just seen the show for the first time or someone that's doing it for 30 years, everyone's confused. We have zero format. We don't no one knows what's going on. The athletes don't know what's going on. The audience doesn't know what's going on. So, I mean, that's all I'm saying. I mean, I don't really care. I don't want them to change the judging cuz it's almost impossible. So, that's accurate judging is actually fine. I just think that, you know, when I spoke of the five rules, I geared that towards the athletes. You know, somebody if you haven't seen the video, go out and check it out. Five rules. It's on YouTube. Tony Freeman simple rules for bodybuilding. A lot of these guys can't even hit the poses correctly. I mean, we're professionals, bro. If you if you couldn't catch in the NFL, you wouldn't be a receiver. You know what I'm saying? So, I I just feel all I want is just simple things so people on the outside world can respect us. That's really something. Cuz right now, they looking at us like freaking trolls and clowns. It's on the internet right now. When we put out the five rules before this uh before everything that happened, the to debacle last night, people were saying is Tony Freeman complaining, you know. What am I saying? I mean, I'm complaining about what? All I'm mentioning is this is supposed to be special. If you had a donkey, you have a farmer, you had a donkey that can run faster than any horse on earth, guess what? They'll never let him in the Kentucky Derby because they have standards. Dog shows have standards. Freaking every in order to be successful sport. What happened to boxing? You know what I'm saying? Boxers used to be the highest paid athletes on earth. But when they start doing what they did, it almost non-existent except for the Olympics. That's all I'm saying. I love I've been doing this 25 years and I don't care what they say or if they want, you know, first of all, they already have the powers that be already have absolute power. There's no way. You know what I'm saying? And so no, I'm not even trying to attempt to threaten that or to go against that. I actually don't mind the judging. I just feel like we're just up there randomly not knowing what the hell to do or where to go. I mean, how they place us the comparison if Shawn Okay, if Shawn Rowan is winning, what how the person that gets second should be the closest thing to him and the person that gets third is to be the closest thing to him. I mean setting the ideal as Shawn Rhoden. I mean I mean that's what it should be but it's not even that. If they would give us that then look we say well maybe they just that they that's the type of body that they want. But there was like five different six different bodies in the top five. I mean similar but they weren't in order. You see what I'm saying? They were so one of the things is if you go look at the internet after after everything happened last night people started speculating. They start saying, "Is this because Tony Freeman has been complaining that he is being spanked?" But I'm not complaining about what? I don't really care about the placings. If you really really listen now, I know the flex it was a lot. I cursed. I when I saw it, I was like, "Damn, I can't believe I cursed that much." But it was a lot of emotion. But if you listen to what I was saying, it's it comes from experience. It's come from watching thousands of bodybuilding shows. That's where I came up with the five simple rules because you really can't manipulate it any other way. You have to just if you want a standard, you'd have to set something really simple that everyone could follow so it wouldn't disrupt anything. It would only make it better. It would make it interesting to the fans. I mean, think about it as a fan. If you're watching the the show and you see someone go over the line or not hit the pose or or whatever that is, now you you know what you saw that. Now it's like, how did he win? or no, how did he get third or you know what I'm saying? So that's all I'm not complaining and and if that is the case, if they want to punish me or if they think that I feel like I'm being spanked, I don't. I'm a grown ass man. I actually don't think that that's the case at all. I think these I think these European judges just are, you know, for whatever reason they saw something different than than I did or they they make it personal. It's more it's per it's it's personal. It's business and and you know, like I say, this is objective sport, but we don't have to be subjected to We could be subjective and have a standard at the same time. I mean, Miss America subjective, but they have a standard. They all have to wear an evening gown. They all have to, you know what I'm saying? So, all I want is just some basic stuff for the athletes to follow. If they say side tricep, everyone's doing side tricep at the same time, not waiting and pausing. I mean, cuz you can't really judge five different things at once. You when you The word focus means focus. So, if everybody's doing something different, you can't be focused on what you're doing. That's all. I got to make a point for everybody out there. You notice Tony is not complaining. Like, if I were Tony, I'd be saying I'd be saying Robert Petraovitz, I'd be saying Tony. I mean, you're not doing that. First and foremost, Robert was in great condition. Structurally, physically, body. There's nothing he could do about that. I agree. But he was in great condition, so I applaud him. But they I mean, can you come on? I mean, I don't really need a judge to know that I'm better than Robert. And Robert don't you know what I'm saying? We we I'm sure we both agree on that. Um Roelly, I don't even want to cuz everybody thinks I'm picking on Roelly. I'm like, I really like Roelly. I met Roelly when he was an amateur. Me and Roelly are cool. All I was saying is how you going to call him out and not call me out? Call us both out or don't call neither one of us out. That's all I'm saying. And is is it my right to say that? I I think so. cuz I'll be damned if somebody else is in my position. You place where you did at the Olympia. Somebody else is thinking it and you got somebody like Ed Nun. Okay, you have Shawn, right? Shawn is like the the the the um number one at Wendy's and then Ed is like the number two and I'm like the number three. It's the same thing. It's just a bigger version. I'm a bigger version of Ed and Ed is a bigger version of Ed was was all the way in the back. He was all the way in the back. So, you see what I'm saying? It just doesn't make any sense. It's obvious that they're showing favoritism or whatever, whatever the word you want to use for it. They're picking people that they want to pick and screw everybody else. Literally, that's what it looks like, sounds like, and feels like. You heard it here from Tony Freeman, the X-Man, Aaron Singerman, rxmuscle.com. Oh, wait. Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. Like for, you know, I read the boards, too. And like all these guys who want to, you know, you got the negative dudes who want to just lots of those. First and foremost, I'm a grown ass man, so I'm not complaining. I've been doing this for 25 years. I've established a foundation and a standard within myself. That's why I'm not walking around at 360 lb trying to please a judge. You feel me? So, I'm not complaining. I don't There's nothing to complain about. I own my own company. I don't need this money. I don't need to bodybuild. But, I'm a fan. I love it. So until somebody steps up and says something 10 years from now, they probably won't even be around just because if okay, if Gatorade or Nike was to invest money into this sport, how fast would they pull their sponsorship last night? That's all I'm saying. And if you don't want it to go mainstream, okay, but every human being on the on the earth has a body, so it ain't it's unavoidable. Bodybuilding is mainstream. They're just holding it back. Right. And when I go all over the world, I'm mainstream, bro. Big time. So, you just can't say bodybuilding is not mainstream. The people that they put out front maybe not mainstream. And they may not be making the sport grow. They might be making theirelves richer and whatever, but I'm trying to make the sport grow cuz I'm I'm going to be successful. I'm already successful on my own. So, that's it. Now, RX Muscle, Aaron, Tony, thank you. There you go.