What is the ideal dosage of tremblone? How much should you take? What's too much? What's too little? Stay tuned. I created species nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nons. nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution RX Television, RXMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo every week right here on the RX Muscle YouTube channel. Wherever you are, we thank you for joining us on this ninth day of July in the year 2025. This is your forum to ask Dave Palumbo whatever is on your mind. Be it in bodybuilding, be it non- bodybuilding, diet, training, supplementation. Obviously, we are in the thick of the contest schedule. We are under 14 weeks away from the Olympia. As we bring in Dave Plum, before we go to the questions, Dave, you have quite the travel itinerary planned over the course of the next three weeks. You have Masters Nationals next week. I know you have a trip up to see your sister the week after that. And then a big announcement, a huge announcement for Species Nutrition fans in India. Species nutrition is coming to India. Yeah, we are fully locked in, loaded, engaged, and Dave Palumbo will be making his trip out, his first trip out since the infamous trip back in what 2014 uh 2013, but Dave Palumbo will be in India. Uh tell the fans more about it. Very exciting news for species that we're going to be distributed now in India. Yes. Uh we've been working on this deal for a very very long time and I know the Indian uh I have a lot of Indian clients and I have a lot of we have a lot of Indian fans who watch this show and a lot of Indian people who want species nutrition and you know India believe it or not you would think India would be a country that would be easy to get your product into but there's a lot of regulations and you know yeah really the label claims have to be exact and you know I guess the company that is distributing us and we're going to talk more about them and get them on the show at a future date. They um you know they really like the fact that we had a high-end line that the label claims are are perfectly matched to what you know uh when you test the uh products with third party lab you know we're full transparency I've always said this and so we had no problem passing all the regulations in India it just takes a long time and now we're going to be distributed on their website in stores there I'll be going there the the first week of August and promoting the in two cities in Delhi. Delhi is the city where I actually tore my quad back in 2012. And then we're going to pronounce the other city for me, Sid. Heather. Heather Robbad. Yes. For some reason having trouble pronouncing I'll be there uh one day or two days and I'll be in in Delhi for two days. And hopefully all the Indian fans who watch this show and and are are out there will show up. We're going to be giving away t-shirts and shaker bottles. will be selling species nutrition products for the very first time and it's going to be a really really great time and I'm like I said I'm looking forward to it. I haven't been there in a long time. It's a long flight but you know what it's worth it for the Indian fans. Yeah I I um you also are going to do like a full-blown like seminar as well right? Yeah I am I'm not really sure exactly what they want me to do there but yeah I'll be there. I'll definitely be talking in both places. If they want me to do a seminar I'll be I would love to do a seminar there. I know Indian bodybuilders and fitness enthusiasts are really into knowledge and and a lot it's very hard for them to get high quality products there. They just a lot of the stuff that's made within their country is is crap. It's all you know people there's no regula. It's funny to get your products into the country it's very hard but once if you're making it in the country it seems like no one follows any it's like the traffic laws there. No one follows any rules. So, everyone wants, you know, products that are from other countries, you know, America being the most desirable. And so, I think it's a it's a great opportunity for us. I'm really happy that our distributor, you know, paired up with us. And like I said, it took a long time to have make this happen and that's why I really didn't announce it until the deal was finalized. And, you know, I will be there. So, again, uh, India in two weeks, Dave Palumbo will be out there. Species nutrition will officially be launching in India. But the reason that we're bringing this up over the course of the next 3 weeks, um, we are going to be a little all over the place with our recording schedule, but fear not. We're going to make sure that all our bases are covered, all the shows are covered. Um, and then, of course, we're going to have content throughout the course of the next three weeks. So, if you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell, of course, Dave being out there, he will be filming himself as well, doing some cool things out in India, the interactions with the fans. Um, so you're not going to want to miss that. We'll try to make a little bit more of a travel vlog as well. So, a lot to look forward to. And then, of course, like I said, uh the Olympia less than 14 weeks away. So, really any day now, we're going to be starting our, you know, coverage. I want to say way too far out previews for the Olympia, but a lot to talk about, a lot to discuss. So, we're going to start preview segments. We're going to bring back Iron Debate. We're trying to finalize a good solid core uh that we can have featured weekly or bi-weekly, but uh we want to bring that back and bring back a lot more of our, you know, preview segments. So, we're going to be doing that over the next few weeks. So, a lot to look forward to leading into the 2025 Olympia. We go into the questions, the first few questions on this show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Somebody calling you from McDonald's. Not long ago, you answered a question about cutting sodium the day before a show and you said it's not necessary to cut the sodium. However, I watched an old YouTube video where you discuss the science of the McDonald's burger cheat the night before the show. And there you mentioned you cut sodium the day prior for the day to work. So, should one cut sodium the day before or not? You know what? I I kind of changed my feeling about this uh only because I find that sometimes when you cut sodium people get really flat. Now there are situations where bodybuilders hold a lot of water. You know, it just happens. There are some people that just water balloons and those people I will cut sodium the day before while I'm giving them, you know, the dioide to help it work better. But in a lot of cases, if you give someone a little bit of dioide and you cut sodium, they actually go too flat. And that's the reason I always put the the burger and fries at night. But sometimes that one salty meal, greasy meal is not enough. So if I see a person on like Thursday looks, you know, they're lean and ready to go and Friday morning they wake up shredded. I'm not I'm not letting I'm not cutting any sodium out of that person. Um, now I'm certainly not going to tell them to to pour a bottle of soy sauce onto their food at every single meal. So we're not increasing sodium except for maybe the last meal. We're keeping it steady. And if you're keeping it steady and you've been eating sodium the whole time, your body doesn't retain water from it. The normal person, like I said, there is a population of people that are very sodium sensitive. They really shouldn't be because I don't ever cut it out in the diet. But in that situation, if I did have a person that I felt like was holding a little bit of water, then I would cut back sodium a little bit on on the Friday before say a Saturday morning show. It's really on an individual by individual basis, but on a regular basis now, I don't cut sodium at all. I just add a little bit of dioide if necessary. And even even with the um protocol I've been using lately, I've been using a lot less dioide on people than I have in the past. Not that I used a lot in the past, but sometimes I don't even give them. I give them like a quarter of one or something like that the night before. And once again, it's based on how people look. And the other reason is remember bikini fit model. I have a lot of CL, believe it or not, I don't know why I have a lot of bikini and fit model, you know, clients. you know, they women really like to work with me because I get they they're they're questioners. They want to know why they're doing what they're doing. And they and they seem to jive well with me because I give a lot of scientific explanations as to what we're doing. And I and I and I seem to have a good relationship with these women. And you don't want to get bikini and fit model girls shredded to the bone. They don't want striations in their glutes and they don't want veins popping out. So, I have to keep them a little on the softer, rounder side. So in those situations, I certainly wouldn't cut cut sodium out at all. You know, for bodybuilders, you want, you know, dryness, but not for bikini, you know, and even the figure girls, they don't want too too hard either. So there's a fine line. It depends on who you're working with as well. So usually women are the ones that hold water, but in those cases of like bikini and like fit model, you don't want them too too dry. I can't hear it. I got to stop doing that. Yeah. These first two questions from the Dave Palumbo experience app. Second question. Can you describe your average day of day of eating currently? Is it varied or pretty much the same thing daily? Here's a the operative question. Do you still have cheat meals? I do eat cheat meals. Um, you know what a typical day for me would be? I'll I'll just give you like like what I did yesterday. Yesterday I woke up in the morning. I had a packet and a half of of grits that are unflavored. I throw some a few packets of Splendor in there. I put three to four whole eggs mixed in there with some raisins. I mix it all together, add a little bit of water, put it in the microwave. I eat that. It's like a It's like a porridge almost it makes out of it. And so that's breakfast. I'll have usually like a power crunch bar or a isolized shake about two hours later. Uh after that, I'll usually have some sort of a lunch. If I go to the gym, I might go to like Kudobar after that and get like a one of those bowls, you know, chicken, black beans, rice, you know, some some guacamole on there or something like that. I'll eat that. If I'm home, I'll make, you know, ground 99% ground turkey breast with, you know, basmati rice and maybe a couple slices of cucumber in there with some, you know, macadamia nut oil on top of that. Usually for dinner, I'll do salmon. Uh or I'll do like um a lot of times I go to sushi. I I gotta admit I I sushi. If I go for sushi, I'll have rolls and you know and some sushimi pieces. Usually if I go for sushi, I'll I'll get enough that I can bring home a second meal just because I'm I like to eat it late at night and then I'll have another meal late at night. And for some reason I've been I've been into popcorn. I've been popping my own popcorn. So, I usually at night if I'm because I like to like stretch and kind of do my abs at night while I'm watching TV for an hour before I go to sleep. I'll usually that's when I have my last meal and that could be once again it could be some eggs or if I have sushi left over, you know, from before I'll have some sushi and I'll eat some popcorn and I go to sleep. So, I'm eating like five or six times a day. They're not huge meals like I used to, but I'm I'm most of the time getting about four to five about five feedings in a day. And I'm probably getting I would say 180 grams of protein, I would say. And I probably eat I eat a lot of fat, though. I eat a lot of mac I eat a lot of um avocados and mac oil. I I if you saw how much emac I pour on my food, I'm telling you, my cholesterol and triglyceride levels are insanely good since I've been doing that. In addition to the omega- lies that I take on a regular basis as a supplement and uh I probably get 180 grams of fat a day. I probably eat almost as much fat as I eat protein. And then everything else is carbs. So, how much carbs I get? Probably eat about 120 to 180 grams of carbs. Depends on the day. You know, sometimes I swim at night. So, if I swim at night, I eat more carbs because I'm like very depleted after I do that. And uh, you know, it varies from day to day, but if I'm home and I'm not traveling, that's pretty much it. If I'm traveling, I probably lo don't get as many meals in, but I try to eat a little bit more at the meals because I'm usually eating out most of the time. So, the meals are a little dirtier. I do throw a a a Wendy's or MC I got to tell you, I've been cheating on McDonald's lately. I really like Wendy's. I think it's because I like the the drink machine there. You can pick out whatever drink you want, and I and I'm into the diet. Uh the diets, which one diet ginger also have like six different flavors of diet ginger ale on the machine, but I've been doing Wendy's or I'll do um like I said, McDonald's usually at least once or twice a week. Sometimes I'll do a different I don't like to do pizza. Pizza cheat meals just don't sit well in my stomach. A lot of times I'll go for Mexican food and just eat whatever I want there. And that, you know, you can you can between the chips and guacamole and and all the rice there, you can you can knock down a lot of carbs. So it kind of varies. If I have my kids, usually, you know, we'll hit McDonald's or Wendy's, you know, or or a lot of times they like to eat Mexican at night. So, I probably get, like I said, two to three cheat meals in a week. So, I don't eat clean all week long. And it depends on how I look. If I'm really depleted, I'll I'll up the cheat meals a little bit more frequently. If not, you know, I won't do them as much. I eat enough that I'm not starving all the time, so I'm not craving cheat meals. I'm not on a diet by any means, but I have no body fat. So if I but if I miss a meal, I'm, you know, I'm I'm going insane. So I have to make sure I eat regularly or I don't feel as good. Now these questions, good questions, by the way. Both from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. You can download the app from your Android store or your iTunes store if you have an Apple. It's n it's $29 a month. You get me as a coach in your back pocket. You get access to all my writings, all my videos in in a very organized way. All my protocols, drug protocols are on there. offseason, pre-contest, beginner, advanced, women, men, everything you could possibly want on there is on that app. Plus, they answer everyone's questions in an open forum. So, you see everyone's questions and everyone's answers. It's a tremendous learning experience to see that because you might not even know you have the question that these other people are asking. Likewise, I do a Q&A video. So, it's like another Ask Dave every single week for the app members. So, it's a lot of learning in that back pocket of yours on that phone. it will keep you up to date on the latest and greatest of what's going on and I think that uh the app members have been very loyal. You guys support the app and that's why I continue to do it and uh I want to just thank you for that. So again now we move on to questions from our YouTube community page. Again, uh we used to take questions really from Facebook, from Instagram, and our YouTube community page, but we really wanted to zero in on the YouTube community page, which we've, you know, really enjoy the interactions, the engagement that we've gotten there. So, we really have kind of zeroed in on that source for questions for this show. Uh although a larger deficit or causes faster fat loss than a smaller deficit on paper, is a smaller deficit ultimately better than a larger deficit in the long run if it results in better diet adherence? I mean, if you can lose weight, you know, eating more food, obviously that's the best, you know, scenario. The problem is people look at what they eat in the and I've said this before. I'm so I'm not I'm not demented here. All right, but I it's worth repeating. People look at what they eat in the offseason. They're eating, you know, eight nine ounces of protein six, seven times a day. They're eating, you know, 250, 300 grams of carbs a day. They're eating a ton of fat. They're doing post-workout shakes. And they're barely gaining weight, right? They're gaining one, two pounds a week. So they figure, all right, if I got to lose weight, all I got to do is cut it back a little bit. and they cut it back a little bit and what happens is they don't lose weight. They sometimes they even gain weight but usually the weight stays the same and they cut it back and they cut it back and they cut it and they're not losing any weight. So what it takes to gain muscle and gain weight is a lot more food than it takes to lose weight. Meaning that in the middle somewhere is the maintenance, right? Amounts of food. To lose weight, you have to eat a lot less than you would expect below maintenance. So, you might not be able to you might have to cut significantly back to start losing body fat compared to what you're eating to gain muscle. And I know it sounds weird, but I promise you, you'll see that. So, that's why sometimes I I send diets out to people and they're like, "This is a lot less food than I'm eating. You sure I should be dropping this drastically?" I'm like, "All right, let's let's play your game. I'll give you more food." And then, of course, they don't lose any weight. I have to cut it back. So, it just it's just part of, you know, and and the problem is when you first cut back, you lose weight because the first two weeks you're losing a lot of water weight. Once the water weight's gone, if you're not losing any weight after that, you're not losing any body fat. Your body's just basically in a maintenance phase. And we don't want that. We want to constantly make progress. And to do that, we have to put you in a in a much greater deficit than you would think. So, can you if if you can lose body fat on a higher amount of food, I tell you do it. But for most people, you got to go in a bigger deficit than you think. So, we talked about the hectic next few weeks coming up, but again, we are going to have you covered as far as the content, everything. But speaking of content, and we've actually get a lot of questions about this particular individual who we hope to have back on the channel soon, Lee Priest. When can we expect to have Lee Priest back on the channel? Um, we have a an idea for a show that we've run by him and I think he's all up for it. Kind of like a very similar show to what we're doing right now, except it's going to be about Lee Priest and asking him questions. And I think once we probably I said I would think once we get maybe we could start before the Olympia, but I'm thinking past the Olympia might be the best time to launch it because that's when it kind of we have some downtime and that's when people are looking for content because there's not much going on. But it'll either be right, you know, probably after the summer's over or I would say right after the Olympia. We're going to launch a new Lee pre-show. I promise you. A lot of people have been asking about it and I think, you know, Lee has gone through a couple things and now he's probably ready. I know he's been doing a lot of traveling too. So once this traveling schedule slows down a little bit, I I think we'll be ready to launch. Uh one of these short and simple questions, but it is one that we do get fairly often. And for viewers of the show who are on anabolics, different types of anabolics, they want to know ideal dosages, ideal dosage of trenone. Yeah, that's a that's a real um you know trigger triggerw worthy you know topic. The problem is that you know tremolone is very strong. Okay, it makes you strong, makes you aggressive. It makes your body look really good when you're on it, right? So it's one of these drugs that you want to really do more of, right? Because you think, well, more is better. It's that's the, you know, bodybuilding mentality, more more or less. But with tremblone, that's just not the case. If you do too much of it, it it does too much wonderful stuff to you because what it does is it excites the nervous system. And that's I'm I'm trying to do talk down. I'm not trying I'm not trying to use any technical terms. It gets the nervous system excited. And when it does this, it makes you stronger, more aggressive, more confident in yourself, right? Um but if you get the nervous system too excited, you can't sleep at night. Your digestive system gets messed up because the digestive system is affected by the nervous system. Okay? You get sometimes you get almost insane, right? You start getting into fights with people. You you get combative with people. Uh and it raises blood pressure too because it excites the nervous system and that affects the blood vessels. So, we don't want to excite the nervous system too much. We want to just tweak it enough so that we can increase muscularity, aggression, and all the good things we get with trembling without getting the negative side effects. So I look I've done a lot of experimenting on myself because I've used tremble a lot and 50 milligrams you know three to four times a week seems to be ideal. Now if you think about it back in the day when we used parabone parabone was like 76 milligrams per ampule and no one ever used more than three a week. Most people used two a week which was 150 milligrams a week. Okay, two is 225 milligrams a week, which would be the equivalent of like four shots of tremblone acetate at 50 milligrams each. So, that's about right. Where people came up with the idea that, hey, I'm going to take a thousand milligrams of Tremblone a week, I don't know. It's absolutely insane. I can guarantee you those people have blood pressure that's through the roof, and I can guarantee they have a big big problem sleeping at night. uh m not not not to mention I bet you they have a lot of indigestion and and possibly chronic hiccups. All these things are associated with too much tremblone use because you're overexiting the nervous system. Okay. The reason why people get hiccups is because you're overexiting that nerve that frenic nerve that innervates the um the diaphragm muscle and that's what causes you get the hiccups. I can't tell you how many hiccups how many chronic hiccup cases I've cured by telling people get off tremblone for a few days and they're like holy mackerel you were right it that's what it does and so less is better less is going to cause less side effects and less is going to cause less health problems so take it from me 50 milligrams of trenacetate every other day is more than enough uh question about T3 been getting a lot of questions about T3 uh recently does supplementing Would T3 thyroid affect blood glucose levels? You know, theoretically it shouldn't, but whenever you increase metabolic rate in the body, I mean, it could lower blood sugar. It's not going to raise blood sugar levels. Could lower blood sugar levels a little bit. Um, I haven't seen a direct cause and effect like, hey, I took, you know, T3 and and I'm I'm getting hypoglycemic, or hey, I take T3 and my my my fasting blood sugars are through the roof all of a sudden. So, I don't really see much of a of an if it does have an influence, it's minor at best, you know. So, yeah, I wouldn't even if you had to tell ask me does it affect blood sugar, I would say no. So earlier in the show we talked about how you're going to be going to India. Species is going to be launching in India. We have official officially clinched distribution in India and of course going to be very excited to see Dave out there uh meeting his fans out in India. Another question about species. Are there any new species products in the pipeline? Are you ever going to offer those cool camo t-shirts again? And furthermore, are you ever going to bring back the pumpkin spice isolize again? Well, just so that everyone is really excited, pumpkin spice will be back this fall. We've have it in production. It will be ready for the October Fest now. It'll be ready for October, November. It will be, you know, the that's the time of year everyone wants pumpkin spice. I have to tell you, pumpkin spice might be one of the best flavors I ever produced. The problem is that there's so many good flavors of isoliz that people have their favorite favorites and so they they what what happens if you offer it all the time, people forget about it. So it's better as a seasonal flavor. So we we we're pumping out, you know, about a thousand units for the fall and once they're gone, they're gone. And so you guys are going to get the opportunity to buy pumpkin spice again. Like I said, it's my favorite flavor. So I'm actually happy that we're making it again because I like to use pumpkin spice and I you will swear that it has sugar in it. I swear it has no carbs in it. It's it's it's amazing. And it's 28 grams of protein per serving size. And so it's it's a great product that will be out. As far as new products, we have Stimulize Max coming out. Two flavors. Uh it's going to be phenomenal. I've been working on this this new formula for a year. The problem with the old Stimul was and it wasn't it worked great. Everyone loved it. The problem is it got hard for some reason. I don't know. Some of the ingredients, the way they they worked with each other, it caused the the uh product to to get like turn into a rock after about a year. And it wasn't lasting the full two-year, you know, I guess uh expiration date. So, that's a problem. Even though it worked really good, that's a problem. So, I had to reconfigure it. And while I reconfigured it, I made it better because, of course, I'm going to if I'm going to come out with another version of it, I might as well come out with a better version. And we put more beta-alanine in there. We put more citruline in there. And the no tropic formula is is awesome. You're going to think you're literally on an anti-depressant. That's how good you're going to feel. I have the all the people at the office who use the uh the prototype that came in and they're all like, "We need more of this." I'm like, "All right, just be patient. It's going to be made." So, within the next month or two, we're going to have Stimulize Max out. And then I have I have some ideas for a new product that I'm working on, but that'll probably be the first quarter of 2026. And then the uh the camo t-shirts. Oh, t-shirts. Yes, we're we are launching a new program. I don't know if we're supposed to announce this yet, Sid, but we're g it's an ambassador program. A lot of people have been asking me, hey, we love the product. We use the product. We want to promote it on social media on Instagram and Tik Tok. And you know what? We please, how can we do this? And we just didn't have the program in place. Sid is working on it with some of our other employees. And we're going to be launching the the ambassador program. We're gonna have different tiers. If if you sell product or you promote product, we're going to reward you with free product, possibly money, t-shirts. We're making a whole line of super cool clothing just for the ambassadors initially. If it's if it's in that high demand, we might release it to the public as well. We have some great ideas. Camo shirts are on the op on the option block. Uh right now, we're we're designing that stuff. We will have new t-shirts, zip sweatshirts, and pullover hoodies available probably in two weeks. So, those are being made by a very good friend of mine in Ohio. They're topnotch. We're going to have some great great stuff coming up. Two, the end of 2025, beginning of 2026. You're going to see some amazing stuff happening in species. Let's go uh to another one of our good friends, um Chat GBT. It's so funny because I was thinking about this. I was thinking we'll put into like a chat GBT query like you know who are the greatest whatever bodybuilders of all time. Well, this question is about using chat GBT for training, cycle use, etc. I put in all my info for blood work, etc. And it literally spits out a readout like a doctor would. your thoughts on using chat GPT for training advice and for constructing a cycle. Yeah, you know, I don't think that there's anything wrong with using a computer, you know, to generate stuff because I mean, look, you could ask chat GPT uh using Dave Palumbo's recommendations. Can you can you put together a steroid cycle for me? And I'm sure it'll find my steroid cycle somewhere in a forum online and it will spit out the cycle. I mean, there's nothing wrong with that. I mean, you can do that with a diet, too. You know, hiring a coach is not about a one-time plan. It's about how the that the coach tweaks what you're doing with that plan. So, yeah, I don't I don't think there's anything wrong. The problem is there's not there's no one telling you whether it's right or not. You're assuming that Chat DBT is pulling the right accurate information. Um, I've never tested the the uh Chat GPT with regard to what my recommendations are, but I have a lot of stuff out there, writings and videos and stuff like that. I'm sure chat GPT probably is accurate with regard to me if you're just asking it generically to write you a program. I don't know, you know, it might be a very, you know, fluff fluffy like program it might spit out to you. So once again, nothing wrong with that. There's a lot of programs out there. Programs work. It's how you manipulate the program when it stops working that is what's so important. And that's why coaching is such a, you know, intricate and necessary part, I think, of a lot of people's bodybuilding progress. If I would have had coaches available to me when I first was coming up, I would have, you know, I would have definitely hired someone because I was learning just by trial and error. And I'm sure I made a ton of mistakes initially. Uh, if I could have cut that out, I probably would have been even a better bodybuilder. And so the the what you guys have available today is, you know, really really a big advantage over what we had years ago. Speaking of what's available today versus what was available back in the day? Uh this question is about sources of gear. Where were all the bodybuilders getting their juice, their gear back in the 80s and 90s? Are there any crazy or funny stories you can tell? Everyone got it from Valentino. Valentino had a a connection for an and he's told the story before for an Americanm made testosterone deca all anything made American HCG test suspension he had an amazing connection as well as one or two other people had that same connection and so invariably all the Americanmade gear came from that connection for for quite a while probably for about four or five years that dried up um I I had a very good connection in in Germany you know, for many many years and until 911 really started, you know, happened in 2001 and then that dried up because they couldn't bring it over anymore. But, you know, and that was all Europeanmade stuff. So, the there was no underground gear back in in the day. So, before I started using gear before 1990, most bodybuilds had a prescription because the stuff was not a controlled substance. Biden actually, Senator Biden made it controlled. And once that happened, you couldn't just get a prescription like like normally before that you can get like a like a doctor would write you like an antibiotic prescription. No one even checked up on it. No one cared. People walked in the pharmacy and they filled testosterone deck or whatever anabar whatever they wanted. After 1990 it went dry because everything became a controlled substance. People had to look for other ways to do it. And that what was happening was people were making counterfeits. So when I say a counterfeit, I mean like if Winstral V, which was a veterary steroid, came from a veterary thing, they would actually create a fake version of the Winstrol V. And you would have to be almost a detective to decide, oh, this is fake because the label is supposed to be curved and this one's sharp. And there would be like m like Bill Phillips had a magazine that would come out and he would put what the fake looked like, what the real one looked like, and that's how you were able to tell. There was no underground labs. Everything was still legitimately pharmaceutically made. At some point, I think around in the early 2000s, people started then making their own Trenalone. It started with Trenalone and then I guess they got a hold of the fact that China sold raw and people started making their own gear. Um, that was a that happened after I kind of got out of the uh competition thing and I was just really on HRT at that point. So, it didn't matter to me. So, I never really had to buy underground gear. I feel good bad for guys today that have to buy underground gear because you just don't know what you're getting. I mean, with the with the advent of Bill Fil Bill Llewellyn's Roy test kits that that I sell on Dave Palumba.com, at least you can know whether the stuff you're taking is real or not, but you still don't know how well it's dosed and it's still a crapshoot at best because you can order, you know, a lot and an expiration date from this one company and then in six months order it again and it might be completely different because there's no regulations. It's not being made in a manufacturing facility. is being made in someone's house. So, I implore everyone, go to Dave Palumba.com, go to the Roy test section, test all your products, especially if you're a woman. I can't tell you how many women thought they were taking Annabar and they were taking dianabol. And it's just it's it's a $20 tester. Test it. This is the era. This is the the world we live in now. Everyone's trying to fool everyone. Test the products. It is what it is. I wish we had test products back in the day. You know how we used to test things? We would taste it. I think I've told you this before. Yeah. Deca, you know, cipient, they all had a very bit like numbing taste to your to your test. Anthe had nothing. It tasted like nothing. I think Primabone ane tasted like nothing. I I believe if I'm remembering correctly. So, we would just taste stuff and you know, same thing with pills. If we would get anrol pills, we would taste them. A lot of times they tasted like sugar pills, which is what they were. You know, if there was real anadrol in there, they would be bitter and they would they would numb your tongue. So, that we didn't have testing kits. We have them now. Make use of them. I promise you, you will thank me. Don't waste your money. And you don't want to ruin your body, especially if you're a woman. Uh, you got time for maybe two, maybe three more questions or All right. Here we go. Question about best protocol for someone trying to lose fat, be visceral or subq, and not take tests. Says that he builds muscle decently, doesn't plan to compete, so he's good from that area. Look, the best way to lose body fat and visceral fat, which is fat around the organs, is lowcarb dieting. Ketogenic diets are the number one way to lose visceral fat, believe it or not. And here's what happens. You know, you go for blood work and your triglycerides are high. What does that mean? Well, what it means is that triglycerides are how fats travel in the bloodstream. Now, what raises triglyceride levels? Believe it or not, it's not fat intake, it's carb intake. So the more sugar, especially sugar, the more simple sugars you take in or simple carbs you take in, the higher triglycerides go in the bloodstream. Now, what the liver's job is to do is to get all that triglycerides out of the liver, out of the bloodstream and and and put them into the liver and break them down there. But what happens is when there's too many of them because you're eating a lot of carbs or you're eating a lot of simple sugars and your body's cranking out these triglycerides is the liver gets overwhelmed with these things and starts storing them. And that's when you're set to have high or you know fatty liver. Okay, fatty liver is just an overabundance of stored triglycerides in the liver. Now high triglycerides in the bloodstream and in the liver also are a big indicator of potential for coronary artery disease. You know you don't want to have high triglycerides and you certainly don't want to have high triglycerides and high HD LDLs because that's that's a recipe for disaster usually. Okay. So how do we get rid of the the you know all these uh stored you know fats that are in your liver okay around eventually they start going around your organs the greater momentum is a big sheath that kind of covers your intestinal tract and that greater momentum starts building up fat around it that's what's called visceral fat. So fat around the organs fat around you know all around the especially abdominal organs is what we're talking about. When you cut carbs back in your diet and you go even into onto a ketogenic diet like I recommend, your body now has no carbs. So, you're not making any more triglycerides. So, what happens is your body starts burning the triglycerides for fuel. And first, it clears the bloodstream. And then when it runs out, the liver can start dumping all that stored fat that's in the liver that was causing fatty liver into the bloodstream. And your body starts using those for fuel. And eventually when that gets exhausted, now the liver is not filled with triglycerides anymore. Then the organs start to get all hey we need more energy. So now the organs start to defatify themselves if that's even a word and they start dumping the the triglycerides into the bloodstream and you start using those for fuel. So the leaner you get and the longer you're off carbs okay and remember this very when you're on no carb diet insulin levels are very low. So the the also insulin too much insulin can cause you know an overabundance of triglyceride formation as well. So you create the perfect environment that's conducive to getting rid of all this fat that's in the organs, surrounding the organs. We call visceral fat, fatty liver. And we also reduce the incidence of any kind of coronary artery disease by doing that. So if you have high visceral fat or if you have fatty liver and high triglycerides, it might not be a bad idea to do my my ketogenic diet for, you know, 12, 16 weeks. get rid of all those stored triglycerides and then start fresh like almost like a blank slate. Um, this user says that he's on 250 DECA per week, 300 tests per week, not seeing much gains. The gear is real from a compound pharmacy. I know this might be a bit of a loaded question, might be a homework question, but should he increase the dosages? It's been eight weeks so far and he's not seeing any gains, but he this it's from a legitimate source. Yeah. Well, you know, not making gains can be due to several things. Number one, not eating enough protein, not eating frequently enough. You could eat enough protein, but if you're doing it in three meals when you should be doing it in six meals, that's a problem. Um, it could be from poor training habits. I can't tell you how many people I I I know that eat right, they eat enough food, they take enough drugs, and they don't grow. And I look at their training on the videos they're sending me, and it's horrendous. And it's not their fault. They just never learn the right way to do things. Or they see guys in the gym doing weird and they copy it. Or they think weight is more important than form and they're not doing full range of motion. So there's a few reasons. It might not be that he's not taking his drugs might be fine. It seems like he's taking enough drugs and it's coming from a pharmacy so they're real obviously. To me, I would say it's either diet related or training related or a little of both. If the training is great, you know, and the and the diet is good, you might need to just bump the test up a little bit. But by and far, 90% of the time, the problem is with either training or diet or both. Take one more. Uh I'm on TRT, 300 mg a week testip, 20 units of weeks HCG, and 1 mg a week of arimmitics. Recently added 50 mg of windstrol, which seems to be elevating my core body temperature. Is this normal? Is he dieting? I didn't hear what he said initially. Uh it doesn't specify whether he's dieting, but I mean he kind of listen. You want me to read out what he said? TRT 300 mg. Yeah. 300 mg test a week of test sit 20 units a week HCG 1 mg a week of rimmedex and recently added 50 mg a day of windstrol. So that seems to be elevating his core body temperature. He wants to know if that's normal. Look, when when I was on steroids and I was eating an enormous amount of food, which it seems like he's trying to put muscle on, um you're going to get hot. And most top level bodybuilders who have a lot of mass on their body will tell you that they're sweating all the time. They have the air conditioning cranked. They have fans blowing on them at night to sleep. They they they hate going on airplanes because they're always sweating to death on there. That's normal. Okay? You want that. That means your metabolism is very healthy. Okay? Okay. And if like I said, if you're eating every two hours a decent amount of food, you're g your metabolism going to be going crazy. I always give, you know, people know I breed snakes. I always give the snake analogy. If a snake doesn't eat for say three, four months, okay? And that happens. Snakes can go can go a year without eating, if not more. And they don't a lot of times they don't lose one single gram of weight. You know why? Because their metabolism slows to almost zero. and their actual organs of digestion actually atrophy. It's the craziest thing. It's like an adaptive mechanism. So, they just don't they can survive without eating. Once you feed them, they've shown that their organs of digestion hypertrophy get bigger and their metabolic rate like goes up by like 25 times what it was. So, the act of eating, putting food into the system turns the whole system on. Now, a good example is when you are dieting and you're eating very little food. A lot of times between meals, you're freezing. People report this all the time to me. I'm so cold. I'm so cold. And I hear it more from the people who do the crazy intermittent fasting, which is the worst thing for bodybuilding. It might be good for longevity, not good for bodybuilding. You go 18 hours without eating. I can guarantee you're going to be freezing to death during a lot of that time. And and it h I hear it all the time from people. I'm so cold. Well, because your metabolism is zero. It's your body has shut down its metabolic rate to conserve fuel. Not a good way to burn fat if you're trying to maximize fat loss. That's why the bodybuilding diet of eating every two, three hours throughout the day, small meals when you're trying to lose weight works so well because the active eating stimulates metabolic rate. And when the meta metabolism is running high, you burn more calories. So, if you had a choice, hey, I'm going to eat this many calories over six meals or I'm going to eat this many calories over two meals during the day, you always pick the six meals because it's the active eating stimulates metabolic rate. And you have to understand that fasting and eating small two small meals a day or eating two meals a day, all your calories, two meals a day is not the best way to to look good. Okay? I don't know if it increases longevity or not, but it certainly does not a good way to look good. I can promise you that. That's going to do it for this episode of Asive Reminder, all new episode of the After Hours Podcast and Heavy Muscle Radio on the channel right now. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss anything that we have coming up over the next few weeks, under 14 weeks leading into the Olympia, and we are going to have all sorts of fresh content, features, interviews, preview segments, and more leading into the 2025 Olympia. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadi Barooi. We'll see you next time.