 a lot of people think bodybuilders are big, dumb and broke. Well, a lot of them aren't, so we're gonna show you those guys. I created STEECES Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of STEECES Nutrition products. If you wanna be your absolute best, join the evolution. Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm, Mm smuggling friend of yours, Scott, gave us his insane life. Actually, he didn't even tell us the whole story. He gave us a little taste of his crazy life. His subsequent books coming out are gonna really delve into his crazy life. Just as a teaser, you just got through a bad divorce, right? I've had a bad divorce, right? Scott had the worst divorce in history. I mean, recorded history, the worst one. No matter how bad you think yours was, no matter what malignant narcissist you think your ex is, nothing compared to what he went through. And just to give you a little uplifting story, okay? At one point towards the end, when after he'd been beaten and battered and everything, he had found out that his ex-wife had taken up with this old politician, and she was gonna use him to get him deported and steal all his businesses, right? First of all, bro code number one, you never insert yourself into somebody else's demise. No. You do not do that, okay? This guy did. So he was older, eventually passed away. So Scott takes, gets his daughter, who's an internet, you know, aficionado, to think all these legal documents that says she was, that the ex-wife was mentioned in the politician's will. And so she says in his paper, she's gotta fly to Tijuana and wait there for the reading of the will and all that. So he did it perfect. Got all the stamps, you know, in Mexico, they do stamps and signing and the, the very dramatic on how they, you know, federalize and authorize stuff. And he had all of that done. And she asks, so the daughter that's doing all this from another marriage calls, or she calls like the law office and wants to know, the wife ex-wife calls like the law office. She answers the phone. By the way, do you know how much money we're talking about here? And the daughter says, I can't really tell you how much, but let's just say that he must have been very fond of you. She flies to Tijuana thinking she's gonna come back with all this money. She's in a hotel there. Why else she's in Tijuana? Scott has got a crew at his old penthouse where she is with that she basically stole from him and is changing the locks, moving out all her shit. Oh my God. Oh my God. Well, Scott's gangster, you know, so that, yeah, that I can see him doing that. When you hear that whole story come out of him, you just feel no matter how bad your divorce was, you feel so uplifted and like, ah, yes, score one for the guys, you know, it was such a great story. You have that criminal mindset. You could do stuff like that and get away and pull it off. Cause it's like, it was probably like of all the stuff that he, crazy stuff that he did was probably the most mild matter thing he'd ever accomplished. A lot of planning goes into it. A lot of planning. Yeah. I don't know if I would have exerted that much mental energy to do it, but that's not what you said. What she did to him, I'm telling you, bro, that was just one, that one story was not even enough to cover it up. I mean, on a good note, on a good note, today's guest is the complete opposite. He has had a very successful long-term marriage, almost 40 years married to the same woman. I told him, I was married for 40 years too, but the five different women. So, and he, but yet, and he's also very, very, super successful in a very legal sense. Yeah. He did do it, Scott. And I think a better role model for our viewership would be this next guest, who is the NPC national champion back in the day. And early 90s, bodybuilder in the IFBB. And then in the WBF for Vince McMahon, that brief stint. Yep. And he's just an all-around good guy. And I've interviewed him before. We got him back here with Troy Zuccalato. Let's bring him in. Yeah, come on in. What's up, Troy? Hey guys, good to see you both. Yeah, you too. So yeah, so it was so almost 40 years married, bro. Do you ever age? I don't think he ages. I do my best. I eject so much shit by age. I hope it's... This guy is unbelievable. You still got the hair and everything. He can't... Yeah, my hair, yeah. You're big on the red light therapy. You're big on the red light therapy, aren't you? Yeah, I have all that at my house. I have the sauna, the coal plunge, the hyperbaric chamber. I do all that kind of crap. So you have a ritual in the morning, right? You get up really early and you go... You see, I'm up out of bed, get up, walk my dog, do all that kind of stuff. And then I head to the gym, do my one body part, get in the sauna, get in the red light therapy bed, do the coal plunge. And then I get myself ready and come to the office. Get ready? How do you have any time left of the day? I know, it seems that... I usually get into the office about eight o'clock and then I'm here until three or four and then I've been usually bed by seven, 30 or eight. Holy mackerel. Yeah, pretty much. So you spent how many hours a day in the office? Not that many. The one in Newport where my longevity center is, that's my main office. So I go there five days a week and then I have to travel sometimes to my stuff in Dallas and in other places as well. So how many youth tech medicals do you have? I have three locations. All in California? Two, one in Texas and two in California. Dallas, I think. Yeah, you just predict this stuff. What's that? What was the original one? Here in Newport. I started this in 1994. Now, what I wanted to say is I never, I don't think anyone even knew what a longevity clinic was in 94. How the heck did you get involved with that? Because no one even thought of that as a possibility. Like it was never just made illegal then, at that point. So this was in 94, I had met a physician who was getting ready to retire and he owned the first longevity center out in LA. And I said, hey, I met him at the American Academy of Anti-Aging Conference. And I said, hey, look, this is what I wanna do. I know growth hormone and testosterone and certain things are great for longevity. And he was already into it. I said, hey, look, why don't you retire and come work for me? And you can just come in as I need you. And that's kind of how it started. And then- Hold on, hold on, Troy. In 94, you were what, 20, how many, 24 years old? Yeah, about 24, yeah. How do you go approach a doctor and say, come work for me? Like what, where did you even have the audacity to say that to this guy? Because I paid him more than he was making at the time. And so I said, hey, look, you can just come work for me. You show up once a week, see the patients that I have, and then you can go and I'll pay you more than what you're making now. How did you get this? You're opening up a, where'd you get the money and all this stuff? Where did all this stuff come from? So I had invested a lot of my money with do my guest appearances and things like that back then. And then I was with the WBF. And I had a pretty good contract. And I had- What were they paying you a year? What were they paying you a year? So the first year I got 300, the second year I got 350, and the third year I got 35. 375 was your third year? Wow. Holy shit. Didn't your brother take the money from you when he invested for you? Yes, along, he just told me, because at that time, you know, shit, I wanted the Rolex, the car, all that kind of stuff. And he said, look, let's buy real estate and make some money. So you have it when you're done with bodybuilding. And that's what I did. We started many stories and car washes. And then I bought a lot, which is now where I built my home. And I kept just doing more. And I bought one, it took all the money, bought another one, and I just kept reinventing it, you know, drove a little old BMW around and just kept investing money, investing money. And then I just kept parling it and turning it into all these successful businesses. And it's been wonderful for me. So I've got so many different stream revenues that I'm making income every single month. I just got residual income all over the place. That's, you know, I could, I can't believe you were making that much money from WBF. How did you, who negotiated that contract? So the thing about it, Davis, I had just won the nationals. And I was on every magazine cover. I had more covers than anybody that particular year. And so when Tom called me, I said, look, I'm the most popular body bearer in the country right now. You're gonna have to pay me to come. And I kind of bluffed myself and they, they agreed to what I wanted. And I signed it. And I signed, I was fortunate to sign a three year deal because most everybody was getting two years. And I said, look, I want a three year deal. And I signed it and the rest is history. I made it. So how old were you when you got your first CWB? I would have been right around 30, probably 29, 30. So you were already in your 20s making money? I wasn't making a lot of money, but I was making enough because I owned a training business. I was training people and I had other guys working for me. And so I was making decent money, but nothing that was gonna get me rich by any means. So really the Vince McMahon deal, that's what catapulted me over to get to where I was, could make some real money. Wow. Were you depressed when it went out? Because I mean, that- No, no, because I was done. I, you know, after my goal when I first started this was I wanted to win the cow, which I did in 1986. And then I wanted to win the nationals and term professional and use that to my advantage. And when the thing for me was that the timing was perfect for me when the, because I had just won and then the WBS started. And I was like, this is just perfect timing for it. I could have asked for a better time for that to start up. Oh, you would have made a fraction of that with Weeder. Oh my God. I could have been Mr. Olympia three times and never made that kind of money. You know? Which is crazy here. Yeah, exactly. You know, and I remember right after I won, Wayne D'Amelia came to me and said, hey Troy, we'd like you to do the night of the champions as your first show. And I said, Wayne, I said, what is first place on that? And he goes 10,000 at the time, it was 10,000. And I said, Wayne, even if I win it, I gotta spend 20 to win 10. So how was that a good business decision for me? And I was like, no, this is not for me. I can't, you know, for what it takes Dave to get to that level and the abuse that I would put on my body. I had a wife, I had children. I was like, you know, and I probably will never win Mr. Olympia. So why chance at my health when I know I could use my brain and everything else and my work ethic that it took me to get to this level, and I'll use it in business and I'll conquer all this shit. Yeah. He flipped, he had a very evolved sense of himself, John, because most bodybuilders are so enamored with the bodybuilding and they love it so much that we do it for free. You know, you were like thinking like a businessman which you don't see in bodybuilding. Most guys are not like that. They're like, I'll do anything to win this show. I don't care if I make $3, you know, for it. You're like, I'm not doing this show. I'm not making it anyway. Yeah. You know, my whole objective was to use those titles or so to speak and create other avenues and other stream of income coming in. Because as we know, David, bodybuilding, you're here today, gone tomorrow. And I wanted longevity in this sport. I wanted to be able to be healthy during the sport. And I knew what it took to get to that level and I just wasn't willing to risk that. I think he flipped one watch and made more than he made on that deal than he made in all of his bodybuilding. Watch is the best investments I've ever done. Yeah, I didn't know. I think unfortunately, but watches. Yep, he has crazy. Which one are you wearing today? What's your watch? I got on my AP, the Royal Oak. They call it the Brit because it weighs a pound of gold. So that's why my arm is still big. They're holding that watch up. Yeah, you'd better put it on the other arm tomorrow. They even it out. How old are you now, Troy? I just, I'm 64. Wow, you look great. Yeah, you look amazing. You're behind me. Look amazing. Wow. What do you, what do you add of all of those modalities that you do, the red light, the sauna, the cold plunge? What do you, do you think it's the combination of any of all of them or do you think one thing specifically is really demonstratively better than everything else to combat aging? I think a lot of it is. And then I do stem cell and salmon sperm injections in my face. Oh, salmon, what? Salmon sperm. Sperm. What's the deal with the whole thing? What I want to know is how do you get this, wait a minute. How do you get the sperm out of the salmon? That's the way I do it myself. So it's a lot. So salmon sperm is really big here in Newport Beach. So, and it really got on the market is when the Kardashians started saying, oh, we do this and that. So I, they do sperm, but I didn't know they did salmon sperm though. Salmon sperm. They probably get it the same way. It's in a cryofrigerator just like you would if you went to a sperm bank. Why? We micrometal it into your face. So the serum is put on your face and then it's micrometaled into your face so it gets, like I use no Botox or anything. It just smooths out everything, all of your forehand. I mean, it's amazing. What's the mechanism supposedly behind that? EPA. Just the salmon sperm is supposed to reheal, get rid of wrinkles, rejuvenate tissue, and along with it, when you do it with exosomes, it makes it even better. Oh, now what's the, why, hold on. Why salmon sperm, of all sperm, why can't you use like other animal sperm? Is there a specific reason why this salmon sperm? They're supposed to have the most condensed lipotropic, lipotropic in it. It is supposed to be for elasticity of your skin, your face, that's what is supposed to come out. And it's really big in Korea. So, and Korea is really ahead of the US as far as cosmetic stuff goes. Interesting. What do they charge for like, what do you guys charge for like a therapy? Like that. About 1200 a treatment. Wow. And how often do you have to have it done? Exactly. I do it every six weeks. Oh, so you do it. I know you do because it's your clinic, but what would like a normal person do? How about every four, four, by three to four months? Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So, you do that. What's all the things that youth tech offers? What do you, like, do you package it? Like, how do you do it? No, we do all complete hormone therapy. We do M-sculpt, M-sculpt Neo, face tightening, Botox fillers, injectable stem cell. I mean, we do it just about everything that's do with cosmetic. With, as far as the stem cells, are you guys do exosome, right? Because I don't think, is it legal to do stem cells at this point? It's not illegal, but I'm under what they call an IRB, which that for international review board, which I'm under a heart transplant surgeons under his umbrella, which gives me approval with FDA trials under his umbrella. So I'm able to do it. Oh, really? Yes. Wow. And the embryonic stem cells? Yes, the screening, they've got to, the women got to be 25 years or younger. They can't have any tattoos. They have to be willing to give it through cesarean birth as opposed to the regular birth canal because there's bacteria in it. It's very regulated. They have to be tested weekly through their whole pregnancy. The actual, and it has to be all done in FDA compliance labs. So they're, when on the day of the birth, the company that I'm under, they go and extract the stem cell through the, through the umbilical cord and placenta, and then they extract the DNA out of it, and then they cryo it at that point. Wow. Yeah. So they don't culture that? So you're getting the actual, you're getting an actual dose of the, of the women's. So the protocol is to do 90 million stem cells at a time. And then I tell you, I've done about five treatments and it's like I have no pain anymore. Now, do you do it? Do you do an IV or do you? I do push that goes right into your system. Yeah, that's right. I had that done in Mexico. Now what is it? I got to come back twice but I can have them do some stuff with me. Yeah, it's, it really is a me. And the thing about it is they, because I knew my background where I was coming from, I'd be scrutinized. I've had the FDA, the DEA, everybody, I've been in my books. So I do everything with it. And I need to do it right. So I don't try to cut corners. So everything I do, I do it above board. So I don't have no issues. Yeah. So now what is, well, how much does the girl given birth get for her stem cell? I don't know the fee that they get, but that's part of why the cost of the stem cell is so much. Cause they pay these people a lot of money to go through all this procedure. So your stem cell procedure is what? Between five and 10 grand, something like that? No, it's about 25 grand. Holy shit. Yeah. If you want to go to Mexico, you can pay that, but not in the US. Yeah. And the problem with Mexico is that they don't have any FDA regulations. And so if it's, if they haven't extracted the DNA, could change your whole DNA structure. So you gotta, you gotta be careful of what you do. Now, two people we know, Ronnie Coleman being one of them. And Armin, both had sepsis. And somebody suggested that it could be from the stem cells because they got them in Mexico. Well, we see a lot of those too, John. A lot of the stuff in Mexico, and I don't know the company as well, but they use embryotic stem cells. And those are from a boarded. So you don't know what kind of life this person has had before. Did they do drugs? Did they have any kind of venereal diseases? So there's a lot that goes into it. That's why it's so important to go where you know how it's being tested, how it's being extracted, and make sure it's done in all FDA compliance labs. So Troy, let me ask you this question then, okay? And I, cause I'm completely on board with everything you're saying. Why are they making it so difficult in the United States to do this legally? When there's obviously a procedure. What? Because Big Pharma doesn't want it here. Big Pharma stops the production. They pay because just to get it into trials, the FDA trials cost about $19 million. Oh my God. And Big Pharma pays them 20 to not look at it. Because Big Pharma knows it works and they don't want anybody else doing it because they want to sell their meds. Right. What about peptides? Peptides, the problem with peptides is there's not been any human studies on this. Everything is done has been with mice. So all these basic studies on the dosage and everything, this has only been done on mice. So when you do the BPC-157 or the TB-500, those clinical trials are doses done on mice. So you might need 10 times the amount. Like I tried BP-157 and I felt nothing. What do you feel the most from? Stem cell by far. Wow. Best thing I've ever done in my life. Wow. I feel like no joint pains. I had a rotator cuff, a tear, completely healed my tendons. I mean, the thing about it is you're doing it right and doing the correct dose to do it right. Right. Well, it's nice that you're doing it in the United States so you don't have to leave. You can do it in the US. Yeah, that makes it nice. All right, so let me, we love what you're doing. I love the fact that you've been doing it for so long because I don't know anyone in the 90s who even knew anything. I remember when you first started, I heard, Dad, Troy's got some rejuvenation clinic. I'm thinking, what the heck are they doing over there? Giving vitamins, IVs, I had no clue what you were doing. And you were so ahead of the curve at that point and ahead of everyone else that it doesn't surprise me how successful you are with it. I didn't know that you made that much money from the WBF. That and you invested it all. That was another wise, wise decision. That was really... They did a lot of bodybuilders. Yeah, I just wanted to... Go ahead, Dad. No, a lot of bodybuilders are wasting. I see them buying these expensive sports cars and just wasting a lot of cash. And they could be saving that, especially now. Imagine Troy with the, Arnold's giving away 750 grand for first place this year. Yes, which is good money, but, Dad, that's still peanuts compared... No, I know. If you invest that... If you invest one person in the world and you make 750 grand, like I'm not gonna get on that. No, but I'm just saying you can invest it, is what I'm saying, instead of wasting it, right? You need an opportunity for them to invest, is what he's saying, right? Yes, exactly, exactly. Because bodybuilding, when you're the number one person, we know what you have to go through to be the top. And to win 750 grand, I mean, you got pro bowlers that make more than that. Well, we're inching away. We're inching, we're inching. But my point is that I wish more people would take the approach that you did. Hey, I have a limited time span in the sport. I gotta take every penny I make and invest it. Yeah, I can have a little fun with a little bit of it, but most of it's gotta be invested because if I don't do that when I'm done, I'm gonna have nothing left and I'm gonna be screwed. Which Dave, if you look at a lot of guys in my era, aren't that way now? Are that way, yeah, yeah. They got a bunch of fun pages. That's just so sad, man. You know, if they live in an apartment with three other guys and it's sad. Or you've seen them at the shows trying to sign pictures still and it's like, you know, it's just sad that they have nothing beyond bodybuilding. So now when you're young and you're making, you know, all this money and you see the guys around, and I saw this at Gold Gym, the only one guy who never went for the big cars and all the flash was Nasser. Other than that, I knew guy top pros that were competing in the Olympia, I'm not gonna name names, but they would drive to the gym in a Mercedes. Oh yeah. And then they would live in a shit box apartment, you know, on the other side of town. They have their Rolex and they have their Mercedes, but they still live in an apartment. Right. So my question is for young guys coming up now who are starting to make money, what is the buzzword or the excuse that you can give them to say, hey man, don't buy the car, don't buy the watch, wait, you buy that stuff later. Right now you gotta make your money work for you. How do you convince them of that? You got, first of all, you gotta tell them, look, your career is short lived. Yes, we all love the, fuck I love the watches, I love the cars, but I didn't have none of that until I was able to not go into my income. I use it as all my residual income. That's when I started buying stuff that I didn't have to take away from things. So the problem is, is you gotta think outside of bodybuilding. Most guys just get the thing, okay, I'll train people now, I'll try to do a protein line, I'll do a clothing line. There's so much more money outside of bodybuilding. That's where the problem is, is they think everything now, okay, it has to do with bodybuilding, I gotta be in that type of field. And that's to me, the wrong place to go. But don't you think Troy, that you should do what you know? Yes, I do, but again, Dave, I didn't know any of this stuff. I know you got so diversified, that's why I'm so excited to talk about this with you, how you got into all this stuff. Were you mentored? My whole thing is, I didn't wanna make money on a one-shot deal. Okay, you buy a house, you flip it, you made 100 grand. I wanted something that gave me money every single month, every month. That's why I have these temp agencies now, because every month I'm getting more money and more money, then I get money for my car work, I get money for my apartment complexes. I have shit going everywhere, but I want that residual income every single month. How hard is that to manage? Car washes, public storage, apartment units. You hire people that manage companies that do it all for you, you pay them a fee to run it all. And then I go out there and I check on shit to make sure everything's done right, they're fixing things that need to be done. But most of them, I don't even have to be there anymore, they just run themselves and I get, oh, I guess I did a lot, summertime I did a lot of car washes this month, so make some good money, score a Vegas. Let's talk about your Vegas extravaganzas. Oh, gosh. You are a Michael Jordan. I'm a sick master with game. You are a sick master. Tell us about it. No doubt about that. I would be really rich if I didn't go to that. They got damn late. How much money do you think you've won and lost in Vegas? Oh, I've lost millions in Vegas, no question. Yeah, yeah. Wait, wait, wait, no, notice he didn't say one. Yeah, no, no, yeah, yeah. Where do you like to gamble? Which hotel is like your favorite hotel? I actually haven't gambled there since COVID came out. Wow. So when COVID came, that was the best thing that ever happened to me. Yeah, thank you. They were shut down and I couldn't go to it. So that's when I started making my way to Vegas. Going out of business. Troy hasn't been there. Troy's not there. I don't know if I have 250,000 every time I go there every week. I go, it's kind of nice not having to fucking pay that. I'll buy some more properties. I don't know what to watch. One of the best things I ever did, Dave, is when COVID came, I started buying hotels and flipping them because all these hotels were going out of business. So I started buying these on pennies on the dollar and then I would have them redone and then I would sell them to the Holiday Inn firms. And they bought real, I could buy eight of them during that COVID time and I made a fortune from it. Any popular hotels we might know? The Stargate out in San Francisco, that was all going under. Most of them were just mismanaged and getting run down. So a lot of my clients who come to me are extremely wealthy and they were doing this. I said, hey, I go, next time I go, let me involved in one. Let me put some money into it. So the first one I put 600 grand into it, three months later I got back to 850. So I took that 850 and did another one with them where I put a million and about nine months later, I got 1.2 million profit.  and I just kept rolling over and said, hey, take it and put it into another one. Because at that time, tons of hotels were going out and they were just kind of laying there for the taking. And so we paid $10 and invested some money, got them upgraded a little bit, and then we had a contract with the holiday infirm and they bought all of them. Wow, that's easy. It's an easy flip. Yeah. Yeah. Great business. That was really good for you. So when you were going to Vegas, what hotel would you normally hang out at, Caesars? No, I mostly, I started at the win most of the time and then I started going to Mandalay Bay. In fact, on Mandalay Bay, I think I told you, John, that when the shooter was there during the concert, I was actually sitting next to him playing with them. No. Yes. So what it was, it was my daughter's 21st birthday and I had taken a group of hers because when you're gambling, you get whatever the hell you want. I had this big suite upstairs, downstairs, two out of our jet. I mean, you could get whatever you want when you're gambling there. They give you whatever. So I had tickets, riding VIP for her and all of her friends and the night, so this was on Friday night we got in and I'm, when I would go gamble, I usually had a table reserved for me because I like to play one-on-one with the dealer. Well, I was down there in high limits and I was getting my ass kicked and this guy came over and he goes, can I sit down with you? I said, yeah, please do. Maybe you'll, we'll change the table, help me out here. So I started playing with this guy, not knowing anything and he, we started it just turned, we started kicking the shit out of the table. We were high five and doing all kind. Normal guy wouldn't have known anything about it and so fast forward to Sunday, I had an issue at work, so we were going to stay actually till Monday because the concert didn't get over till Sunday night. Well, we had to leave it early so they didn't get to see the very last one, which is who they really wanted to see. I can't remember the guy, he was the real popular guy, I can't remember his name now, but that's when the shooting, because I, we had flown home and I got up early on Monday to go to the gym and I have about 500 texts. Troy, you guys okay? Is everything okay? I'm like, what are you talking about? I looked, so I turned the TV on and that's when the shooting came. Then the FBI called me, my host called me first and said, do you, the FBI wants to talk to you because you were playing with this guy. What are you talking about? I know I play one of them people and he goes, do you remember that guy in the red shirt that was sitting next to you? He goes, he was the shooter. I go, holy shit, couldn't believe it. Yeah, what do you think was that would deal with that was? I mean, that's, I don't know, but that was screwed because it's like me, when I go into the rooms, I always deadbolt the lock, so nobody can get in it. So I don't know how they said that somebody was already in there, because there was definitely two shooters. You could see them from different angles that it was coming and they tried to say it was only on one person, but it was, that was fucking crazy. So did you get any kind of premonition that you should leave or it was just, I gotta go? No, I kind of remember why I had something go wrong with my- He's got angels all over him, this guy. He's just living a charmed life, so I wanted to do that. So we just ended up going and then the next morning is when all this happened and it was like, and where he started shooting was the exact section that we were at. Yeah. Wow. In fact, one of the girls ended up staying there because she really wanted to see this and she got actually shot in the boot through her ankle. Wow, holy shit. That was a crazy time. Holy shit. Now, what'd the FBI ask you? Just because, you know, when you sit at a table a lot of times when you want to double down and your host's not there, so you get what they call a marker and so like, I think it was like 10 grand. So I gave him 10 grand in chips because he wanted to double down. So I gave him money and, you know, once he wins or loses, they just give you right back to you. No big deal. So you don't gotta ask the casino boss for it. So I gave him money and they wanted to know why did you give him money? And I said, that's just what you do when you're- I thought you were like in on it. Oh my god. Yeah. So they wanted to question me about it. Obviously, it was no big deal because they read, you know, my history and everything. But yeah, they were wanting to know why I gave him that money during that time. What was it like most egregious, crazy thing that the casinos did for you, you know, because you were spending so much money there. So I remember I was at, I was doing a guest appearance in Colorado and I was flying home and I said, hey, let's stop in Vegas on the way home. So I stopped in Vegas, I was gonna play, just gamble through the night and then come home in the morning. And I ended up, so I went to, it was called the Rio Hotel. That day that was the place to go. It's not anymore, but it was the Rio. So I ended up winning all this fucking money, all this money. I was up, I got, I had a credit line that was like 250,000. So I went all the way down to like 5,000. I said, just give me the money. I ended up building that all the way back up to 500,000. I paid my credit line off, got on, I called my pilot, I said, look, come pick me up, we're leaving. I got on the tar mat and we're sitting and I go, you know what, let's go back. I want to win 500 more. I went back, gave all the 250 plus my marker for 250. For this thing I've never done. So where did you lose all together? I lost 250, but I was up 250, so I ended up losing 500 at that time. Well, it's like that scene from Casino, you remember? Get these guys who are winning big and they're like, they stop them. They like, they make the plane, the plane's out of service. We can't leave, but we're going to put you up in the presidential suite. Steve Nguyen told a story about this. He had this Chinese guy that used to fly in all the time. Well, the Chinese guy beat him for like 23 million. And so they had floated him out. So he was actually on the plane and Steve Nguyen goes, told the story, he goes, there was nothing wrong with the plane. We just called him and said that we have the mechanical problems. Come on back and I'll treat you to dinner and then by then it should be ready to go. Well, the guy ended up coming back and lost, gave all that money back. Yeah. Cause it's a sickness Dave. I'm telling you, it's sick. So I'm hitting. I'm like an alcoholic. You gave me the, instead of going to the bar, I go to the tables or I'm screwed. I think you're worse with the watches. At least the watches I need money. I told me one in Vegas, you buy like 2.3 million for that thing. Yeah, I bought, yeah. I bought one. Was that the most expensive watch you ever bought? Yeah. Yeah. That's the most expensive one I have. What is it called? What was it called? It's the Richard Mill, the 3502 blue sapphire. So now that, that case is all sapphire. All sapphire. It's a turn beyond. It takes like 1100 hours or something like that. Yeah. 1100 hours just to make the case. Wow. Wow. We'd love that watch, believe me. Ron's into watches. People think watches are a good investment also. Oh, they are. It's better than gambling. One thing I've never lost. I spent, I'm just saying, is worse than the worst drug addiction you could have. It's gambling is way worse. Way worse. The difference is that Troy's got the money, like Michael Jordan's got the money, you know, so you got the money. But you never lost money on a watch, right? Never on a watch. I'm gambling in the casino. I'm talking about time. Yeah. Well, that's why I say actually COVID was the best thing for me because I couldn't, I couldn't go there and I had no place to go and then I realized, fuck, I'm gonna have all this extra money. I'm stupid. Why am I doing this? Now, what do you think of Vegas now? Like, pretty much people are saying it's going under. I mean, the casinos are empty. When we were just there, you saw it. They're really, they're really, the fear is losing 150 million a week or something. Yeah, they're really because I get my host and I haven't been there other than the Olympia for four years. I get my host called me want me, we'll give you whatever you want. Just come back and stay with us. They, they're desperate. They really are hurting for business. Now, why do you think that is? Why all of a sudden? I don't know. I, but for one, it's so overpriced now. It's overpriced. Vegas and you could go there, you know, get a nice room, dinners and it was cheap. Now, dinners have more than what it cost in Newport. It's crazy. It's nuts. And you can't even valet park there. They charge you $40. You know, exactly. You used to be free to valet park anywhere. It was price themselves out of the market. Vegas was always known as the value. You got cheap hotel rooms, the hotel, the gamble. Why would they charge you a valet fee? It's the dumbest thing of all time. They seem to have, they seem to have done everything to keep people out of the casino now instead of drawing them in. Yep. They blew that in the nineties. Their business model was fucking smart as could be. Come to the hotel. We'll give you everything. As you're parking your car for free, they're giving you like passes to go eat in the inside for free. Remember the steak dinners with the giant steak they would advertise? Yeah, it was like 20 bucks. Because they knew they made money from gambling, not from food. The tables give it all to them. That's why they comp all your food and everything because that's penis to what you're going to learn. Right. So now the sphere, what do you think the future of that thing is going to be? I really don't know. I mean, it's amazing. Obviously, it's amazing, but you got to get people going there and they're just not getting the tourist going there like they used to. Now, I wouldn't dare to watch this new generation, John. They don't drink. They don't do anything. They sit on their phone and text each other. They don't want to go and party it up like we did back in the day. They want to just sit home. They don't even want to leave their house. They want to post on their Instagram. I don't think you can put the entire demise of Vegas on the backs of the youth. Well, it's part of it. The other part is that Vegas decided they were too good for everyone and they started charging for everything and people don't want to go and waste their money. I want to go there and think I'm going for free and then get tricked into gambling my money away. That's how they made money. Exactly right. Yeah, because they make money so fast when you're on the tables. At the end of the day, I know how to play and I know how to play good. I get my ass kicked all the time. No matter how good I was. You don't know what to stop. That's why you're up and you go, oh, shit, I can do this every week. Oh my god, I owe 250 grand in 30 days. But that's why I think they should get the Olympia the hell out of Vegas. It's a freaking, it's too expensive. Yes. You feel raped. I mean, honestly, you got to pay $9 for a bottle of water. It's insanity. It's like they throw numbers around like, how much is this? Oh, 50 bucks. But it's a paperclip. It's crazy. That's what they're like. So Troy, what's at this point, you're 64 years old, you look great. I mean, you probably don't have to work another day in your life if you don't want to. But yet all you do is work obviously because you love it. I know I have the same addiction. What's your like 10 year plan? When do you see yourself in 10 years? I hopefully have an impulse. I hope that I'm still doing what I'm doing. The thing about it is to me, it's not like I'm digging ditches. You know where I'm going? I enjoy what I do. I get to talk to some of the wealthiest people. I enjoy this kind of shit. I enjoy talking to you about the past. I just like to know what's going on in people's lives. I love what I do. Yeah. And that's the point I'm trying to make because you have enough money now. Look, you don't need that much money to reach this point where you can buy anything you want. It just becomes boring at that point. So what do you do to actually enjoy life? And so you have to make sure you're doing something that you actually enjoy doing. Well, I want to start with the one thing that I didn't do a lot of because I was so ingrained in making money, money, money, money is I didn't travel a lot. And so that's what I really want to do. I want to start stepping back a little bit. I got more money than I'll ever be able to spend. My kids are going to be fine for the rest of their lives. I just want to be able to sit back and go to Italy and not have to worry about anything. You know, just go enjoy the rest. Whatever life I have left on this planet, I want to enjoy it. What part of your, what part is your family from? What part of Italy? Venice. Oh, cool. Yeah. That's where my family is from. And I love going, you know, if I had to live in another country, I would want to live in Italy. Yeah. Yeah, I loved Italy. And I want to still get down to southern Italy because that's my family's from the other system that I haven't visited yet. But yeah, are you all in town on both sides? Yes, I am. Yeah, me too. Yeah. One thing I wanted to ask him, John, before I forget, you had a wine, the vineyard, what was, what went on with the wine? So that I really did that for my daughter. And she wanted to do this thing. And I said, yeah, I'll fund it, but you're going to do the work because I don't have a time for it. And it started off really good. But then when COVID came, it killed us. Because all, we were in all the restaurants and I was like, this is going to be good. We marketed it right. Everything was right. And then COVID came, somebody offered me some money. And I said, take it. You know, how you sold it? Okay. Yeah. So I dissolved, actually sold it, made a little bit of profit off of it. And but yeah, it would have done real well. But with timing, it would just was the wrong time. Yeah, the timing is everything. Timing. Yeah. Well, I mean, look at his timing with Vince McMahon. That was, yeah. Did you ever like buy like a vineyard or anything like that? Or did anything interest to you like that? No, no, what I'm doing right now, currently right now, I'm buying laundromats. laundromats. Okay. Yes. Yeah. Why a laundry man? Why a laundry mat so, so profitable? Everyone always says, Oh, if you got money, you got to wash money. You can wash your clothes. You can start them with very little capital. Right. And then there are money makers. Every single again, it's residual income. Every day you're making money. It's not just a one. What are you charged for a load of laundry these days? So down here, the average load you spend is about $15 on a wash and dry. And now what I'm going to start doing is I'm going to start putting gourmet coffee bars in them so I can keep them there while they're washing, have their coffee, they can do their little work there, sell them stones and whatever else. So I'm going to start adding them to all the laundromats. Hold up. I got a question for you. I got a question. If I have to go to a laundry mat to do my laundry, okay, I'm probably not that well off financially. I would say, right? Correct. Am I going to buy gourmet coffee and scones from you? You know, if I don't really have that much more. In California, even when you're broke in California, you still have some money. Well, here's the thing though. A lot of some places, you know, apartments, you know, even colleges, apartments, they don't have a good area. Obviously, I'm not going to put one in New Port Beach, but I'll go to the Costa Mesa, Riverside, Bista, places where there's high colleges around. And people use them. And they're nice with, you know, all the high-end washers, you know, if I can keep people there and make more money, that's what I want to do. I would never have guessed that they make that much money, but that's good. I mean, you're not going to be a millionaire from a, but when you got 20 or 30 of them, it's a pretty good. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But how many car washes do you have? 12. And every one of those is making, and you got a manager to live on there, actually. They are off on the site. Yeah. And if you live on the site, and there's no cash, it's all cashless, right? Cashless. Well, now it is, which is great. It was the coin, the coin operated ones. Are the laundromats going to be cashless? So it's going to be all debit. That way you don't have to worry about cash. You have to worry about stealing. We don't want anyone stealing from you. That's the problem. Yeah. Exactly. Wow. Look, you got it set up right. I, you know, you should do some, you should create like a school for how to become a financially, I guess, wise person. You're right. You know, I brought up, I asked where we were talking over each other about mentoring, where you mentored. It's like, I think, I think the fact that households today are a lot of are missing a father. And on top of that, kids, or, you know, or the in families where the father's too busy, and that happens an awful lot. Kids are coming up now, especially guys, un-mentored, they have nobody's mentored them, taught them anything. They barely know how to check, you know, balance their checkbook. So, you know, how do you, how do you, you know, foresee these guys coming up, becoming able to absorb some of this business acumen and make better choices? For me, I had the best parents. You know, my, my dad, you know, worked hard his whole life. And he taught me, hey, Troy, if you want something life, you got to work for it. You sacrifice, you'd be willing to fail. And, and, and my dad was hard on me. And I didn't understand it back then. But as I got older, I said, this is exactly why all three of my brothers are successful, because he's instills the work that nothing comes for free in life. And if you want something bad enough, there's nothing that can stop you if you're willing to put the effort into it and achieve that. Because I mean, we live in America, if you can't make money in America, something's wrong. You just, you just have no work ethic. Right. You know, don't you think work out. To me, I have the greatest, the greatest dad you could have ever asked for, because even though at times, you be going, you know, just Troy, like, like in bodybuilding, like people say, Troy, you're never going to win. One person wins it. My dad goes, it'll be him. He has one. And when you have a father that doesn't, that, that does a lot because it built your confidence. It makes you think that you can do anything. Sure. Right. Sure. Right. Yeah. Parents are super important for success. Yeah. Yeah. That's why, as Bob Grushkin would always say, there's a lot of headcases of bodybuilding. A lot of people would, from weird, crazy, you know, household, you know, I think it's the most infested, degenerate, degenerate sports theory. Well, because we all muscle up to cover up some kind of inadequacy. Exactly. Yeah. What's the worst deal you ever made? Where you got killed? I never really got killed in anything. Trying to think. He regrets, like, you might have made a bad investment. What? Yes. I invested probably, I invested in a, a cannabis farm. And it, it just, the regulations changed and I lost some money there. But, you know, it was something, to me, if you sit on the bench and don't get in the game, you're never going to know how good you are. Right. Yeah. You gotta, you gotta. No, so. I'm willing to sacrifice anything for that next thing. And if you, if you're not willing to take chances and risk, you're, you're just going to live that simple life. You know, I'd rather live like this. I mean, like this up and down, then just like this. I'd rather have all or none, all or none. You would, you're an adrenaline guy. You need, you need. Yes. I need that rush. Yeah. And I'm willing, you know, I'm not content just, okay, I'm here. I can pay my bills. I can do this. I got a good life. No, I want, I want to go for it all. Right. So what do you think? Oh, I want, one question. Would you ever, like if there was like a mega like investment, like where you thought like you can get in like, like an Elon Musk type of a, would you do it? Elon, did, would you ever like let it all ride everything? I don't think I would at this point in my life. But if I was 35, hell yes. Cause you could make it again. Cause I know I'm young enough that I'll get it again. When you're 64, I'm starting to think, okay, you know, it might be hard at 64 to go back and do this all again. I could probably make a good living, but I'm not willing to risk what I have now for that. 35 I'd risk, I'd risk everything. If you want to start over from scratch tomorrow with no money, what would you do? First thing I would do is do car watches or longer mats. Really? Wow. Because they're almost, they're almost full. They're just the whole concept thing on it. You don't need a lot of startup money and you can use up. What does it cost to start up a, if you're buying an existing one and you're doing it right, probably 250,000. They're right. Well, a lot of people don't have that much money, but I mean, but these guys are winning. If you've got to find places like, look, you go to the owners and say, look, I'll buy this over. You carry the paper. I'll give you 10% down. I'll carry, you carry the paper. You'll make money on the interest and then I'll give you a balloon payment in 12 to 36 months where I'll pay you out more than what I'm buying it for. You just got to get creative because there's a lot. Like if I had one and somebody, and I go, look, I don't need the money, I'm retiring, some young guy goes in there and look, I'll do this and you be the bank. Okay. Now I'm making money on my money already. I'll fund this guy and if it doesn't work out, I get it back anyway. Get it back and get it back. Right. Right. Right. Right. Very little risk and you don't need a lot of money to do it. And there's a lot of guys that will do it. They'll hold the note for you and then you just give them a, you make an incentive for them where look, I'll give you a balloon payment at 12 to 36 months for the whole thing and you'll make another 20 to 30% on your money. Wow. Interesting. Yeah. Especially for these guys, John, that are winning like, you know, 250, 300 grand, they can, they can just take that and flip it right into a car wash or a laundromat and now they got residual income coming in. And if, you know, they wouldn't force shows. I did that. Victor Martinez, Victor Martinez called me one day and he wanted to know, Hey, what do you do? What are you doing? And I said, Victor, you got to think outside the box. You're trying to do the same thing in bodybuilding, the training. I got a program and training. I go, you got to think outside the box. You're not going to make money. Use your money to do things that give you residual income every single month. That's like money. The guy who wins the Arnold Classic this year is going to get how much 700, what? 50. Now you could open three laundromats with that. But I spent you any amount of money, whoever wins that is not going to open shit. No. Well, John, he doesn't, he doesn't even have to use that money. Right. That's right. He can use it as a backup. He can use it. All you got to do is get creative. I never buy shit with my own money. Never. OPM, other people's money. That's how you make money. And it's a good incentive for people that have it and can afford to say, yeah, I'll be the bank because the upside is too good for me. Now, instead of me getting 200,000, I get, I get 20% of it up front and then I'm paid every single month and that the blue payment and I'm making interest on the money that I'm, I'm loading this guy. And at the end of it, now I'm making another 10 to 20% pockets in no brainer, especially if you don't need the money. Right. Right. I think a lot of people are afraid to get into business. They don't know anything about like, you know, like, well, what do I know about a car, a car wash? What do I know about a, you know, laundromat, you know, maybe you're not sending rockets to the moon. I mean, we're washing cars. Yeah. It's not that complicated. Well, you got to have, you have to have employees you can trust that they're going to get, they're going to do the job. You're not going to be running the car wash job yourself. But that's the thing about it. There, there, there is no employees, Dave. It's the, it's, it's the handhelds. Oh, you're going to the hand, I have no work, no workman's cop, no employees. I don't have to deal with anything. Right. Right. I didn't even know those things make money, but I guess you're right. Yeah. And they're open 24 seven. So they never close. Yeah. You know, you got RV sites on them and people are washing it two o'clock in the morning and usually they go through it two times. So now if you're at seven, 50, now you're at $15 and then they're buying the little, the little arbor all to do it, the little vacuum. Now I'm up to $20 a ticket and it's right two o'clock in the morning. I'm sitting there and somebody's, I'm getting paid. Right. You're right. No, it's, it's, it's very smart. It is, man. It's the way to do it. That's why we, that's why we like guests like Troy because you get a different perspective, you know, we should get a Valentino and Lucina to run a car wash for us, John. They're up at five and then it's three in the morning anyway. You know, they wanted the gym normally though. I don't think all those, those little statues would fit in the car wash. Hey, Troy, I want to thank you for stopping by and sharing your life with us. I enjoy talking to you because you're such a success and you're so inspirational. And he's open. He's open. He's the only guy, the only guy I talk to that's got money that is okay talking about money and how to make it and what to do with it and some of the stupid shit you buy with it and all, you know, and the smart stuff you buy with it. Nobody wants to talk about that, but I think it's incredibly important. Especially these days when mentoring is, it is all time low that even what you just said today, some enterprising dude watching this could say, holy shit, what am I buying? I want you're mad. I can do it with somebody else's money. I'll make a deal like Troy said and get out there and hustle and actually do it. You know, sure. Absolutely. I mean, there's deals all, there's deals all the time. You just got to be hungry and go after it. Yeah, you got to look, you got to look, you got to be open minded and look at stuff. Yeah, absolutely. Great advice from a great guy, Troy. Thanks for joining us. Appreciate you guys. Thanks for having me. That's going to take us to the end of another episode of the Palumbo podcast. I am Dave Palumbo with John Romano and Troy Zuccalato. We will see you next week.