Welcome to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Thursday, December 17th, 2015. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. The bikini gods look to be showing some favor to Norman Austria here in the early part of her offseason. Austria had another sterling season, finishing the year with top six finishes at the Arnold and Olympia, along with racking up another two wins to bring her career grand total up to six. Competition at the top of the bikini division is as tough as it's ever been. But even with all the new emerging talent, Austria still has managed to find a way to carve out a place for herself at the top. And if she can find a way to capture one of the sports major titles, she'll add another chapter to a legacy that is quickly growing. Norman Austria isn't the only bikini star who shook things up this year. This season, we also saw India Paulino return to the spotlight with a vengeance. Starting back with the Arnold Classic that kicked off her season, Paulina went on an allout tear, ripping through the schedule on her way to collecting four wins and top four finishes at the Arnold Australia and Olympia. Pound-forpound, Paulina is as dangerous as anyone in the bikini division when she steps out onto the stage and comes out swinging. And now that she's got her swagger back, there's no telling what sort of damage she'll be able to do after a long and productive improvement season. It looks like our good friend Tanal Ray is getting an early jump on her New Year's resolutions to build a great back by any means necessary. Ray was spotted in the gym grinding out another no holds bar training session, apparently trying to hammer her back into oblivion. Maybe some of this newfound intensity, however, came from helping to run this past weekend's mega seminar at Bev Francis Powerhouse Gym that featured two Miss Olympias, Latoia Watts and Juliana Malikarnney. And if there's anything that's going to kickstart your training up a few notches, it would be catching a little bit of that contagious Olympia fever. Keith Chicone is looking rather swole these days. After battling it out at the top of the amateur division for over a decade, the true blue veteran finally broke through and earned his IFBB Pro card back at the 2013 Masters Nationals and closed out this season by collecting his first top 10 finish as a pro at the Phoenix Europa Pro. Mr. 619 muscle looks like he's been enjoying the spoils of his success over the last few years, packing on some serious size. Over the years, Chicone's legendary work ethic have made him into one of the most respected figures in all of bodybuilding. And you can bet when he takes the stage again next year, we'll be getting the best possible version of Peach and Coney that he has to offer. Being one of the top three bikini competitors on the planet is no easy task, but you wouldn't know it by looking at the effortless grace that is Courtney King. This year, King left her footprints all over the bikini calendar, placing top three or better in all six of her contests, including rocking the house with her third place Olympia performance. Since closing out her season after the Prague Pro, King doesn't look like she's eased her foot off the gas even a little and seems to be hellbent on storming into 2016 with one thing on her mind. Championship titles. And after what we've seen from her so far in her short career, when she sets her mind to something, there doesn't seem to be any stopping her. Four weeks ago, you would have been hardressed to find even a hardcore bodybuilding fan who knew the name Josh Lonardoitz. But my have times have changed. In the last few weeks, the Australianb born powerhouse has gone from relative obscurity to being crowned the winner of two pro shows and being talked about as someone who could do some serious damage heading into next season. At 260 plus pounds on stage, he has more than enough muscle to stand and trade shots with anyone on any stage. Not to mention his completely shredded conditioning. But before we all get ahead of ourselves in a hurry to anoint the next big thing, we'll need to see if he can hit his mark with consistency, which is the mark of true greatness. But with the Arnold Australia only a few months away, his time to shine is quickly approaching. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out iron magabs.com. Today I'm your host Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions. And make sure to follow us on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo!