Orus Kalisinski wins his open class debut and does so in emphatic fashion, winning the 2025 Italy Pro. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Sadique Farooqi here with an RX Muscle news update and an absolute doozy of an update as Orus Kalisinski wins a 2025 Italy Pro winning in his debut openass appearance. Now this is a conversation that goes back about a monthish ago when made the announcement that he is in fact going to transition from the classic physique into the open class. Now, if you remember that day, there was this brief period of time, I don't know if it was about maybe an hour, maybe a little bit more where makes the announcement and then an hour later or whatever time period it was where he comments in his own thread saying that he was in fact going to be targeting the Italy pro. Now, in between that there was some speculation, well, what does that mean? or is uh plan on shutting it down and maybe making the proper adjustments, the size gains necessary to compete post Olympia or in the 2026 calendar. But no, he not only chose to make his debut at the Italy Pro, but doing so against truly one of the worldclass lineups as we pull up the results for this 2025 Italy Pro. And we'll give a shout out here to Muscle Insight. does a phenomenal job with all these graphics, uh, really, you know, rich newsworthy pieces that he puts up and really pushing the bodybuilding media sphere forward. As you see, a look at the top five here for the 2025, it'll be pro oris Kalisinski in his debut placing first. And again, you look at the worldass caliber of this lineup. Quinton Aria making his third contest appearance of the 2025 season. Uh he placed second in Tampa, third at the Texas Pro and places runner up here uh to URS in Italy. And Mark Hector uh phenomenal showing for him placing third. Sergio Oliva Jr. uh remarkably improved from what we saw uh in Fibo back in February or March or April rather. Uh and Lewis Breed who you could argue uh top to bottom maybe the most condition in this entire lineup he places fifth. But again, the conversation centering around uh and picking this kind of a show, understanding what kind of a caliber lineup given the stage of the time of the year that we're at that we are now uh five weeks out from the Olympia. Let me pull up on the screen just so you can see what I'm looking at here. Again, we're going to look at the remaining period of time, which is only one show, which is the 2025 Europa Pro, which is going to be next week in Germany. That show is going to be your last opportunity to qualify for the 2025 Olympia. So, again, when you go back to the caliber of competition that UR chose to compete against, this not only a slouch lineup, this was truly one of the top lineups. and you look at the overall landscape of the uh as we'll bring up the qualified athletes. I'm not sure if they already have or there there you go or Kalisinski already updated. So, this is actually a phenomenal website. The new layout, I love it. Very organized, very clean, very easy to toggle through class by class. Um, as you get a look at the Olympia lineup here, look, we we just had this long discussion about the 2026 uh qualifying, the new guidelines, but I mean, again, just focusing on the lineup that we have here. I mean, this is truly going to be a blockbuster blockbuster Olympia lineup. I mean, the one name that I see here is Brandeo. Um I believe he's not going to be competing this upcoming Olympia. But I mean you look at the caliber of the competition here or Kosinski um who is going to be making his Mr. Olympia debut against the likes of a Jordan Hutchinson also making his debut. Rubiel Masquera hopefully be ruani will be there as I'm just reading off the the debutants as is Sassan Herdi good veto. So again, absolutely top caliber competition that ORS is joining. Now again, let's bring up the actual uh video of ORS. Uh I'm going to give a shout out here to AJ Kelly. Does a phenomenal job with all the live playbyplay of all these top pro shows. Here we go. So, you know, look, whenever you get a top flight athlete or a high-profile athlete transitioning from one division to the other, there's always going to be uh this intrigue as far as what they're going to look like. How are they going to profile against an open class lineup? And how are they going to look against the, you know, the that lineup of that you're going to have featured at that show? And we see Orura is here by himself. And I mean, look, Orura's profile is at about 5'11 or so. And I go back to a conversation that I had with Steve Weinberger, IFBB uh head judge. This was the day after or two days after the New York Pro and I was asking him kind of some off-topic, you know, topics about bodybuilders, you know, who are not at that show. And I asked him specifically about URS and without hesitation, he openly asked out loud, you know, what direction is he going in? Is he staying in open? Is he is he going to the open? Because he's looking very big. He's carrying around a lot of size. And I think that's a constant that we've seen out of ORS over the course of the last 18 months or so. So there was open speculation as far as you know whether or not was in fact going to go into the open class at some point. I think there was an understanding that he was going to do it. I think he himself admitted that you know look it could be a two to threeear process but I think maybe that's why that announcement caught people a little off guard because I think there was still the thought process that he was going to compete in one more classic physique. uh Olympia given the fact that it was a vacated title uh title, you know, was going to be up for grabs. I mean, you have your four or five names that everybody's banding about, but I think Ors was one of those that everyone suspected, at least for this year, was going to be in the running for that vacant uh classic physique Olympia title. But nonetheless, he makes up his mind that he was going to in fact be competing. Now, before we bring up Quinton, I did want to bring up one more thing. And again, this is look, you're going to have the obvious uh the comparisons, right? Now, when you're talking about ores, right, and we talk about the natural comparisons. Now, look, he's not the only one, and I'm going to give a shout out here to classic bodybuilding. There there are a lot of people throwing around a lot of different names as far as comparisons uh for Orus Kalisinski. I'll let you be the judge. Look, he did the homework on this. He put the sideby-side comparisons. Now, look, when it comes to social media and it comes to photo editing, um there are a lot of different ways to manipulate and a lot of different ways to make someone look as big as somebody else. I don't think anyone is going to be comparing Dorian or or to Dorian at this point. But again, if you're talking about in the mold of a build of a Dorian Yates, I mean, again, that's a conversation that I'm sure people are going to be having. Um, I just I found it interesting because as this contest was progressing, we were getting all sorts of, you know, things sent our way and this was seemingly the most constant. So, again, feel free to debate in the comments section below as to whether or not you think there is any any even a natural comparison here or as far as a future potential comparison or if this is all hogwash. But, let's bring up uh some of the other competitors that we have here. And I'll give a shout out again to AJ Kelly and uh beyond the stage, you know, again during these contests, they're absolutely on the ball as far as posting videos and everything. And this is Quinton Maria. Now, look, I was MCing the Texas Pro, his second appearance of the 2025 season. Um, you know, again, I'm going off pictures and videos of Tampa just as if just as I'm doing here, but again, based off what I'm seeing here, this is the best Quinton Ara. I mean, he absolutely brought it here. He nailed it. I mean, look at this side leg. That is freaking nasty. That is I I mean, again, the only natural comparison I see as far as the size uh that he brings in the side leg is Rammy from his Olympia winning years, but he is absolutely diced to the bones here. I mean, look, spending two weeks with Mr. Olympia Samson Dada absolutely did him good. Um, but look, it's it's not only just that he brought it, right? The level of conditioning here is is excellent. um he is doing a much he's doing a great job again in terms of not only filling out that frame but presenting it. I mean again he's come a long way in terms of his overall presentation. He's got truly one of the top structures in the entire pro league. Uh and and at his height which is at about 61 6'2 I probably say 6'2. Uh he has so much real estate to fill up and he's done just that. This guy is so close. I I'm going to be very peculiar to see if he makes an announcement over the course of the next few hours uh about whether he's going to continue um to the Germany show to the Europa next week to see if he can lock down that last Olympia spot and qualify for this Olympia. Truly, I don't see why he wouldn't. I mean, just given the way he looks here and, you know, Italy to Germany, it's a pretty short flight, but I mean, again, we're seeing the complete package here, man. This is this is bells and whistle. Look at the glutes. Look at the tie-ins. I mean, there everything is there. This guy's on on the money. Let's take a look at Mark Hector. Mark Hector placing third. And again, this is I'm blanking on which show he just did a few months ago, which was is I guess if you want to call it the comeback show, but this is a much better look here. I mean, look at that upper body. That guy is He is big. This is a big dude. I don't know his height. I don't know if he's at as at as 6'2 as as Quinton Aria, but he is tall. Uh, and he's got a he takes up a lot of space on that stage. I mean, again, we're talking about a very big, very wide, but very condition condition package here. I mean, this is very impressive out of Mark Hector. And and and and you know, like Quinton Aria, Mark Hector presents that musculature extremely well. his posing is not only just is on point, but it's it's it's truly it's artistic. It's entertaining uh from a bodybuilding perspective in terms of, you know, the the flow that he has on stage, but I mean, look at that level of condition. That is wild. But no, absolutely truly he absolutely brought it. Uh I'm going to bring up some uh comparison photos here from uh Jonathan Moria who really is brought about brought himself into the conversation as one of the best photographers in in all of bodybuilding. Uh he covers, you know, vast majority of the European shows. You've I've seen him at the Olympia. He he had unfortunately like I I feel like this conversation relates more to the Iranian bodybuilder as far as visa. He's had some visa issues. Again, he carries a lot of camera equipment. uh issues getting into the country. I hope that gets resolved and we'll see him at the Olympia because he truly brings top-notch photographies. You got to look at, you know, some of the big comparisons here. Let me pull out see if we can get a wider shot. Here we go. This is much better. I mean, this is I mean, again, you talk about this the quality of slime. This is Amir Omar here on the outside. And I mean Amir has been knocking on the door now for the better part of two three contest seasons to you know crack through and make it to the Olympia. But I mean you know where's Sergio? Sergio Lea Jr. I saw in a lot of photos a lot of videos uh getting a shot in that center middle as well. Um again I saw Sergio at the at Fibo back in April and he is appreciably better here. bigger, sharper, more conditioned, fuller. I mean, again, you see the side chest here. You see that side leg for S for Sergio Oliva Jr. I mean, this guy, it's very impressive. I mean, this is the cool part about bodybuilding in my opinion, and I think many of you can relate to this. You know, we've seen Sergio and other bodybuilders, you know, had their ups and downs, you know, in terms of uh life and other things in general. like it's well documented what Sergio Oliva had to go through over the course of the last 18 months. Um but to bounce back from that and really kind of find his footing. I think he's living in Vegas now. Um you know putting himself in a great atmosphere and you seem that what good it's done for him. I mean this is this is wild. I mean look at this line of frizzle but Sergio absolutely brought it. I mean nails conditioning back and front as did Lewis Breed. I mean, Lewis Breed and again, you could argue as far as just a pure level of conditioning may have been the best on stage, but again, you look at the quality of this competition, this was absolutely phenomenal. But again, the day belongs to Orus Kalisinski who wins the 2025 Italy Pro. And you know, again, now we go back to the question as far as look, five weeks from now, what can we expect out of or right? I mean, this is going to be his debut Mr. Olympia appearance. Uh, maybe five, six weeks ago, many of us thought that he was going to be in the gunning for the vacant classic physique Olympia title, but no, he comes in, wins his open class debut, and against truly world-class competition. And now it's on to the Mr. Olympia for URS in five weeks. Let us know below in the comments section where do you think will place in his debut Mr. Olympia appearance and do you see the Dorian comparisons or who do you think or is best compares with past or present, you know, as far as an open class bodybuilder? Dave Palo and Christo will have a much more thorough breakdown of this most exciting 2025 Italy Pro on Heavy Muscle Radio tomorrow, Monday at noon, Eastern Standard Time, the United States Eastern Standard Time. I'm Steve Farooqi. Thank you for watching. This has been an RX Muscle news update.