This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the 2010 NPC Team Universe. I'm here with our men's overall champion, Eddie Vaughn. You dominated tonight. You went home with an IFBB Pro card. How does it feel? Feels fantastic. It feels like, you know, you dream of this. You know, you see guys, you go to shows, you see the guys in the magazines online, you know, guys that work hard, bust their ass, and you know, they're rewarded by it. And for it to be you, me standing here in front of my family, in front of my friends, in front of my trainer Betty Moore, in front of my prep coach Faky Mubarak, in front of my boy Armando Deleon, who guided me through this, in front of in front of people I love and cherish. You know, it's an amazing feeling. It really is. Well, you know, your your class was no slash. It was a couple of good guys, and a matter of fact, the guy who came out before you, I was a little Yeah, Rob was great. And and I I then when I saw you come out, everyone just started laughing. I was like almost like I'm like, "This guy's winning the whole show." Oh, man. God, thanks for thanks for saying that. But this is a this is this right here is a lot of hard work. It it's been it's been a long road for me. You know, I started competing back in ' 04. I had to take a couple of breaks. You know, I've been through a lot of drama, but you know, it goes What kind of drama did you overcome to get here today? Well, you know, I I'm a police officer for the city of New York and um you you know the policies. You know, you could barely take a hydroxy cut. Shout out to the New York City Police Department. I did it anyway. No thanks. You know, they bust your balls a lot with the bodybuilding. Um yeah, you know what? People in the priest are naturally supportive. the brass and the overall way people some people just generalize and stigmatize the sport in general. But, you know, I just wanted to show everybody that not all you see and hear about this sport is bad and this sport could be a good example if done the right way, you know, and that's what I'm that's what I'm trying to do now. This is a great example cuz you just won the drug tested NPC team universe. You're going to the world championships and you got an IBB Crow product. That is correct. That is correct. And I get to go hang out and eat with my family and friends. I'm on rxmuscle.com. Life is good, you know. Life is good. Now, where do you go from here? I mean, you've made some tremendous balance since you placed fifth at the nationals last year. Um, it seems like you're still growing into your body here. What What's next? I mean, do you want to start? You want to compete as a absolutely I do. Oh, I'm going to act a fool with this pro card. You're going to have to kick me off the stage. I don't care if I am the worst place in pro in IFBB history. I'm going to compete. I'm going to take the pro card. I'm going to continue to grow. I'm going to continue to improve my nutrition, my training. I'm going to continue to break the bounds that my body, my own personal genetics set for me. and we'll see where that leads me on the FBB Pro level. The 202 class is tailor made for a guy like me. I was do well. Absolutely. You know, I'm going to make the improvements that I need to make. I'm going to keep my nose to the grindstone and make my family and friends and everybody who you know, Rich Barnes, ASN training, I'm going to make everybody proud. You know, too close. You may quite possibly see me on the stage at the um You know what? I got my eyes set kind of on the uh 202 class at the NY Pro. That's my hometown. I may have to stay there. Yeah. Yeah. I'm coming for you, Kevin. Big shouts to Kevin English. Kevin, yes. Kevin, I mean, Von, congratulations. You looked awesome. You really impressed a lot of people out there and you earned your due. I know you worked your ass off of this. Go enjoy the spoil victory. I will. Thanks, Dave. Von Edian, our men's overall champion here and new Dave Palumbo, RXMuscle.com. Yeah. Heat.