Welcome to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron NAG Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Friday, April 22nd, 2016. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. The New York Pro is still about 5 weeks away, and it looks like some of the best bodybuilding fans on the planet are going to get a chance to see one of New York's bodybuilding legends take the stage one more time. After a few weeks of contemplation, earlier this week, Victor Martinez made the announcement that he'd be bringing his talents back to compete in front of his hometown crowd for the second straight year. At last year's contest, Martinez brought in one of his best looks of the season on route to finishing second behind an awesome Juan Morell. Victor's been on cruise control since wrapping things up at last year's Arnold Europe. So, expect to see a Victor Martinez firing on all cylinders. A Victor Martinez that's extremely dangerous. It's been 19 months since the 2014 NPC Nationals, and it looks like former middleweight runnerup and soon to be 212 rookie pro Tank Moore is finally ready to make his way back to the stage. Earlier in the week, Moore released his most recent set of progress photos just under nine weeks out from the Dallas Europa Pro, and he looks to be well on his way to bringing a whole lot of commotion to the party. Over the last year and a half, Moore has really spent some time doing his homework, packing on loads of new muscle to go along with all that nasty conditioning we've seen from him in the past. And if he takes his time and slowly peels back the layers over the course of the next nine weeks, this good old Texas bodybuilder might just have a very happy homecoming. Somewhere in some Hall of Fame, former Miss Figure Olympia Nicole Wilkins needs to have an entire wing devoted to her. This week, the Golden Girl of Figure released some footage from a late night training session, giving the world a sneak peek into what the most decorated athlete in the history of Figure is up to these days. By and large, Wilkins really seems to be firing on all cylinders without showing any signs of slowing down or letting up off the gas even a little bit. And despite not announcing any intentions about what her competitive plans might be, judging by the way she looks now, she could very easily decide to throw her hat into the ring at any moment and still be considered one of the top athletes in the world. Speaking of not showing any signs of slowing down, Autumn Swanson doesn't seem like she's going to be falling victim to the old championship swoon anytime soon. This year's Arnold Classic Women's Physique Champ leaked some video from a tricep training session this past week where we see her looking like something Michelangelo chiseled straight out of Granite. Swanson may have taken the international stage by storm, but her win certainly wasn't a fluke. Just last year, she was a top five Olympian, and at her best, she's without a doubt one of the top female physique athletes in the sport today. If she can keep sprinting all the way to Vegas at this pace, she might run right into a win. It's already been a busy and exciting first half of the season for Darham Charles, and two weeks from now, he'll have a chance to keep the good times rolling at the upcoming Salt Lake City Pro. Through the first few weeks of his new foray into the world of classic physique, Darham has already managed to snag a win, a runner up, an entire generation of new fans. Classic physique has a chance to really explode in popularity over the next few years. And athletes like Charles are going to be instrumental in driving this new vehicle forward as it tries to build up steam. So, if he can manage to keep the wins rolling in as the year goes on, it seems like the odds of him going down in history as the first classic physique Olympia champ are only going to continue to climb into the stratosphere. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com. Today, I'm Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. And have a happy April Fool's Day. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo!