Sean's a powerful guy, you know, he he he has he has the microphone, he has the TV, not the TV, but the, you know, the video cams behind. He's got a lot of credentials pushing him. So, I believe a lot of influence from Shawn on the how to would be very influential for Jocka to take on. You know, nothing to downgrade about that. So, all the efforts that were made may have been slightly more extended than what Jaca was probably wanting to do and didn't have total control of what she was going to do. I could be wrong cuz I don't even know. But, you know, um there's a little bit of Sean's fingerprints on there somewhere. He helped him out. You know, Sean wouldn't miss no opportunity like that. No, definitely not. Especially when there was money involved on his part. Now, you know, I cuz when I originally heard about the best comeback award, the best pose award, I said to the first person's name, and I'm not saying this because I have you on the show, the first person's name who came to my head was Vince Taylor. I'm like, Vince could actually leave this place with 30 grand in his pocket and come in last place because which I knew you wouldn't anyway because I knew the best comeback was definitely had your name written on it. The best poser had your name written on it and you're going to get five grand anyway for just appearing. So, I was surprised and I knew that there had to be a reason and that's why I wanted to get you on the show, find out what happened because you could have gone home with a nice little uh nice check in your hand and it would have been appreciated. I mean, times are pretty tough. So, um that check right out of your hand. He cast it in his own back. You know, Vince uh we're not really looking for that quality anymore cuz Sean's my boy. I love Sean, you know, and uh him and Leone talk on a radio show one day, right? And they were covering the fact that uh Leone beats me out with all most professional wins in bodybuilding. And I'm going like, "What?" I said, "No, no, no. Kevin was always third." Okay. He was second and then he went to third cuz Ronnie Coleman, you know, leaprogged me. Kevin never tied me and was never ahead of me. So when I brought that to Sean's attention and he passed it on to Kev and Kev came back to me saying, "Well, yeah, Vince, we're not we're not counting the master wins. We're just counting the open class wins." What? Yeah. I'm going like, "You would try anything to get a place in history?" I said, "The record book says the Guinness Book of World Record Book says Vince Taylor, the winning professional bodybuilder, the most wins." Okay, it didn't say Masters versus this. It said the professional wins. So, I I I pled it to him. I said, "Listen, when the Masters come and when Dexter wins, tell Dexter that win don't count on his record." Okay. But he's trying to tell me. You're right. Because you know what? The the Masters win is impressive as the as the regular win because of the fact that you're still competing at that age. You know, not to Kevin Sean. You know, we set the record straight on that one. My brother, a muscle machine from Maryland like myself, homeboy, you're still number three. That's right. And he's he's at an age where you were still competing and winning shows. So, I mean, if he wants to get back up there and and you know, start and that's what I tell him. If you wins, good. You know, like put it to me very lovely one day. He said, "Bench, man, I just turned 40." When he did, he said, "I can't believe that you were kicking our butts at 40 and I can barely get to the gym now." Okay, that was an understatement that I said that needed highlighting because some of these people don't realize that. But, you know, I don't get credit for it. I got to come back again. How old were you when you when you won the Arnold Classic in '92? Um, 40. Oh my gosh. No, it's 30. High 30s. You were almost 40 years old. People didn't realize that. 39 almost probably 39 almost 40. Crazy. I mean, that's crazy. You started at 27 years old in bodybuilding. You started a little later. Yes, you did. a little late and I had two shows. I had the Berlin and then I had the nationals and then I went pro. Okay. You actually were competing so far back that you actually did the Mr. America one year. I think you won your class 1986 was my very first introductory to bodybuilding. I wanted to be Mr. America and I did the AAU Mr. America and I won, you know, then from that point on it was what are the nationals, right? And then I went to compete in the nationals. You won the 88 nationals. Yeah. Took fourth in and I had told my bicep in ' 86. So it was like 85. I'm sorry. And I was like, "Wow, guys, I've been out for a whole year. If you like me here at the nationals getting fourth place." Well, next year when I can train a whole year, you'll love me. And I came back and won the overall championship. That was pretty amazing when you did that. Well, you're always a class act. Now, what's all right, let's go through what's going on because I know you got a lot of stuff going. You got you're doing the tour starting when? In Europe? We're going to be kicking that bad boy off. Hopefully, I'm going to put get some bookings before the Fibo, which is going to be April 19th this year. So, midApril, I think. I have given myself enough time to get back on the bandwagon. So, we're booking everything from April until May. And right now, we just had Berlin. I just put it out there and Berlin jumped on it right away. So, we're trying to fill the dates. So, before the bowl and shortly after. I think that we should also put it out there because there might be a lot of United States, you know, uh, promoters that are looking still for guest posers. And I'm sure if you're going to be in shape, you wouldn't mind guest posing the United States, would you? Oh, exactly. And I plan on being in shape. This is my second run. You know, I want to bring to the to the stage right now at 55 years old at physique that people go like, "Wow, he's in shape. He looks good. He's old school and he's back, you know." So that's my gift back to my game. I'm going to make one recommend. First of all, I'm going to say that anyone who hasn't seen Vince Taylor in person pose, you you got to do it. You got to go check him out if especially if you're going to do something in the United States. Secondly, my recommendation to you is is to come up with something new as far as the posing routine and updated and something that's going to knock these guys socks off to show them that you don't have to go back to the stuff you used to do. I want to see a new routine because I know you're very creative and you got the skill set to do stuff that's going to wow people. cuz when you did that Terminator routine, everyone copied it after that. You were the Terminator with that one. 10, 12 years strong. I mean, and they're still doing it today. And to me, you know, honestly, that was like a one hit wonder. I was like, how do you top that? You know, you got a hit record. How do you top that? Um, I had some I had some things up my sleeve, don't get me wrong, like a real promotion, but it might cost a little money to put it on at each event. You haven't seen nothing yet. All right. And what else is going on? Do you have any products you're selling? any supplement companies you're representing, anything like that? Well, right now I have a great friend of mine and I are making a big push to bring create a Vince Taylor line. We're going to break it out in Brazil. Okay. Next year. So, that's really heavy on the list right now. Uh, you know, I'm an entrepreneur and I still got my exercise band. So, I got some companies interested on and off, on and off. So, I'm still trying to do that. And, um, that's some of the things that have already been on the table with me. I'm doing my book, as I said, The Quiet Storm. I'm writing it or trying to write. called the quiet storm. Why do you call yourself that? Um, it was two things. I associated myself with one of the best boxers in the world that I I just admire and I met a couple of times I watched him fight as well, which is Roy Jones. Roy Jones Jr. history, his song that he put out at the same time I did the Masters. Um, it was just amazing because it fit his story fit I thought mine. He got screwed up in soul career with his gold medal in Olympia. I got screwed up on a lot of gold medals myself. you know, he was knocking blank blank blank in the dirt. At the same time, I'm knocking down a lot of contests and titles as well, but couldn't get the respect for it. So, when he said in that song he put um y'all must have forgot. I put on my on my Facebook last week. I'm going put it back on tomorrow. Y'all must have forgot there. He says, "I'm like that quiet storm. I just keep on raining and I keep on coming." And I'm like, you know what? That's me. Cuz every time they look around and a contest crumbles up, I don't make a lot of noise, but when it's time to compete, that quiet storm is rolling in and I'm just going to keep on coming. I'm gonna keep on raining. And you're still dangerous, too. That's still dangerous. Quiet storm. Vince, always a pleasure to talk to you. And thanks for giving us some insight. And catch Vince Taylor this uh spring. He's going to be up on stage guest posing hopefully in an area close to you. There you go. I'll be back. All right. Thanks, man. See you. I love you. Thank you, buddy. Heavy Muscle Radio is a presentation of rxmuscle.com, the truth in bodybuilding. Tune in next week at the same time for another round with Dave Palumbo, only on Heavy Muscle Radio.