 greyh.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com.com. 2026 Arnold Classic. Classic physique pre-judging. Just letting out Dave Palumbo's physique for rookie. Wesley Vissers and Matthias Menegade in the middle as pre-judging ends. Keep in mind, no Mike Sommerfeld in this one. Gabrielle Zancanelli sustaining an injury. So Wesley and Menegade fighting it out for the title. I talked to the powers that be, and a lot of people thought we would see Mike Sommerfeld in the open. That's not going to happen. He will do Arnold UK at Classic Division in two weeks. But Wesley Vissers has to be happy that he was not in that lineup. And Vissers brought what he had to here. I thought his tan could have been a little better. He always has serious problems with that tan. I don't know why, but it could have been better. I think if that would have been the case, it would have been a slam dunk for him. I think Matthias Menegade really impressed me. This is the best I've ever seen him. Structurally, he's as good as Vissers. He's taller, which is pretty crazy. He's wider, and he's got some better bells and whistles. I think Vissers is a little more polished and a little more professional. I think he's got that. He knows how to win shows. I think he's got him edged here, but it's very close. Well, we saw Wesley Vissers. Obviously, we did the wrap-ups with him at the Olympian. We saw the sheer size that he carried there. Did that translate to you onto the stage? Yeah, he's bigger and he's fuller here, which is what he needed to do, but I think he's not as sharp. I don't know if the sharpness has to do with the tan or if the fact that he's just been leaner in the past. It left the door open a little bit. I think Mattagotti really showed up at his all-time best. I think tonight we're going to find out what's going to happen. I'm also very impressed with Gohari from Australia and the Italian kid, Andrea Mamoli. Mamoli from Italy. Very, very good. And you've got to take your hat off to Sam Sulek here. He really held his own. He's not going to place top five, but this guy held his own. His first pro show last year, he was just an internet guy. Got his pro card here last year. Showed up at his best. I thought he was great. His back's got to come up, but a lot of people want to know what's the future for him. I think he's got a future in this division. I really do. I think he's really good. But the show is between Vissers and Managotti. And I think tonight we're going to find out who's going to win because I think it's that close. Close margin. Matthias Managotti and Wesley Vissers are going to be decided tonight. We're going to have our full live stream available on rxmuscle.com. King Kamali, Chris Cook, Armand Adeebi, and Melvin Anthony. So check that out. And, of course, we're going to have our full wrap-up tonight. And, of course, the big boys, the open class taking the stage tonight. This is going to be a close one. So keep it locked to rxmuscle.com. Thank you. you