the show was between visers and menagate. And I think tonight we're going to find out. >> I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute [music] best, join the evolution. >> [music] >> 2026 Arnold Classic Classic physique prejudging just letting Dave Palumbo Farooqi Wesley Visters and Maas Managate in the middle as prejudging ends. Keep in mind no Mike Summerrfeld in this one. Gabrielle Zankanelli sustaining an injury. So Wesley and Managate fighting it out for the title. I talked to the powers that be and a lot of people thought we would see Mike Somerfeld in the open. That's not going to happen. He will do Arnold UK at classic division in two weeks, but Wesley Visters, you know, has to be happy that he was not in that lineup and and and Visters brought what he had to here. I thought his tan could have been a little better. He always has serious problems with that tan. I don't know why, but it it could have been better. I think it would have if that would have been the case, it would have been a slam dunk for him. I think Matias Metagante really impressed me. This is the best I've ever seen him. Structurally, he's as good as Vissers. He's taller, which is pretty crazy. He's wider and he's got some some better bells and whistles. I think Vissers is a little more polished and a little more professional. I think he's got that that he knows how to win shows. I think he's going to he's got him edged here, but it's very close. >> Well, we saw Wesley Visser. Obviously, we did the wrap-ups with him at the Olympian. We saw the sheer size that he carried there. Did that translate to you onto the stage? >> Yeah, he's bigger and he's fuller here, which is what he needed to do, but I think he's not as sharp. And I don't know if the sharpness has to do with the tan or if the fact that he's just been leaner in the past. It left the door open a little bit. And I think Madagati really showed up at his all-time best. And and I I I think it's going to I think tonight we're going to find out what's going to happen. I'm also very impressed with Gohari from Australia and >> the Italian kid uh Andrea Mamoli from Italy. Very, very good. And you got to take your hat off to Sam Sulk here. He really held HIS OWN. HE'S NOT GOING TO PLACE top five, but this guy held his own. His first pro show last year. He was just an internet guy. Got his pro card here last year. Showed up at his best. I thought he was great. His back's got to come up, but a lot of people want to know what's the future of him. I think he's got a future in this division. I really do. I think he's really good. Uh, but the show was between Vissers and Menagate. And I think tonight we're gonna find out who's going to win because I think it's that close. >> Close margin. Matas Madagate and Wesley Visser is going to be decided tonight. We're going to have our full live stream available on rxmuscle.com. King Kamali, Chris Cook. Um Armani. Yeah, Armani and Melvin Anthony. So check that. And of course, we're going to have our full wrap up tonight. And of course, the big boys, the open class taking the stage tonight. This is going to be a close one, so keep it locked. rsmuscle.com