Welcome to our 2017 Road to the Arnold Classic sponsored by Quest Nutrition. Visit questnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and today's guest is IFBV Pro from Russia, Vitali Fativ. Welcome my friend or comrade. Should I call you comrade? Do you your arms are looking very big? I I understand you're 270 pounds right now. Two weeks out from the Arnold Classic. Is that correct? Uh can you repeat, please? I Yeah, I understand you're you're tipping the scales at 270 pounds right now, which is probably one of the biggest competitors who will be competing at the Arnold Classic this in two weeks. Yes, that's right. Right now, that's got to be exciting. Last year in Columbus, you placed ninth. You went on to the Arnold Brazil and placed fourth. Um, what are your feelings going into this year's Arnold Classic? Do you feel that you can make the top five? top. I'm expecting to place the top five because um I'm preparing hardly so I wish I could do this. Okay. feelings. How is your training in Moscow, Russia, different, do you think, than some of the training that guys might do in the United States or an oxygen gym in Kuwait? How are you training there? Is it more hardcore, more basic exercises? I think that uh in Moscow there are more uh lifts the more weight uh which is lifted. So the good basis. Okay. Let me ask you this question. Um, how is the food intake in Moscow nowadays? I know in the years past it was harder to get really good quality food. Is that better now in Russia? Mhm. There is no problem in quality of food. I eat turkey and red meat. Okay. Now, being one of the more popular uh professional bodybuilders from Russia, do you find that people recognize you more frequently when you walk in the streets? Are you more of a household name there? There is a tendency there is a new time. Uh there is a tendency that fitness and bodybuilding um is in um fitness industry. Yes. In fitness industry uh is very popular between sorry among uh all people. So I think I'm recognized on streets much more. I imagine you stick you stick out a lot more too. Now, Vitali, what people want to see is they want to see a little sneak preview of what you look like. Would you take off your shirt and pose for us a little bit? Yes, I'm looking forward for this moment. Roll the sleeve up. Let's see those arms. Come on. Show us the arms. Show us the arms. Come on. Short mouth. Yes. Show us. Tell them to show us the arms. Just give us a couple arm shots. Let me see the bicep. It's a lot of muscle right there. It's a lot of muscle mass. You're looking great. You're looking huge. And we're looking forward to seeing how you do in Columbus. Maybe you will be the surprise darkh horse of the competition. Uh, sorry, can you repeat this? I didn't hear. I gave you a great workup. I said Vitali might be the surprise of the contest. We call them the dark horse, the person no one expects to come into this lineup and do some serious damage. The translation's not not going over well. I understand. Well, I want to wish you the best of luck, Vitali, on stage at the Arnold Classic in less than two weeks. We will see you there and I hope to be interviewing you maybe in the winner circle. Oh, thank you. All right, my friend. Thank you for joining us in this interview today. And uh that's going to take us to the end of another episode of the 2017 Road to the Arnold Classic brought to you by Quest Nutrition. Visit questnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and we'll see you real soon.