and I'm standing over here at the VPX booth with the uh owner and inventor of many of these products, Jack Ook. Uh Jack, uh we haven't seen you in a while. I know the Arnold Classics is a big show for you. You like to make a statement. You came out here had you have a huge booth. You're back here in Columbus, Ohio. Good to see you. You made me feel like I just scored three touchdowns in the Super Bowl. That's what I That's what I do, Jack. Now, Jack, you you've done more innovation for our industry probably in the last 20 years than than anyone that I know. You never copy other people's products. You're always coming out with new stuff. And I'm always like asking you what's the newest stuff you got out. And you know, sometimes you go to companies, they don't have anything new, but you have been working on binding creatine molecules to peptides or proteins. Essentially, that was your brainchild. explain to me the the synthesis to that whole uh project. Well, um as you might know, creatin represses myostatin, right? Up to 60%. What we want to do because that makes you grow better, right? Tell tell people what myostatin. Myostatin is a protein that suppresses muscle growth. If you can eliminate it or suppress it somewhat, it opens up the the floodgates for muscle gains. Right. And so in addition to that, lucine increases mtor, which has also opened up the floodgates for muscle building. It's the Scott Conley called it the switch that turns on protein synthesis. Right. Exactly. And so we combined covealently combined creatin ducine and a peptide and then attached an aliphatic esther a doilester or fatty acid right which will allow it to uh traverse the uh bloodb brain barrier. Um so you can make the creatine stable and liquid soluble in liquid which is important and that's what this drink is. Well this is a stable creatin glutamine peptide. Now, when I drink this, not only will this get into my muscles, it'll get through into my brain. Yes, correct. And what benefit is that? Um, creatin um what what happens with creatin is uh as you age, you you have what's called a creatin transport deficiency, CRT. I didn't know that. Yes. And then that opens up your brain for Huntington's disease, Alzheimer's, Parkinson. Is that true? It's all creatine based. Yes. So, creatine super healthy for the brain. That's the future of creatin. So the idea is is that you don't need CRT. You don't need a creatin transport vehicle if you have a doyl fatty acid estester attached to a creatin peptide to go. How did you come up with this? How did you learn this? I never heard of this. Um I was writing a book for 8 years. And the reason I haven't come out with it, there it is. Super creative. Super creatine is I never came out with it because it was a it was almost like a lifelong study. And the more I learned, the more I knew I didn't know. This is fascinating. Yes. And that's what it got into. This is delicious tasting. What? Is there any carbs in this? No. Zero carbs. How the hell do you make this taste so good and not I can't even taste the creatine. Zero zero zero. That's That's nuts. This is banged. Yes. What flavors does this come in right now? You don't even know it, Dave, but you're getting all banged up. I'm going to be banged up and I'm going to think better and I'm not going to get Alzheimer's. And that's important. Now, seriously, what does it do for a bodybuilder, though? Well, um, creatine peptides again, the secret to muscle growth, and it's in my book, is suppressing myostatin as much as you can. So, the creatine won't, we're not talking about old creatine just, you know, raising ATP levels in the cell and volumizing muscle. We're talking about suppression of myostatin and and stimulation of mtor, right? What even creatine monohydrate, which is the worst creatin on the planet because it's not soluble, suppresses myostatin to 60%. You know that? Yeah. Our goal is to suppress it about 87%. Wow. That's what we're working on. And I'm sure you have some ultra sophisticated machine in your warehouse that does all this in your factory. Well, yeah. We have really cool videos. I'll send you a copy of it spinning down in our chemical hood. I've seen you at your your factory. It's unbelievable. It's like a space. It's like going to a Skynet in in the Terminator. Yeah. Since the last time you were there, we got a chemical hood and we're spinning down all of our own. I got to stop by, Jack. Jack, you're an innovator in this industry. When will the book be out? Um, hopefully in about a month. All right. You got to send me a copy to review for the site. We got to get you on the radio. Actually, what I want you to do, I'm going to send you an early copy and get you to write a testimony. Absolutely. Jack Oowok VPX innovating new products. Guys, check it out. Uh, he's available all over the place. Where will this product be distributed? Everywhere. Uh, yeah. Europa has it. Lonear, GNC, and Vitamin Shop. All right. Very good. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Woo. Hi guys, what's going on? It's massive joe's raw review and I'm coming to you from massive joe's.com. Awesome raw review for the viewers at home today. It's on an all new reformulated preworkout supplement in the house from one of the world's premier supplement brands and by far one of the world's hardest working dudes in the industry. It is of course Ronnie common signature series, Mario Blitz XS. There's a bunch of ingredients in this here my blitz excs that I ain't never seen before. So I actually had to do some research on these ingredients which I'll be honest with you does excite me. Let it rain. Let it rain in terms of the effects. I'm going to tell you about my first experience with my blitz XS. Woo. First time I took this here my blitz man. I took it, drank it, kind of waited a little bit. Next minute, started warming up, started training. I started training some shoulders, man. Started training some shoulders. Next minute, workout over. So, I thought, cool, that's good. Can't remember my workout. Don't really care about not remembering my workout cuz my energy levels are pretty low. So, so long as I got it done, I'm happy. Next night, train myself some arms, man. Once again, took the Myob Blitz excess, waited for it to kick in, started working once again. Workout over. Neck day, biceps, triceps, sorus. Took it the third time, which was last night. Train myself some back my blitz. One scoop. One scoop of test genetics are one of the best workouts I have ever had. Blitz, you can hear colors. You can taste sounds. The [\h__\h] is on a different level. Preworkout mental focus has to be the best preworkout mental focus supplement we have seen thus far. Thus far. Thus far.