Hi, welcome to VPX. Hey, welcome to my new home. Come on in. We'll show you around. All right. I'm here with the owner of VPX, Jack Ook. And uh Jack, you know, I I remember you. I think it was maybe 15 years ago, you came to the Arnold Classic and you had this little blue bottle with a little like plastic syringe saran wrapped around it and you said to me, "Look at my new product. This is going to be the greatest new product of all time." Do you remember what product that was? Yes, it was Paraducka. And And where did that idea come from? Is it is that how VPX originally started? First of all, I remember when I saw you cuz I kind of freaked out. This guy had long workout pants on and I guess it's your femoral artery or whatever it is running down his leg. You could see it through his long pants. Hispanic. This guy is a true freak. And he was walking around and it was the Arnold and you were bigger than most of the competitors and I was wondering why why isn't this freak on stage and uh we start talking and you were very knowledgeable about science. So, you know, my my big exciting thing was I didn't know that many people in the industry, but to show this to you and also to show it to Dan Duchain who had just gotten out of jail, right? Dan was there and I remember you guys took that famous picture of him Dan holding up the bottle of the Power Deca. Yeah. And I have that picture so you'll be able to view that later. But, uh, one of the things Dan was just getting out of jail and kind of I I I think uh, Muscle Media and Bill Phillips pushed him to the side. They wanted to go more mainstream and um, he wanted to get some publicity. So, I said, "Do you mind if I use this picture?" I didn't know back then you needed to sign a release and all this. He said yes. He was a man of his word. And uh Flex Magazine actually rejected it because it had Dan Duchain in. So I was Wow. I was I said why can't this be in there? And they go one of the W's quote unquote uh meaning I think it was Eric Weider rejected the ad. I guess he didn't like Dan Duchaine or whatever. So I couldn't put the ad in there. But nobody knew anything about viral marketing because that thing had a syringe on it and everything like that. It's not really a syringe. That was your idea, right? I don't No one ever did that before. Right. Right. Yes. But you couldn't. It's It's actually not a syringe. It's like the bottom pieces of a syringe. It's actually patented because you can't put a a needle on it because what was happening screwed onto the top of your bottle, didn't it? Uh yeah. Well, no. You put a little special bottle top on where you can draw it out. And um it kind of had the same feel as using steroids. It was a proster steroid. Uh we created a delivery system to uh kind of almost like an injection. It was a poly lipid delivery system which is long chain polymers and fats. So that if you can imagine active ingredients encased within that they go into your bloodstream and they're released slowly into the bloodstream. And no one was doing this in industry. Where did you innovatively come up with this idea? I used to teach chemistry and um your intestines are lipopilic. They're fat. You taught chemistry to high school kids. Uh well mostly discipline a little bit of chemistry. Okay. You work on three discipline kids and you teach maybe five 10. But you always were interested in chemistry. You were a chemist by nature. Well well for for nine years I taught six different science disciplines and um uh I got fired every year. In nine years I was in eight different schools. Why was that? Um I'm kind of a leader. It's why I run this company. So I was always at odds with administration. Something if something was broke I'd fix it. And we you know I didn't understand that you're not allowed to tell the principal what to do. you like to march to your own drummer. So, well, not necessarily that, but I'm a leader and so if you see bad leadership and you tend to take over a situation, um you're going to get into confrontation. So, that's kind of uh what happened throughout. So, how did you start VPX? Because this is an interesting story because a lot of people don't know the story behind this. What was the first product you ever produced? Was it the Power Deca? And how did you actually even get the idea to call it VPX? Um what I wanted to do it's a it's a good question because you you just saw downstairs we went through everything and most of the people you see down there are formerly from um pharmaceutical companies like when Ivax moved we hired their top uh uh chemical engineer he specialized in liquids and semi-olids but before all this you had no money to do this didn't you? I mean where did the money come from? You must have had an idea that started the whole the whole process. Well, I was teaching school and um I was I was uh doing a bunch of people's diets, but in instead of just doing the diet and training them, I was using supplements, but I was using other people's supplements. And um you know what happened early on is um two incences. One is uh there was a product called um Eggpro and um as as a a scientist you know I was getting a loss of about 4 to 6% body fat a month on just regular individuals with training diet and supplementation using a fat burner proteins different things like that and one of the months went by and nobody lost any body fat. And so as a scientist it's real simple you're into science you go okay what variable did I change? Well I went from you know back then it was egg protein. I went from Beverly uh Egg Protein, which is to me a high quality brand, to this uh Egg Pro and um cuz they were out of the Beverly and uh put my clients on that. No one lost weight. So, I sent it out to be tested because, you know, I taught nine different science disciplines. I knew you could have these stuff tested even way back then. And this product was 90% carbohydrate and 10% ash. There was no egg protein in it. And it said 100% egg white album on the label. So, you got frustrated with the fact that these companies were lying about what they were putting in there, right? And then in another instance there, one was called Egg Pro and Pro Egg. I don't know which was which, but one was by a company called Med Sport out of Florida here. My friend was a pro basketball player. So I recommend again back then, you know, egg protein was the thing. He goes, you know, I'm allergic to milk. He goes, recommend me an egg protein. So I gave him the uh Pro Egg by Med Sport. So he asphixxiates and almost chokes to death in the shower. He has to pound on the glass. Wife has to take him to the hospital. And I wrote about both of these incidents incidences in Debbie Baker's natural muscle and people were at rate and I developed a huge following because people were pissed and I started testing all the supplements and then I was teaching school and I could barely pay my bills and um and there was really no teaching. School's all discipline. It's just made you're dealing with all society's ills. You're a babysitter, right? So I uh I I I tested these products. I wrote about it. following become became bigger and bigger and then Debbie's phone started ringing off the hook and these people wanted to know look you need to develop a product and I go wow this is easy because all you really have to do is put what's in the product on the label I didn't want to stop there I mean you know I'm a scientist and just taking things further and further I wanted to create great products but I remember something clicked in my mind and I go this industry is ripe for the taking over every you know none of the and nobody's ethical everybody's ripping everybody off and I started to create my own supplement. And to answer your question, the first product I came out with uh I was too complicated. Always am kind of like you. But it's um ATP reynthesizer and it was a creatin type product that and it sold like crazy. I mean it was a it was a good little mix and um and you were you were really grassroots at the time. You were just selling to your base of listeners and followers, right? Essentially. So what I did at that time about the same time is that um I realized the school teaching thing was not were not happening for me. I could barely pay my bills and I had a you know a son who's 2 years old and and I was I owed money at the end of every month. So I was going to um vitamin wholesalers buying about 7 to 700 to a,000 product uh dollars worth of product a week. So I go I you were reselling it to your clients. So, I started to um it was interesting because um my dad and I went and the store the rent was 600 bucks and my dad's old school. There was a lot of vacancies and this thing was in the back of a Wind Dixie where all the dumpsters were. There were rats everywhere and my dad's offering the guy 300 when it's 600. He's not offering him 500. Three. We're sitting there in a battle in the parking lot and the guy been embarrassed too. I'm sure I was. But I learned a lot from my dad about business, about sticking to your point. But my dad kept sticking to 300. This guy kept coming down. My dad would never counter with 350. He would counter with 300. And and my dad kept going, "Look, it's 300 more than you have today. None of these places are rented." So what transpired was I felt bad for the guy. He was about to cry. So I go, "Okay, 350." And he was relieved and he took the deal. So you had a store rent for $350 a month. 350. And that's still cheap way, you know, back then because the average rent in the area was about 800 to a,000 bucks. So now, coincidentally, in the back of the store, there was a chiropractor and he had um set up a place where he can get a shower and stuff so that he wouldn't have to go home and he can run his, you know, business. But it was only 700 square ft and I called it Vita House, so nobody knew why, but it was vitamins in the front, house in the back. Oh, you were living there? Yes. Wow. Sleeping on an air mattress. And um all my friends were making fun of me. The hurricane came, they wedged a big tree in front of my door cuz I wouldn't go out partying with them. But it it was fun and it developed a huge cult following because people go, "Oh yeah, go in this this guy's a freak and he doesn't wear a shirt." What I would do is I didn't know anything about business, man. The first person knocked on the door, I just get up and answer, you know, my shorts. I'd be all ripped from like eating protein all day. And it developed a huge cult following. And soon outside the store, it was really cool because there'd be um all these Ferraris, uh vets, stuff. I go, "All these guys aren't working during the days." Of course, this was during the Scarface days when people had money. So, they were coming to your store to buy supplements. Yeah. But then they started hanging out there and they all beach chairs out in front, people mixing protein shakes. It was like a little community. You just It was like a little like a hostel almost going on there. Yeah. So, way before viral marketing, this thing created a huge viral thing because before the internet really. Yeah. People would go, "Oh, go to this guy. He's like a freak. He knows everything about nutrition." And I didn't like if you wanted, you know, back then it was all Champion Heavyweight Gainer 900 or uh Metabol or whatever. Here's a box cutter, go find it. You'd have to open the cardboard box yourself for fun. So, it was creating this huge viral thing and I didn't even know, but it was so busy that I had no time to stock the shelves. I used to try, but then I gave up. So, at what point when you were in the store did you actually launch your own product? Um probably about uh almost immediately after a year I launched a creatin product and then I remember whey protein isolate and reading about it and understanding it and um Glambia was it was a different name back then but they had the first cross flow micriltration whey isolate and I knew that the ion exchange process what happened was you blow the thing the uh protein up in a big tube and um it sticks to the resin one's positively charged one's negatively charged but what happens is it leaves out all the low molecular weight uh uh yeah, excuse me, the high molecular weight peptides or excuse me, low molecular that you want in there like the IGF-1, the bovine serum, albumin, all those and um so I realized it was a bad process, but this cross flow micriltration yielded all those those IGF-1, IGF-2, bovine serum, albuline, CCK, glycomacropeptides. So I go, "Wow, this is uh" So we were we went first with a whey isolate because there was What was the name of yours? It was called CFM, right? I remember. And then um and then what happened was we got so popular. So all the big companies um this was great on Debbie's magazine. I had uh Myoplex Champion all these products and I go, "These products contain whey concentrate." There was Doritos. No one used because no one used isolates back then. You were the first first people that I remember. Yeah. And we were the first with 100% whey isolate. People would sprinkle it in there, but nobody really, you know, came. So, what I did though is I got all the top selling products, but Champion, uh, Myoplex, all the big players, Twin, your buddy is a Twin Lab, and I put these and I sprinkled Doritos all over with a big Doritos back cuz Doritos contains whey concentrate. So, I go, "These products contain whey protein concentrate." And the bottom half of the ad, cuz Debbie had a real big magazine, I go, "This pro product is whey protein isolate." That was your product. Yeah. So they all called her, but her magazine became super popular because because of that ad. Yeah. Well, because of that ad, because of the articles calling all the supplement companies out. I didn't know back then. And uh Debbie would be so elated because her phone was literally ringing off the hook. And then she would call me later crying. They're all going to sue me. I go, "What? You have no money?" And I go, and I got retain samples for everything that I tested. So, uh, I go, "Don't worry about getting sued." Was that your first big product that really put you on made you put you on the map so to speak as far as making money goes? Um, it all contributed uh, you know, selling other people's supplements and then um, people liked our supplements the best cuz I would always go that extra mile. I didn't really just like nowadays I should care more about profitability. I I I make the product first and it's look here's what's in it. Here's what's got to be in it. If you want to pay the price, fine. But if you if you don't, that's what it cost to make it. And you saw what we did.