Hey, it's the RX Muscle post Super Bowl show. Did anybody watch it? I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. I haven't seen the stunts. [\h__\h] a week and a half. Look at it. Look, they just came out. Look at that. I love it. And we're back live for another edition of After Hours with the Wack Pack. I'm Dave Palumbo joined by John Romano and the entire Wack Pack. And uh welcome back guys. And the Super Bowl was uh I didn't even watch it. I didn't either. [\h__\h] the Super Bowl. Yeah, I watched it. But you know, but yeah. Who who all of you guys really into football? Do you watch it like every weekend and all of that? No. Well, that's what I hate. John, the [\h__\h] people that are fans like, you know, oh my god, the the Kansas City Chiefs are going to win. You know, all that [\h__\h] They don't watch all year long. They can't name any players except for Travis Kelce and Taylor Swift. You know what I mean? They have no [\h__\h] You don't watch all year long and now all of a sudden you're a big Super Bowl fan. You know what I mean? I I like I like when they say we scored, you know, three touchdowns. Shot a bear. You didn't do [\h__\h] You know you know what's so weird about the whole thing? Kansas City is like the most obscure like team you could ever like be like a fan of. So when you say you're I'm a KC fan, it just means you're rooting for them because of Taylor Swift. Nothing to do with I can understand Dallas is America's team, you know, and that kind of thing. And you know, but yeah, it there's no one rooting for KC. The only reason they're doing it is because of because of the the paparazzi aspect of it, you know, I see these girls walking around with the shirts in the gym and stuff like that. I'm like, you don't watch football. I'm like, you're just wearing the shirt because you think it's cool because on social media people What about the savage that did that [\h__\h] halftime [\h__\h] That savage. Oh, dude. That was What the [\h__\h] was that? I feel like Kendrick Lamar. Everybody hated it though, Greg. Even Even Even rappers even like that. Kendrick Lamar was like halftime. Yeah. I never even heard of that guy. Yeah, he's AI mean he's a he's a big rapper, but I mean like you know the thing is even if you're a rap fan, which which I am. I like old school rap. All the new stuff I can't stand. But even if you're a rap fan, uh it was awful. I mean, the dancing was awful. It, you know, the the performance, you couldn't hear what he was saying. I mean, it's like, you know, and everybody hated it, you know, like you look at the comments. I mean, why not get like a like a like a rocker like can that actually can sing and perform or, you know, it's How about how about Taylor Swift perform? I don't like her, but I mean, at least she's at the Super Bowl already. Put her up there. They booted her. They booed her when they announced her name there. He went from having Michael Jackson at the halftime show like years ago to now they got people that no one even wants to see. So, it's just it's weird, you know. Dead as hell, bro. That's it. It was more of a liberal uh thing. Welcome to the jungle, bro. That [\h__\h] was [\h__\h] He was saying they're not like us. It was an anti he was saying they ain't like us. I would have rather seen an old old Madonna sing up there. That would have been better. You know, it was not one white dancer. It was all black. Like what if there was all white all whiteision like a white performer and all white dancers? That would have been like the end of it, you know? You know what? I don't care if they I I mean I agree with you but the same thing if they're going to you want black entertain bring [\h__\h] Melly Mel on here. Get Why don't they just get a hologram of like Tupac, you know? They did that before. Like they did a great job with that before, you know. I don't know if you watch that. Has the best comment of the day. It just hit me. Greg wears that blue sweater to avoid direct energy weapons when he's out junking. [\h__\h] Dave Smith. I know Dave. Dave's one of my guys. The whole Super Bowl is is for liberals though. The whole Super Bowl is ga catered towards liberals. I mean the the the halftime show, the commercials, like everything like but but most football fans, like let's be real, most football fans are like usually older white. I mean, you know, but that pay to actually go to the Super Bowl. Who's the number one like like like star in in the music field right now? The who? Yeah. No. Who Who is like the biggest name, would you say? Yeah. I'll say probably Taylor Swift. I hate to say it, right? I thought you mentioned that. So, you might as why not pay her to [\h__\h] go up there and sing for the halftime be because what's his name? Beyonce's husband Jay-Z was the head of the was in charge of the entertainment. That's why that the guy singing the national anthem. Oh, did they Wait, did they do the uh did they do get like a Cardi B then? If you need to have a black entertainer, get someone that someone want to hear, you know? Did they do the black anthem too or No, remember they were supposed to do that. It's just weird that you wouldn't get the biggest entertainer at the biggest show of the year. You know, that's what they used to do. I know. That's why Michael Jackson to this guy. Jay-Z was smart enough. He should have had the rapper and then had he should have done it himself. Him and Beyonce should have done it. Yeah. showed up. Is it Is it like be the first president that showed up uh at the Super Bowl? Yeah. In the stand. Yeah. How about Eminem? Get Eminem to do it or something like that. Absolutely. I like I like Eminem. Even though Even though he's a liberal, I I like Eminem. I don't care what his politics are. That's what I mean. I could care less either, dude. [\h__\h] the whole time. You're not going to sing. You're not going to sing his songs to stay. You can't even his songs. Nobody knows. And it's it's sub black culture, you know, complete and Eminem. No, people love Eminem. What if we should have when we were younger? They should [\h__\h] can the halftime show and replace it with the parade of the of the armed forces with missiles and tanks with all the soldiers marching like they do. That's what that's what they should do. That's that's a guy. Get Panta. Panta's touring again. Snoop Dog. Get Snoop Dog up there. You'll never get Panta. that people would freak out. John, what did they do when we were young? Do you remember like they get what's his name? Get Mc Jagger and his crew there. Greg, I hate to break this to you, but they didn't have the Super Bowl when we were young. Yeah, they did. Aussie touring again. First one was like in the 80s. No, it wasn't. The Super Bowl's like 1962 or something like that. Yes, it was. One of these guys will f tell you Jackson to take your top off again or something like that with the with the Dallas Cowboy cheerleaders. They would come out and do all that [\h__\h] in the late7s. Is is Sid listening? What was the first Super Bowl? The first Super Bowl was either 61 or 64, something like Yeah, cuz the J the Jets won in 69. The Jets won in 69. 67. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. I remember when we were young, bro, in the 70s it was cheerleaders used to go out there. I comment on everyone like, you know, Creed. I'm a big Creed fan. They blew up again like and so I actually saw them. A lot of people are haters of Creed. I I just saw Creed. You're right. You're right. In Fort Worth uh two months ago. They they came to Fort Worth. They were awesome. In your life, Creed is great. They should have had Kevin Leon singing at the the halftime show. It would have been better probably. Green Bay Packers used to win. Remember in the mid60s they were winning like three in a row. I'm just telling you the Green Bay could have been mid609. Remember the No, it wasn't first Super Bowl right here. 1969. I'm gonna have to look this up. No way. I thought somebody else checked it out was different. I got to look this [\h__\h] up. It's 1969. You're telling me that they that the Jets won the first Super Bowl? Now, they won Super Bowl three. They won. Sean, you're wrong. It's 1967, January 15. I just said that before. Green Bay Packers. That's what I just said. The Green Bay Packers won in the They won like three. Won the first two Super Bowls. Oh, mine says Superbike, not Super Bowl. There you go. And then my phone knows me. are popping up. None of y'all watch. No, none of you watch the whole game. I didn't watch one play. Halftime show because you It's all over the internet. It's on every every Yeah. On Facebook, Twitter, Instagram. It's on every clip. That's I'm on Twitter. AI every play. AI predicted every play. It was crazy. No. Yeah. No, there was some like Yeah. Yeah. I I don't I there's a lot of different ones they were tracking. If you were betting off of me, you were making a lot of money. My friend bet on uh the Chiefs previous game. He betted 40k on there with my best like one of my best friends. And so he won 38 like 37k back and then he was going to bet on the Chiefs again. I was like no you I go he you know he's a gambler. I was like no dude say don't bet on the Chiefs again and he did it. So he got out well. Do you see what these cackling women of the the view said on the um about the the the Super Bowl? Megan Megan Kelly is the greatest. I love her. Hold on. I love Megan Kelly. Watch this. Watch this. They're trying to make it into a black and white thing. Watch this. Watch this. To halftime show. I think today Donald Trump is going to sign an executive order banning black people from halftime. Last week we were talking about whether the NFL was capitulating to Trump by removing the term and racism from the end zone. Boy, did they not capitulate. When I saw Samuel L. Jackson. Yeah. As a black uncle, you then have like an entire formation of all black people making a US flag and all the races who somehow get in and where they hopping mad. So if the races are mad, I am happy as a clan. It was so nice to see black excellence and joy in front of the city president who decided for the first time to go to the Super Bowl. Trump is upset because there were black people performing there. That's that's their message. What did the ladies of the view think of it? Here's what they thought in response. Their main their main issue is to make make people racist. Like everyone wants a bad blow. Figure this out. We can't just let these women still look here here's the deal with The View. The View purposely does this [\h__\h] Yeah. because it enrages people and they watch, right? That's why they do it. They do. None of those [\h__\h] idiots believe what they say. They're doing it because they want it's it's hate watching. Nobody who watches that show likes it. But they no men watch a show because they want to see what kind of stupid racist No, I think that people do like it, John. I think that people believe the [\h__\h] that they say. Couple of percent. I'm sure they do, but for the most part, the lion share of their audience doesn't like them. They just watch because they got What are these [\h__\h] idiots going to say next? No, I don't think I don't agree with that. No, I think they believe that, John. It's too hard, John. It's It's so hard to watch that [\h__\h] It's It's It's really hard to get on purpose. I'm telling you, I just don't believe I just don't believe you can put that many people around a desk and not have a cumulative IQ of three digits. I just can't believe that as a human being. That's why they got to be doing this for for because they they're making money off the clicks because people hate them. There's there's no two ways about it. People hate them and they watch to see what they're going to say. People watch the view every week. Who I mean, who watches that? Like women, fat like white women. I don't know. Yeah, that's liberals. Liberals. It says they have 2.3 million followers. Trump 2.3 million. That's not too much. There's [\h__\h] girls on the internet that show their belly button. They get more than that. Joe Rogan's got 200 million. No, it's true, bro. Let me tell you something. It's all about divide and conquer. They always have hidden messages when they have those halftime and you got a bunch of ghetto freaks, you know, doing it, you know, the [\h__\h] dancers and [\h__\h] like that and, you know, it's all hidden messages. It's both I don't give a [\h__\h] what your skin color is. If there was a bunch of gangster guineies up there, I'd still be even black but black people hated it. Black people hated it, too. Like all the comments, they all they all hated it, too. They were embarrassed. They the, you know, certain black people, they're embarrassed. They're like, "This is what makes black people look bad." And they they say that most black people didn't like it at all. John Scaderi, we we just want to see entertainment. Watch this stuff. No one cares about race or anything like that. We want to see the best entertainers up there. And they didn't put the best entertainers up there and that's why people were upset. How about Asian people wedge, John? An Asian or Indian pop star or someone we don't know. That would be more entertaining. Some Asian or Indian random pop star. I would like to wait. They should put like one of those shows on like they do with the Arnold, you know, with the two balancing each other. How about see Billy Joel up there on a piano drinking drunk and and and playing the piano doing lines of blow off the top of his piano. Liberal, right? What about Marilyn Manson up there? The liberals are all freaking out and they love that halftime [\h__\h] The the halftime shows towards liberals. Why don't they get a bunch of [\h__\h] Native Americans up there like doing like pow-wow [\h__\h] Hey, hey, hey. You know, after all, it's the Kansas City Chiefs, right? and all that [\h__\h] you know? It's all because it's all [\h__\h] I like the military idea. We stole the land. It just seems weird that they got the biggest pop star in the world way before dating the the guy on the Kansas City Chiefs and they can't get her to do the [\h__\h] halftime, you know, show. They would have booed her off the stage. They would have loved it. All the Swifties would have loved it, John. And it would have been I don't like her, but it would have been more entertaining than what they showed. Where were the Swifties when they were booing her in the stadium? She's getting all that hate from that movie, you know. I don't know if y'all kept up with that movie. Uh she did like the whole lawsuit. U we just watched I can't remember the name of Oh yeah, but she distanced herself from that from that from Blake Lively. She she just did. But the whole Blake Lively thing in the first place it was a smear campaign with us basically. Yeah. Ends with us. So Blake Blake Lively, you know, she's been known to hard to work with. And so I watched the movie like Baldon. He's the one that originally took the, you know, from the book and what pitched this movie. So, Ba Blake, basically Blake Lively was trying to like take over and said this guy, I think, you know, she caught feelings for Baldoni and Baldon, they're both married. Baldon was just like, "No, this is a this is a you know, I'm not into you. I'm not trying to do this." And so once she felt that kind of rejection, she tried it to turn it into like, oh, he was trying to be too sexual doing their intimate scenes and all this when she's the one, you know, they have intimate coordinators when they do movies, right? The intimate coordinators come in so it's uncomfortable for both people. She didn't want the intimate coordinator there because she and then she was telling like Blake or Blake uh Blake Lively was telling like Baldon like when they were kissing like, "Oh, your nose is too big like like making jokes." And then and then she gets mad because she gets mad supposedly because he has a hurt back. You know, we've all probably, you know, have hurt backs, injured disc. So he asks her trainer like, "How much does she weigh?" Because he has to pick her up and he's not a She did look fat in that movie. I got to tell you, she's she's a cow. Can you back up a minute? And he he's a skinny and he's a skinny guy. So now she made up lies about him. She was saying that he was sending like dick pics and he was doing Wait, can we back up? Yes. Yes, she did. She said he has a porn addiction and he was showing her different like, "Oh, look at this scene." Yeah, she said that. Oh, he he show they were he showed uh like the birth of his uh uh kid. That's what they were showing because he became close friends. That's what triggered him to really sue her going crazy. Hey, wait, back up. Go back to this intimate coordinator. What the [\h__\h] is that? So in in movies they bring in an intimate coordinator like when there's like certain scenes whether it's sex scenes. So both people especially these days both people are comfortable whether it's a sex scene which it wasn't a sex scene they're just like kissing. So the whole thing was like you know uh you know she was telling like hey you know I like it with teeth like kissing or whatever. So she started the initial flirting and all that cuz they had coordinator intimate co this is a paying job. Well, John. Yeah. People don't feel uncomfortable on set. Yeah. Someone's there. Are they psychiatrists? I mean, what the [\h__\h] How do you get this job? How do you get this job? It's like nipple and I'm applying for this [\h__\h] I mean I mean, listen. I mean, if you're in a relationship and your your partner's doing an intimate scene with somebody and you have to be naked with your tits out and all that, I mean, an intimate coordinator's there to kind of like, you know, dictate like nothing gets out of hand. [\h__\h] The hands are all over the tits. You see those scenes and [\h__\h] I don't know. It's a little bull. But it's up to It's up to the actor what they're comfortable with. I want I want somebody to send me an application for this job. Let me ask you a question. Would you let John Would you let your wife do an intimate scene on in a movie if she's getting paid like 10 million, you know? I was I was dating an actress in LA for a long time. I had It's got to be a little uncomfortable, right? You got you got to you got to go into that kind of relationship expecting that this is what's going to happen. If you can't handle that [\h__\h] you don't belong in the relationship. John, that's their job. Like you're dating a body. It's like dating a stripper. You got to know like if you're dating a bodybuilder, you you're going to expect to be on stage showing their skin. If you get in a relationship with an actress, other actress. And so Ryan Reynolds is the whole one that started all a bunch of trouble too because he got jealous like oh my girl is attracted to this Baldon guy and so he starts you know causing all the trouble too. I I don't I think that she's the one who got him involved because I think she when she got whatever got rejected she's like this is taking advantage of me and then and Ronnie Reynolds has got a lot of pull in Hollywood. So that's exactly what happened. Yeah. I want to get an intimate coordinator on this show. I got I got to investigate this. I'm right here. I have never heard it so ridiculous in my entire life. It What do they do? I What's a day in the life? What do they do? John, I got the hold while it's okay. John, they're there to make sure that each person's comfortable. So if you're do that, how they ask them, hey, okay, this scene requires a a boob scene. Are you comfortable with this guy sucking on your titty script going into this thing? No, they have to make sure the actors and they casted certain comfortable certain things when they cast when they cast a movie certain things are changed up like so Blake Lively was wanting to change a lot of different things like the rooftop scene you know it was a really good movie you know and and uh Baldon wanted to do it because of domestic abuse to bring awareness and all that and then she made it kind of like flipped it on him and but you know it's great for him because nobody knew who Baldon really was and He's getting all they they smeared him and so Ryan Reynolds and they're being you know when you do bad stuff long enough it eventually comes out like we've all been through it with whether girls or whatever try to smear your name or make you look terrible and it eventually comes out whether it's two years or 10 years and you're you revealed her you know who you really are. So So how much does an intimate coordinator make a year? Couple hundred grand. I'm sure there's different prices on what what movie that that's that's a picture. See the intimate coordinator in in the back in the front of the bed. Dave, zoom him in. Dave's picking it out. Dave's going to What is he like is he like holding the girl's hand and it's so okay. Your tit that they don't they don't hurt each other. Hold on, John. Here it is. Intimacy coordinators in film and television earn roughly in line with stunt coordinators whose minimum union rates are set at 1,500 a day. You should know the edge of a coordinator. I'm gonna make I'm going to make 1,500 a day by holding a girl's hands with her. That's Brazilian jiu-jitsu. Just have a Brazilian jiu-jitsu coach. So you just got to stand there and say it's okay, baby. Just 1500 a day is not bad. What? There's some pretty brutal movies, John. Like Listen, the whole point here, what do they actually do with the guys to function? When you you say, "Oh, they make them feel comfortable." How how do you The producer director has a vision for how this she's married and it's not her husband who's playing with her tits. So, what do you actually do to make that everything? You're a little too close there to say, "Hey, time, John." What they say? All right. He's going to grab her tits and she's and he's going to lick her nipples or whatever. And you'll get 1,500 a day for this. They agree upon it and then they do the scene. John, these days you have to do that business. I'm telling you, these days you have to do that because you end up with this situation where she's saying like, "Oh, he was too aggressive during the kissing scene." And why? Because of the the intimate coordinator, you know, even though it's funny, he wasn't pre they weren't present there because Blake Lively uh didn't want it there. Why why didn't she want the coordinator there? because she was probably enjoying getting close to Bald Dodie and kissing and you know you know when they do a movie how many times they they did that kissing scene at least over a couple hundred a couple hundred times at least you know how movies work and commercials work we've all done a commercial you know you know it takes a lot of se a lot of scenes and Oh yeah man it probably coordinator before I've sat here for [\h__\h] 12 hours all day just to do [\h__\h] you know 10 seconds worth of [\h__\h] it's [\h__\h] crazy. And I guarantee the intimate coordinator sits there throughout [\h__\h] scenes and scenes for he makes money all day or she makes money all [\h__\h] even on scenes when they're not involved. But could Greg could you imagine being at like a party or you know meeting people and saying like what do you do for a living? Oh, I'm an intimacy coordinator and it's a job for empathy now. What? Have you guys ever seen that movie spit on your grain? Spit on your grain. Have you ever seen that movie? No. No, I have spit on your grave. That's a pretty uh hardcore movie. Like rape scenes and all that. I spit I spit on your grave. I've seen that. There's three of them. Yeah. So yeah, those are pretty brutal movies. It's a It's a good movie. I I I was in one of them. It's called I Spit on Your Dick. I like when the original Hakua. Yeah, exactly. There you go. Listen, it, you know, people do money grab. Everyone in the comments have seen the movie. They're all like, "Oh, yeah, it's a great It's a great movie, but it is brutal." I mean, it's brutal. I wonder if that's [\h__\h] a Doge payment, right, with the Doge today. You find it out. Oh, [\h__\h] They're transgender studies in [\h__\h] Batswana. You know what I mean? They're like, "What the fuck?" You know what I mean? Yeah. I just I feel the same way about an intimacy. That's what I'm saying. to Iraq to to create a a gay Sesame Street. Oh yeah. Yeah. It doesn't even exist. It's just a f They're finding out now all these [\h__\h] Democrat [\h__\h] have their [\h__\h] families. $27 million for gift bags to to the to the illegal ali illegal aliens, not immigrants. aliens will come across. Let's also not forget Hillary's daughter used money for her wedding. That was three million. Hold on. Speaking of Speaking of aliens, guys, speaking of aliens, you you guys should watch the um interview that Patrick vet David just did with David Greer. I don't know if you saw it. Really good. Really good. You if you're into UFOs and and like learning what's real and what's not real, you know, this guy is I mean, he sounds very believable to me, you know. I I would highly recommend you go watch that interview. It's really good. I like Patrick McDavid, but he gets a lot of hate on, you know, his multi-level marketing thing he did before. Yeah. I mean, he made money in a very, you know, weird way. Not good way. Yeah. My my good friend uh this girl I used to train, she actually was uh working for him like very closely and she was trying to get me on. I was like, it's just a multi-level marketing thing. She's like, "Dude, I was supposed to be on his show when I got my throat cancer." I talked to him. I talked to him personally on Instagram. Well, I I interviewed him on RX Muscle several years ago. He's right here in Miami. Did you? Yeah. Yeah. It was a good interview. Yeah. I never saw it. Before Yeah. Before he got really popular, you know, you know, interviewing the Body Bowlers at that time and and one of his guys in 2020, the day I had my first You didn't want He didn't want to get you on there, Dave. I'm surprised he want you. No, you didn't ask. I you know, I don't ask him. People want me on the last man. So, I reached out to one of the guy I actually reached out to him and he said, "Yeah, I'd come on." And this is like I said before about four years ago before he was really blew up. So, I had him on and uh one of his guys in the office used all the species stuff. He was a big fan. So, I was I would I sent him a bunch of care package and stuff and uh he thanked me and yeah, he was he's he's a good guy. I I I like him. You know, some don't like him, but I like him. I think he's a good guy. He lived in Dallas. When he lived in Dallas, he lived in North Dallas. He lived about 30 20 minutes away from me. Uh, and then when once it get started getting really really huge, then he moved to Florida because there was a little drama here. So, he wanted to get away from like a lot of the Yeah, but he's not into bodybuilding [\h__\h] People think that he's a plant. People think that he's a plant for like the guy like a government plant or something like that. But I don't know. He's not He was into the bodybuilding. He's not really doing now. He's got big political people. I mean, he's that [\h__\h] Donald Trump. It's a Yeah. Yeah. Trump. I mean, he shot up. He He loves bodybuilding. So that's he got into those guys. It's all about a lot of bodybuilders on it, bro. He has Yeah. A lot of people are jealous of him, you know, because he's done he's done a couple cycles, dude. But you could tell. Oh, yeah. Yeah, he definitely did. Yeah, he talks about it. Yeah, he talks about he's steroids before. He wanted to be Mr. Olympia when he was younger. Just like all of us, right? Did you see that Sean Strickland fight, George? Holy [\h__\h] I didn't watch the fight. those in like eight eight different is that guy dup blesses he gay because there were all this [\h__\h] all this [\h__\h] was saying that he was the first gay UFC fighter or something is that true or it was the guy that beat Sean Strickland this weekend oh Jervis that guy whatever I they were saying on the internet where the hell are you hearing that I never heard that I think he was I'm not sure that's I don't know if it's true or not maybe right you follow they were saying all this stuff that he was like you know and there was a lot of people saying [\h__\h] about him Where were you hearing? What? I didn't hear anything. It's all over like Twitter and stuff, you know. Yeah. What? What? Why? Why would they even I just don't understand why that even matters. Why does anyone bring this [\h__\h] It doesn't. Who cares? I was going to go to the fight actually, but you know, my friend, he goes gambles up there like But, you know, I still haven't been to UFC fight to this day. Have you Have you guys went to one boxing? I I went to one of the the originals I used to go to all the time when they were at Foxwood up in Foxwood casinos in Rhode Island. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Have you guys ever seen people fighting up close? You go. I got to tell you, it's funny. Bare Knuckles. Yeah. Cage. So when it's up close, it it's it gives you an eye opening to how how brutally and harsh it is. How because a lot of times it looks like the guys are throwing slow when you shoot you see them on videos. No, those hurt. You feel [\h__\h] up for days, weeks, weeks, maybe even a month after a fight like that. Dude, I sat too the the the pressure when you're f the bruises and [\h__\h] They look so much worse a couple days later come out. Two rows from ringside with Ronaldo Snipes fighting. And holy [\h__\h] when you see how heavy he hits, those heavyweights in boxing hits so [\h__\h] hard. It's like if you took a baseball bat and were swinging it. I don't know how anybody, you know, heavyweight. You said it, Greg. You can't hear the hits when you're on TV. When you're in in the ring, right by the ringside, and you hear that the when that smack, it's it's brutal. So, you guys haven't seen a football game in person, go see a football game. When you hit those guys hit each other, it sounds like two cars colliding, you know. George, do you like their knuckles when they get checked against the wall? Oh, I love that. George, you like their knuckles? Totally different in person than it is hockey, too. They straight up fight. It's great. You know what's funny about hockey? Those guys are on skates, which is this high. So, they're like 6'2, 63. They look like they're [\h__\h] giants. When you see that, if you ever sat like I used to see the Rangers, and they're all six feet tall, too, dude. They're all I know, but I'm saying they're on skates, which is like their skates are like this high. So, when I'm in there, I'm like, "Holy fuck." Like, Land of the Giants. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Yeah. George, do you like bare knuckle bare knuckle boxing? I like Ask George. Yes. Uh I like bare knuckle. I like bare knuckle MMA. Uh Charlie Rose uh one of the pro a couple of the guys here fight uh they now they went from uh doing the UFC now that he's in bare knuckle pro MMA boxing. Well, hey Mastoid has a big uh big league. Yeah. Yeah. I said he'll fight you, George. Mr. Rudy said he'll fight you. It's complet It's completely different, George, because you got to protect your hands, right? So, you got to be real careful, right? Yeah. I mean, to be honest with you, wearing the glo wearing the gloves is doesn't really give you that much protection, you know, when you wear the MMA gloves. Um, no, but your fist on someone someone's headbutt when they come in. If they if they tuck their head in like that and you hit them right here, you'll [\h__\h] your hand up really bad. Yeah. I got Well, you have to have strong wrists. I have I happen to have really I could I punch like cement. That's [\h__\h] crazy. What's the hard What's the hardest you've been hit, George? Like in a street fight or whatever was the hardest got hit like the worst like the worst injury or whatever you The hardest because I don't feel it feel it. The hardest was was when that division one wrestling guy when we were just standing drilling decides that that that he's gonna lift me up with his 340 lbs and land on top of me with his with his fist behind my right side. You ever get knocked out? No. You ever black out? You ever been hit so hard? It was when his brother Bobby hit him with a with an axe and he was chasing him with the axe. No, you you guys if you got you black out when you fight. If you you know how like you you don't it's like you're in a tunnel. You don't you could be hitting 30 50 times and not know it. I've never been knocked I've never been knocked out, but I've been hit with a baseball bat before in the back of my head and I was gushing blood everywhere and that like stunned me for a little bit. I was confused to where I was at or whatever. But I You didn't really feel You didn't really feel No, I didn't really feel it. I just like I didn't know what was going on for like a few seconds and all this blood was coming out and then yeah I got knocked I got knocked in the head with a rock when I was young. I blacked out for a second and woke up with someone carrying me blood gushing out and all that. I I got in a fight with I was trying to stop two guys from fighting. I was bouncing and I got punched about 20 times in the face and I didn't even know it until I was done and I saw blood all over my [\h__\h] shirt and this is back like you know in in you know the late 80s early 90s and I'm like oh [\h__\h] I'm I'm [\h__\h] You know what I mean? Uh, you know, cuz I I don't want other people's blood on me. It was my blood because I He split my eye open. I didn't even know it. I don't remember getting hit. Your adrenaline Your adrenaline is flowing so unbelievable. It It completely blocks the pain out. I didn't even know I got hit. I've been hit about three I think three or four times by baseball bats over the years from younger fights and stupid like that. Well, that means you could be a fighter. You're a fighter. Well, in the in the [\h__\h] in the 80s, that's what happened. Like in the late 80s when we were kids, you would fight. You wouldn't people but people would have carry baseball bats out fight them, you know? I f I remember I remember when I was 18, I had my ankle monitor on then. We got uh we were driving next to this car, me and my friend Blake. Blake Blake was a big fighter. I never liked fighting. We just my my friends would get in fights in all the time and I would I would just have to, you know, get in with them. But there's this car pulled up next to us. They had two girls in the back. They were just like effing with us for no reason. And I'm driving. I'm like, "Dude, I'm we're not pulling over. We're not pulling over." It got so bad where they were swerving. I'm like, "Dude, I got ankle monitor. I do not want to get in a fight where Blake's like Blake's like Blake's like Blake's a big guy. We we were both about 240 senior year." He's like, "I got it, bro. Pull over." So, we get out and the guy grabs the B. The both guys grab a baseball bat and Blake I'm like, "Dude, let's just get let's get in the car and go." Blake takes his shirt off, rushes the guy. The guy swings, hits Blake right there. Blake falls on top of him. Blake takes a bat away from him, and Blake hits the guy, and then the guy turns around, falls on his hands and knees, and Blake hits him like four more times. And then his friend is running up with a baseball bat, and I start running over to his friend, and I'm like, "Don't." And we didn't get in a fight at all, but we're there at the gas station. Blake's busted this whole guy's I mean, I don't know if the guy's even dead or not. and we get we get in my car and go, but luckily no no one nothing I was expecting to get a call from the cops. Sure. Or whatever. But probably something. Yeah, of course. But you know Blake was you know I'm like Blake dude you you almost killed that guy. He's like Yeah. I'm proud to say I never got into a fight with a baseball bat with anyone. Thank God. Thank Thank God. Me too. Thank God. Thank God. You know, I wanted to pull up a picture here. Um Sergio Lieieber Jr. posted some pictures. Have you seen that? Good. I was impressed. I was impressed for that. For the size he is, the condition he has. The This guy hasn't competed in a bunch of years. I don't know what he's got. He's got to get on stage, though. He's been waiting to get big and now he's going to compete. He's got He looks good. He reminds me of his father. He has that look. He really does. He has his dad's structure. It's amazing. He's what? He's like 43 now, I think. Right. He's not young and he's getting better still, which is amazing. You got to talk to him about turning his 40s. I'll tell you what though, Arnold Schwarzenegger said he still thinks that he believes that uh Sergio Oliva Senior had the best genetics he's ever saw. The guy's waist is [\h__\h] 29 in. He had the mass today. He didn't diet either. He He didn't diet at all. You know, he was didn't die. did ask me on ask Dave like a question that one of the people asked who would you if you had to work with one person you know in bodybuilding in the history of bodybuild who would it be and I said Sergio Oliva senior because I said he I think he had the greatest genetics of all time he just didn't know what he was doing right that's what Schwarzenegger said his you know that kind of thing he had like a 29 inch waist Dave Dave that [\h__\h] guy had the mass of the guys today body was [\h__\h] he just needed to be conditioned that's even his legs were huge bro for back then when nobody headlights. I mean, he imagine he was on GH and stuff like that. He would have been One of the things I'll never forget is the Arnold's face when he saw Sergio Jr. on stage. It was like he was looking at a ghost. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You're right. You're right. All right. Larry Larry just text me the whole story what happened to his dog yesterday and he eventually had to take him and put him down. We were talking about it earlier. Yeah, dog. We got to send prayers out to Larry. I've already heard that, Larry. I told him I was sorry because but yeah, basically it was like a last minute thing because he collapsed and they took him in and they said, "Yeah, it's his time." And you know this guy Yeah, it's very very sad. Um you know this guy is such lo he's like Armont is losing his hair. I swear. Doesn't he know that? Did we just That's what happens with a hair transplant. You get this. Okay, dude. For people that doesn't know how a hair transplant works, people are so dumb these days. It's like this is how a hair transplant works. They when they implant the hair, your hair has growth cycles. So when they implant the hair, after the first few weeks, it starts falling out for about 3 months. Then after month three, it slowly starts growing in for about 3 to 12. So you're going to see your best results at month 12. So that's how a hair transplant works. It's not like you get hair and boom, you got hair all of a sudden. About 12 months later is when you have the full effects of the hair. The afterare is what sucks because at home I I've just been at home doing nothing for a month. I've been on all ice cream and hamburger diet. That first picture doesn't carlo using the hair transplant to eat like [\h__\h] That's funny. Yeah, I know. Hey, I'm at home. They don't want you working out for a month. No, actually it's they don't want you working out for three months hardcore place. It's a BPC, man. Quit it. Because so for bodybuilding purposes, like they think, you know, in Turkey, they think we're going like they think bodybuilding, they think we're going powerlifting all out like, oh, your nose is bleeding and gushing all that. Yeah. But for bodybuilding purposes, you can you start back after a month. So for 30 days, they want you doing nothing. I had to So for the first week, you can't lay down. They want you to sit upright and then the the care for your hair is worked out a week after I got the hair implants done. So I don't know. Did it work though? You could work fine. Yeah. I mean it's for what I got done. I mean I think they're being overly cautious. Uh and by the way they are I hold I wasn't laughing at Larry's dog dying. I was laughing because I saw the comment about Arman where they said his hair fell out which that's what I was laughing about. I I'm very hilarious. A lot of people don't a lot of people don't know about a hair transplant. It's it's it's weird that you go to Turkey for that. Yeah, they they brought they brought me over there free and took care of everything. Brought it me and my wife out first class business class. It was a great trip. Can they transplant hair from somebody else's head onto somebody else's head like that? No, but you can take it from your ass. You have a hairy ass, Greg, don't you? No, I'm broke. That would hurt those. They got my leg. They took it. They took stuff from under my beard since I have such a thick beard. You know, people always ask me all the time, "Do you have a beard transplant?" I'm like, "No, I'm half Persian and I take testosterone. I have a thick ass beard." And I'm like, "I would give you my beard hair because I get tired of shaving and four hours later it's I have a, you know, or five o'clock shower hair on my head. I'd be having things." You know, Dennis Shames, Dennis James told me he had the hair on his head lasered off because he didn't want to have to shave it. Yeah. A lot of people do that. I said people Dennis doesn't have any stubble or any His head's smooth. He had it lasered off. He told me he has to do if you're gonna do it. I think Dennis looks He shouldn't have. Dude, [\h__\h] that [\h__\h] I I I Yeah, I mean Dave when I met Dave that's I mean I don't have genetics like Dave. But yeah, Dave was like when Dave Dave helped me prep, Dave was like every other day go get a burger and ice cream. ice cream cuz I start dieting and I'm like, "Dave, I just burn up every day." This this guy I'm helping in from India, you know, I I've done his diet a few years ago and he contacted me and he's like, "Can you do my last two weeks and I've been just feeding him a burger and fries every every day this and no cardio because he was disappearing and he didn't understand why he was looking worse." I said, "Because you're not eating enough." I said, "Some guys have that metabolism that if you don't feed it, you get worse, you know, leading up to a show." So like that, too. Other than me, Dave, like you know how much like I have to be fed junk food on a prep diet. Yeah. That's why that that's why that three week thing was a disaster because I we got back from Mexico and I tried to rush. It was rushed. It was rushed. It was rushed. I burnt off like 20 pounds of muscle in three weeks cuz like one session of cardio for me is like two weeks of cardio for someone else. And it sucks because I have to eat so much when I diet. But I'm like that too. It's it's digestive food. I have to eat so much you get bloated. Yeah. And then enjoy food anymore. I didn't know Dave you went to Turkey. John, I had 1k done. It cost me 2.5,000. Oh, he had a thousand graphs done. Went to Buddy went Turkey. Got 5,000 graphs for 4.5,000. And the Yeah, they did the PRP on me afterwards, too. After you they're done with the hair transplant, they do the PRP where they take your blood and they shoot it. I know. I know a girl went there and got a a facelift. She said it was really cheap and they do a really good job there, I suppose. Yeah. I mean, the the the place I went to um they're awesome. I I I've posted It's funny because the video they want you to do that like the promotional video like I had to like uh say like uh it's a lifecher like stuff like that. So to Americans it's corny and and funny, but you know I told them I'm like this is uh kind of corny. They're like no no we like it just do it. I'm like okay that's fine. Are are you going to do follow-ups with when the hair really comes out? Well, you know, after a year, if you're happy with it, you know, most people, they'll do another hair transplant like a year or so later to get even more density. So, I did 4,700 graphs, you know, not not all the time they stick all the graphs. So, in another year, yeah, I'll collaborate with them more. So, like let's say here, let's say here, like I do Botox like once a year usually. If I want to go do Botox here, it's going to cost around $3,000. I could go there. I could go there and collaborate with them and they'll fly me out there for free. I'll get all my Botox for free and a free trip at the same time. So that's what I'm going to do. So you're a spokesperson all month. The food is good. Dude, you may not believe this, but this is all natural right here. No, actually from that we didn't know, Greg. We we were we were suspect about it. The food was You guys are like a [\h__\h] art. Was it like you had was it kebabs and and like baklava and stuff? Yeah. Yeah. Food is amazing. We were eating kebab at like every single meal. Baklava. I mean you get you go to like a fivestar amazing restaurant like two people's like 30 40 bucks. Like it's Yeah. It's the B. So like like I told I said on I think I said on another episode like breakfast you know I like if I eat boiled eggs here I'll eat like five. My stomach is so bloated and hurts. I would eat seven boiled eggs for breakfast and I felt nothing. I could keep eating more. And they had like for breakfast they had like the honey act the actual honeycomb dripping honey. It was like awesome. It was hotel was beautiful. They had a you know the whole Turkish you know Turkish bath and swimming. It was a real big thing. So the hotel was beautiful and um I wondered how much it cost because we didn't know because they took care of everything. But it was only 150 a night for like a five. What would it be if if if somebody like you know someone else went and they used your discount code or something like that? Uh I have it on here. So, um, yeah, they gave me a discount. Dave said his he paid 4 and a half grand. I've seen some ads that they're like for maybe three grand. It's between you could get like my brother went too. He paid he paid 2K. I'm not sure where he went, but his hair turned out really really good. But, uh, yeah, the place I went to uh uh they were awesome. I mean, it was including the airfare. Yeah, they included the airfare. But, you know, on that flight, you know, flying 14 hours on coach, that sucks. So, you know, you want to fly business if you if you can. So, yeah, my co it's uh doc Dr. uh Cynic. It's spelled C I N I K and Arman 25 is the code. You want to get a hold of them, they're awesome. And then, you know, I was here. They do a lot of professional like can you we have like crazy hair on our backs because of our genetics, right? and everybody I get laser here for my back because I mean I don't mind hair on my other body parts but back and butt sucks to have hair on there especially if you're hairy but the clinic I went to they did William Bonnock's hair and they also did his uh veneers there too but Oh really hold on wait you guys got veneers too like big teeth and [\h__\h] No I didn't get veneers I'm eventually going to I've grinded away over the years so so much of my teeth just from there's no there's no one that I know by the way who's gotten more plastic and procedures than than Arman Arman Arman has got a lot of little things. He gets hair. You got everything going on. I I I got I got a hair transplant, Dave. And I got I've got Botox like once a year for the past like five years. That's it. Yeah. But you've done You've done other things, too. I thought John got Botox every three months. He did stem cells. You did you do everything. You do. We did. We did stem cells. And you know, I eventually want to go back I I I'm 100% in favor of what you do, but you do a lot of different procedures, more so than me, man. But I I want to say something. As you guys know, the Lee Priest documentary, we we've promoted that, you know, there there's a lot of clips all over the internet about it. It's a great probably one of the best documentaries of all time. And uh I had a guy come out uh this guy Lexi about eight months ago and he filmed about a 100 hours worth of me just following me around. It's nothing it's not like a real retrospective. It's a documentary and so it's going to be released soon. We're going to release it on RX Muscle. I want to I want to play a little teaser he sent me for it. So, let let me pull this up here. And here's the uh this is like the little uh trailer for it this guy made. Let me see what I got here. Uh oh, also Wes Watson. We got to talk about that. His arrest. We'll talk about that in a minute. Let me play my Let me play my thing first. All right. You guys ready? Yeah. Are you ready? If you don't get your mind, there's no sound. No sound, Dave. Oh, it's not. Hold on. The sound isn't playing. No. Oh [\h__\h] Hold on. Vascular, dude. It's gross. No sound. Why is the sound not playing? Dave, is there somebody standing behind you pumping away right there? Yeah. Why is I I hear my computerized commercial? That shit's amazing. Anyway, why is no Why is the ex-wife's got a strap on right there? Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know why it's not really not. You don't hear anything. We don't hear nothing. No. No. No volume, Dave. No. Uh, well, I'm not going to play. Is that your house? Hey, that first that first picture. What was that? Nationals. What was that? In the side chest. You're freaking huge. Dave Dave, just just put the link in the the bio so people can check it out. I don't I haven't put it I haven't posted it yet. That's why it was I'm playing it from my computer. Just it was Go back and show how huge you were that first frame. You are freaking huge. Look at that [\h__\h] Good god. Yeah, man. Were you like 280 there? Yeah, but if you didn't see him in person, you had to see him in person when you know he was really That's the juniors. No, that he was huge there, but you got to see him in person. I was I was there. That's why that's why I was wondering. He was gigantic. He was [\h__\h] I'll have to upload it to our YouTube channel. Yeah, I still got to watch Lee. I haven't got around to it. I've been, you know, I need to get watch. He's so ripped right now. It's [\h__\h] Dave, were you sticking an injection in the thigh there? Did we see the ad? Was that what I said? I was doing I was doing it in my insulin. My long acting insulin. Yeah. You shoot it in the thigh? I do it under the skin and my thigh. Yeah. Oh, okay. Well, you got no body fat. I don't even take an insulin, Dave. I take a long acting insulin. Why you take it when you first wake up, right? Cuz my blood sugar because I don't like my fasting blood sugars are not perfect and I don't want to get dementia in 20 years from now. So, if you inject the stomach a lot, you start getting all those lumps. You see bodybuilders that are lean. Never inject your stomach. You get marks in your stomach. If you see those bodybuilders on stage, they have all those bumps all over their stomach. That's from injecting peptides, gh insulin too much. What' you say? I've got because my mesh is tearing. Hold on. Don't you do it first thing in Don't you do your insulin first thing in the morning? Like No, I I do it I do it at night dinner. You eat? I take I take two, which is a once a day insulin. It's a true 24-hour insulin. So, I take it usually at night. That's like Lantis, right, Dave? No, Lantis actually you have to take twice a day. T Tracea and TJO are real 24-hour insulins. You can take them once a day. But why would you do it at night, not during the morning to get like, you know, when you eat all day and [\h__\h] like that long acting insulin works? Because long acting insulin, you most people have problems with their fasting blood sugars when they wake up in the morning. That's the first thing to go. So mine were running a little high like high 90s and so that I want to you know you get a little bit of a bump from it when you first take it. So I figure I'll take it at night because that's overnight it's going to help those blood sugars. I wake up with fasting blood sugars 75 80 which are perfect. Yeah. Like like you consider high 90s [\h__\h] high. Holy [\h__\h] is high. You'll over over time you'll get dementia from that Greg from high if you don't have it already. You know, what about high intense cardio, dude? like highensity. That's good. I mean, I want it. It's It's funny you mentioned that, George, because I've been swimming at uh in the afternoon. If I swim, like I do like it's a small pool. I go back and forth like 40 laps. If I swim, the insulin works a thousand times better. I almost have to take less on the days I swim to go. I'm doing research on on that that high intense hit cardio like short bursts like 30, you know, 2 minutes. Oh, figured it out. There it goes. Stress. Stress. Almost six surgeries in the course of a couple years. Okay, your man. Now I'm finally back. Jumbo Columbbo Columbbo. Another part it's Dave eating like 20 uh McDonald's burger and him on the toilet going that's kid. Hey Dave, wait a minute though. You know cuz high 90 when you start hitting 70s my to my doctor that's [\h__\h] like I start getting shakes and stuff. Let me tell you something. When you run when you run high blood sugars all the time and then you're actually in the normal range like 90 80 90 you'll feel like you're like you're at 40. You'll feel low. Once you get your blood sugars under control and you and they're in the normal range you can handle lower blood. Like if I'm 50 I don't even feel that low sometimes. What my doctor think 50 you should be almost in the hospital for that. You shouldn't be 50. What I'm saying is when I go low I don't even feel that low because I'm used to it now. You you shouldn't you're so used to high blood sugars that if you're normal that feels low to you. Well, I keep track of everything. You know me. I just You got You got to keep your blood your fasting blood sugars under 90. If you don't, I'm telling you, you're going to have dementia. You guys use Mine's Mine's around like 100 or 110 all the time because I eat so much way too high. Way too high. So much I eat so much sugar and fruit. So, I need to start It doesn't matter. You should be able to eat the sugar and still lower your blood sugar. Yeah, but I'm diabetic taking care of it. Yeah, if you're over 100, you need a long active. So guys who who suffer from CT who getting punched in the head and stuff, right, is similar to dementia. They're finding out. And if right, but the dementia the dementia caused by high blood sugars over a long period of time is what's happened is the the capillaries that feed the brain get gked up with the sugar and then the blood supply gets cut off and so you start losing neurons over time and doesn't [\h__\h] your corateed arteries, right? or no it's not the corateed it's the actual capillary bed in your head that get gked up because they're tiny they're microscopic so a little bit of sugar can completely block off those blood vessels and then if you starve the neurons of of blood they die and so over time you're killing off all these neurons in your brain and if it happens you know over 10 15 year period you don't you can't think anymore you know diabetic my doctor thinks like 110 is good you know what I'm saying no because they're lazy these guys don't want to [\h__\h] micromanage manage your blood sugar. You should be under under 90 fasting blood sugar. What's the name of it again? How do you spell it? There's two of them. The best two are ta t r e s i ba and and two j o t o u j j eo to j o. Okay. Yeah, I'll start. All you got to do is watch network news and you'll see commercials for that all over the place. Yeah, exactly. If you don't have that, if you don't have access to those and they're too expensive, you can go to Walmart for 25 bucks and buy Novulan N. It's It's Yeah, that's what I used to do. I used to do about five. I use them. It's not as good. You got to take two shots a day. But it but it it it gets the job done, you know. Do you have to Dave or can't you just take in the morning to start with it in the morning? You have to take those other one. Anything other than the two I mentioned, you have to take twice a day or it doesn't work. Yeah. Okay. They don't last. They only last like like 14 hours. So you got to take that's what I used to I would do I think five twice a day or eight twice a day or something like that for a while. Like I said for 25 bucks you can't go wrong with the with the novial end at Walmart. Well yeah it's like 25 bucks at Walmart. Yeah that's where I have all my clients always tell bodybuilder that available. You know who made that available for 25 bucks? Trump first term Trump. That's right. If you go to CVS again, it's like it's like one at 140 at CVS for the same one. Way more expensive. Trump had a had Walmart and make a deal that this way diabetics who don't have doctors or who who don't can't afford to pay for the more expensive insulins can go and get an affordable insulin. So you can get Novulin N, which is the long acting or Novulin R, which is the uh the fast acting. Yeah, it's disgusting how much they charge for a lot of these insulin. These poor people can't afford, you know, to take care of their health. It's a ridiculous, you know, damn, is there any way that you think you could have avoided maybe taking this stuff every day? I mean, like in the past, if you could rewind and say maybe this is my Yeah. I don't know if I caused it or if just old, you know, as we get older, you don't produce as much insulin. And that's that's me, bro. I'm I'm body I mean, bodybuilding. Bodybuilding, too, you're eat you're eating all the time and usually carbs every day. Five times a day, six times a day. But you got to fast. You got to do stuff to like not let that happen. And then growth hormone. If you're if you're taking growth hormone, too, that's going to raise your blood sugar. I think as bodybuilders, we stress the crap out of our pancreas. Yeah. Dave, whey protein affects your Listen, there's a way to take growth hormone and and I I I was doing this in the early 90s. Tony Freeman knows it. He he talked about it. That's when you're younger, though. As you get older, it's still your body works different. Yeah. Once once I got over 35, my body works very different that you know. Yeah. When I was younger, my blood sugars are fine. When I was eating 10,000 calories a day, you know, but when you get older, your body just isn't as resilient and things, you know, fail. But you So, you have to stay on top of the things that are not working well. If your testosterone is low, we know that, right? You take testosterone replacement. If your insulin is low, you take insulin replacement. It's it's it makes sense. I mean, no, it totally does. If you don't produce melatonin as you get older, which we know, you take melatonin before bed. Yeah. Whether it this is something that is kind of like related with bodybuilding because we're seeing a lot of bodybuilding. Yeah. Because we eat a lot. We eat a lot. I mean, so we're also more to our bodies. This [\h__\h] helps your [\h__\h] prostate. Not for nothing. Thank you. It does. It does. It does. My PSAs are one right there. Thank you. Yeah. That's always scary when you guys think I'm trying to The people watching this [\h__\h] probably think I'm pumping it because it's your [\h__\h] They don't realize. Am I right or wrong? Does that Dave you're Does that [\h__\h] help your [\h__\h] prostate or what? No, it Yeah, because it lowers DHC levels. Absolutely. They don't realize if you read the stuff that Dave's got. Sometimes finasteride is too much for certain people. My PSA. Yeah, these guys are You guys are lucky that that I'm going through old age now because I can I can help you because I'm learning as I'm going along what are the right diagnostic tests. I have a friend who just died two weeks ago. Aortic aneurysm ruptured. guy hadn't been to the doctor in 20 years, you know, and you know me, I'm always telling people, and if you're listening out there, go get a cardiac CT scan. It takes five minutes, you know, and then guess what? You'll know if you have any blockages in your coronary arteries. You'll know if your aort is too big, you know. It even checks, it even covers your thyroid. You'll know if you have any nodules in your thyroid. So, yeah, it's stupid not to get one. I mean, it's such an easy test and it could avoid you dying, you know, so easily. Yeah, I got my first I got my first one uh three months ago. Yeah, two or three months ago. It's perfect. What? Have you got your cardiac CT scan yet? Yeah, my cardio CT. Listen, it's AI'm willing to bet I'm willing to bet George hasn't been in the doctor place and say your self pay. Don't get so many so many people pass away and they can easily have got that and prevented it. If George dies, okay, of a heart attack, I'm going to be [\h__\h] really pissed at you. I'm just telling you. Yep. Me, too. I bet he hasn't been in years. You know what kind of cardio I do? I run Yeah. Well, that's Yeah, that you're going to die. I'm running on the assault treadmill. You know what? It's got nothing to do with it. Your aorta could be dissecting now. You can kill yourself. You got no idea. Just because you do cardio doesn't mean you're going to live forever. Genetic Genetically, too. So many people genetically have it and they don't know. 29 years old. No. Yeah. Austin Lloyd died at 29 of an aortic aneurysm. He didn't die of kidney failure. He died of an Austin would still be alive today if he had that test done. But what day? He waited too long to start the to start the kidney process. You know, the kidney transplant they check your heart and all that. You know, he actually had the test done. He just didn't do anything about it. He knew. Oh [\h__\h] Oh, he he had the CT done. He had the CT done. His his father. Oh jeez. So looking good and being fit are two different things. Looking good and being fit are not one and the same. Yeah. But there's also something called genetics, George. There's something called genetics, and you don't know what your genetics are. You have to get these diagnostic tests done when you get older because you don't know when the genetic time clock goes off. Okay. Did your Did your father take insulin when he was older, Dave? No. No. But I you know who No one does that stuff. I micromanage my health like like a lunatic like we all do. Our parents didn't do that stuff. They didn't know any better. But that's why but my father had dementia when he got older. So, who knows if that's also also with your like red blood count and hemocrat levels and all that. Like I used to have to donate every eight weeks and then all of a sudden I was anemic. Like I I talked I I text Dave about like all of a sudden my iron was like in the just for no reason. I didn't change anything at all. Just Well, you probably donated so much blood you lost too much iron over the course of all those donations. So sometimes you have to take an iron supplement, you know, if you don't ate a lot, you know. Yeah. I took I took it I had to take it for about six months and then it finally got back to normal again. Yeah, it happens. It happens. What do they do with that test? Dave, explain to that test what you lay in a CT scan for five minutes. Okay. They roll you in. Five minutes, you're done. That scanning thing that you hold your breath. It looks like an it looks like an MRI machine, but it's not. It's it's a CT scan. They they put you go in and and five minutes later you come out and you're done. And then they give you a readout of what if you have any blockages in your coronary arteries, if your aort is normal size. And this way you know, okay, I'm good. George, it's like a printer. George, George, you go and get you get you get the put in. That's all. George, talk about cardio. George, talk about cardio and all that. You know, my wife at the heart hospital she works at, you have marathon runners and cyclists all the time getting heart attacks. Yeah. Yeah. That's what killed Jim Fix, the guy who wrote the book Running. Yeah, you're right. Ultimate runner book exercise, he would have died a lot younger. There's no excuse to die of something you could have avoided by going get a simple diagnostic test. It's just it's just dumb. And it's really not that expensive either. No, you can self-pay for a hundred bucks. They do the I do the die contrast. I'm gonna get one done. Just like you made me get the test. The test to see if I had CO. Everybody got CO at your house. They blame me for it. No, this isn't the same thing, dude. This is not the same. Not the same thing. This is not the same. This is I'm standing. And you know what you can do? It comes back negative. You can say, "I told you." Yeah. You can yell at us and say, "I told you so." COVID test. Oh, you look Look that goddamn George. He came over here. He got the whole family sick. I'd ra I'd rather you say I told you so than you die in the middle of a of an MMA sparring session, you know, or surfing where a shark's going to eat the rest. Did did you know that if they say I was reading something they say if you died in your house and you had like a cat the cat would start eating you two hours I think dogs do oh my god dogs take longer to eat you but the cat man eating [\h__\h] but I never heard of [\h__\h] man that's a good that animal you love so much is going to eat you when you die in your house you know a cat nobody wants a cat the dog will sit there pok Okay. [\h__\h] wait till you wake up and you you don't No, the dog takes longer. Like Dave said, they they take longer. They'll eat you, too. Yeah. You're dinner for that cat. All you got to do all you guys get that test that Dave's talking about. I got it. I got it. I got it. You're [\h__\h] nuts if you don't get it. I got a heart of a brain. Your age, Jordan. Fabulous. Well, John, I am nuts. According to Yeah, but we're going to be [\h__\h] pissed at you if you die. Yeah, but you you want to die for You didn't want to go to the doctor. He got it done, too. Lee Lee and Lee had a little bit of uh some calcium in his in his vessels, too. So, all three of mine were zero. Yeah, that's what it should be. Your heart collateralized like So, in other words, if you have something blocked, then it'll form other capillaries. It can sometimes it can't and you die. I mean, you know, look at Richie just married. Richie had a 100% blockage in the vessel that that had collateral circulation. But then he had another one that had 90% blockage and he had to get a stent and they said if they didn't do that that he would have died. So happened to my client. You know what was funny is the first one that was blocked his body made an they called it a god bypassal. Yeah. Over 20 years. So So maybe I have a whole bunch of god bypasses. Well, I wouldn't be I wouldn't want to bet roll the dice on that one, George. So let's you should do you should do this like the next next few weeks literally like out the diet is called a cardiac ct calcium score. So the calcium score is the one that takes five minutes. Then there's a more elaborate one if you want to spend a little more money or if you get your doctor to write a script for it. You'll actually get insurance to pay for it. That's the cardiac CT scan with contrast. They they put a little a little contrast. They run it through your body. It still t it takes about eight minutes to do that one, but it's a little more expensive. It's it's much more accurate, of course, because the die will dye the vessels and so you can really visualize all the coronary arteries better. But I would go for the the basic one first. And if everything's zero and you don't really then you don't have to worry about it. If you if it's not, then they might want to do them the one with contrast after that. But so you got a lot of car you got a lot of cardiologists, too, and they're like, "Oh, you don't need that. You're fine. You could just do this. Your EKG looks good." No, tell them like, "No, I I want to do this." And a lot of times like my calcium a lot of times you have to do steps first. They want you to do a calcium score first then they want you to do just echo stress test and then for insurance to pay for it certain times. I have insurance. I mean I think everybody should have insurance. Most people who do cardio like in the gym will will pass a stress test even if they have a a 90% blockage because we just can push past that. So those stress tests are [\h__\h] My father passed a stress test. He had got a heart attack two months later. So and my father's was in terrible shape. So those stress tests don't tell you [\h__\h] I'm telling you. Unless you're in horrible horrible condition. Yeah, dude. My my uh cousin's husband had that done and he was g they gave him a [\h__\h] full good bill of health and he died in his sleep that night. Wow. They don't explain it to you either. They don't explain it to you. Hey, you might want to do something like further. CT scale. You've got to educate yourself these days. These doctors don't tell you [\h__\h] No, the CT scan was not available 20 years ago. It's it's a new thing. So that's why I I tell everyone to get it. You know, these guys want me to talk. What do you think about this West Watson getting arrested again? He's right there. There's different thing. There's different things because Okay, he's telling people like, "Hey, come up to my gym. You know, I'm calling everybody out if you want a piece of me." Okay, so this guy shows up. You know, some people said he had mental issues or not. He sets his c he sets his phone up to to videotape the incident. So obviously, he's wanting to get some clout out of it. He pushes Wes first. Wes is supposed to be this tough guy. Okay, Wes, punch him, knock him out, and let it be. Wes grabs the belt and with the metal and starts punching him. Then after that, hits him with the belt. Then after that, his boys kick the guy a bunch of times. So then Wes then Wes goes on and starts talking about it on the internet, how like, "Yeah, I got this motherfer and all that." And then he took that video down because he knew they were investigating and then they arrested him for felony assault and battery. And then no, one of his guys grabbed a dumbbell. Out the spent the guy he attached was was seven feet tall, too. No, he was Wes is 58. I don't know if he was seven feet tall. No, the guy who he was like was seven feet. He was at least he was at least at least Wes is 5 foot eight. He's not six foot. So the guy maybe is like 6'5. I'm going to say look look when it boils down to it, he's [\h__\h] Okay. Period. I I don't know. I don't know if he I don't know. I think he'll be fine. He'll be fine. Probation. I think he'll get probation. Yeah. I mean, he he did go too hard, but you got to look at the facts at first. The guy showed up to the gym. The guy set up a camera to videotape this whole thing. Exactly. That's That's even though Wes went overboard. I don't know. I don't know. I listen listen. I don't know. I don't know why West grabbed the belt. He could have knocked this guy out anyways. I grabbed the bell. Wes should have been the first person charges. This is how it goes, man. Whoever presses the charges, they start the whole thing and then it's all the courts on your side. That person's got money and he'll get out. Wasted 10 years in jail, right? I don't I don't think it was really 10. I think he was seven, but yeah, Johnny Bravo kind of straightened out. Makes a lot of money. Okay. And it doesn't even m I mean, who cares how he made the money? Some people say it's it's terrible. He made a lot of money. He should now he is now a target, a walking target. He should know better than to get into fights with anyone. He should be laughing at these guys as he's driving his Lamborghini away. You know what I mean? Inviting him, Dave. He invited the guy to the gym. He told the guy to come. Yeah, but he shouldn't even be doing this stuff. It doesn't matter. He's He's getting a fight. He's got tons of money. You just have a fight. Go to a local. You got all these MMA places. Go outside. It's disrespectful to the gym. Who do you got to fight for in the first place? I mean, he wanted to fight. Like, he keeps telling you to fight. You He doesn't have to prove he's a tough guy anymore. It doesn't matter. He's making all [\h__\h] laugh. Who gives a [\h__\h] His head got too big, John. His head got too big. His first week got out of prison, his content was actually good. He was inspiring people. Listen, you could you could go to prison. You could change your life. Like people think you get a judge, you go to prison, you're a bad person. People changed their lives. Like all of us have obviously and know, you know, so you know, but then it got to the point where all the money went to his head and he's like calling out people because they're hating on him because people hate on successful people. That's what people do. You don't have a successful person never goes hates on a successful person. That never happens. That never happens. So anybody that trolls on someone, their their life is not good or successful or they wouldn't do that. you that it doesn't make sense. And so Wes shouldn't have done that. Plus, he shouldn't have grabbed the belt. Just punch the guy and fight him. Why would you grab a weapon? And then everybody else jumping in. That was really messed up, too. Charges against I saw the video. His friend had a dumbbell. We should laughing his ass off and said, "Guys, here. I'll give you some lunch money. Get out of my gym." You know, walk away. Be be the bigger man and walk away. That would have been a better lesson to to give to the community of people that he's trying to inspire. Hey, look, these guys. I'm gonna laugh my ass off at them. I got I can buy and sell them. You know, I'm successful. I I don't need to do this. Yeah, but let me tell you something this drama. It's up to West now if he wants to like he's been arrested. He's done time in jail and he brags about it. He brags. He went out and he and he made a big spiel on the internet. They start playing that [\h__\h] in the courtroom. A judge is not gonna say, "Well, you know what? I'll give you probation." You know what they're gonna say? You have a history of this [\h__\h] Well, Greg, also not everything can be led in court. You got to remember, not not everything can be led into a court, though. Anyways, do you think it's all over the place? Those videos that got taken down, they're going to come right back up because there's the there's the forever machine that they really the feds really do have. Any video that was ever posted, believe me, they can pull it right back up. Listen, I think he'll get five he's gonna get five years probation. I'd say five years probation. Five years probation. Yeah, but who says they're going to give somebody who's already been to prison? Yeah, because the the nature of the thing the thing he he called out people. He shouldn't have done that. But the guy showed up there and he and he put the camera back. I agree with that. I just listen I I think that I think the judge is going to say you acted immature and you you should know better and I'm going to punish you for it. I I I don't know, man. Maybe maybe you're right. I don't think it could go either it could go either way, but I think he's going to get off with some probation. Well, the other guys are going to get charged. He was excessive when he he pounded on the guy. He kic he he sucker kicked the guy. You would never do if he was a real fighter guy like a real man. He would they would have stood toe to toe had or said, "Listen, let's go to the local local boxing MMA gym right here in Miami and and go and work it out there. Then afterwards show shook hands and show how you settle it the right way." That's a positive way. I agree. He I That was my friend. I want to stop my friend from doing he suck. He went around if the guy was down like this. Yes. And the very last blow was a kick to the guy's head already. But that's after he was kicked about. We all We all We all agree it was bit [\h__\h] We all agree that's [\h__\h] We all agree that was totally wrong. He [\h__\h] [\h__\h] That's [\h__\h] Why would you do that? But I agree, Arman. I kind of agree with you. What I'm saying is I think both of them should get [\h__\h] remember I told you about that guy showed up and he set up the camera so he could post it afterwards. Look, I p I internet clout [\h__\h] needs to be checked for if they do something illegal. They all there's too much of it going around. People just doing illegal [\h__\h] for views and just you set up a camera to fight this guy. You I think you should get what you deserve. If you get beat up then then sorry you you get get beat up and not not the not the belt and the jumping. Wes should have beat him up by himself. Hold on. Hold on. There's no rules. We talked about this with the other fight with the Patrick Mo. There's no rules in a street fight. It was outdoors. First off, that was rules. If you're gonna be considered a weapon, the dumbbell's going to be considered a weapon. Excessive force from a kick in the head. You guys aren't thinking realistically what they're going to pull out of this guy. You think, Dave, these are the feds. You know what they do? Look what Yeah, but but I mean th this guy wanted a fight, Wes. It wasn't like attacked him. He also they both should be they both should be in trouble. I think I think it go either way. each other. They didn't. They're fighting a street fight inside the jail. When one called the cops, when one calls the cops, it changes. Then it's then it's now a legal thing and now the court's involved. And the courts, if I'm the judge, I'm like, "These two guys wanted a fight. [\h__\h] it." That's why you're listen he's going to have the best. Can't cry afterwards because if they got beat up, I agree with you 100%. I want to straighten that up. I agree with you 100%. I think if they wanted to fight, I think he should he put the camera up. He's No, you go outside. You're doing this [\h__\h] in a gym. If you gym [\h__\h] That's not what I'm saying. That's not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is it's a legal matter now. That's what I'm saying. The courts are involved. It's considered assault. It's not no longer a street thing, guys. The police and the court systems are involved. When the court systems are involved in Yeah. It also doesn't matter who throw It doesn't matter who throw the first punch when someone comes there and threatens to to harm you. Dave, I told you the thing that people the thing that people don't understand either is, you know, people's like, "Oh, he's fine. He got out of jail." Duh. He bailed out of jail. People's like, "Oh, Wes is five." They don't understand how it works. You get a bail, you bond out. That doesn't mean you're out of trouble. You know, this his case could go on in three years. I guys, I gotta wrap up. I got to do he used the stand my ground and and the make my day because those two things could affect them. The fact that he the make my day law in Florida and the stand my ground. The stand my ground could get him out of the entire thing because the guy provoked it. But his lawyer used to be smart enough to stand your ground only works in your own property. But he was in a property domain. gym though. No, no, no. It only works on your own pro in your house. John's right. It only You can't do it. It doesn't work in the street in Florida. No, you can't be in like a [\h__\h] standing your ground. It's your ground. I told the guy I told the guy to stand his ground about last year. It could go either way. I see it going either way. Hopefully his legal bill isn't too high. He was going after my son. So, I told he was going after my son. Can you imagine taking legal advice from George? Listen, I don't care about either one of those guys. They both got what they deserved. I'm sorry. They're both stupid. You know why? It means the show's time to end the show. West slang the belt because he can't fight. We'll see you for joining us live for another edition of After Hour. The power.