 what's better to use is an anti-estrogen, nolvidex or rimidex, AI versus selected estrogen receptor blocker. I'm going to let you know now. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work, I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Alright, so visionRxMuscle.com, this is Ask Dave, your 30-minute question and answer show weekly question and answer show with Dave Blumbo. I'm your host, Dave Perucchi. So glad you could join us on this, the 29th day of October in the year 2025. We are going to be dropping a Halloween Day sale on the website. So we'll have the teaser shortly before midnight on Halloween. And then on midnight, we will drop the full details and you will have 24 hours to save on the entire website. And we'll announce what specials come along with it. We go right into the questions. The first two questions on the show from Dave Blumbo experience. That first question about women using Nolvidex in PrEP. Is this something you recommend and in particular for wellness competitors? You know, I think a lot of people don't really understand the difference between an aromatics inhibitor versus an estrogen receptor blocker. Nolvidex, pulomid, okay, Nolvidex is also known as Tamoxifen, that's the generic name of it. These drugs block estrogen receptors, so they don't get rid of estrogen from the body. They just don't let estrogen get to the receptor and do anything. Whereas aromatase inhibitors inhibit the conversion of testosterone into estrogen and then obviously there's no estrogen around it, can't find the receptor, but the receptors are still open. Now in women who are pre-metaposal, meaning that they're still getting their cycle and they're still producing estrogen and progesterone, which is most of the women who probably compete, but not all of them. There are all the women that do to compete and that are no longer menstruating. But in those women who do produce their own estrogen still, the only way to inhibit estrogen in the body would be to take a drug like Nolvidex or Tamoxifen. And the way you do it is it's only a 12-hour drug. You got to take 10 milligrams twice a day and that will inhibit the estrogen receptor, so whatever estrogen is floating around the body is not going to be able to do anything. And in women the last eight weeks before a show, it's a nice way to tighten up the lower body because the lower body gets a little watery looking sometimes and doesn't have as hard of a look as the upper body when there's a lot of estrogen present. Now obviously as body fat levels drop, in women their estrogen usually drops as well, which is why they lose the period usually. But if you really want to harden someone up, it's a very common practice. Even women that are like natural do that because it's not a steroid at all. You're just inhibiting estrogen receptors and in a sense hardening up the body. I don't recommend taking it any more than eight to 10 weeks. There's no reason to do it any more than that and that's usually sufficient. Once again, taking a reminiscence is a woman is not going to do very much unless the woman is taking drugs they shouldn't be taking like testosterone. If she's taking testosterone, obviously inhibiting the conversion to estrogen is going to be something you're going to do, but I never recommend taking reminiscence to testosterone. So that's never usually an issue. Now, and like I said, post-metapausal women who don't have any estrogen that directly being produced, they do produce some from aromatization and in those cases a little reminiscence might not. Second question again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. You generally recommend four to six weeks post-PCT before starting another cycle. If I finish a 16-week prep, is there any benefit in waiting longer than the four to six weeks once the blood work was sufficient, okay, and I have the green light? Yeah, I find that about eight weeks, nine weeks post-being off drugs seems to be enough for the receptors to regenerate themselves. Assuming that your kidney function is good and your liver function, it's hard to assess liver function really because working out raises liver enzymes. Assuming that you're feeling good, you're eating well, your blood pressure is normal, your blood sugars look good, your kidney function is good, I think eight, nine weeks is sufficient. Now, some guys like to go longer. Some guys like to go off for 12 weeks, and that's fine too, but most guys don't want to go off at all, and that's a problem. They want to stay on HRT. Minimum eight weeks of nothing. I know the first four weeks you probably still have some drugs left in your system. You're doing your HCG, you're doing your clomid, but four or five weeks after that of being on nothing, and that will be enough to reset those receptors to start responding well to new drugs or new drug cycle. Now, these two questions offer the Diploma Experience app. It's $29 a month. You download the app from your iPhone iTunes or your Android store, and you get basically me as your coach in your back pocket. You get access to all my articles I've written, all the videos I've done. I do a Q&A video specifically for the app members every single week, so that's an extra value. Plus, I answer everyone's questions in an open forum. So you see everyone's questions, everyone's answers, all my protocols, my drug protocols, my keto diet, my cyclical carb diet, my off-season diet, everything is in that app. So you have access to everything that I've done over the last 30 years or so in one place, and it's constantly being updated with new information. So I appreciate all the support from all the app members, subscribers. A lot of you guys out there, and that's what inspires me to keep doing that. So thank you. We go to our YouTube community questions. If you're not already there, that is where just about exclusively now we're fielding questions for this show, and we're establishing a lot more point of context there. Obviously now doing a lot more short form content, but that is generally now where we're going to be fielding questions for the show. There seems to be a recent report with high levels of contamination, high levels of lead contamination in protein testing when it comes to different whey protein products. Is that something that species nutrition is aware of, and that's something that species nutrition essentially is trying to get ahead of? No one tested my products, because they're usually, everyone knows I'm pretty high quality on that, and we test those. But here's the reality of situation. Anything that grows in the ground has lead in it. Corn, wheat, everything you eat bread, pasta, everything that comes from the ground is going to have some lead in it, because there's lead in the ground. Now the levels of what they consider dangerous are very, very, very low. California for some reason has a higher level of detection that they decided the values for every other state in the nation that are fine are not good for them. That's what's called Proposition 65. So if you want to sell in California, anything that grows on the ground that you sell, you have to have this Prop 65 warning on it. I put it on my fiber, I don't even need to put it on the fiber, I put it on there because it's a crazy warning. If you have less than like 10, like 11 or 12 employees or something like that, you don't put it on labels. I put it on everything because I'm completely compliant with everything. Anything that grows in the ground is going to have some lead in it. So plant sources of protein, like the pea protein, the soy protein, have really high levels of lead. And if you looked at the study that they did where they were testing all these protein fibers, the plant sources or the vegan proteins had the most. Now whey doesn't grow in the ground, it comes from cows milk, but the cows eat the grass that comes from the ground. They're going to have less lead than the plant source of protein, but they'll have a little bit still too. And it's still pretty low. Now certain, I guess, kinds of protein that maybe come from cheaper sources might have more or less. That's why some of the whey proteins were higher than others. If you buy your protein from a reputable high quality vendor, and Glambia is the number one in the world, and that's where we get our protein from. And I use the highest quality, I sleep. I suspect, you know, and I know that, you know, they test for all these heavy metals when the product comes in. I have the least amount probably than anyone out there. But regardless, everyone's going to have a little bit of trace lead. And I think what they're doing is getting people all worked up about it. And most of these products, there's nothing to worry about because it's very, very low. Like I said, the plant sources will always have higher amounts. So, you know, vegans think they're healthier, maybe they're really not. But like I said, the levels I'm looking at, I'm not really so concerned. And I don't think that anyone has to worry about any health ramifications of that. If you're really worried, stop eating any vegetables at all, because, you know, I eat a lot of peppers and cucumbers and lots of other stuff. It grows on the ground. It grows on the ground. It's going to have lead in it. And unfortunately, that's just the way it is. I don't see any people having any lead poisoning out there. And there's a lot of people who eat a lot of vegetables and a lot of stuff that grows on the ground and fruit and vegetables and stuff like that. So, I think this is kind of like a, I think people get a little too crazy about this and they're making more of a deal than it really is worth making. We have a few questions about surprise, surprise, GH. Can GH have a deleterious effect on the abdominal wall lining and I guess ultimately lead to hernias or cause the abs to spread apart? So GH, can it cause any weakening of the wall line? No, no, no growth hormone or anabolic started in anything they fortify muscle in the naked stronger and especially GH makes the connective tissue stronger. So you would think it would, it would cause a resistance resistance to any kind of perniation in the sheath because remember when a muscle sheath pulls apart, it's the connective tissue. It's not the muscle that's separate. Usually. So the question is why are we seeing guys with abdominal walls that are separating like Keon Pearson, I guess, assuming we was talking about referring to or even other athletes that have like the extended stomachs and maybe lose the ability to for their stomach to be kept, you know, pulled in. You don't see it young guys, you see it as the guys get a little older. It's because we're, you know, we're putting on massive amounts of muscle. We're eating an enormous amount of food that's putting a stretch on the abdominal cavity. Think about it, you're eating six, seven times at eight times a day. There's a ton of food. And that's why I tell people use a fiber supplement like fiber lies because you want to keep that food moving through the intestinal tract. So you're not going to have a backup where your stomach is going to be filled to the brim with food. I had a problem with that because when I was, I had to eat so much food to gain weight, because I had a crazy metabolism. I still have a crazy metabolism. I was eating 12 times a day. So that probably ruins, you know, a lot of the stretch that a lot of that that abdominal sheet. I never had a separation of my rectus muscles, but I did have a stretching of that whole sheet. Obviously, as I got smaller and got, you know, detrained my abs, not really my abs, but detrained the intestinal lining. Because think about it, the intestines, small intestine, large intestines, which is also known as the colon, are muscle. They're involuntary muscle, but they grow in response to stretch on them. So if you're eating less volume of food, they get smaller. That's why guys who don't eat a lot tend to have smaller, smaller waistlines and a better abdominal control, but they have trouble growing because they can't consume enough. So it's like a, it's like a trade-off. Either you're going to get bigger or you're going to stay, you know, you're going to have a good, a good midsection. The key is, once again, if you're going to eat, if you do need to eat a lot of food because you have a fast metabolism, you've got to take five or less twice a day. That's just, that's just the reality of it. And that will help. But once again, it's not the drugs that are causing the spreading of the abdominal wall or the, I guess you'll loss of elasticity. It's the actual stretch of putting on. It's like a pregnant woman. When a pregnant woman, you know, when a woman gets pregnant and her baby grows and it stretches out her abdominal wall, it's stretching the fascia. When it goes back to normal, she's still going to have that stretch out fashion. There's no way to bring that back to normal. That's why when I see women who have given birth to a couple of kids and then they're up on stage and they have great midsections, it just goes to show how good their genetics are and how good their, the elasticity of their, of their skin was to retract back to normal. You know, after that huge stretch that it had on it. So a lot of times it's just a genetic thing. Question about one on a cut in terms of training styles. Do you recommend the standard heavy compound training or do you recommend more of a quote unquote pump work out while on a cut? I never recommend the pump work. Ever, ever, ever. The training should never change. In other words, if you train heavy, you know, to build muscle, why would you purposely lighten the weights up and then do high, you know, high rep training? When we know that high rep training is, which is endurance training is going to, it doesn't lead to muscle hypertrophy. So you now have all this muscle and now you start training with lighter weights for high reps, you're going to lose muscle. And you're not losing muscle because you're dieting, you're losing muscle because you're not training the muscle. You're not, there's no reason for your body to maintain that level of muscle mass. If you're not subjecting it to the same stresses that warranted building it to begin with. So if you look at the greatest physics of all time, Ronnie Coleman, Dorian Yates, you know, these guys trained heavy right up into the day of the show, you know, essentially, or a week before the show, because they know that heavy weights, high intensity builds muscle and it maintains muscle. And that's the way you got to go. Never ever purposely lighten the weight. The only time we lighten the weight is if you get injured or something is not feeling good. You obviously don't want to try to lift heavy and, you know, hurt yourself, but always lift as heavy as you can. Now, what I noticed was when I would get ready for a competition, the initial stages of the diet, I would be super strong still. And then as I lost weight and got smaller and the food got, you know, lower and the, you know, the resources got lower and my body factor lower. I got a little weaker, but it didn't matter because I still lifted as heavy as I could, you know, given the strength I had, because the body doesn't know how much you're lifting. It only knows what it feels. So if you normally bench 405 or six reps and when you start to get to the end of your diet, you're only benching 315 for four reps, who cares? As long as the 315 probably feels like 405 to your body that way. And so you're going to still maintain muscle mass. But if you normally lift 405 and now you drop down to 225 and you're doing 15 reps sets, I can guarantee you're going to lose mass on your chest. There's no doubt about that. What are the different types of GH and what is the best for bodybuilding? There used to be two versions because when they first decided to synthetically make growth hormone, Genentech made a version that was 192 amino acids. They did all this research and they said, oh, it's 192 amino acids. They made something called pro-tropin, it was called, and it was being sold to all the, your dwarfs, you know, the kids that weren't growing and that needed growth hormone. Then Eli Lilly did some research and they realized that Genentech made a mistake and that the actual polypeptide chain of growth hormone was 191 amino acids, not 192. And they corrected it and they made something called humatropin. And they were both sold independently. Eventually, when the patent ran out on humatropin, pro-tropin, I mean, the Genentech company redid the pro-tropin and they got rid of it and they started making something called neutropin. Okay. And that was the two that were sold worldwide for, you know, for many, many years. That's what all the bodybuilders of the 90s used. Then other companies started producing their own and then obviously overseas they started producing it as well. And so nowadays all the GH on the market is 191 amino acids because that's the correct sequence. Are there different versions that work better or not? There really shouldn't be. Growth hormone is growth hormone. If it's real growth hormone, okay, and it's dose properly, one IU should equal one IU, no matter who makes it, no matter where you buy it. The problem is that, you know, I think when it's transported, maybe some of it gets damaged. I think some of the stuff that's being made generically in China is not being dose properly. So the only, you know, trustworthy growth hormone, if it says 36 IU's, it's 36 IU's, is the pharmacy made stuff. So, you know, Syracin makes a version. I know Lily still makes their version. Genentech still makes their neutropin. It's hard to get those obviously without a prescription. I think Upjohn makes a version of one now. But unless you're getting, you know, brand name stuff, it's a crapshoot. Now you can test the GH to see if it's real with the Roytest GH testers that we sell at datepaloma.com. And we sell outside of those because a lot of people want to make sure that what they're using at least is good. But a lot of times it's hard for the generic brands to know if they're dose properly. But at least if you know you're using real growth hormone, more than likely you're taking something. So, you know, are there better or worse versions? There's only versions that are trustworthy and not trustworthy. All GH is the same. Another question about GH is, in his words, I guess the quote, average water retention that you would experience while on GH. So I'll expand upon it as far as what a user can expect. And then I guess managing the water retention while using GH. I think guys start out with too much GH right off the bat. And that causes a lot of fluid retention. A lot of times they get numb in the hands and feet because there's so much fluid retention around the nerves in the carpal tunnel area here. So my suggestion is if you do notice getting numbing and stuff like that, cut back. Start out with two IUs per day. You know, try to do that for a week or two and then you can work up to whatever you want to do. I always recommend three to four IUs. I don't think it's worth taking any more than that. I think it's a waste to take five or six IUs. I know the guys take even more than that. I think it's a waste. But that's up to the individual to use. I think at some point there's diminishing results because remember, growth hormone exerts its growth effects by telling the liver to produce a hormone known as IGF-1. The liver can only produce so much IGF-1 in response to the GH you're taking. So at some point you're probably taking more growth hormone than your liver can produce IGF-1. So you're kind of wasting your money at that point. GH does have a direct fat burning effect, but it's not as good as you would think it is in terms of fat burning. That also makes you insulin resistant, which is not good. So you don't want to take too much GH because then your insulin doesn't work, frankly. So in my experience, you know, as a bodybuilder all the years that I competed, three to four IUs per day seems to be ideal at giving you maximal benefits with minimal side effects. And that's, I mean, that's the best thing to tell you. Assuming you're using real GH, of course. And that's just the best way to do it. And I always did it in the morning, you know, when I would wake up, because that's when you're the most catabolic. It's when you're catabolic hormones in the body are the highest like cortisol. So, you know, you know, it's, you know, you know, some people listen, some people don't. If you're dieting and you're taking GH more than likely you're not going to hold any water because water retention has a lot to do with carbohydrate intake as well. So when carbs are lower, you don't hold as much water. offseason, when you're eating an enormous amount of carbs, you're going to definitely notice more fluid retention. Fortunately, for the bodybuilder, that fluid retention usually translates to increased strength in the gym. Okay. So, and protect them of the joints. You just want to make sure that your blood pressure is not going too high. So if it is, you might either want to cut back the GH or take some sort of an ACE inhibitor or blood pressure medication. We have one more that is HGH related. And I don't know in terms of the context and how close, but the question is about Sir Morellin and Tesla Morellin. And if there are any were a quote unquote close to exogenous HGH. To answer the question, I can answer it with another question. Is HCG comparable to taking exogenous testosterone? And the answer of course is no. Okay. You know, it does cause you to release a little more natural GH, but a little more natural testosterone, but it's not the same as you taking a shot of exogenous testosterone. So no, the GH releasing peptides will increase the natural endogenous GH release and you get a little benefit. Some people get more benefit than others. It's very individualistic of how people respond. Some people are great responders to it. Some people are not so great responders to it. No one ever says, yeah, it's as great as taking, you know, two I use a GH today. It's not comparable to that. I hear a lot of these internet and TikTok gurus telling people like, yeah, taking Tesla Morellin and this one and that one and this 40,000, you know, GH releasing peptides out there. You know, stacking them. The problem is that your pituitary gland can only produce so much GH in response to these stimuli or in response to these, you know, peptides, it's cause the pituitary to release GH. So you're only going to produce so much per day. It doesn't matter how many you take, you take 25 of them, you're not going to produce any more GH than what your body's capable of producing. But it's not comparable to taking a shot at GH. You're going to have nothing if you don't have access to GH or you can't afford it, but it's not comparable. We often talk about scaling back from training. There's a D load and then taking an entire week off for recovery purposes. In your guidance is a week off, a week off from everything. Is that every few weeks that recommended? And then also, I guess, in terms of intervals, what intervals would you recommend in terms of taking time off or an entire week off from the gym? I wish I was as noble as to say that I've taken weeks off from the gym here and there. I very rarely do I do that. I enjoy going to the gym and I feel like you don't need to take a week off if you don't feel over trained. Likewise, I also don't believe in training every day. So I know there's people that go to the gym seven days a week, six days a week. I think that's too much. I think five days a week of weight training is ideal, maximum. And maybe four days is better, but I used to like to go five days a week. Probably now I go four to five days a week. So I train my whole body over that four or five days and then I'll take a day or two off. Either sometimes it's interspersed, sometimes it's a long one shot. Like this weekend coming up, I have my kids. So I'm not going to train on Friday on Saturday and Sunday because I'm with them. And so I get two days off. For me, two days in a row off is great. I feel really well, really rested. I'm actually taking today off too, which is Wednesday. So I will have three days off this week, whereas normally most weeks I only have two days off. So I kind of go by, you know, I'll do that. I'll throw an extra day in here or there. I don't like to take the whole week off because I don't feel good when I take the whole week off. Now over the summer, when I had my kids continuously and I took them on vacation, I took, I think it took 10 days off or something like that for the gym, which was the first time I had done that. And I don't even remember how long, probably two years. So it kind of goes by how you feel. If you know you're a chronic overtrainer and you need to schedule a week off every, you know, four months, then do it. If you're able to, you know, to kind of go by instinct and say, you know, I feel a little run down this week, I'm going to take an extra day or two off from the gym. Then you don't have to do the weeks off and a whole week off in a row. Some people like to do it. I know guys that take two months off from the gym after they compete. I think that's too much, but, you know, those people like it. So everyone's different. Once again, if you don't overtrain on a regular basis, you don't have to do take extreme time off from the gym. Just like I was explaining, Rich, Esparry and I were talking about this on his podcast I recorded last week. And we were talking about intermittent fasting. I said, you know what? If you don't miss handle your body and you don't mistreat your body and you, and you take care of yourself. And you're not obese and you're not overweight. You work out regularly. You take vitamins and you eat well. You don't have to fix because fasting is for people who are destroyed their body so much so that they have to actually cause their body to go into this catabolic state and eat up all the junk that's, you know, fatty liver, you know, visceral fat, you know, their cholesterol is high. They have to like reboot their body and essentially, but if you take care of your body all the time, you don't need to do extreme things like that because you're healthy already. So it's the same, it's the same concept. I think, you know, once again, just don't, you don't need to do it. If you don't do extreme things, you don't have to do extreme things to counteract the extreme things that you do. And that's really the, that's the proof. Question about LDL cholesterol. I have high LDL, although I'm very lean. I eat clean. In your opinion, should I be on statins? You know, that's a very individualistic thing. And a lot of people come to me and ask me this question. A lot of my clients, I have to do consults with people that help their cholesterol, you know, they don't know what to do and the doctors want to, because doctors want to put everyone on statin. That's, they get paid to do that. They get, they get kicked back for that. Number one, if your LDL cholesterol is just considered the bad cholesterol is high or your triglycerides high too. If triglycerides are normal and low, usually having high LDL is not actually a bad risk factor. Okay. I'm going to qualify that the second now. Having higher LDL they've shown that people who live the longest into their hundreds have high LDL cholesterol. And the reason is because they speculate this, this is because cholesterol is necessary for brain function and for, for rebuilding neurons in the brain. So people who live longer tend to not be demented, you know, and dementia is directly linked to low. You don't want statins can cause dementia because they inhibit your body's ability to produce cholesterol cholesterol is necessary to rebuild, you know, neurons in the brain. And we know that make the results of necessary to make destroy the hormones in body. So we don't want to necessarily bottom out LDL cholesterol. However, and here's the provides. What I also tell people is that if you have high LDL cholesterol, my suggestion would be to go get a cardiac CT scan. There's two times. There's one we call cardiac CT calcium score, which kind of gives you how much calcium is in your vessel and that takes five minutes. And then there's the CT CT angiogram or CT cardiac scan cardiac CT scan with contrast where they actually put a little contrast into your into your vein. And then they do a CT scan with that and that gives you a more accurate look at if you have any blockages. So if you have no blockages in your vessels and your calcium score is zero, then if your LDL cholesterol is high, it doesn't matter because you're not laying down any plaque in your coronary arteries, which is what supplies the heart with blood. That's the theory. However, if you have high LDL and you have blockages as seen on a cardiac CT scan, then you might want to rethink using a stack. Okay, but not a lot of body those have blockages. Once again, if you do have significant blockages that come back on the CT scan, they're going to probably want to do an angiogram on you or they're going to want to do it. They're going to want to cast you, which is they run the best the camera up through your brain and they might have to put a stent. So it's always a good idea to get a cardiac CT scan to see baseline where you're at. If you have no blockages and your calcium score is zero, then you have nothing to worry about and I wouldn't take any kind of stack. I would, however, take fibrillize twice a day and I would take Omega-lize three pills twice a day because essential fatty acids and high quality fiber supplement lower LDL cholesterol naturally without bottoming it out. Ask Greg Valentino. His doctor wanted to put him on a stat and he started taking those products and his levels went back to normal and his triglycerides dropped down. A lot of times natural cures will fix the problem. So you only want to take a stat in the last thing to possibly do. In those cases, it's usually you have a genetic predisposition. Your whole family has had blockages in their coronary arteries, your father, your grandfather died of a heart attack. In those situations, you might have to take a stat. I know it was a long convoluted answer, but it's the right answer. Take one more question. This one is about Paul DeLet, but it goes, expands a little bit more about some guys just being unable to pose. And his question, first off, is about Paul DeLet, the why did Paul DeLet never quite learn how to pose or present himself on stage?  do some guys just struggle with coordination in general that I guess translates to cell phone stage? Yeah, Paul had a bad asthma too. So I think he had breathing problems on stage. And I'm not saying that was why his posing was horrendous, but it definitely didn't help because he was always like gasping for air. But I don't know, maybe he just was lazy. Paul never trained hard in the gym either. He just was a genetic freak. He responded really well to anything he did. And so I mean, I think within his situation, it was that he just didn't practice enough. I mean, it's possible that he was so big that he just couldn't coordinate his body. But I don't know. He's a pretty smart dude. I mean, I just talked to him recently at the Olympia Expo. We did a little interview. And he's a pretty smart dude. So I don't know. I don't know what his, I should have asked him. But they know his asthma really impacted him as far as posing goes. But I think he just didn't practice. I think he was just lazy. Lee Priest used to live with them. They used to cheat on their diet all the time. The difference was that Paul had an insane tables. And Lee would get fat from cheating. But splitting that aside, you know, Michael Crisso is a terrible poser too. And he's got a phenomenal physique. But I think he tries to practice. I just don't think he, I think he just doesn't, was ever working with him on his posing, is not showing him and breaking down what he's doing wrong to him. He kind of looked, he makes a lot of like, you make facial expressions and what he blows out. And he makes his face look all distorted. And I think he has to just, he needs almost like a choreographer to teach him how to pose. But he, he hurts his physique too. He doesn't have to hit a back double bicep pose properly. And that hurts him. So yeah, presentation is important. And remember, I tell you, I said this all the time, there's three things you can control on stage. You're conditioning, your presentation and your tan. And if you mess up any of those, shame on you. Crisso doesn't, he's not a good presenter. And his tan has been terrible in the past because he's very, very pale. You know, so my suggestion to him is get a choreographer to work on your posing, start tanning in the offseason. Or if you can't tan because you have skin cancer issues, take some melanotan, get a base tan before you go out there. He gets freight tan because hand and presentation are hurting you, Mike. And he's got a great physique. He's a super freak. He should be doing much better than he is. And he's doing pretty well already, given those little handicaps he's got. But yeah, I mean, these are things you can control. His conditioning is perfect, but presentation tan still needs work. That's going to do for this episode of Ask Dave. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss anything that we have coming up on the channel, on the channel right now. All the episodes of the After Hours podcast and the Heavy Muscle Radio Show. Chris Isida with a fiery response to the rumors surrounding what happened with Derek Lumser backstage at the Olympia. So make sure you check that out. And then yesterday's After Hours, a potential new member, our first female member of the WackPack joined the show as well. Yeah, Angel, right. And a rebuke to the stories about Steve Weinberger on his phone on the judging panel at Prague. So check it out. Both episodes are on the channel right now. Again, if you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. If you like what you're watching, hit the like button, comment below. As always, we appreciate that and we appreciate all of your support. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadeep Paruki. We'll see you next time.