 tssnexoxo, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne, tssne Best. Join the evolution. And we're back for another installment of the Palumbo podcast. I'm Dave Palumbo, joined by my compatriot in crime, John Romano. And we are joined by one of the most controversial men in all the bodybuilding sport. King Kamali, welcome back to the show. What's up, baby? What's up, John? What's up, Dave? What's up, King? What's up? Chilling. Always wonderful to be blessed by royalty. Somebody was going to tell the truth. I told, you know, I was competing with King years ago. I've told this story before, but not recently. And we were all backstage, and King, before he got his pro card, even probably after his pro card, but when he got his pro card, before he got his pro card, he was very serious. He was backstage. He was, like, ready to do battle, you know? And I remember, yeah, I used to always make jokes backstage, because I was, like, trying to keep the tension down, you know, before we would go on stage. Because the heavyweights were always the last ones to go. It would be, like, 11, 12 o'clock at night. We were waiting, you know, backstage for hours and hours. And I said to him, I said, King, it's good to be the King, huh? You remember from the Mel Brooks movie? It's good to be the King. Yeah, of course. That's when he used to walk around the whole place, lifting up the skirts and hitting them, saying, yeah, it's good to be the King. It's good to be the King. Yeah, you can get away with anything you want. History of the World Part One. That's right. Mel Brooks. There you go. Good. But I don't know if King got the joke at the time where he wasn't smiling. But King has, what I love about him is he's got the King mentality. I remember when I first decided I like this guy. It was a long time ago. He was getting interviewed by somebody on some channel. And they asked him what he thought of the competition. After everybody's, like, waxing poetic how awesome they are, King says, I thought they all sucked. I guess it's time I got back into the show, you know. Romano, I got a story for you that you might not know. You put me down one time in one of the magazines. And I actually looked at it because a lot of people texted me and said, hey, did you hear what Romano said about you? And I read it and I was like, damn, he's right. I was wearing a tank top at the, I think it was the Nationals or the Team U in New York. And I took a picture with Mannion and I think Dexter. And you came under it and you said in the post, the tank top's got to go. What are you doing wearing a tank top? And I looked at it and I'm like, my God, what the fuck was I doing wearing a tank top? He's right. So I appreciate it. Sometimes I take the criticism. Thank you, brother. You're the best. I can tell you why you're wearing a tank top. Because when we were like walking around at 300 pounds, all we did was sweat. Sweat. It was a T-shirt cutting you under the arm because, you know, you were so big. It was so uncomfortable because you had pits under your arm that you just did. You wanted to let your body breathe. That's why I walked around John Fee. I still do it. But in shorts and tank top all the time because I was constantly sweating. And you couldn't stop it. People don't understand how uncomfortable 300 pounds is. I don't understand how, what you would call it, Samson is even walking around functioning. I don't even. It's freezing in the UK. That's why. Yeah. That's why. It's cold. I'd be standing outside just to cool off, you know, when I was that big. Pretty bad. Think about Kovacs at 408 or something like that. I think it was 408 pounds. He's going to wipe his own ass, right? He's that guy. I liked him and his wife. They were nice. Yeah. They were great. They were great. They spoke very highly of you too, actually. Yeah. They were so sweet. So sweet. Yeah. If you would go stay with Kim Kovacs and Greg up in Toronto where they were, it would be like you were in a catering hall. The food, on the mark, every 90 minutes you'd have something. Actually, it could be every hour. You'd have something in front of you, either a shake or a meal because Kim would have it all prepped. Because, you know, Greg was like a machine. He couldn't move from the couch. He'd be on the couch. And Kim would just deliver the food to him. And he would be like, whoa, whoa, whoa. And then he would. Dave, you know my favorite Kovacs United Champion story, right? I told you? No. When Wayne Gavilla said on the announcement, and he said King Kamali backstage. And I went backstage, and I'm like, what's going on? He goes, Kovacs is leaking. Help him. Remember that? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. When he had the infection. I looked at Wayne, and I said, Wayne, what do you mean help him? I don't know that he goes, Wayne, he's your boy. Help him. I looked at it, and it was just, again, classic IFBB story. Kovacs is leaking. I'm not making it up. So what was he leaking? What was he leaking? Oil was coming out. You know what? Greg had the worst luck. Like, right before shows. He didn't do that many shows. But right before shows, he would either get sick, or he'd have, like, an infection. Or there was always something that, like, popped up that he was, like, battling, you know, before getting on stage. Like, I guest post with him one time for Eric Hillman. He's so nice and sweet and kind. It was just, like, you're looking at a big polar bear, but, you know, he's just so sweet. Yeah, I miss that guy. Yeah, no, he was, yeah, he was, you know, if he would have lived, like, down the block from me, we probably would have been, like, hanging out every single day. That's right. Because he had the same sense of humor. That's right, yeah. He definitely would have been on the After Hours show, John, if he was still alive for the rest of the season. Sure, absolutely. Because, and he did some great, he, people like my Nassar impression that I do, but Greg did a much better Nassar impression than I did. It was spot on, you know. That's the guy I just, Nassar. If I had Nassar, he would have been 12-time Mr. Olympia. Yeah, you do the best, George Farrow. That's the key. The Annabelle Thomas. I love you, George. No offense. I love you, George. Well, you know, now that Hadi Shoupin, it looks like he's no longer with Evagen. Maybe George will grab him up, you know, and start working. Well, let's, what actually happened for Hani to drop him? Was it the political thing, or is it something else? Yeah, let's get into the meat of this show. Let's just make a timeline and just kind of, like, follow it, you know. Give us the, you, hold on. King Kamali introduced Hadi Shoupin right on this channel. The first time I ever heard that name, he said it. He said, this guy is going to be someone you better watch out for. I'm telling you, he's coming. And he predicted it. No one else said it. It was you. Okay. Because I saw it. I saw it with my own eyes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But no one even knew he existed. I don't even know how you knew he existed, but you did. Yeah. Well, I saw him, and, you know, let's get into this. So I saw him, and I remember the day. I remember, like, it was yesterday when I came and I said, Dave, I just got back from Iran. There's a bunch of mutants walking around there. And I named a couple people. Rojola was one of them. And then I said, this guy named Hadi Shoupin, you got to be careful. I thought he was going to stay at 212. At 212, I thought this guy is, nobody's going to come close to him. It's not going to be even close. And he's going to get it, blah, blah, blah, blah. I didn't know he was going to move up to the open class. But, yes, Iran was loaded with talent. Loaded with talent. Loaded with talent. And with what happened with Hadi, I mean, going back to the background of this so people understand. Hadi came cultural and societal poverty. He was a poor, poor guy living in the mountains, sheep herding, construction like that. You know, plus he's got that issue with his ear. He was, you know, he's got some handicap issues and all that stuff. Okay, so it was the Iranian people that propped him up, that paid for his food, paid for his travel, paid for his supplements. It was the Iranian people that brought him up. He didn't have a pot to piss in. They brought him up and they made him better. They supported him. So you got this now as your foundation, as the Iranian people who are helping you and bringing you up. Okay? They're the ones. And then when he won the Olympia, he came back and he, everyone saw it on the shoulders of the people, people just going crazy. And what he did, it was very smart. He said, I dedicate this Olympia win to the Iranian people. It's not mine. It's the Iranian people. He became a national hero, a symbol. He was all over the place, loved by men, women, children, grandmothers. He became like probably one of the top, if not the top, most famous athlete in Iran. Okay? Wow. That's how he did it. What happened? Okay? Everybody wants to know what's going on. What's happened? All right. So here's a timeline. John actually said it very nicely. Let me go through a timeline on what happened here. Right. Good. Two months prior to these protests in Iran. Okay? Two months. A bodybuilder, a very, very beloved bodybuilder by the name of Faramayaz Azizi passed away from a heart attack. Okay? A lot of people were distraught. I did a podcast on him. He was a really nice guy. Great athlete. His funeral comes. Hottie goes to the funeral. All right? When he gets to the funeral, a reporter is there. A reporter goes up to him and says, hey, what are you doing here? What's going on? And Hottie says the typical, you know, I'm here to support, you know, blah, blah, blah, blah. And then Hottie said, shame on those bodybuilders who didn't show up here today to support Faramayaz. I did. And as he's walking away, the reporter takes a picture and his screensaver is the Ayatollah. Okay? So his screensaver on the floor. Now, that started when that was published. Can I ask you a question? Hold on. Can I ask you a question? Sure. It's going to sound naive, but I think a lot of people need to hear this. The bodybuilding community of Iran, who do they support? I don't know what the people feel about the existing regime versus what they would like in the future. Can you explain, like, the political ideology there? The majority of the people of Iran are not Muslim. This is something that people need to understand. Islam was shoved down their throat 47 years now. Iranians, okay, are Zoroastrianists. Okay? What does that mean? One of the Zoroastrianism is one of the oldest faiths in the world. Okay? Very simple. Believe in one God or, as they say, a wise Lord. Right? And the motto is good thoughts, good words, good deeds. That's Zoroastrianism. That's what the original Persians were. Arabs brought Islam to Iran. And the next thing you know, all these Zoroastrianists, all those peace, love, all the stuff from the great Cyrus, all of it started to dissipate and disappear slowly because of Islam. Okay? Persians are not Islamic. They're not. People need to understand this. It was forced down their throat. So now you're asking me a question. What most of the people, I can't speak for most of the people. What I can tell you is people don't want that. If you go to Iran, Dave, if you ever went to Iran or if John went to Iran, you would see what I saw when I went to Iran. They're beautiful people, party. They just have fun. They don't want to have anything to do with that. The women don't want to wear their hijabs. All they asked me about every time I went to a social setting, they asked me about Las Vegas. They asked me about Miami. They asked me about what's going on. I mean, that's what they wanted to know, what's going on in Las Vegas. Vegas was number one, by the way. That's what they all asked me about. They don't care. I went to so many underground parties. They know what's going on. And they're very socially adapt to what's going on in the world. Do they have trannies? Yeah, Greg Valentino wants to know. No, no, no, no training. Sorry, Greg. No, no sound factories either. Training would last four seconds there over there. Exactly. Yeah, so that's what's going on. So that's the background. So Dave, can I interrupt you? Sure. King, please, I'm sorry. Sure. With the, the, the, there seems to be like a cultural obedience shoved down their throat too, which in my mind would account for, you got to hang the picture of the Isle of Toll up in your house. You got to have the, maybe if the Isle of Toll is on his, on his phone, isn't it because he's got to kiss the government's ass and get visas and to come over here. Put a picture of your, your, your son, your child, your son. You can do that. Put a picture of your mother. So they don't advocate, so they don't advocate that. That's not like. No, no. Listen, they, they, they try to tell all the women to, to wear hijabs and cover your hair. What happened four or five years ago? There was a woman piece, the, the revolt that happened because for the women, the green movement. So finally they came out and they said, you know what? Okay. Show your hair. So most of the girls now in Iran wear baseball caps. It's become a trend. They're covering their hair, but they're wearing baseball caps and it's allowed now because you know what the government said? You know, we don't need this hassle. We don't need the people running in the streets again and doing this. Just let the women show their hair. So they kind of pulled back on that a little bit. Listen, they give and they take, they give and they take because they want to maintain power. It's all about that, bro. It's always about power. That's it. So they give you a little bit and they take a little bit. That's what's going on in Iran. So, all right. So what, so the, to answer my question, I think what you're saying is that the people don't like the regime is what you're saying. They don't. No, no. At all. All right. I wanted to establish that so the people understand what's going on. Yeah. Right. Yeah. And then what, what, what they do, I gotta be careful how I say this. They'll go to people and they'll say, rat on your neighbors. Okay. And we'll give you some money. Rat. Tell us who's talking behind our back. Does that sound familiar to you guys? Yeah. What other regime did this? Nazis. Exactly. That's what's going on over there. Rat on your friends. What they just had a anti-rally for the celebrations for the 40th anniversary, 47th anniversary of Islam coming to Iran, Islamic Republic. What did they do? People didn't report. CNN didn't report this. The news reports in the United States didn't say this. They gave people rice and oil to show up. So everyone who came to those protests and were saying death to America, death to America, we're leaving with rice and oil in their hands. Was it, was it Sumatran rice? Was it Sumatran rice? Sumatran rice. Exactly. So that's what's going on, man. It's all bullshit. And the people are sick and tired of it. All right. So let's go back to- Yes, go back. So the pictures of Ayatollah on his phone, the people see this and they go apeshit. They're running and people are like, yo, what's up? What happened, man? These people are fucking destroying us and for 47 years and this and that and blah, blah, blah, blah. And what happens to Hadi? Hadi says nothing. He stays quiet. Okay. And then what happens after that is people see the pic and they go, okay, we're being betrayed. Right when that happens, right when the betrayal starts, the dollar is worth 140,000 tomen. The actual money in Iran is worthless now. So what happened is all the bazaars fucking shut down. They're like, we can't make any money. Our money is worthless. The people don't have any money. What the fuck is going on? That's when the protest started. It all started because of money first. Not because of religion. Not money. They were like, yo, what's up? Why are we, why is it 140,000? This, this makes absolutely no sense to translate that into what English and for people. So people understand in lay terms, that's like paying $50 for a dozen of eggs. Wow. That makes sense. Now I hope that people are starting to understand what the Iranian people are going to. So now let's say, hold on. Let's say you went there and you wanted to buy like a piece of gold jewelry. Would you be able to get like a crazy deal because it's so devalued or, or do they raise the price? No, gold is internationally. Yeah. Yeah. They raised the price. No, you can't survive. You know, they can't buy something. Even the dollar is not worth enough there. Yeah. No, the money just became valueless. Imagine if you had a whole stack of fucking hundred dollar bills in your pocket and it's worthless. Nobody accepts it. You would lose your mind. You'd be like, what the fuck is going on? All right. So the protest. I didn't know. This is good that you're telling this because I don't think a lot of people understand this. No, I didn't understand that. Right. So, okay. So now the money is worthless and hottie. So now people are, again, still on top of him and he's getting ready for the honor and all this stuff. So what does he do? Instead of keeping his mouth shut, which was the right thing to do. Okay. What happened with Michael Jordan when they up to him and say, hey, Michael, what do you think of the word? We know what Michael's response was, buy my sneakers. I'm an athlete. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They went to Elvis and said the same thing, you know, and it's a famous video on YouTube. You know, Elvis looked at the reporter and said, I'm just an entertainer. I sing. I don't know what to say about that. I got nothing to do with that. Just keep your fucking mouth shut. He didn't do that. Protest starts. He goes and listen, everybody. I want everybody to pay attention, especially Lee Priest. Listen here, buddy. I love you, Lee, but you got to listen. Hadi goes on state TV and blames the people for their hardship. He said, it's not the government's fault that you're suffering. You should have worked harder. It's your fault. When he said that, he died. He died in the eyes of the Iranian people. All his boys, all his fans, everybody's like, how dare you? How dare you say this? And then the next day, he pulled the truck. He doubled down, shot a video of himself lunging across something in his backyard. And there was the Islamic Republic flag. He drops the weights and he salutes the flag. That's it. People went fucking apes. So you don't think that he's being told to do that? No, no, no. Why? Why do you think that? Okay, because when the lights went out in his town in Shiraz, his gym was the only one that the lights were still on. He went from riding a cheap fucking motorcycle around to buying one of the most expensive cars in Iran. He was being taken care of. The regime was taking care of him because he was a symbol of power to the regime. Because the regime looked at him and said, wow, he's got nine million followers on Instagram. He's this. He's that. We're going to fucking take care of you. And what did he do? He does what all weak people. I shouldn't even say weak. What people do. They sold. He sold his soul to the devil for almighty valor. That's what he did. So he is being, in a way, obligated to support the regime. Seems that way. Yeah. Yeah. So then, okay. So he does the salute. People go, hey, shit. Now he's getting death threats and this and that. He says, I can't stay here. I can't concentrate. I'm going to go to Dubai. He hops on a plane, goes to Dubai. While he was in Dubai, 40,000 people were murdered in two days. Not 3,000, not 10,000 like CNN and, no. 40,000 Iranians were murdered. And how do you know this? I've seen the videos that they sent me. I can't even fucking sleep at night anymore. Of the horror that I've seen of people, the videos that people are sending me. Of girls, 18-year-old, 19-year-old girls lured into an alley. And they're not even speaking Farsi to people that have killed them. They're speaking Arabic. They're hired guns from Iraq and Lebanon that the country brought. So you don't have to kill your own countrymen. And they're laughing at these girls while they're standing against the wall. And they fucking open fire. And then while they're trying to take their last little breaths of air, they're stomping their faces in. Pretty 18-year-old little girls. How can you even – I can't even tell you the shit that I've seen. Now, is that being done intimidation-wise because they want the people to – they want to suppress whatever – They're trying to suppress the uprising. But what they're doing is exactly – people are getting more pissed off. Right. It's having the opposite effect. People are even going crazy. Now it's reached to the point where people are like, well, I lost my best friend. I lost my girlfriend. I lost my father. Fuck it. I'm just going to go out and kill as many people as I can if I die. Yeah, yeah, yeah. All right. So let's go back to what happened. So he's in Dubai. 40,000 people killed in two days. He's silent. All right? His own friends, his athletes, bodybuilders that were in, his old buddies were murdered. And now he's staying silent. I got a call. I got a call, okay, from a pro bodybuilder in Iran. I pick up the phone and he's crying. And I'm like, what's going on? And what he says to me, and I swear on my children's life, he said to me, I just wanted to hear your voice one last time, King. One last time. I got to go do something with my boys tonight. I might not make it. And I start screaming at him. Whatever you're doing, don't do it. Don't do it, man. It's not worth it. Please, you're, and I'm screaming at him. And I'm, tears are falling down my face. And he's like, sorry, I have to do this. They killed too many of my friends. He's an IFBB pro. And he hung up. How the fuck do you think that makes me feel, man? Do you know what happened to him? He's okay. Okay. You know what he did? Well, don't say what he did. I can't talk about it. I can't talk about it. But they did exactly what I just said today. They wanted to go out and, I mean, listen, John, imagine if Dave and three of your best friends were murdered and your sister was beheaded. Would you hesitate to go out and just, right? You would tear anything apart. Exactly. Exactly. That's how these people feel now. They have no money. They have no supplements. They can't get gear. They can't go to the gym. Everything's fucked up. The streets are shut down. If you try to walk down the street, some Arab who doesn't speak farsi comes up to you and goes, blah, blah, blah, blah, and then shoots you. You can't. That's what they're going through right now. Let me throw something by you, King. It seems like Hadi is in a no-win scenario. Yeah. Because here's the problem. He can't support. He really shouldn't. Like you said, he should have said nothing. Correct. But if he doesn't support the people, then the people hate him. If he doesn't support the government, the government may be saying to him, we need to put, you know, we need civil, you know, we need to calm things down here. We need you to, like, support us. You know, we've supported you. Don't you think he's in a situation where he really can't make the correct decision at this point? Yeah, it's his fault, though, Dave. It's his fault. He did it to himself. Well, listen, if you were in Iran and you were living there, you're Persian, and the government was giving you all this free stuff and everything like this before all this civil unrest happened, and now you're in bed with them, essentially, okay? And now all of a sudden all this stuff goes down. What do you do? Keep my mouth shut. But maybe – Wait, wait, wait, wait. He's a bodybuilder. He's not fucking Michael Jordan. He's not LeBron. But they must be telling him, hey, listen, we supported you. You better support us now. Well, you've got to clarify this. Let me tell you something. I'm sorry, John, but the best way he can support it, Dave, I know where you're going with this question. The best way he can support it is be a bodybuilder. That's it. But go. We're in a classic and represent Iran, and that's when, if you want to, you can salute on stage and say, I did this for the people of Iran. That's not saying shit about regime. That's not shitting on anybody else. That's just being neutral, being right in the middle saying, I did this for the people of Iran. I think he's – Wait a minute. Wait a minute. He's under pressure. You have an immensely confusing issue here. On the one hand, you started this saying the people supported him. The people supported him. The people fed him. The people did this. When did he switch from being supported by the people to being supported by the regime? Listen, okay. If you're a businessman, if you're successful, if you're an athlete, whoever you are in Iran, and you want to stay relevant, you have to have your support for the regime. Like you said, put the pictures of the Ayatollah off. Do all those little things that you need to do to keep the status quo going. But there is a fine line between that. People understand that. It is an understood, quiet thing. Everybody gets it, but they don't talk about it. What he did was he doubled down, doubled down, and doubled down. By having the picture of the Ayatollah, when he could have had a picture of his son. By not saying anything when his friends were killed. By going there and – Hold on. Is it possible that someone in the government came to him and said, listen, you're the most popular guy in the country? I mean, people don't realize bodybuilding in Iran is like number two behind soccer. We need you to show support for us because this might quiet some of these people down. And he might have said, well, I don't want to get involved. And they're like, well, you know what? We are here for you. We've been supporting you and making your life real easy. You're going to help us out now. And we're not giving you a choice. Or like you need a visa to go to America to compete in the Olympia, don't you? No. No, no. They wouldn't do that. That's not Iranian. You might be thinking of a Western culture and how Western people – no. That's not how Iranians do it. That's interesting. He should have kept his mouth shut. And he wouldn't have been able to? Because the government understands that. That if he comes out and starts this like this, it's going to be – see, they don't want any trouble. That's it. They don't want any trouble. Just let us do our thing. Let us make our money. Let us do this. You think they're upset by the fact that all these people have dropped him from Instagram and that he's losing all this stuff. You think the government says this is a bad thing because now it looks like we're losing our guy who's supposed to be – He's not that powerful, brother. Up here. No, no, Dave. He's not that powerful. He's not that powerful. They don't get – He was just an athlete. They're saying – Yeah, he's expendable. Yeah, he was not. So then why did Hani – why did Hani – what was the motivation for Hani to drop him? Nobody's buying Evagen. So – okay. So put that in the timeline. He's in Dubai. While he's in Dubai, 40,000 people get killed. His friends – 40,000 people get killed. He doesn't say anything. He stays silent. Even his friends get killed. He doesn't say anything. And then what was the cherry on top of the cake or the straw that broke the camel's back was he went on Instagram and he put a post that said, Only God can judge me and I follow the theology of the Prophet Ali. He said that. Okay. When he said that, that's like pouring salt on the wound for all these people that are suffering and all the people that have died and mourning and this and that. And then people started to be like, you are not what we thought you were. And that's when they started to all – not me. Not me. Not the Iranians here in the United States. That's when they themselves said, we're going to block this guy. We're going to cancel this guy. He's not what we thought we were. He's out of here. They started ripping down the pictures of him and Dave was a guy who – his name was Masood. Masood passed away. He was an amazing trainer. He was a coach. He was a champion. When they killed him, now every single picture of Hadi that's being torn down, they're putting Masood's picture up on top of his. And people just turned their backs. And when you lose your boys, the day – Dave. The day Romano says, fuck Dave Palumbo. That's when you have – Right, right, right. I know what you're saying. I know what you're saying. You know, you have to be right because there's not enough people here in the United States for him to lose over a million followers. He lost it, obviously, over there. That's where all those followers came from. Yes, 1.2 million. And then we can get to the end of it. Wait, wait, wait. You didn't do the – put Hani dropping him in the timeline. Okay, yeah, I'm getting to that. I'll get to that. So then we said the straw that broke the camel's back. And then Peter, the act that cut the head off, even past the fucking straw that broke the camel's back, he comes out smirking, makes a video after one of his training sessions in Dubai saying, brother, you can't talk. You can't hurt me. I'm here. I mean, he basically pissed on everybody's face who are canceling him. So then after that, that's when the serious shit started to come out. And this was like two – about a week ago where they said to him, when we find you, we're going to fucking take care of you. It went from we're going to cancel you to now we're going to fuck you up. That's when I went on my – the Persian podcast that I do with AFLEX and I said to all the Iranians out there, I said, don't fuck with his family. They have nothing to do with this. Leave his son out of this. Leave his wife out of this. Leave his family out of this. This is not – they have nothing to do with what Hadi's doing and what he's saying right now. Please. And I begged him. I said, please, don't fuck him up this and that. You know what I got back in response? Fuck that. We're going to fuck this guy up. So, what does that mean? If he goes back to fucking Iran, he is done. I would never, if I were him, would even step back into that country again. They're going to fucking destroy him. They're going to get him. Stay in Dubai. And then when does Hany Rambach come into this, put yourself in Hany's shoes. You got your number one guy. You lost Bumstead. He's gone. You got your number one guy, Hany Choupon. He's the number one guy going into the Arnold Classic. And what better advertisement for Hany Rambach to stand on stage and raise his hand again and shake Arnold's hand and all those photographers and all that shit. Well, guess what? The people started to go and contact Hany Rambach saying, if you fucking don't drop him, we're going to come after you too. We're going to drop you. We're going to – Iranian people are after them now. Wow. Not me. Evidently. Evidently. The Iranians here in the United States, the Iranians that brought him up, that sponsored him, that put him on their shoulders, they're after him now. So he's in a position right now where he's shitting bricks because he's worried for his family. There's 24-hour fucking security watching his family right now. They're going to burn down his gym. They're going to fuck him up. And I came back and I said on – when I did my other podcast that was canceled, I said that I wouldn't be surprised because I heard rumors, and I'm not going to add fucking fuel to the fire. I'd worry if I were him if he goes to Columbus. That's all I've got to say. Really? Well, why would he have problems in Columbus, Ohio? Because the United States will send somebody over there. Oh, hold on. He's the only guy from Iran who can even get a visa to come to this country. Where are all the guys in Iran who hate him? How are they going to get here? They can't get here. The people that are already here. They'll pay somebody that's already here. The people that are already here. I thought you said the Iranians here really – it's a different, like, mindset compared to – The Iranians here, he's a – I've got to be careful how I say this. He's a goofy fucking sheep herder who made it. He's not that big of a fucking deal, bro. He really isn't, you know? And I've gone – Well, his physique's a big deal. That's the end of the day. You know how many apologies I've gotten? Everyone said to me in the past 10 years, you're a hater because he accomplished what you could. And I'm like, no, man. I saw this guy's personality a long time ago. I remember a few years ago, he had some bad words to say about you, too. I don't remember what he said. What did he say about you? He went on state TV. He went on state TV. And they asked him, so what do you think about King who paved the road for – You know, he's like, who's King? I don't know. And he kind of like brushed it off. When he did that, I said to the people around me, I'm like, okay, man. All right. No problem. This fucker's dead to me. But I'm strong enough and intelligent enough to separate the athlete from the asshole. Okay? Right. And if you ask me right now who's going to win the Arnold Classic, what do you think I'm going to say? Hottie's going to say. Hottie's 100%. He'll take it. Absolutely. Right. He's going to take it. And we'll talk about the Arnold. But if Andrew is better than he was and he tries out his hams and glutes, I'm going to give it to Andrew. Nick, yes, he's going to be a fucking problem. But he's got to be at his – yeah, we can go down the list of all these things. But I'm still king enough to say that he's the number one guy going into this show. Let me ask you a question, man. Hottie has won a lot of money over the last couple years. From the Olympia to the Arnold win. Now he could potentially be poised to win another $750,000. That's a lot of power. I mean, he doesn't really have to go back to Iran. I mean, I know he probably has family there, which he obviously wants to see again. What is the likelihood that he doesn't – he takes this money and he does something with it in another country and just abandons – That's assuming he wins, right? Right. Okay. Assuming he wins, which I don't think he will. But assuming he wins – You just said you thought he was going to win. I said if he shows up at 100%, he'll be very hard to beat. He will be the number one guy going into the Arnold Classic if he shows up at 100%. That's why. Even second place is $250,000. That's a lot of money. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. $250,000. You have to understand something. Okay. I'm glad you brought this up. Why am I saying this right now? Because in Iranian people's eyes, if you don't win, it doesn't matter. Yeah. Ricky Bobby. If you're not first, you're last. That's it. That's how they look at things. And they will – let me tell you something. I'll make another bold prediction right now, okay? If, if, if Hottie gets second or, God forbid, Nick Walker, you listening out there, please do your cardio. Please, for the love of God, do double cardio. If Nick Walker beats him and he gets third, he'll never step on a stage again. You think so? Really? No. Never. Never Hottie's your problem. The amount of shame, the amount of – already all the shit that's going to come down on him because of the protest, that's going to come down on him? I don't think any human being on the planet can handle that type of fucking – Just from a physique perspective, from your little contacts in Iran over there, does he have a leg issue? I mean, I noticed that one of his legs is a little small the last year or so. Does he have an injury? I don't know if he has an injury, but the only thing I can tell you is right now, as we speak, he still got – he still has not gotten his visa to Europe yet, to the EU. And he's very, very, very worried about his family and the stress is starting to get to him big time, especially with all the death threats. I heard he has a visa now to get to the country. He's saying what I heard. He may have a visa to get to Europe. He's got to get a visa to come to the United States. That's a whole different story. I don't know what's going on, bro, but I'm just saying it's not going to be a cakewalk. And now, where is he going to go? Is he going to go trade with Hany Rambod in Texas? No, that's done. You know, Hany got on TV and on social media, and I sent a clip to today. He started crying. Did you see it, John? No. Yeah, he was crying. Let Dave talk about it for a second. Yeah, it was a little – it was kind of a – it's like his wife was talking, and he was, like, in the background weeping. It was a little – I thought it was a little contrived, you know, but I think the sentiment was good, but I think it was a little over-dramatized, you know. And I will say this. I will say this. I have, you know, my feelings towards Hany Rambod, not Hany. Hany Rambod is whatever. I'll keep it to myself. So I wish him the best, and I wish Evergen the best. But his wife, she's an amazing woman. All I've heard was nice things about her, how she supported the Iranian people from day one of the protests. So this has nothing to do. So whatever – again, let's separate the family and the business and all that stuff. Nothing about her. She's a wonderful woman. Look, Hany's a very good businessman, and I'm sure he's very upset and stressed out of his mind about what's going on with Hany. And I'm sure he did not want to drop Hany. But there must have been a lot of pressure, like King said. And when there's a lot of pressure like that, you have to make these decisions. And really – Well, Dave, let's be real. There's going to be people that think you abandoned the guy, and there's going to be people that think that you didn't do the right thing. And Hany always makes the right business decision, and I'm sure it was the right business decision. Unfortunately, it makes it look like he abandoned Hany. That's what it looks like. Well, I would think he'd have really realistically, legitimately no choice if he wants to sell any supplements. Yeah. So, I mean, it's everybody, not just Hany. Everybody who's associated with Hany is going to have to distance themselves from him. And then right now, a bucket of protein, let's say an Evigen whatever product, that would be $45 here. It's $800 in Iran. Nobody's buying time. Nobody can buy food. They can't afford eggs. Who's going to go out and buy fucking creatine? It's not going to happen. Trump should fix the egg problem over there, John. And Dave, thinking as a businessman, you have species, great product. Yeah. Great product, okay? So, if you lose your number one market, what are you going to do tomorrow? You're going to freak the fuck out. Right? Yeah. Yeah. This is really unfortunate, man. Yeah. It's a real bad thing. And like I said, I don't know why people- John, John, excuse me, Dave. Excuse me, John. Yeah. The worst part and the most unfortunate thing about this is, none of this would have happened if he would have kept his mouth shut. Yep. Just shut the fuck up. Listen, you said it before. You didn't tell the whole story, but they asked Michael Jordan once, you know, how come you don't, you know, support a political party? He goes, because Republicans and Democrats both buy sneakers. And that's really what Hottie should have taken that same approach. I don't know if he was receiving pressure from the government or not. King seems to think that that wasn't the case. But, you know, we don't really know for sure. You know, one of the problems here is, and this is not just this case, but this has been in many cases, is that there seems to be a lack of mentoring for bodybuilders to make them able to better navigate situations like this, political situations, knowing to keep your mouth shut, knowing to be smart with your money, know how to do it. These guys are just out there, you know, they're just out there winning money and making fools of themselves, a lot of them. So I think a lot of this problem stems from the fact that nobody took Hottie under their wing and said, look, man, this is how you got to act. This is how you have to respond to things. This is what you need to stick up for. This is what you need not to do. This is when you keep your mouth shut. If he had some direction, this probably would have turned out a little bit different. Don't you think that Hani Rambod would have been the guy to advise him? Hani's pretty good like that, you know, in telling people, you know, how to act. Evidently not. Well, maybe he didn't listen to me. Maybe he didn't listen. That's not what I've heard. I've done interviews. I've done podcasts. And I've asked many, many people about, you know, Chris Cook absolutely fucking destroyed Hani Rambod on my podcast. He destroyed him. And that's Chris Cook, a Christian, white. I heard. All-American boy. And he spoke so well. And he's like, fuck that guy. He told me. He doesn't like, he didn't like Hani Rambod. My wife almost knocked it. You know, see what happens. Listen, listen. It all comes down to power and what happens in your head. Once you start feeling that power, when Hani Tupan goes to Iran, they carry him on the shoulders and he everywhere bows to him and they bow to him. You start thinking that you're something you're not. So, Romano, you're right, man. He should have. Somebody should have sat there and said, look, man, you're a fucking bodybuilder. Shut the fuck up. Right. Don't do it. Jim Mannion. He's in Pittsburgh. He donates all his profits to the police department. And it's smart. That's a smart man. Here's what the problem is. When you're riding the wave of success, and you just said this before. Okay. The people you're riding with, you know, are keeping you up here. When the people who are lifting you up and you're riding with, okay, are having problems, you know, now you don't look like such a good guy anymore because those guys are not good guys. And now you're the villain. And so I think what happened to Hadi was he was the national hero until he wasn't. And then now he's the villain because the people he was supporting were okay at first. And everyone was like happy with him up here. And then when those people were not, you know, were being, you know, criticized because of all the terrible things that you've told us of going on. Now that Hadi's with those guys, he's a villain by association. And I think that's what happened. That's the only way you can go from hero to, you know, to criminal overnight. You know, there's no other way. It wasn't his fault. Even if he would have said nothing, I think he still would have been associated with that regime. There's no middle ground. No. There's no middle ground. Yes. But if he would have kept his mouth shut, he would have still had his Evigen contract. He still would have been the hero of the country going into the Arnold class. People was still, none of his pictures would have been ripped down from most of the gyms in Iran. All of his pictures have been spray paint. I mean, I've seen even people, people take his pictures out and have their fucking dog shit on the pictures and stuff. I've seen it all. They're hating. Do you think that, do you think that there's a level of naivete there on his part where the government said, listen, go on there, tell the people you support us. It's going to help, you know, get rid of the violence and it's going to calm people down. And that's all we want you to do is just help calm down things. And he's so naive that he believed that and he did it. Probably. He's not the sharpest tack in the fucking BUN, you know? I don't think it was done maliciously. I don't think it was a malicious move. He's a fucking chupon. A chupon means sheep herder, okay? He's a fucking, he's not an educated guy. He's around everybody who kisses his ass, blah, blah, blah, blah. Okay. Put all that shit aside. But again, I don't want to sound redundant, but he should have kept his fucking mouth shut. Well, to the sheep herders defense, I mean, this is not an easy situation to navigate. I mean, you have to have some business savvy, some psychological know-how, some societal understandings that are, you know, several layers deep. To understand this, to figure out what exactly he should have done to have come out of this on the other end unscathed. And he couldn't. And like King says, he could have. All he had to do was keep his mouth shut. But apparently, John, what about Berhus? How come people are not turning on Berhus? Why? Right. He's in the same situation. Pro bodybuilder. His money is worthless. He's did this. You know what? He kept his mouth shut. Right. He didn't complain. But he's not the top dog. The eggs are this price and blah, blah, blah. He didn't say anything. He just kept me. I contacted him. He's like, the fuck am I going to do, King? I got to sit. I got to live. I got to survive. I got to do my thing. I got to take care of my family. So he kept his mouth shut. Yeah, the difference is that Hottie's the top dog. I think his naivete, because he is probably very naive. The government probably came to him, asked him. He thought it was going to be a big deal, and it backfired on him. And I think that's where he's at at this point. Yeah, he just didn't know how to do this. He was built a hand. He didn't know how to play. That's exactly what I am. I think he's the kind of guy that, like, when the chips are down, he's like, I'm going to get tougher. I'm going to overcome this. And it's coming off as arrogant. And it's really not. It's just him saying, listen, I know that everything has been going wrong for me lately, but I'm still going to come into this show. I'm going to be my best, and I'm going to win it for everyone to prove that. And I don't think it's arrogant. And I think that's just his personality. And it's unfortunate. You know the Phantanian fans. How many times has he won the, you know, that belt that they wore? Was it the People's Choice and all that stuff? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm telling you right now. I'm telling you right now. You're not winning that. Those days. You're not winning another one of them. You're not getting one of them this year. Nope. Nope. That might be the last time you've won the last one. Exactly. So King made a good point a minute ago about the added layer of difficulty that this adds to his, you know, Arnold prep. You know, he's got, like you said, King, he's got nowhere to go. He can't come here and hang out for three or four weeks. No, but I mean, when you get here two, three, what, four weeks early to dial in and get used to get rid of the water from the plane trip and all of that shit, you got to stay somewhere. Who's he going to stay with? He's going to come to your house. Johnny's coming to your house. Didn't you hear? You're putting him up. Is Val okay with that? On top of all that, on top of all that, okay, you have to also see in the news, add this to the stress, to the whole, you know, equation. 500,000 people showed up in Toronto for the march on February 14th. 250,000 people in LA. 70,000 in DC. So the Iranian contingency here in the United States is strong. In North America, it's strong. Okay. The Iranians are the most successful immigrant group ever come to the United States. They own half of Beverly Hills, half of Northern Virginia. I mean, they just, there's no, it's not even close. It's by miles. So let's put that aside. They hate him. That's why I said if I were him, I would be feeling fucking nerves from the top, from every cell on my body. I don't know what's going to happen in Ohio. I don't know what's going to show up. Who knows? Where is he going to go? What do we all go to the Arnold for? The Expo. How much fun was that for all of us to go and see each other and have fun and this and that, what the fuck is he going to do if some, if he's, where's he going to go? The average in booth? No. Who's going to have this? No, he's going to hang, he's going to, he's going to hang out in his hotel room until the show. He's going to go to the show and then he's going to come back to his hotel room. That's what he's going to do. And what about the people that are going to be waiting for him on the outside? If there are people waiting outside, what about it? I'm telling you, Iranians are fucking. I'm sure there's going to be, I'm sure the Arnold people will provide security for him. But Flex Wheeler was attacked by ninjas. So, I mean, this is real, but the truth is that he'll probably have a security detail. I'm sure. I, I, if I were the Arnold people, I would absolutely make sure of that. I mean, it's, it's, it does, they don't need any violence at this, at this place. And I don't think there's going to be any violence to be honest with you. I think a lot of it is now, if it was taking place in, in, in, in Iran, that's a different story, but in Columbus, they, they got that place locked down pretty well. I mean, Arnold pretty much owns Columbus, Ohio. Dave, Dave, I really do. I hope you're right. But the text messages and the DMs that I'm getting doesn't seem that way. Listen, I hope you're wrong. I hope you're wrong. All right. Just real quickly before we wrap up, let's give me your top four King for the Arnold Classic. Andrew, number one, because of everything that's happening to him. I don't think he's, I don't think how he's going to be at his best too much pressure, too much, too much stress, too much shit happening. Plus when I saw his picture, he looks big and all that stuff, but it's still going to be hot. He's going to have soft glutes. His hamstrings are not going to be there. And it is what it is. So I have a Andrew winning hottie second place, but here's the, what's we call it? Here's the curve ball in there. If, if Nick comes in at his absolute best, he is going to be the people's like people are going to be on him. They're going to push him, push him, push him shot for shot. He's very dangerous against hottie. It's very close between two. And he's never beat hottie though. I don't know, man. If he does, it's going to be, it's going to, he's never beat hottie. Why would you say he beat him now? Because I think he's going to be washed out a little bit because of all the stress. And I think he's going to come in at his absolute best. That's what I know. There's no way, there's no way hottie's coming in at a hundred percent with this going on. No way. That's what I said. That's what I thought. And then I think Martin, I'll get Martin fourth. Okay. John. I think hottie's going to crash and burn. So I'm definitely going with Andrew for first. And if, if Nick, I, you know, I hate doing this because it's all ifs. If, if Nick is a hundred thousand, 10% second. And I think Fitzwater and, and, and hottie are going to duke it out because Fitzwater is a, is a people's champ. Everybody hates hottie and the atmosphere in the, in the auditorium is going to be palpable. So, and, and there's just no way, there is no way any human on the face of this earth could stand in that kind of stress and manage a two, a dial in for the, one of the biggest bodybuilding contests on earth. So I, I, I see, I see hottie really, if this is all true and what's happening here is legit and real, and he is definitely dealing with us being ostracized, his family in danger, death threats, potentially being murdered outside the auditorium. He's not, he's not going to be sharp. He's not coming in at a hundred percent and he might come in at, you know, 30 or 40%. And if that's the case, Martin's going to just move right in. So I don't see this working out well, all things considered for hottie. I think that Andrew is the man to beat. I think he's got the momentum from the Olympia. He's got the width, the height. If he can bring in the conditioning, we saw at the Olympia with a little bit more muscle, which I I'm hearing from Chris Asito. He's got, it seems like he's been putting up updates up on Instagram too, which something he never did before. So he must be feeling very confident in the way he looks. I think he's going to be very tough to be, but I think it's going to be between him and hottie. They're going to battle it out. They're going to have a top two call out. It's going to look really weird to have this six foot two guy. That's wide as a house, you know, against the short guy who's built like a fire plug, but, you know, shredded to the bone. And it's going to be very hard for these judges to pick. Cause it's like, it's, they're so different the way they look that I think that that's going to be, you know, a difficult scenario. But you see the president's calling me. Dave, I don't, I don't think you're, I don't think you're giving enough weight to what hottie is going through right now. I was about to get to hottie. Let me get to hottie. So hottie is not your typical guy who sits on social media and watches stuff and lets it affect him. And he kind of, and I don't know if this has anything to do with his hearing, he kind of has his own little bubble that he exists in. And it works to his advantage because he blocks out everything that's going on. Yeah. Granted, there is death threats. He's losing followers. And maybe the people who take care of the business of what he does might be panicking. But I think he's using this as fuel to train harder. Okay. To come in better than ever so that he can silence all these, these critics. And I think we're going to see a really, really good hottie. I still think Andrew was going to be a little better. And I think Andrew's going to get the nod, but I'm going to have hottie in second. And I think Nick and Martin are certainly going to battle for third and fourth. I love Nick. I love his physique. I love the, you know, the fact that he's the freakiest guy on stage. Martin, however, has really improved dramatically. Martin, I mentioned on another show, also likes to, you know, fuel his training. And, you know, that's why if you noticed recently, he was saying, you know, F you pretty much to all the press out there. You're all idiots. You know, he was, he's basically making everyone his enemy so that he can also motivate himself to train harder and to be his absolute best. So I think it's going to be a real battle between the two of them. Nick obviously has the size and freaky advantage. Martin has the structure advantage. It'll be hard to decipher those two. I don't even know. It's a coin flip. I would, I think that Martin's, you know, gotten the best of Nick recently. So you got to go Martin third, Nick fourth, but it's going to be a great top four. The $750,000 being given away by Arnold for first place. That is a huge amount. And then two weeks later at the Arnold UK. Okay. There's another 250 being in the way. So you can win ostensibly a million bucks. If you win both shows, that's outrageous. And I think it's great for the athletes. Terrific. Yeah. Dave, do you think, do you think there's, they would, they would, if Hadi shows up washed out and looks terrible, do you think that was just for popularity sake? Do you think it'll still be between Andrew and Hadi? Or do you think they would? No, no, no, no. I don't think they're going to, and I've thrown him a bone, I think. But I think that you guys, the normal person, you're right, would come in terrible. Because the psychological stress would destroy them. But I don't think, I think Hadi does, he doesn't work that way. I think he'll take that and internalize it and use it as fuel for his training. I don't think he's going to be destroyed by it. What? Because he's a rain man. That's why. Yeah. Yeah. He has like this ability to hyper-focus. And like I said, I don't know if it has to do with his hearing. Sometimes when you don't hear everything that's going on at you, you can, you know, you're in this little bubble of your own self where you can kind of hyper-focus. Focus down. And it's worked to him. I've never seen the guy out of shape. I've seen him a little flat at a couple Olympias, but I've never seen him out of shape. So it's going to take a lot, you know, to mess up Hadi. You know, obviously, if he does come to the U.S. and there are any kind of like threats, that could certainly come into play. But I think Hadi is using this as fuel by what I've seen on Instagram. And the guy looks insane. So I think it's going to be a two-man show between Andrew and Hadi. But I've been wrong many a time. But you know what, King? I want to say something about you coming on here. Because when King called me up and said he did another podcast and they refused to air it. And I said, listen, John and I support, and we've always, with our X Muscles, supported the right of free speech. And free speech is not about fun speech. It's about the speech that no one wants to hear. That's what the support of freedom of speech is. So you might not like what King just told us and the reality of it. And it might just be his opinion. But I support your right to say that 100%. And I would never censor you ever because of that. And it's important that ideas get out there so that debate can be sparked. You're not causing anything to happen that hasn't already been put into play. You're just giving us the reality of what life in Iran is like and what life for a Persian American is like. And that's a perspective I didn't even know until we just spoke today. So thank you. One last point. I appreciate that. And one last point. And the RX has always been known for this. And that's why Romano and you guys are always very respected in the industry. One more point here. I want to make sure Lee Priest is listening because I'm sure he is. And I love him. I really do love Lee. His whole argument is. And the reason why I'm bringing this up is I got hundreds of people saying talk about this. All right. So here. Lee's argument is politics here, bodybuilding here. Leave him alone. Right? My response to Lee is this. One week before the Super Bowl, Tom Brady attends a Ku Klux Klan rally. Okay? Is he still Tom Brady? Yes. Is he still the GOAT? Yes. But his character is fucked. People are not going to look at him the same. When he shows up to the Super Bowl, they're going to be like, dude, the fuck? Fuck you, man. I don't care who you are. I don't care if you're the GOAT. You shouldn't have been there. You shouldn't have done that. That is the whole point, Lee. That's what I'm trying to make it as easy as you can so you can understand what I'm saying. The Iranian people saw Hadi at a Klan rally and they're like, are you fucking kidding me? Our people are dying and you're going to this? No. That's the whole point. So, Lee, love you. Hope you understand. That definitely clarifies what makes a point. And I'm sure Lee will have a response to that. And on that, we're going to wrap up. We went back and forth. And I said, Lee, please delete what you said. I'm asking you as an Iranian. And he goes, no, I'm not doing that. That's what's great about having King, my son, not to pick up that piece of paper on the floor after I told him. That's what I appreciate about King's commentary here is that culturally, he knows this shit. I mean, you know. And you made a mention of it a few minutes ago about culturally, it's not like that for them. And we here in America think the whole world thinks just like we do. But that's just not true. And I'm glad King can give us that kind of inside look at what the reality is in this situation. I think, John, the world got a sense of this when Flex Lewis beat Hadi in Korea. Everyone went crazy. And how many death threats did poor Flex Lewis get? And he came out and he said, I'm not a judge. I got nothing to do with this. I got nothing to do with this. But they didn't care. The Iranian people didn't care. That is the mentality over there. Right, right, right. Although, for the record, I think that Hadi should have beat him at that show. I agree. I agree. He should have beat him. And again, to clarify everything, two last things that I'm going to say here. One, please, please, please, Iranians out there, leave his family out of this. Don't mess with his child. Don't mess with his family. They have nothing to do with this. And number two, yes. If he's 100%, he will win the Arnold Classic. I am saying, I hate the guy. I think he's a fucking piece of shit. But I can put that aside and say he's that good that he has a great chance of winning. Yeah, I'm going to go in. I'm going to take what you said one step further, Iranian people. Let's not have any violence for anyone. We don't need that. It's not going to solve any problems here. And it never does. Debate is great. Violence is not going to solve anything. On that note, we're going to wrap up today. Thank you for joining us for another episode of the Palumbo Podcast. I'm Dave Palumbo for John Romano. And King Kamali, we'll see you next time. Peace. Bye, guys. Take care. Take care. Take care. Bye.