Find out the truth about Derek Lensford. >> I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition Products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're back with another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palumbo. I am joined by the technician Chris Aceto who is going to tell us the truth today. We talk about Chris the truth being sometimes hurting a little too much and uh we're gonna have to do some truth truthtelling on this show today because there's been a lot of bad information out there on social media lately. Huh. >> Yeah. There's there's uh there's um a lot of lies. >> Yeah. Do you want to get into that first or you want to talk about Prague first? >> No, we'll talk about Prague. >> Okay. Well, Martin Fitzwwater repeats as champion. If you guys watched Chris and I's small little wrap-up we did Sunday night, you'll know that uh who won that show already and and what went on. But Martin wins twice. He beats Chris Bumstead last year who went from classic to open. This year Keon Pearson went from the uh 212 to the open and did a lot worse than Bumpster did. That's for sure. He took fourth place, but he beats a very good Samson Dow who beat him at the Olympia. He beats not only Kio, but he beats Michael Kriso, too, who just came off a win last week and qualified for next year's Mr. Olympia. So, this is a really good Martin Fitzswwater. I think it might be the best we've seen from him. It seems like when he's in shape, Chris, he's he's very hard to beat. >> He's um he's phenomenal, you know. He's just uh he was phenomenal here. He was really good at the Olympia, but he was phenomenal here. And he was phenomenal at the uh New York Pro when he was second. He was phenomenal the same year at the Olympia when he was I think fourth. But this is um this is his Olympia look with more condition which you know if you're judging the show you're probably expecting either one more of the same or you're expecting like you know the same condition which was really good condition at the Olympia with more fullness but he looks like bigger here. He looks harder. His flow is better because he looks bigger and harder. >> Yeah. You know what this reminds me of? This this this show reminds me of when Ronnie went against GA Schlair Kemp about a couple weeks after the 20 the 202 Olympia. >> Uh and he lost. Ronnie, a lot of people forget Ronnie lost in the middle of his reign doing a show where he was trying to win a lot of money and he just was a little too downsized. He was small and then he came back the following year in 03 and looked like, you know, he was like 300 lb this age. But, uh, this is what seems to happen. Martin came in here. He's like the Gunther in this in this particular case and he beats a downsized Samson data. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, Sam Samson's Samson's better than he was at the Olympia. My opinion for sure. >> Um, he just, you know, Samson's the last couple years is used to dominating people with like that pose, his side chest. You know, the leg is usually bigger than it is there. And even the pecs, you know, are usually bigger than they are there. They're bigger here than the Olympia, but you know, Martin's better here than he was at the Olympia. So, >> I mean, it's it's it's close. And like all these shows, you can make the argument I think for Samson because if he had won, I hear like is a one-point decision. if he had won would probably be talking about, you know, Samson's attributes as opposed to Martin's. But I just think that Martin was too polished here to, you know, overlook. When it's close, when it's close, you either go with the guy who's just, you know, outsizing you or the guy that's out conditioning you. But I don't think Samson outsized him enough to to be able to say Samson's the winner. >> Well, you're right. One point. Well, it was a two-point decision when it was all said and done, but >> yeah, >> Martin won by one point in each round. >> Yeah. So, I mean, it's it's it's sort of apples and oranges. And I can certainly see I mean, they both improved from the Olympia, but I think Martin improved even more from the Olympia >> than Samsung. Yeah, I think uh I think Martin is just I think he realized last year he made a mis or early in the year he made a miscalculation in in Pittsburgh. He tried to come in too big. His physique does not look good when when he's a little bigger or fuller. If he doesn't have that crisp conditioning in his lower back um he just doesn't have enough wow factor. His in other words, his muscles are not like 3D dense enough. Like you remember, I always tell this this to people. If you ever saw Kai Green in the offseason at 300 lb, when he locks his leg down, he looks the separation in the muscle looks like he's in contest shape, but he's really not in contest shape. That's just the way his muscle is is shaped. It's g deeply grooved. Martin, you don't see those those those little striations and feathering and detail until he's so lean that he's got no body fat left on him. So if he comes in a little off or a little too full, he loses the detail and it does he just doesn't look as impressive. He just looks like another guy, you know, >> you know, it's it's a it's a fine balance, you know, for everyone, you know. I mean, you're still talking about fullness and condition and, you know, >> fullness and with Samson. Now we're talking about condition and fullness with Martin. It's, >> you know, if Martin was two pounds heavier here, he probably wouldn't have won. And if You know, he was even two pounds less than this, he probably wouldn't have won. In other words, it was like perfect peak for his body. He would have been a little bit harder, two pounds lighter, but he we probably would have said, "Boy, he's just a little too flat." >> You're right, 100%. Me pull this up. We can watch a little Martin getting excited here. He was He was He was really psyched. I You Some guys don't even respond when they win. I love when I see guys go crazy because it's got I mean, come on. It's got to be the most exciting thing in your life at this point, right? I mean, some guys look like they don't even have any emotional response. I don't know if they're just numb from not realizing how uh amazing what just happened is, but Martin certainly uh was enjoying this victory. He enjoyed the little trophy got. He got $30,000. So, and you know, I think Krisza was fine with the with the win because the Krisa already qualified last week. And uh I think Samson wanted that money, but I don't think Samson cared about the title. I think Samson was mad he didn't get the money more so than anything. >> Uh I mean, a good lineup overall. It's it's a great lineup. >> What What What's Kriso? Why isn't he in contention for this? because Martin and and Samson he's just those I mean it's a great Samson don't get me wrong it's far better than two weeks ago uh but it's a great great Martin so you got two guys who are true first call out Olympians and Kzo as good as he looked he's just you know he's as crazy as it sounds he's probably got >> that's Kzo from last big. >> He just needs more like size in the quads to be able to, you know, he's just not as big as he's a big guy, huge guy, but he's he's not Samson and he's not Martin. As simple as you can put it. You know, he's in really good condition here, but like he's not in Martin's condition and he's not in Samson's condition. >> People ask me, you know, people who are just fans who, you know, text me and they say, "Why is Kriso not winning shows?" And why is why can't he beat the why can't he beat these these guys? I said well he he's not that great. He's not that great from behind. He's a little I I think he's a little weaker from behind. Um not his back is good but his like his like hamstrings and glutes. I don't know what is it what if you had to like define what why Kriso can't win the show. Is it because he looks better alone against than against other people or is he missing something? >> Is this is this video from last week? I think it is. >> Well, in this video, he's not fully dialed like >> Yeah. >> Samson and and Martin are. I mean, Samson's hard in this show, you know. He's hard. >> This was from last week. Yeah. That video I showed you. >> I mean, he does not have the condition of Martin and Samson. >> Now, if he did, would he be as dominant? That's the question because it seems like he loses something when he's not full enough. Well, that's I mean that that's what we talk about week to weeks out of the year is like how this guy looked. Well, it wasn't full enough, wasn't tight enough, you know? I mean, if he's he's got to he's got to try it, you know what I mean? He's got to try to come in fully dialed to see if he can keep the size, >> right? >> You know, because if you try to if you if you don't try it, you're just coming in very round and very big like here. And when you get the a three person call out, you're going to look like, you know, you could have dieted another 10 days, >> right? Let's let's talk about >> not in good shape. He's just not in their shape. >> I got you. Let's talk about Keon Pearson because I think people were the most excited to see what this guy was going to look like on stage because a lot of people, myself included, thought he was going to come in here and really dominate the open class. Now granted, I wasn't as impressed seeing him at the Olympia because I think we realized that a lot of his Instagram and social media pictures were filtered and made him look a lot better than he really was in person. He's still very impressive in person, don't get me wrong, but I think people were let down by the fact that when they saw the real Keon, it wasn't as impressive as what we've seen on social media. But having said that, we still thought he was going to do very, very well. And he did. Let's face it, fourth place in an open lineup is great. But I know he wanted to come here and win. Let's look at his posing and you tell me what you think he needs to work on. >> Well, his in this lineup his I mean his lower body compared to Martins's right now at this stage of his career are not going to beat Martin's squads from the front, from the side, and Squads have been definitely bigger in the past, but they're still, you know, bigger than Keons are. So, you're talking about half the body. >> I mean, we're talking about height. There's a height issue here, too, obviously. Right. >> I mean, you know, there is height, but there's I mean, he more size than we're talking height. >> Yeah. I mean, I think he's very impressive here. I I know a lot of people were harping on his midsection, saying that the, you know, his his he's got that like diastasis thing going on between his rectus muscles, uh, on the front poses. He has like a separation there which seems to have gotten bigger over the last couple years as he he's grown which we know what happens Chris when you start eating a lot of food to try to grow it stretches out that midsection and he seems to be you know his body's taking you know a beating because of that and it doesn't look as good aesthetically speaking. What do we um you know here's better here's better video. Let me pull this up. This one I like this one better. What's your suggest? What's your if you have to give him advice, open or stay as 212? >> I I said it when everyone was talking about open that, you know, to stay king of the 212 in the future, but I'm just surprised people think that he's big enough to beat and beat Martin. I just I think the height is a is a disadvantage, too. >> Well, I mean, the height wouldn't be a disadvantage if he had 20 pounds more muscle. So, >> but would he look as aesthetic with 20 pounds? In other words, should he try to put 20 more pounds of muscle on that frame? >> What do you think? >> He probably could. And it and and that's where he would need to be. He he'd he'd need to be 12 pound 10 pounds bigger here to win the show. He doesn't have to be 20. Realistically, if he weighed whatever he weighs here, 10 more pounds, he could win the show. So, there is, you know, that opening for him to be, >> you know, a top top open guy, but it's just not yet, you know, because >> not like, you know, uh William Bonak who competed. >> He was just I was just going to say, "Let me throw a name at it." you William Bonak, >> you know, it's not like William competed successfully in in a 212 and said, "I'm just going to grow and >> he he went to the Open, but he didn't do it like in one year like the same year." Keon just competed in a 212 show, >> right? >> You know, it's like when Derek won the 212 or >> you know, he didn't compete in the Open the same year he won the 212, >> Took it the entire year. So, it's the same thing with um Keon. You can't compete as a 212 guy and then two weeks later say, "I'm doing open." You'd have to compete in the 212 and saying, "You know what? I'm going to take nine months or 12 months and I'm going to grow and then I'm going to diet down to an open level competitor and we'd be, you know, having a different conversation." >> Yeah. So, you So, you think he should stay? I mean, you think he should try to go to the open still? You think that that's still the right move for him? >> I mean, you I don't know because you you you try to do the open division only if you only if you say I'm done with the 212. I'm done done because you know once you do open there's no going back probably, >> right? You can't you can't hedge your bets is what you're saying. >> So it's it's you got to decide one or the other. You going to king of the 212 or you going to just give it up? You know, give up that title. It's not a bad title to have. Let's see. Three times already or twice. >> Three time 12 champion. You know, there's a lot of respect that goes with that. Um, >> you know, because if you if you take the whole year and you the next year you he's 220 pounds, he's not going to be able to diet it back down to two. I mean, he could technically, but you want back and sacrifice, you know, what you took an entire year to put on. >> Yeah, you have to go all in. You have to throw your hat into the same ring and say, "All right, I'm done with 212 and I'm going to the open. I'm going to give a 100% to this. Win, lose, or draw." And and you're right. You can't look back at that point. He's won it enough times. I mean, what else does he have to prove at this point, you know? But that's the personal decision he'll have to make. Let me just mention one more really good guy in this lineup. fifth place finisher. Um, this this kid has got a is a very bright future, I think. And I'll pull up his pictures. Joan Pellis. Here we go. Pull him up. Talk to me about him. >> He's like a a taller Martin. >> Yeah. >> You know what I mean? Like, you know, lack of weaknesses. I I said it on the wrap-up yesterday. you know, lack of weaknesses and structure can carry you really, really far. Because if he had this physique and no back double, a weak back double bicep, we wouldn't even ever talk about him. >> So, he does have a back double. Or if he had this physique, but he had a very weak side chest, we wouldn't be talking about him because he would not have placed as high. So he's placing high because he know we so that means everything appears strong. Great backline spread. You know >> got a big back. He's got a big big back. Yeah. >> Very very good. Um >> his waist is not as small as Martins's but he's got a he's got maybe a better back than Martin does. you know, his but he's he's got he's got a big V taper in the lineup which is goes is so important because there's a lot of guys in the Olympia who do not have a big Vtaper in the lineup. They have a ton of muscle, >> right? >> You know, but to be able to stand and stick out is so important. >> Well, we'll see. We'll see over the next uh 2026 season what this guy does, but definitely a lot of potential there. Great lineup in Prague. I'm glad all these guys threw their hat into the ring. Obviously, there was only one happy person in that lineup, and that was Martin Fitzwwater, who repeated once again as the Prague Pro Champion two years in a row now, beating Chris Bumstead last year, beating out Michael Kriso, Samson Sand Da, who beat him at the Olympia a few weeks earlier. And of course, our 212 Olympia champ as well. So, he beat two Mr. Olympians in that lineup. That's pretty cool. Actually, in the last three years, Chris, he's beat three Mr. Olympias in three different categories if you think about it. From classic, 212, and open, right? >> Yeah. It's, you know, and I'm sure he's gunning for the Mr. Olympian. >> I'm sure he is. >> He He's um he's he's the real deal for sure. >> Yeah. Yeah, I think he is, too. >> You know, >> and and couldn't couldn't meet a nicer guy. He's very down to earth, too. I really I like him a lot. Always liked him. All right, let's uh let's change gears for a minute because there's a there's a big controversy brewing. Chris, you're always in the middle of all these controversies. What is it? You're very controversial lately. >> Yeah. >> There's some guys going around, these German guys talking about the fact that Derek Lunsford almost died backstage. Let me before I get your commentary, let me play this clip from one of the YouTube channels I have queued up here. Thank thanks to Sid Farooqi. By the way, Sid is in Dubai and now he's in Riads doing some oxygen gym opening there. He's all over the place. He's taking my uh taking my job. God bless him. All right, let me play this this video for you here. Press now. It's not playing. Why is this part? >> I can't hear what he's saying. So, he's saying Derek is backstage and almost died. I don't know if anyone else has ever talked about it publicly. I'm just reading the subtitles, but if you probably noticed, usually the reigning Mr. Olympia is on stage. Let me kill the sound here. >> Derek was back there because he was lying backstage with his whole body cramping up and couldn't get up. He was really really lousy. Chrysac alactone plus triumphine plus we load potassium. I don't know what he's saying. He said that to him that Paul Dlet did backstage. Yes. I don't know what this means. And he refused to drink. So he's basically saying that Derek refused to drink backstage. He was there at dinner with Martin Fitzwwater the following evening. And that's what Martin supposedly told him that William Bonak forced Derek backstage to do it. I think that means drink. They went to him in pairs. He told me a little bit of the story. They can do it backstage with both Nick Walker and Derek. So he's basically saying no one can stand Derek or or or Nick Walker backstage, but they all get along aside from that. So Derek and Nick stay away from everyone else. Nobody wants to have anything to do with them. And accordingly, no one really noticed that Derek was somehow cramping up and couldn't even get up. Only William noticed at some point and went over to him and wanted him to have something to drink. And Derek refused to drink even though he couldn't get up. And then he went over with Martin and one of held him held him back and the other poured water into his mouth. And somehow William said the same thing. So Derek, you have a family. I'm not going to let you die here. You'll drink like that if we have to force you to. And then at some point, I don't know. And then a few minutes later, um, they saw him eating potato chips with even more potassium. In any case, it was probably a pretty close call backstage. And he looked like afterwards, right? Then he completely went crazy and Yeah. And that's it. Okay. So, that's that's the video. It sounds even if I don't know the story, I could already tell something is very fishy because they're already making diagnosis. They don't know anything about anything at this point and they're, you know, there. Chris, what is is there any reality to this? What happened backstage? You were there. >> No, there's completely utterly no reality to it. Um, I will say that uh Derek did not have anywhere. He did not have a cramp in his chest, in his shoulders, tries, back, legs, calves, anywhere whatsoever. Derek was so Yeah, Derek. Uh, Dave, you have so much static the show's being. >> Is it really? I don't I don't hear it, but >> I can barely hear it over my >> Really? I will keep talking. I'll keep trying. I'll try to fix it. >> I can barely hear myself talk because it's so loud. There. It's gone. It's It's way down now. >> Okay. >> So, I Ivan did a Ivan uh My son had sent me Ivan's clip and Ivan's clip was a summation of a German show that said that Derek almost died backstage. Um, which it's ludicrous. It's more than ludicrous. It's It's not the It's not the truth, Dave. It is a lie. And I contacted Ivan and I said, "Where did you get the information from?" And he said based on what he saw on the German uh podcast that Martin had said that Martin Fitzwada had said that that Derek Lunford almost died backstage. So that is a lie. I'm not saying that um Martin made it up. Someone may have told Martin, "Oh, Derek almost died backstage, but that person is lying." So regardless regardless of all of it, whoever started it is just they're not telling the truth. They're lying. So none of that happened. I went backstage to see Derek because uh Freddy the promoter called me during the men's classic prejudging I mean finals which I missed the whole thing and he said come backstage it's Derek so I was sitting next to you >> right >> I get up out of my seat like I was walking to the main mall I mean walking through the main mall literally like bored I mean that's the pace at which I walked backstage. When I got backstage, I saw Freddy and he was like I could tell by his face that he was uh that he was fast. You know, something was wrong with Derek. And I told Freddy, quote, "Freddy, this is nothing to worry about. Where's Derek? I'll go talk to him. This has got nothing to do with I already know what it's got to do with. Um, but before I tell you what it's got to do with, I wanted to discount the idea that he had any serious health issue at all backstage. His pupils were not dilated. He was not sweating. He was not sweating profusely. His blood pressure was not high. You can interpret that, Dave. His blood pressure >> or low or low. His blood sugar, which indicates things as you know, was 100% normal. His resting heart rate was that of a tennis father sitting in uh the stands of a a tennis match, which means his his resting heart rate was 100% normal. Um he had no cramps whatsoever. no cramps whatsoever. I don't know how many times I have to say that. So, this idea that he was cramping up uh or had any issues with diuretics is ridiculous. So people who are who are saying that he was in trouble are trying to make trouble because either they don't know the truth or they do know the truth. And if they don't know the truth and they're spreading rumors, it's bad. And if they do know the truth and they're spreading rumors, it's worse. >> Right? And uh so I went backstage and eventually uh um they had like a like a paramedic or what EMT or someone backstage and as I said all everything was 100% fine. So I don't >> all his vital signs all his vital signs >> I don't know where this idea that his whole entire body started to cramp came from but wherever it derived from that person is lying and you know what's a second part of it or a takeaway for me is that was a big show for Derek it was a big show for Andrew Jack it was a big show for Raone those three out of 11 people who I coached at that show. And I don't want people thinking like those guys, you know, are walking a line, a dangerous line when they get up on stage. That is also not true at all. No matter who says it or how many times they say it, that is not true. And it's important because people may think other competitors, not at the Olympia or at the Olympia, but at the amateur level, a professional level, might think, oh, you have to walk a really fine line between like >> life and death, >> life and death to win a show. And that is not true. So, I wanted to, you know, get that point across because besides the the nastiness of the rumor, it implies that you have to do things that you do not have to do to win shows. >> Now, what was going on with Derek? So Derek um the Derek had um anxiety issues at he had an issue with anxiety at the Arnold and you know it's a big show. You're coming from >> third place at the Olympia, right? losing the Olympia title, getting third, and everyone, you know, and their brother thinking like, you're done, and there's, you know, that was a fluke when you did win, and there's no way in hell you're going to beat Samson at the Arnold. And at the Arnold, there was a point, I think a couple days before I came to his room, and um he had she's told people he has issues with anxiety. He had an issue with anxiety and it it just it passed, you know. Um it can pass. Anxiety can pass by talking to someone you trust or talking to someone you like or talking to someone uh who can understand you or talking to someone who can make you laugh. And I can do all those with Derek. Um you know, I think at the Arnold's when he had the anxiety issue, um I told him, you know what, let's just pull the plug on the show. It's just this just too stressful. And you know, you look right out of it. And then he at Pittsburgh. >> Yeah. >> His grandmother was in the hospital getting ready to pass away or at home getting ready to pass away. He knew that like 4 days out and every single day it was like a little bit more stress on him to the point like I think it was the morning of prejudge and she passed away and the level of anxiety you know escalated and um we were able to talk through that. Um, and at the Olympia he had backstage a panic attack. And so when I was called, the reason I walked from my seat from you through the venue like I was walking board through the main mall is because I was surprised that he, you know, he had asked Freddy to see if Chris could come backstage. Um, and I I thought he would just, you know, he was having must be having a lot of anxiety if he asked me for me to come backstage. So when I came backstage, I recognized that it was greater than anxiety this time. And usually when I could, you know, connect with him quickly it and you know, joke around or, you know, just there's a lot of personal stuff that I talk to him about that I I I know how to be genuine with him. That's it. To be genuine with him, to listen to him, to be able to like alleviate anxiety. And in this case, it was beyond that. And I saw that because I was thinking, okay, this is not working. And um and he's a little bit uh well I I'm not familiar with panic attacks either. So I didn't I wasn't sure but I could >> You're not the kind of you're not the hug it out kind of guy either. So you're you're the more analytical guy. Let me let me sit down and have some therapy a therapy session. >> You're not hugging it out with him. you know, he what what he said after the show to me is, you know, Chris, I I know I know my anxiety and you know, that's I I can work through that, but I didn't know what a panic attack even really was. So I couldn't recognize it or recognize what was happening until way after the fact that it was that I was that I was like removed from it that I could say that was far different from just having higher levels of anxiety. >> So it not to interrupt you because I'm going to let you keep going. Is it possible then because I look we know what panic panic attacks mimic like a heart attack. You feel like you're having a heart attack essentially. You can't catch your breath. you know, you're short of breath. You know, is it possible that his how he was acting backstage had these other guys think that something was terribly wrong with him when in fact it was just an anxiety attack? Because by what's his name's own the German thing's own their own words. They said Derek sits alone. No one talks to him. So no one knew exactly what was going on. He wasn't discussing this with anyone else. And you know, if he did have a legitimate panic attack, I mean, they could have thought that he was in dire straits when he really wasn't. Is that possible? >> The answer is no, because they use the words cramping up everywhere. >> No, I know. But they also said Yeah, they also said that he was, you know, he was, you know, not doing well. But >> no, because they they they they No, because they they don't get a pass >> because they said that he was cramping. His whole body was cramping everywhere. >> Right. Not true. That was never true. >> Why would Martin Fitzwwater say that? You think? Was it I mean, do do you think that was a rationalization for something or like to make it seem like, hey, I I was fine and this guy was, you know, pushing the the limits of death just to win this Olympia. No, I think that somebody I mean I don't know, but I like to assume that somebody told him and that information and he just repeated it and now this this German website is repeating it >> because look, I'm let's call it like it is. You you know that when people are out there when they lose to someone when it's that close, you know, people like to make up reasons why we didn't Well, we lost because this guy was he was pushing the envelope. He was on his deathbed. you know, this guy, uh, you know, we're not going to go where he went, you know, that kind of thing. And and I and it's disrespectful because what it is is it's it's basically trying to take a person's success and make less of it and kind of like basically say, well, yeah, he succeeded, but he he did things that that no one else is going to do. You know, >> Yeah. Well, it it remove Martin from it. >> Yeah. >> The the you know, the website states it like it's factual. It's not factual. >> No, >> it's li. >> And where did this thing with the potato chips come from? >> There's not a gray area. It's not like he had Oh, he had some cramps and then they went away. No, he had no cramps. It's not like, you know, his blood pressure was incredibly low. You know what that bump? >> No. >> Yeah, >> that didn't happen either. No, >> were dilating and he was sweating. No, not that either. No, >> it's all a a a cornucopia of slander and lies, which >> which which if you thought Derek Lunsford had any type of issue, if he had any type of issue, I was there when officials were there and they would have said >> you're not that's a wrap for you. You're not going back on stage. We are not going to jeopardize the Mr. Olympia competition for Derek Bunsford from Tampa, Florida, a former Mr. and current Arnold Arnold winner. Tough luck. And that's the way it should be. >> Do you think that the that there was possibly a fake doctor backstage who who spread this rumor? You know, I don't put anything past anyone because the origin of the story is, you know, it's it's I don't know how many times I've said the word lie. And I say it because it borders on slander. It's slandering me. It's slandering Derek. It's slandering the Mr. Olympia competition. It's slandering the promoter. Because if you think they're dumb enough to have seen Derek Lunsford cramping up profusely backstage and getting ready to die and said, "You know what? Fans are here to sold out $1,000 really have to go out there because it's we don't want >> it's it's so juvenile." Yeah. >> That needs to be called out. And that's why I wasn't gonna talk about it until my son sent it to me. >> Yeah. >> You see this and I said, >> he said, "You should see it." >> I brought it up in our wrap. >> If you remember. >> You sat next to me. >> My son sat next to me and Sergio sat next to me and I got up. I missed the entire, >> you know, classic. I didn't get to see Raone, any of it. And I came back and I sat down and you said, "What is it?" And I said, "Nothing." And you said, "What is it?" I said, "Nothing." >> You said he had an anxiety attack. You said exactly to me what they >> I said then he Yeah. I said, "Derek." I said he, you know, he had a panic attack because at some point someone said eventually backstage, it might have been Derek. They used the term panic attack. And I will say this, I will say this. Just as last night when we reviewed the when the the uh Prague Pro when Molly said he sent me that text messages and he said, "Do you think Samson uh will be able to keep this fullness?" I said, "This was August 30th. It's too late. He lost it." Um after the prejudging of the Mr. Olympia. Um, I said to somebody who everyone knows, just it's just not a random person. It's not like my son. I might have, you know, someone said, you know, blah blah blah, Derek look great. And I said, quote, and I was kidding. just got to keep them from panicking because I because I had the experience from when in Pittsburgh and that's why I I told that story in Pittsburgh when he had it was experienced really high level anxiety the morning judgment when his mother passed grandmother >> and he had that anxiety the day before or two days before when he looked tremendous the Arnold and That anxiety just was the normal uh high level anxiety someone would have in his situation where he had lost his title, didn't get second, got third, was getting ready for the Arnold, and then you know, you start to doubt yourself. You're two days out and you're like, you know, is this going to go right in two days? You know, am I going to be able to hold this level of condition in two days? Am I going to hold this level of fullness in two days? Am I going to be able to, you know, am I going to be able to beat Samson in two days? Let's be honest. Am I going to have the body to be able to beat Samson in two days? And it wasn't so much worry and talk as it was genuine anxiety. So when I said that to the person after the Olympia prejudging, I was just imagining the idea of like, God, I I hope that, you know, tomorrow everything goes smoothly and, you know, he doesn't second guess himself or or second guess me or start to worry about A or worry about B or start to worry about fullness, start to worry about conditions, start to worry about water, start to worry about salt, start to worry about all these things. So I I said I just got to keep him from panicking, trying to be funny, uh but also very serious. And then when I saw this person backstage at the Olympia, um I said, "Didn't I just speak to you last night and use the exact exact word panic?" My point was go sit down. This is I told people who are there, go sit down, everybody enjoy the show. Let's see how this goes tonight. And just to poo poo the idea again, the lie that he was cramping up because he was on 400 billion diuretics. Let's be perfectly blunt. Derek won the show. He did infantismal interviews after he did including with you. >> Yeah. >> Um he went to the to the whatever the party that the bodybuilders go to. Um he met with fans. Uh he was at wherever he had to be the next day for whatever celebrations that they do the next day. That does not happen to a person who's backstage. And according to >> on his deathbed. Yeah. the German the German website a dying bodybuilder. >> They go to the hospital. >> Right. Right. >> Immediately. >> And we Phil Heath went to the hospital a couple times after winning. Right. >> I don't know. >> Yeah. Yeah. Well, let me just say this because when I was doing the wrap-up with you, the final wrapup of the Mr. Olympia, I brought it up to you. At this point, Chris had been had no sleep for three days and he didn't want to bring it up and he he fooed, you know, he kind of basically put the kibash on me to talk about what went on backstage. The reason you're coming out now and saying it is because people put a spin, a negative spin on it and and tried to make it seem like somehow Derrick's life was in danger. Derek never would have been able to do all the interviews. Derek never would have looked as as vital as he did out there. Uh, a matter of fact, I think you gave him a bag of potato chips back there backstage and these and I and I know that someone I'm not going to mention his name, but there was a fake doctor backstage who who try to like foo you giving him potato chips because potato chips contain potassium. Do you know that potato chips contain less than 6% of the daily allowance of potassium? They're like minor like minute amounts of potassium. And and to be honest with you, no one even knows if there was an electrolyte imbalance like what you would restore because no one even knew what diuretic he took. Only you knew what diuretic he was taking. So people are all of a sudden acting like doctors back there. And I I think I know exactly who spread the fake rumor. Okay? And uh it's a person who's very jealous of you and very envious of you. And I think that's where it came from. So I don't blame Martin. I don't blame the German website. I blame the one person backstage and you know who I'm talking about who spread this false rumor and that's where it all came from. I can guarantee it. Now that I've heard the story and and heard the clip, I know exactly where it came from. >> Yeah. Well, you know, >> one person >> it it's you one you're likely right. Um two you're likely right. And three, you're >> you know you know I'm right. We we we solved the mystery. All right. I just don't want to I just don't want to because I you you never know. It's like Martin repeating something. >> No, the potato chips gave it away, Chris. I'm sorry. >> I know, but you if you never know for 1,000% sure, you don't >> And that's >> I know. I know for sure. >> Like I know for sure. >> You know, frankly, I was disappointed in Martin simply that, you know, because who he is. I mean, he, you know, he You you started out with, you know, on a review. Yes. What happened to a nicer guy, >> right? >> A good reputation and because you're a nice guy and you have a good reputation, people listen to what you have to say. But something as you know, earthshattering as that Eric almost died backstage. >> Not cool. It's not cool. >> No. You should know the facts before you repeat what someone told you or you should not you should you know cross your tees and dot the eyes in terms of receiving information from that person. I hear everything and I'm in Maine and I don't even try to pay attention and tell whenever someone tells me something. >> One, I usually never ever repeat it because they're telling me in confidence. >> But two, I always say, "How do you know for sure?" I always use the word, >> you know, you say that all the time. I I bring you information, too. >> How do you know for sure? And you know, are you 100% sure? Because if you're 95% sure, >> Yeah. >> then, you know, You're not sure. >> Then you're not sure. Exactly. I I got news for you. What the German bodybuilding people who did the podcast sold out Martin really bad. They never should have mentioned Martin's name because that made Martin look really bad. And I know Martin is not a bad guy and I know he doesn't spread rumors, but they they should never have said Martin. Martin Martin told us that because that was that just made him look really bad. So guys, be careful. I guess the take-h home message is be very careful when you're spreading rumors about stuff that you don't not really sure what happened. Um it it just it it could really ruin your reputation. You know, no one wants no one wants to be thought of as a gossip. People don't like gossips because you know what happens? No one will tell you any more information if they think you're gossiping. >> It's it's a gossip sport and you know it's a go it's you know everything's gossip. It's not exclusive to bodybuilding, but >> you're right. >> And that's why, you know, I wasn't going to say any and then something because if I didn't something, you know, those those rumors would just grow legs and continue to run. So that's why I wanted to make the adamant point that that you know that that report is nothing but lie beginning to end. And Dave, if anyone if anyone they don't even have to have a good reputation. If anyone can point to any part of being backstage where Derek was in was cramping, come on and and say that a two-minute twitch in your cal because >> Keep going. They they can't. Yeah. >> You know, I'm looking. You got too much stat. >> The static still back. >> People are going to hate it. Yeah. >> I'm sorry. Yeah. >> Point is, you know, we're told that his whole body crstage and there are very few people backstage. Very few people backstage. If one of those few people can say, "You know what, Chris, you're full of it. I saw his hamstring cramp in the corner when he was all by himself for 40 seconds and I take back everything that I said." >> Well, you you know that's not that's not the reality of what happened. So that's why you can say that, you know, without a doubt. Look, you know what? It's just be very careful, guys, when you when you try to spread information when you're not really sure if that's the case or not. it it becomes a game of telephone and it's not really fair to the person who it's done to. So, uh I just want to let's move on from this. Uh Terrence Ruffin, I want to just mention this guy has been quietly decimating fields post Olympia. This is another win for him now here in Prague. The guy looks insane. Um sorry, but let me pull up. Talk to me about Rough Diesel. What What does this guy got to do to win the Olympia? I mean, is he he he obviously is unbeatable except for the the top, you know, couple guys. What does he got to do? Can he ever win the Olympia or is he just too short? >> Um, he can win the Olympia. >> He is. >> What's it going to take? >> I, you know, it's possible. >> Kim Angel second. Yeah. >> You know, it's in the realm of just He's so impressive. He's so impressive. He is so impressive. his presentation, his flow, his separation, the way his body is put together. Um, you know, I remember the the the two two years, was it last year, two years ago? I don't know. And I with my son and you know, I said, "Look how incredibly scrawny Rough Diesel looks backstage and wait till you see him on stage." You know, he he just looked like, you know, small and short in stature. I said, "He's going to look like one of the best guys you're going to see in the classic and open N212 when he walks on stage." And he's like, "Really?" And I'm say, "Yeah." The reason I'm pointing him out is because that that's, you know, you can't tell necessarily backstage who the absolute best physiques are until you get him on stage. He's incredible. And I think he's the best poser maybe ever. >> He's He's definitely one of the best. I don't know about the best ever, but he's he's one of the best poses I've ever seen. >> Well, he's got his own style. And think the reason I say about his best posing is, >> you know, a lot of people might have been quote more entertaining, you know, from a whatever, you know, the theatrics point of view, but he can do, you know, he does nine shows and you ask him for nine new unique routines, he can >> Yeah. nine completely different routines for every single show. And >> he's very Melvin Anthony like I I see >> any type of music. >> Yeah. >> Just he's almost he's just one of the best bodybuilders in the world. And >> yeah, you've always been very high on him. >> I mean that you know and I I've said it at Nazim on this show. The first year I went to the classic Olympia who I was I was prepping somebody who was second. I saw him and I think he was, you know, he didn't place very high and he was much smaller then, but even then when he was much smaller, he was I I thought like, God, this guy's got one of the best physiques on the stage. >> It's he's incredible. He really is. It's um I I wish I I pray for him every day that he could be a little taller because I think that's the only thing really holding him back to be honest with you. >> And do you think he should go to 212 open? Uh what do you think, Dave? No, I don't think I don't think he should. I don't think he can. >> Nothing wrong with being There's nothing wrong with being phenomenal in your own division. >> Yeah, look, he's winning show. The guy wins. You know who he reminds me? He's like a Darham Charles. Darham can never win the Olympia, but the guy won more individual pro shows probably than most other people out there. The guy just was racking them up. >> Darren Terrence could win 10 shows in one year if he wanted to. For sure. >> Yeah. If he did every Men's Classic show, for sure. >> This is his fourth fourth win of the year. I know it's crazy, right? >> He did New York. He He was incredible in Pittsburgh. He was incredible in New York. He was incredible at the Olympia. He was incredible uh in Brazil. And he was in >> here in Prague. That's what one, two, three, five shows, six shows. >> Well, next week, Chris, >> talk about consistency. >> I know. November 1st and second weekend, the Everest Muscle Stars Poland Pro, Robert Petraovich is holding that show. And the week after that, November 8th and 9th is the Romania Muscle Fest and that's Wings of Strength promoting that one. So, some good good bodybuilding still. Who are we going to see in these shows? I mean, who would you recommend doing these shows? I I >> Ake in Poland. >> Oh, good. Good. and Andrew is doing uh um >> Romania. >> Andrew is really what made him decide to do that one? Um, I think you, you know, just want to get that package back on stage one more time, you know, and then head to the, you know, to the Arnold. >> Right. Right. Well, I'm glad to see him on stage. I I didn't I thought he was going to shut it down till the Arnold, but I think it's a good move. Why not? You're you're the number three guy in the world. Number one and two probably will not be there for certain. Derek won't be there. Samson, you never know. Samson likes to hit a lot of shows. Will we see Samson on stage at the Arnold? You think? >> I think we will. >> I think so, too. I don't think he can pass up that money. Samson likes money, right? It's um I think what he'll realize is that uh you know by your by your you you learn from your losses. Um and this was a learning experience for him running into this Olympia and then a learning experience. I'm sure he learned because he looked better here than the Olympia, you know, at this show. I'm sure he learned >> absolutely >> something about his body and you know in the two weeks from the Olympia to now and um he doesn't strike me as someone who like what if what if I go to the Arnold and don't win. So, you know, somebody will share that. So, they they they they won't put it all on the line at the at the Arnold. So, I I think if you know his his, you know, and he he's feels good mentally, you know. I think we'll see him at the Arnold. Just a big it's a it's a big show to pass up, you know. It's a big big big big big big show. One thing you can always say about Samson, the guy is not afraid to put it on on the line. He's not afraid to compete. Doesn't matter if he wins or loses. He comes back. He does it doesn't let you know some guys have like a mental nervous breakdown after they lose the show. And you don't see him for the whole year. This guy doesn't care. He's and it's a it's the right attitude. It's like, you know what? All right. I didn't do my best. I'll come back better next time. I'll come back next week and I'll be better. and that you have to have that mentality if you want to be a great bodybuilder. You cannot take these things personally. And you know what? You can't have anxiety attacks either because thank god Derek had you back there because you know it could have ended poorly. He could have dropped out of the show. So I'm glad that Derek you know was you and Derek together were able to you know get past that. Um Samson's very tough and I and I think that that's probably one of his best attributes. He doesn't take anything personally. he comes back better the next time and and I think we're going to see him better at the Arnold for sure. But uh congratulations once again to Martin Fitzwwater surprising everyone once again in winning his second Prague Pro show. For now though, as we say every week, Chris with Heavy Muscle Radio, >> the truth, the truth this time, the truth really is should be honored. Doesn't hurt. The truth is the truth. We'll see you next week, guys.