I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Old school bodybuilding clothing company. If you wish your fancy fitness center was a hardcore gym, you are old school. If you just ate chicken and rice and are about to eat chicken and rice, you are old school. osbc.com for the hardest training athletes. Dave Palumbo here with another RX Muscle Rant. Today's topic is what makes a good color commentator or live stream commentator, etc., etc. As we know, just this past week or two, there's been a uh petition floating around the industry to try to get rid of Shawn Ray as the official Olympia live stream commentator. uh the I guess the the the knock against him is the fact that they feel that he's too critical of competitors and that he puts them down and that he talks about himself too much and then they try to cite you know his own personal life as as being a bad uh you know person to be in in that seat you know doing that kind of commentation and you know a lot of people have asked me my opinion on it um I've talked to Sean directly I've talked to a bunch of other people I know all the people's opinions we were going to do an iron debate about it and um not everyone wanted to partic anticipate. You know, I I feel that I have a very strong opinion on this whole thing. And and here's how it goes. Put aside Shawn Ray as the person for a minute. You know, you don't have to like Shawn Ray. You know, you don't have to like, you know, the lifestyle he lives. You might not think he's a great person. That that that's, you know, that's that no one knows that except Shawn Ray. And if you have a personal experience with him, fine. But we have to evaluate who's doing the live stream commentation for the Super Bowl of bodybuilding by merit. And and did he earn his stripes? Does he have valid insights? Another thing you have to realize whenever you're doing a commentating uh type job is okay, do you know the competitors? Do you can you pick apart and critically okay and constructively explain what the person's got that's great and what they've got that isn't great. And you know what? You can't as a competitor or you can't as a person who maybe is a fan of the sport dislike someone who is sitting in a in in a sit in a situation where they're commentating and and critiquing people. You can't get mad at the person if you don't like the comments that they're making if that's what they truly believe. Shawn Ray thinks that someone's, you know, purple hair, okay, is is distracting, okay, from their physique and that the judges probably might not necessarily, even though he might not admit it, it might rub them the wrong way or it might be distracting to them. That's his insight. He's been in the sport for 30 years. You can't you can't put the guy down as a bad guy to do, you know, the live stream because of that. Now, okay, if he has a personal vendetta against someone or a coach who works with someone and he's purposely nitpicking, okay, someone's or certain competitors because of that, uh, and it's obvious, that's not a good color commentator. That's someone who's biased. Okay. But there's always a bias in there because as a as a person who's sitting in a booth, there's going to be guys physiques you like and guys physiques you don't like, um, I'm when I do any kind of commentary on people, I put aside my personal differences with that person. If I don't like the person or if I do like the person, I try to remain absolutely impartially neutral. And I've actually, it's funny, I've had people that I've actually coached in the past who maybe have left me and go to other people and they they think they thought maybe I didn't like them or something like that because of that. And then I've given them a stellar review on on, you know, a wrapup of a show I've done and they come up to me and they say, "Oh, wow. You know, I thank you so much. I'm shocked that you said that." I'm like, "Why? I mean, if you look good, I'm gonna sell you look good." It does. I don't My personal, okay, interaction with someone has nothing to do with my job as a commentator. It's also important to know that, and I think this is very important when you hire someone to do a uh live stream, okay, commentary on what's going on in a show, it's important to have two people in there. one person who's like the straight guy. He's the guy with all the facts. He's the guy who's going to keep the other guy honest. And then the guy who's a little more maverick, the guy who's going to be not afraid to say, "This guy is bad because of this this and he's not going to worry about what the what the competitor is going to think of him. They're not he's not going to worry about, oh, these guys going to be concerned that I'm going to lose my friendship with them." Because I've talked to I'm not going to mention names. I've talked to guys who have very popular YouTube channels and they will not critique certain people, okay? Because of the fact that they're friends with them. and they've told me and other people that no no I I can't critique this person because you know what I'm friends with him. Well, that's not being that's not doing your job. Your job is as a person who's going to be in the booth or whether it be on a YouTube channel, however you're critiquing someone, okay, and doing a wrap up on what you just saw. You have to say what you believe and what you've seen. And you cannot let your personal relationships with people get in the way. Now, if if if you're afraid that you're going to lose friendships over that, because believe me, these competitors are very sensitive, a lot of them, and they cannot take constructive criticism. And I've had people get mad at me, okay? There's probably people that won't talk to me because they they're they're mad that I didn't give their physique the the raving review that they thought they deserved. And that's okay with me because you know what? I'm doing my job. It has nothing to do with the fact that if I see these guys at a restaurant, I wouldn't go sit next to them and have dinner with them. But if people going to take it personally and I'm going to lose friends over it, that's okay because I'm doing my job. And RX Muscle's moniker is the truth in bodybuilding. I think that I'm a very fair guy who does, you know, color commentary because I do say what's on my mind and I do allow whatever whatever I see to come out of my mouth. However, I also believe in being kind. So if I think a guy looks terrible, I might say he he looks terrible, but I might also try to find something good in what he's got. and give maybe a suggestion for him to go back to the drawing board and do this. Sometimes I think maybe Shawn Ray is almost too honest. And I think because of that, it comes off as being arrogant maybe or being condescending in a way. And I think that people have got to just kind of like suck it up a little bit. The guy's been doing this a long time. He knows what he's looking at. And 90% of what his assessments are are right. Maybe, like I said, there might be a 10 percent where he's personally getting involved and he's and he has some issues, but that's the way it goes. That's why you need someone to balance him off in that booth. You need someone to call him out when he says something that's a little too off the cuff or too extreme. Hey, you know what? I don't agree with you. I don't I don't believe that the judges really care that this guy's hair is purple because his physique is so damn good. And this that's what makes that go back and forth in the booth makes it exciting because I you know the best you know football games I've watched or when you have broadcasters in the booth we're not afraid to disagree with each other and and that's what makes it exciting. I I like to see the guys that say hey I don't agree with you. I think this guy is this or I think this this guy is that. Now when you're when you're assessing football plays or baseball plays it's either they you know they're safe at home played or they they scored a touchdown or not. There's really not much to debate there. Uh you're not going to really say, "Oh, I like the way this guy ran around the line. You know, he had good form." No, you don't say that. Bodybuilding is about critiquing. It's almost like a beauty pageant. I like this guy's bicep development, or I like the way this guy displays his back. And I don't like the way this guy is displaying himself. I think this guy didn't work on his posing enough. He's hurt his physique because of this. That's the kind of feedback you need. And and once again, if you don't have honesty in that booth, then you're doing a disservice to the fans out there. So, you know, when Dan Solomon, you know, sits down with his crew and they decide who's going to do live stream analysis, they got to pick people who are obviously who who know what they're talking about and not afraid to tell the truth. But they also need to balance that with someone who's going to take the other side or who's going to, you know, say, "Hey, you know what? You've gone too far and and not be afraid to, you know, to challenge Shawn Ray in that booth." And that that's important. When you have that balance, you have a great commentating booth. Do I think this this um uh petition that was put out there is ridiculous? Absolutely. Absolutely. You know what? It's it's so self- serving that these people and it's so unbelievably arrogant of some of these, you know, social media guys out there who think that they control the industry because they have the most followers or they have the most people watching their channel. That's great for you. I think that's great for business. I think anyone who's making a good living from YouTube or making a superb living from YouTube, I take my hat off you. You're working hard. You did something right. Congratulations. But don't think that you're more qualified or better or more of an influencer, okay, than the people who have earned their stripes both in the trenches as competitors and who have been, you know, analyzing the sport for 20 year plus years. That's not the case. Okay? And you could try to, you know, play it down, but the end of the day, okay, as a hardcore fan, as a bodybuilder, I want to see someone in that booth who's breaking it down, who I respect in terms of their knowledge of the sport and what they've done personally themselves in the sport because that's important to me and maybe not to the fluff fans or the people who are just casually watching. And that's why I suggested to Dan Solomon and I put it out there this past week that I think it would be a great idea to have multiple live stream commentators. Let's face it, when you're at the show and you're doing commentation uh for the live stream, you're not sitting in the audience watching the show live. You're watching a TV set. You're watching the same live stream that the people at home are watching. So the people at home have the same viewpoint as the person, if it's Shawn Ray, Shawn Ray has watching the thing. I've done the Arnold commentary. I'm sitting in a back room. I'm not sitting live and watching the and watching the show. So, if you can do that, if if Shawn Ray is looking at the same thing that I'm looking at at my house, why not have me at my house doing my own commentary and have another guy doing his commentary and and somehow let the Olympia people coordinate maybe the top three to five streams that would be the most popular. Make them all available for on live pay-per-view because we can do that now with technology. And then people, the fans can choose who they want to listen to that we're in this day and age and this we have this ability to do this today. We don't have to wait 5 years from now. We can do it today. It can be coordinated if they want to do it. And this way if you don't want to listen to Shawn Ray, you don't have to listen to Shawn Ray. If you want to listen to Dave Palumbo, you can listen to Dave Palumbo. If you want to listen to uh Dennis James, you listen to Dennis James. You want to listen to Fouad Abiad if you listen to Fuad Abby. If you want to listen to uh one of these social media, you know, guys, do it. That's fine. But, you know, Dan can pick five people who are going to do it. One person will be at the show because they're going to be obviously interviewing possibly the uh the pe the winners after they come off stage and then and then one person and then a couple people at home doing it and all the fans, anyone who pays for the pay-per-view can watch any one of those streams. That to me is is the the best solution because we can do that today whereas we couldn't do it in the past. Okay. I think they should do that with the Super Bowl. Although usually when you watch the Super Bowl, you watch the World Series, they tend to have really good analysts in there and they try to get the best of the best are ready. And once again, that's people who have played the sport, usually people who who know the nuances of the sport who can dissect the minutiae of the sport. And that's what people who are in the at the level of the Shawn Ray of a Bob Chicarillo. And I could put my my personal differences aside with Bob because I think Bob's a good analyst, you know, and you know, I I put myself in there and I put, you know, a Chris Aceto in there and Dennis James in there and Milos in there. Uh there's there's a lot at Fuad. I think he's a a good analyst. I think there's a lot of good analysts out there who can break down the Olympia and all the top competitors and what they see that's good and what they see as bad and and will not be afraid hopefully if you pick the right people will not be afraid to say what's on their mind. You can't you can't be everyone is wonderful, everything is great. You can't do that because that's not what the fans at home want. They want an analysis. Otherwise, you might as well just mute the show and watch it yourself. I want someone who could break down the show and tell me what's wrong with this guy or what's great with this guy. That's what the commentator's job is. So, when people call me or they text me or they email me, they say, "Dave, what what makes a good commentator?" That's what makes a good commentator. someone is not afraid to say what is on their mind and and to call out the good, call out the bad, and do it in a in a just in a very, you know, uh, I guess you could say respectful way. But also, it's good to have this back and forth between two separate people so that not everyone agrees. That makes it even more interesting in my mind. Something to think about. Dave Palumbo with an RX Muscle rant.