with the Arnold coming up and you sitting out this year's lineup. Uh we got obviously Samson, excuse me, we got Andrew coming in hot off the third place at the Olympia. Hottie coming in off that second place. You know, he's not too happy about that. We know all about that. And uh you know, we have guys like Nick Walker looking to get some redemption from the Olympia and Martin Fitzswwater. Who do you like in this lineup? What if you had a if you were a betting man, who would you put your money behind? Well, um, track record shows, you know, Hottie has been the most consistent and he's been the most balanced bodybuilder, uh, among the group. It it it's challenging to say because I know that Andrew is working with Chris and I work with Chris, so I know he does a great job. >> And so I see Andrew's momentum that people are really excited about him right now. And there's always somebody new, right? There's always that new guy that's like, "We want to see this guy do well." And then, >> right, >> he either does or doesn't. And then if he does, then they want to see the next guy. If he doesn't, well, then they write him off and it's another person that has hype. >> So, we will see. I think Andrew is and and Hottie is going to be a really good competition. I think those are the guys that are I see as like the the one two. If I was a betting man, I would I would go with Hottie because he's his track record's been the most consistent, but like I said, you can't deny the momentum of of Andrew and that that he's going to, you know, bring something to the Arnold as well. So, so we'll see. Those those are the two guys that I see top two. But actually, I think equally as exciting as that is going to be, in my opinion, what three and four looks like is going to be Nick and Martin. And I think that's a a rivalry that we've seen over the last couple years kind of go back and forth. And so I know that there's some definite feelings behind, you know, each of those guys placing ahead of each other. So I'm really excited to see those guys go uh headtohead and then also Andrew and and Hottie go headtohead. >> Of Hold on one second. Of those four guys, who who's who scares you the most? I mean, I know you Mr. Olympia. No one scares you, but who who is the guy you you know think has the most potential to give you trouble? >> Yeah. Um at our fullest potential now, I believe it's still a rivalry between me and Hottie. Um but as time goes on, you don't know what type of improvements Andrew would make. Andrew, you can't deny that that guy is is is great, you know, and is getting better. So, both of them are incredible bodybuilders. I would say right now, Hottie, but over time, Andrew, if he continues on, um, you know, who knows? >> Yeah. >> Well, I I got an issue with Nick Walker. So, I think that this is an extremely important show for him because he pulled out of two Olympias, bombed on the third one and now, you know, he had a lot of momentum going into those, you know, Olympias three and four years ago and now all that's gone. So, if he doesn't, my opinion is if he doesn't nail this show to the freaking wall, he's what what's he going to do next? How important do you think it is that he shows up and dominates? Well, I you know, I think that I've said this before on on other shows. I think that Nick is Nick. And Nick should be Nick. He's a big freaky guy who's the most impressive guy in the gym. Okay, I'm sure Derek would agree. You know, Nick is is more impressive than everyone in the gym because he's big, veiny, gnarly looking, but structurally he's not as good as as Hottie and Derek and Andrew. And and that's where and Martin and that's where he has problems. So on stage it exposes his weaknesses structurally, you know, in the gym, on Instagram, you know, when you see him standing around, if he's in a lineup that's not that great, he he he just looks ridiculous. And and I think that that listen, you got to play to your strengths. You know, I didn't have the greatest structure, but I played to the fact that I was a big, freaky, hard guy and and the fans love me. And that's Nick will make a ton of money because of that. And I think that it it doesn't matter if he wins the Olympia or not, as long as he keeps showing up at his best, not trying to be something he's not. And I think that that that's the case with all bodybuilders. You you have to know not everyone is going to be Mr. Olympian. Not everyone has Derek's beautiful shape and and flow and structure. And that's just the way it goes. You know, that's that's life. You know, >> there's a lot of mindset involved with this, too. And so, like, at the end of the day, it's a physique competition. So, the physique, the best physique on stage is going to win. But I think a lot of this is like a mindset and how you carry yourself, how the aura that you that you present and um just being able to be mentally levelheaded whenever you're getting the praise and the negativity because it's it's it's both going to come the praise. So So it's it's hard to say. You know, Hottie's Hottie's been a Mr. Olympia before. You know, he's been around for a long time. you know, you got like Andrew who's who's been on the comeup for a while and so he's never really experienced that. And we've seen some, you know, I don't know, some some shakiness whenever some some negativity kind of comes where it's kind of like, uh, okay. So, with Nick and Martin and Andrew, it's like it's going to come down in my opinion, not just the improvements that these guys make. I mean, their physiques are incredible. I already said that. uh is there everybody has weaknesses that they need to improve and everybody has their strengths, but I think with that group of guys, those three, it's going to come down to mindset. It's going to come down to like being able to kind of like reel it back in and and not not express too much of the ego that is truly from insecurity and just be able to be to be calm, collected, and and truly confident. confident knowing that your competition's amazing and that there's a chance that if you don't show up and you slip, those guys could take it, but confident enough to know like if I bring it, >> I'm going to be the champion. I'm going to beat these guys. So, I think it's going to come down to the mindset with these guys. >> I I think it's a good You make a very good point. And you know what? I'm going to contrast Nick versus Martin and and exactly what you're saying. I think Nick lets people get to him and and and it can screw him up. Martin pulls the old Michael Jordan every he's pissed at everyone. If you if you saw recently he's like I hate all the press. They all suck because that's what motivates him to train harder and come back better. He uses that as fuel to to he has to almost create animosity and he has to create conflict so that he can make himself train harder. Whereas Nick uses when he gets that happens it actually works against him actually and uh he starts actually believing what he's hearing on on social media. I think it negatively can impact him. So, yeah, I think mindset is is a big thing and you make up bring up a very good point. >> Yeah. >> John, question for >> I I want I want to know when you sit out these shows and and you see, you know, these guys that you're going to compete against in the Olympia, you know, duking it out on stage, do do you like what do you start your strategy then? Do you like look at what they're doing? What what do you what do you do and feel when you're looking at these guys, you know, competing critically? >> Yeah, I said I I love that question because uh a handful of years ago I was competing against Kamal Elurnney back in the 212 and and he beat me in the 2019 Olympia and I was really not happy about that. I'll be honest. And so coming back to the 2020 Olympia, I said, "Okay, like I got to get more ripped than ever, you know? Oh, I got to I got to beat his conditioning and and then I just came back and I was like a shell of myself. I I placed fourth. And so that was me trying to play somebody else's game and say, "Okay, I need to strategize to be able to beat what their best is instead of just saying like I need to focus on myself and bring my best physique amongst the competition." And so is there is there some strategy and game plan of what what physique you're going to bring, you know, with the competitors? uh that's going to be at the Olympia for sure. I I brought a different package to the Olympia than I did uh at the Arnold. And so each each show I continue to to progress and improve, but do you want to have a little bit more fuller look? Do you want to have a little bit more condition and streamline look? Like like what is it that is going to be your best look against the competition? Um and so is there a little bit of strategy that plays? Sure. But at the end of the day, you know, you can't sacrifice your strengths because somebody else has uh another strength or something that you're trying to match or beat. You just have to bring your best. So, for me, I'm honestly in in all honesty really excited to go to the Arnold Classic for the first time in a long time just as a fan. Like, I'm the current reigning Arnold and Mr. Olympia champion, Pittsburgh champion, but I get to go with no obligations to be at any booths or to be there for any reason. I just get to go and watch the show as a fan and >> get to meet people. So, I have no obligations to go to the Arnold besides the fact that I want to. I get to go watch the show and see these guys in person and and give my comments and then also meet the fans, you know, and and and be among the fans at the expo. So, I just I get to be a fan again.