in the gym. Can't you ask one other competitor? They're like, I asked everyone. No one has any. I said, how is that possible that they have growth hormone, IGF-1, every anabolic steroid donuterol, T3, and every GLP-1 agonist, but they don't have a half a dozen that they can give you? I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here with another RX Muscle Rant. Today's topic, I know you guys love these topics on drugs, bodybuilding drugs. You see, you guys are already excited. I can tell already. It's a little bit of a rant, but I want to just give it some preface first. some background. Okay, in today's world there's so many bodybuilding drugs that guys use, right? I mean from testosterone to trembbleone to anidrol to Winstrol Masteron Primabolan anavar GH IGF-1 all the peptides people used the GLP-1 agonist the healing peptides like BPC-157 TB-500 there's all the growth hormone releasing peptides there's the melanotan if you want to get a nice tan if you can't get an erection you can get PT41 there's there's anything out there that you could possibly want to do, there's a peptide that will will supposedly, you know, do it. Uh I haven't seen all of them actually live up to their expectations. But there are some really good ones out there. And when a person gets ready for a competition, male, female, usually the guys supplies some more than the women because the women are not going to use as many drugs as the men. They have laundry lists of stuff that they're taking. Okay, I'm talking about testosterone. I see guys on trenbolone 900 milligrams a week. It which is ridiculous when you think about it. We used to use 150 milligrams a week max and people just do some crazy stuff. We took growth hormone at two to four IUs per day and people thought that was a lot and it was expensive back in the day. Guys are are that's like a chunk change for these guys. They're doing 10 15 IUs of GH a day. That's astronomically expensive. And you would think that you'd say how could these guys spend all this money on drugs? And the funny thing about it is that none of this is legitimate. It's all coming black market, underground lab stuff from China, from this place. Now, there are some legitimate, you know, avenues to get real performance-enhancing stuff, you know, places like titanicalcenter.com. You can go there and get your testosterone replacement, you can get your healing peptides, you can get your, you know, weight loss peptides like the ozic, mandaro, retroide, all those great GLP-1 agonist. And and I mean literally for most bodybuilders the word poly pharmacy is very applicable because they're on so many different compounds and they have access to everything nowadays. When we were competing when I first started competing they had just made anabolic steroids a controlled substance in 1990. I think I I did my first cycle in '92 and it was really hard to get stuff because it just wasn't around anymore and there was no underground stuff. You had to just hope that someone either brought it in from Europe or someone had a good connection in in the United States and they get it from a real pharmacy. There was no underground labs. People didn't make their own stuff back then. So, you you know, if you didn't get the real stuff, you were getting counterfeit stuff and that wasn't good, obviously. But today, everyone has access to everything because the internet is a wonderful tool to be able to access stuff that you never thought you could ever get. And I'm I'm still really amazed at how much money people spend on growth hormone, you know, and all these different anabolic steroids and clenbuterol and T3 and they add oodles of it. And very rarely do people run out, right? They always have like, you know, smart amounts of it. They can get through their contest prep. But then what happens is, and I like I work with a lot of athletes. I do a lot of diets for people from high-end people to people who are just starting out to people who just want to do transformations. And you know, at the end of whatever the the transformation is and they got to take pictures or they're doing a bodybuilding show or bikini competition, you know, you got to get on stage, right? And the last day is the only time that I really change very much in the program. And usually what I do is I give people some sort of diuretic. Usually it's diet, it's always ditis, okay? And it's usually anywhere from a half to two halves the night before and maybe something, you know, the day of the show. We're talking about one to two pills you need. And you would think that with access that these people have to all these drugs that I just mentioned from peptides and steroids and this ones and that ones that dazide would be the easiest thing on the list to get. Right? Wrong. Why would it be the easiest thing on the list? Well, because it's prescribed without a without a uh it's not a control substance. It's just a regular prescription. Probably everyone's grandmother or grandfather has it in their medicine cabinet because it's used for lowering blood pressure and for people whose heart doesn't work quite as well as it should and they may have a little backup of fluid. It's very commonly prescribed. But yet 90% of the people I work with can't get a half a dioide the night before a show. I asked myself, listen, there's 100 people in the gym who compete with you. 100 people in the same gym as you that compete. I know that they're in the gym. Can't you ask one other competitor? They're like, I asked everyone. No one has any. I said, how is that possible that they have growth hormone, IGF-1, every anabolic steroid donut, T3, and every GLP-1 agonist, but they don't have a half a diet that they can give you. It It's unbelievable that no one has access to dioide, but they have access to every other drug known to man. You can these people can get heroin and cocaine, but they can't get a half a day. I've never seen Listen, here's my solution. You know, I I like to solve people's problems. That's what I do for a living, okay? I solve people's problems. When you start off the diet process, right, when you're planning to set up, okay, you know, I'm going to start my contest diet on Tuesday because I got 16 weeks to my show. The first thing I want you guys to go and buy dioside. Yes, you don't need it till the last day before the show, but it's obviously the hardest drug to get. It's not a control substance. It's the most commonly prescribed uh medication to average people, but yet bodybuilders can't get dazide, but they can get growth hormone. I don't understand it. I don't I I'll never understand it. Uh but it happens to be the hardest drug to get in the industry. And that's going to be the title of this brand, the hardest bodybuilding drug to find. It's obviously dazite. Get that first on your list. Everything else is going to be a breeze after that. Dave Palumbo with the best advice of the year. rxmuscle.com.