Welcome inside the RX Muscle Studios here in New York for another episode of Ask Dave, better known as AskDave, brought to you by species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm your host, Sadiq Farooqi. Glad you can join us on this Tuesday afternoon. Been a lot going on here at RX Muscle. So, we had to push the show a day in advance. 30 minute question and answer with Dave Palumbo. Anything on your mind from questions on training, diet, supplementation, IFBB pros, competitions, anything that is on your mind is all on the table for this show as we now bring in Dave Palumbo. Dave, tomorrow night, it is going to be the long awaited hundth episode of Heavy Muscle TV. Yeah, I've been putting it off and putting it off and putting it off, you know, since before the Olympia. And I said, "All right, I'm pulling the trigger. I'm going to do it." I sat down this morning for two and a half almost three hours and I went through all the beginning shows that we did in the early days. And I pulled what I think is, you know, some of the funnier clips. Obviously, it's impossible to get everything I needed. And I got the only person who gave me any help whatsoever was Jeff the producer. I made a a call to arms to the entire community. No one sent me their favorite episode. So, I went back with Jeff's advice and I went through some of the episodes myself and I pulled what I think is is some really good quotes, uh, excuse me, clips from the episodes and we'll have in the studio, assuming everyone shows up, which is, you know, that's a big assumption sometimes to make here at RX Muscle, but Jimmy the Bull, the Smallley brothers, Mr. G and and Bobby Smalls, uh, Jeremy the casting director was invited. Uh Vinnie the Chin. I know a lot of people want to see Vinnie the Chin has been invited. Uh who else did I forget here? Jeff the producer will be here. John Romano will be here. John Romano will be calling in for 10 minutes. Absolutely. And you never know who might show up. That that was always the theme of our of our show. You don't know who's going to come by. I invited Diego B. I don't know if Diego will come by, but Diego A will be there because uh that's Jeff's alter ego. So it should be a great show. I'm looking forward to seeing all the guys. I haven't seen them all together in one place in a very long time. Mr. G and his brother Bobby Smalls came last week because I forgot to tell them that we weren't having the show last Wednesday and they were here for three hours, you know, pitching on potato on protein potato chips and everything like that. And we'll hear from them obviously this uh this Wednesday as well. So, tomorrow night, I'm looking forward to at 7:30 Eastern Standard Time. Guys, don't miss it. Of course, over the course of the last two and a half to three months with everything that we had with the buildup to the Olympia, Olympia coverage and then everything after that, we have been getting this question for quite some time. When are we finally going to air that episode of Heavy Muscle TV, episode number 100? It is going to be tomorrow night, 7:30 p.m. right here on rxmuscle.com. The best I hate this show and the best overall question will win Species Nitrolize. Again, it is available at speciesnutrition.com. As we start in the muscle central forum and rxmuscle.com, if you're not already a member, it is free to register. We start with Dr. Johnny D. Hey Dave, sorry to hear about the scratch on the fish tank. And of course, he's talking about the fish tank in our offices here. Maybe you can fill in the scratch with some of that old waxy Halloween candy corn. Just kidding. That advice sucks almost as much as this show. My question is, when doing a 3-w weekek cleanse, should you discontinue TRT and finasteride for those three weeks? Thanks and cheers from Minnesota. No. Whenever you do a cleanse or you do anything that's, you know, for any reason is different to your body than you've been doing before, never stop your prescription meds. That's a big mistake a lot of people make. Some people go off their blood pressure meds. You stay on your prescription meds, okay, while you're on the cleanse. uh if you were doing a big cycle, anabolic steroid cycle, that I would come off of and stay on maybe a hormone uh a hormone replacement dose, like I got guys that are doing long long cycles and then they want to clean out at the end of after their show's over. There's no time to really, you know, go off everything immediately. So, they just go down to 200 milligrams per week or hormone replacement levels and they do the cleanse on that. And once again, if anyone wants a copy of the detox, my 3-week detox uh is available uh free. All you have to do is email me at huge285aol.com. After I mentioned that Triple H had done it, he had posted on his social media about doing the cleanse. I've gotten at least a hundred requests a day. So guys, if you want it, send it to me. I'll be more than happy to help you guys. I want everyone to be very clean and detoxed. Let's go to Rob9577. Hey Dave, can you tell me if supplements such as SARMMS pro hormones and protein powders can be affected by extreme hot or cold temperatures during shipping in summer and winter months? Can they make them any less effective or not effective at all? Uh protein powders probably not. Um certain uh you know the SARMS and pro hormones are actually you know they're not really supplements. the kind of drugs and uh if they were subjected to to long periods of time in high high heats, it certainly can degrade them somewhat. Uh the the trick the truth is that when they're being transported uh what is shipping a day or two? I I doubt that you're going to lose any potency from that unless they was like sitting outside in Las Vegas, you know, on the desert sand, you know, being just baked to death. But other than that, I I think they should be fine. Let's go to Big Mike Cox. Dave, I hate this show so much. I'd rather have Rocky 3 give me a prostate exam every day for a month. You're laughing, Dave. You got to explain to the audience because even I'm lost in that. Rocky 3 is a movie. I'm guessing Rocky 3 means something else here. Oh, I don't know. I I thought it was just I just thought Rocky I don't know why he said Rocky 3, but I must maybe I missed the inside joke or something, but um there's Okay, so I'm not the only one. Question is, how popular was New Bane back in the 90s? It was very popular. Matter of fact, I just talked about it on my heavy muscle radio show this past Monday night with John Romano. Uh, and we talked about how everyone was using it because Dan Duchain told everyone to use it and myself included. Uh, unfortunately, I was on it for a number of years and then I stopped it. But, um, yeah, you know, Dan told everyone, "Hey, it's anti catabolic and it's going to help you recover better and you'll train harder." And to a certain degree, it it it did do that, but unfortunately, it got everyone addicted to it. And once again, you don't want to be addicted to opiate narcotics. Likewise, also because it was an opiate, it kind of killed your appetite a little bit. So, it was kind of hard to eat. Although, it was good to diet on because it did blunt your appetite a little bit. Once again, not a good idea if you're a bodybuilder to get addicted to any kind of narcotic. Let's go to our Facebook page. Again, our official Facebook page is facebook.comrxmuscle.com. All one word. Let's go to Matt Potter. Dave, tell Sid I hate him more than this show. He just told me that. I started experiencing biceps tendon pain the last few weeks. I'm using Arthurize, Omegaize, Vmineralize. A little rest, I assume, is in order. However, I'm not looking to back off training. Should I reduce my arm training volume? Any tips you have from your years of training regarding tendon strains? This bicep tendon at the elbow always seems to flare up when arm training gets heavy. and he enjoyed the guru seminar that you held recently. Yeah, he was uh he was there obviously and it was great seeing all those guys come out and matter of fact the secrets to becoming a diet guru seminar that I've held now three times packed always sold out uh because I I keep it very small. Uh I had to bring it back one more time because you know my wife will be giving birth in January. So the last possible one I could hold I'm holding of the year is December 12th. That's Saturday, December 12th here at the RX Muscle Studios. You can sign up at davepalumbo.com. There's eight seats left. We've already, you know, filled four or six seats. So guys, get in quick because I'm telling you, this is the last one. I don't know when I'm going to be able to do another one. Probably won't be till, you know, February, March, if if if even that. So guys, sign up now. I'm telling you, you're going to love it. You can ask all the guys that have taken it the past couple times. And uh it was very popular. And I know there were a couple people that didn't get into the last class, so this is an opportunity for you. Uh the question was what could you do for a strain in a tendon? Well, you know what I always whenever I hurt myself what I would do is I'd move away from the free weights and I would go to machines and cables. The reason why you do that is because the machines and cables will stabilize the weight for you. Most tendinitis which is uh you know which is an inflammation of the tendons which connect in the joint areas um are due to instability there. And what is you know what causes the most instability? free weight movements because you have to stabilize the weights yourself. When you go to machines and the machines stabilize the weights for you, you don't have to um you don't have to you don't have to have that added uh stress on those tendons and it gives the tendons a chance to recover. Likewise, you want to go a little lighter. Really go for the squeeze more than anything. He's taking the right supplements with arthritis and vmineraliz and of course the omega. You know, some people will add growth hormone on top of that if if that's something that they're doing. I would also add some ART, active release techniques treatment, because that will definitely help tendonitis as well. Let's go to our Twitter questions and we go to Drew in West LA. That is literally his handle. Dave, what do bodybuilders do the night before the second day of a two-day show? Please advise. I what I usually do after the pre-judging is I tell my guys to go get a burger and fries. After that, we'll go to regular like clean meals. I'll let them drink what they want after prejudging. And then before bed, I usually give them a half a dioside and we cut the fluid uh once again and then we go, you know, the next morning we duplicate what we did for the the day before for the prejudging morning. And it works like a charm. You know, if you're in shape, uh you got to replenish the fluids that night. You take a little bit of diuretic to flush any extra out. You make sure you eat some food that may be a little junky for one meal to kind of get some salt and stuff into you to replace the electrolytes and you're good to go. Don't go crazy and do too many kooky things. Don't also eat too clean because that's a problem as well. And if you don't drink anything, you're gonna be flat as a board the next day. Let's go to our Instagram questions. Again, our Instagram handle is official_rxmuscle. If I could pull this up here, or rather we'll go to our livestream.com live chat questions and go to Chia7. Dave, why did Gunter beat Ronnie on that specific show? Yeah, that one. Can you make a case even after watching the million pictures of Ronnie looking crazy? In 2002, Ronnie won the Olympia, but it wasn't like a spectacular win. He was kind of on the smaller size. I think Chad Nichols and him were trying to come in a little harder and it brought Ronnie's weight way down lower than it was in years because a lot of people had said, well, Ronnie looked the best in 98 99 when he won. So, they were trying to bring his weight back around that that level like 260 258. And I think what happened was Ronnie's structure wasn't the same anymore and it just made him look he didn't have the wow factor anymore. So he squeaks by in the Olympia then he goes I think a couple weeks later it was the GNC show of strength and Gunkmp came in full and big and he actually made Ronnie look small at that show and Ronnie was even smaller than at the Olympia and more shrunk down and it just you know it left the door open and I think at the time you know Gunther had some momentum going behind him. the weeders were really pushing him and I I think it was uh it was basically to say hey Ronnie you're not invincible and it created a lot of stirred up a lot of uh I guess um excitement in the sport people were saying can Ronnie come back better remember Ronnie had done the Arnold that year also so it was a double show two-year show for him uh it was a lot of stress on him Ronnie went back to work he was so pissed off that the following year in 2003 he came in at 292 pounds and that was the craziest he ever looked so um did Ronnie deserve to be beaten Uh, I could have gone either way, but I'm glad they did it because it made Ronnie even better the next year. You're watching Ask Dave on rxmuscle.com. Nitrolize preworkout by species nutrition for the best I hate and the best overall question of the show. We stick to the livestream.com questions. It's one from Brandon Evans. In your opinion, Dave, someone in their early 20s who wants to compete should be cycling or cruising slashblasting. I have a tendency to cut too quickly but gain greatly even on a simple test cycle. Yeah, it's it's a personal decision. If you're going to go all out and you want to be the best bodybuilder you can be and you're going to do you're going to commit to doing anabolic steroid cycles, you should do, you know, longer duration with, you know, effective dosages but not excessive dosages, keeping orals low. Um, I don't like this cruise, you know, blast type stuff. Go with effective doses. Go with the thousand milligrams of test a week. go with the, you know, 3 400 milligrams of BQ a week. Grow. Grow. And then, you know, when you do a show and it's all over, go off completely. Let the receptors clear out. Let your body detoxify itself. None of this. Oh, I'll stay on a little Anavar. I'll stay on 100 milligrams of testosterone. That's not off. Off means off everything. Let's go to our Instagram questions now and uh start with AMG L Dola. I hate this show so bad that I would rather get all my tips on training, dieting, and supplementation from the godfather of bodybuilding, Budai. What form of cardio is best for fat loss and weight loss? And is running more beneficial? I've been told that if your heart is conditioned, you would get better results from running a few miles a few times a week. Please help me. I'm stuck. You know, Sid, we've answered this question probably, you know, more times than I could even count on my fingers. But obviously if they're asking it still it it it's an important question that people still don't have a grasp on. You know um I always tell people look at runners you know look at long-distance runners because people are saying oh do some you know jog for a couple miles. Look at long distance runners. You ever see a runner with big legs? No. Okay. Because running is very uh traumatic to the legs. It doesn't nurture the bigger leg syndrome. It nurtures the more cardioefficient uh or the better uh fat oxidizing muscle cells. Uh so runners when they train their legs, they don't get bigger, they get more oxygen efficient. Um likewise, if you're trying to figure out how to burn the most body fat, okay, you don't want to do an activity that uses carbohydrates as a fuel source. That's kind of foolish. Now, the body always uses fats up until the intensity level gets too high. When the intensity level gets to a certain threshold, usually around 135 beats a minute heart rate, that's when the body says, "Hey, we can't generate energy quick enough using fats as fuel. We're going to use carbs as fuel." You're still burning calories, but now you're burning carb calories as opposed to fat calories. So lower dur excuse me, lower intensity, longer duration cardio will maximize more fat loss. Now, will high-intensity cardio have like an afterburn? In other words, after the activity is over, will you continue to raise your metabolism? Yeah, to a certain degree. But once again, what are you trying to do? Are you trying to get your heart in shape or you're trying to lose body fat? As a physique athlete, we try to burn body fat while maintaining as much lean muscle tissue as possible. Whereas runners don't care if they eat up lean muscle tissue. They just want to train their heart to its maximum capacity. So, you must separate those two. And once again, the final verdict pretty much is lower intensity, longer duration is the best way to maximize fat loss. You're watching Ask Dave on rxmuscle.com. If you're watching us on our YouTube channel, make sure to subscribe by hitting the button below the video screen. Let's go back to Brandon Evans. For someone with very small joints, 6 in rin wrist for example, what is the best method of training to gain muscle without causing too much strain or damage? Um, I don't know if wrist size or bone structure has anything to do with how you're going to train. I mean, Flex Wheeler had super small joints and he trained real heavy and he was very strong in the gym. So, um, I don't know if that theory really holds true. Um, if you want to put muscle on and you want to maximize gains, go into the gym, stimulate, don't annihilate, as Lee Haney said last week on on live with the muscle. Go home and eat and and and sleep. That's the best way to grow. In other words, go to the gym, train as heavy as you can with good form. Don't overtrain. Don't over don't do too many sets. You don't need to do lower pump sets, okay? That's not going to build muscle. heavy weights, okay? Maximal stimulation builds muscle. As Dave mentioned, that episode with Lee Haney available right now on our YouTube channel. There is a row. If you go to our YouTube page, there's an entire row with live with it has all of our pre-Olympia interviews and the post Olympia with Lee Haney. We've had Rich Kaspari and of course our good friend Chris Dim. So, that is available on our YouTube channel. Let's now go back to our Instagram page and go to Benji Deagi. Hi Sid and Dave, can you explain the best way of meal timing when using Humulan R. You know once again uh whenever you take insulin you're not taking insulin to feed the insulin. You're taking insulin to accommodate the carbs you're eating. Now think about that, okay? You don't want to take a huge shot of insulin and then say, "Oh my god, how much am I going to eat to make sure that I don't go blood low blood sugar?" That's not how insulin works. You're taking insulin to maximize your performance. You're assuming that your body is not producing enough of its own to drive all these calories into the muscle. Okay? So, you're taking extra. Um, so what you want to do, usually the best way to take it would be to take a a mediumacting like a Humalin R or regular insulin that stands for not a super fast acting like Humalogue or a Pedra. You want to use a regular insulin that has gets gives you two peaks. a quick peak initially about 50% of it and then the other 50% is released about three hours later. So if you take 10 units of Humulan Rar five units releases immediately five units in three two to three hours uh which is perfect for your first meal and then your next meal. So if you have breakfast, you take your humilar shot and then two hours later have your next meal, you're perfect. Then five hours after the five to six hours after the first Humlan Rar shot, you could take another one. And once again, time it with the two meals once again, you know, and then with Humulan R, it's about a you figure it's always 10 grams of carbs per one insulin unit, but with Humulan R, it's half that because you're only getting half the release. So if you take 10 units of Humulan R, you do 50 grams of carbs with the first meal, 50 grams of carbs with the second meal. And and it's pretty simple, but once again, the question is, do you need insulin? If you're a guy who gets fat real easy, or a woman who women shouldn't even take it. If you get fat real easy, uh insulin is just going to make that predisposition get worse. So, evaluate whether you really need it or not. Another question, Dave, that we do get quite often on the show, but again, if it is one that is being asked, that means it is on the minds of our viewers, and it comes from Daniel Reyes, Pete Trainer. thoughts on high volume versus low volume heavier sets in bodybuilding? You know, the only uh bodybuilder in the history of bodybuilding that did both high volume and heavy weights was Ronnie Coleman. And there's a reason why he's the only one who successfully did it, I should say, because it it doesn't work to do both. You either got to do higher volume or you got to do heavier weights. Now, to me, building muscle, I look at the guys that were the biggest, the Lee Hanees, the Ronnie Coleman's, you know, the Dorian Yates, they all lifted, even Jay Culler, they all lifted super heavy. You know, these guys maximally stimulated the muscle. And if you're going to go into the gym with that idea that I'm going to maximally stimulate the muscle, lifting the heaviest weights I can with good form, then you can't do a lot of sets. You can't do high volume. It won't work. You will overtrain. You will overtrain. 99.999% of the population will overtrain with high volume and heavyweight. There is the 1% that that can get away with it, the Ronnie Coleman's, but everyone out there who's watching is probably not a Ronnie Coleman. So, don't take the Ronnie Coleman route. Take the smart route. Go to the gym. Stimulate. Don't annihilate. Watching Ask Dave on rsmuscle.com. Reminder, tomorrow night, 7:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, the long awaited 100th episode of Heavy Muscle TV. We're going to be bringing back a lot of your favorites. Uh Jimmy the Bull, Vinnie the Chin, the Smallley brothers, John Romano is going to be calling in. It is going to be a great time and of course a lot of surprises clips from previous episodes. It's going to be a great time. 7:30 Heavy Muscle TV. Go back to our Instagram questions and go to Mikey Rain. Hi Dave. Does doing cardio in your off seasonason after training for 20 minutes, walking at a speed of 3.7 at an incline of 12% really help with increasing your metabolism. If I'm trying to gain weight, I certainly wouldn't be doing cardio unless I'm one of these people that just gains weight really easy and gets fat real easily. Then I then I usually put cardio into the offseason. I never used cardio in the offseason. I have a lot of guys that if I give them cardio, they just won't gain weight. So, you have to evaluate what kind of metabolism you have. If you're an easy gainer and you not only easy gaining of muscle, but you also have an easy ability to put fat on, it's probably a good idea to keep three days a week in at 20 minutes or, you know, 25 minutes of cardio after you train. Otherwise, I would say don't do it at all. After you train, go home and eat. You know, have your post-workout shake and then go home and eat. Let's go to Melon Marty. Hi, sitting Dave. I hate this show. Is weight training and cardio first thing in the morning fasted a bad idea? Is a catabolic? I ate a healthy breakfast right after and then every 3 hours throughout the day. You never want to weight train on an empty stomach because what does weight use as a fuel source? Highintensity activities use carbohydrates. When you wake up in the morning, you're you have an absence of of carbohydrates in your system. So your body invariably will convert amino acids into glucose for fuel. The problem is where's it getting the amino acids? You're not eating anything. It's going to cannibalize muscle tissue. It's going to break down muscle tissue, take those amino acids and convert it into glucose for fuel during your weight training. If you're trying to put on mass, that's the stupidest thing to do in the morning, okay? Train without eating. So what I recommend is if you're going to get up first thing in the morning, go to the gym, have a shake. The shake is very easily assimilated. You can have a whey isolate like my isoliz. You can have a high molecular weight carbohydrate like my carbaliz. You can put a scoop of carbolize, two scoops of isolize. And I sometimes will even put a tablespoon of macadamia oil mixed into that shake as well just to slow it down just a little bit because carbolyze will be absorbed very very rapidly. And you don't want to go hypo while you're training. So I go one scoop carboliz, two scoops isolized, one tablespoon mac oil. Get to the gym within you know 20 30 minutes you're training. Everything's in your system already. Do your workout. Go home and have your breakfast. Let's go to Zacharia or Zachariah Rosenthal. Dave, unlimited refeed/cheat days for two days straight followed by 5 days straight of either normal caloric intake or possibly keto. What do you think about this protocol? Um, you know, I know people that will that's the old um Dan Duchaine body opusish kind of like diet. Li McDonald, you know, he said, you know, no carbs the whole week, during the week, and then on the weekends, you eat what you want. I think a two-day fast is too much. Two day binge is too much, and people get fat doing that. Um, your body just cannot metabolize two days worth of calories. You know, one cheat meal a week, your body can eat up no problem. Two days of full cheating, probably not going to happen. Let's go to Big Daws 14. Hey Dave, what year do you think the Mr. Olympia was the most competitive in the men's open. Uh probably 98 when Ronnie Coleman won his first Olympia. Him Flex Wheeler was right there next to him. You had Nasser and and Shawn Ray and Chris Cormier and I mean everyone Levrone everyone was just at their best and I think it was a great year and it was one of the most exciting for me at least. Let's go to Kilo. Is it a good idea to rest 30 seconds between sets while bulking? If not, how many seconds should I rest? You know, people ask me that all the time. You know, how much you rest is really variable and based on the exercise you're doing. If you're doing some cable curls for your arms, I mean, you could probably get away with 30 seconds. If you're doing sets of squats at with four, five, 600 lb on the bar, 30 seconds ain't going to cut it. It takes you 30 seconds to get your knee wraps on. So, um, you know, I used to rest anywhere from, you know, 30 seconds all the way up to 3, four, 5 minutes, depending on how heavy the set was and how much intensity I needed to generate. If you don't rest enough, you're not going to be able to lift this heavy and that's going to cheat you obviously, especially in an offseason scenario. Let's go to Liam Pepin. Hi Dave, I was wondering where the hell do IBB pros get their gear, anabolics? Are most of them prescribed by doctors or what? Was just curious. I think John Romano makes everyone's gear now as well, doesn't he? I who the hell knows? I don't think that anyone gets their gear from a doctor uh who's a pro body. They just no one in their right mind would write enough would write a prescription for enough of this stuff because think about how many how much stuff bodybuilds use. I think some pros do get some of the gear pharmaceutically speaking. Um but you know the European guys can go into the regular pharmacy. Same thing with the Middle East guys, you know, uh but a lot of people get gear from underground uh lab sources nowadays. It's unfortunate. Back in the 90s, we would get stuff right fromarmacies in in in Europe, you know, come from Spain and and France and uh the Middle East, and the stuff was really good. Nowadays, it's kind of a crapshoot, unfortunately. Let's go to BZ Bay Area 49er. What a mess the 49ers are this year. How big did your arms get during your prime? I think I was about 22 and a half inches. That that was about the the best they were. But you know, my arms were very lean. So they a lot of times they looked bigger than they really were. I mean 22 inches is big. So but even when they weren't 20, even when they were 20 maybe, you know, probably on stage they were probably 20, 20 and a half, they looked big because they was, you know, I had a lot of detail in my arms. And a lot of times it's an illusion. Bodybuilding is a big illusion. Um, you know, I remember Ronnie Coleman once was commenting about how, you know, he goes, I don't know how, we were guest posing in in Fargo, North Dakota the other, and he said to me, I don't know how you get so damn lean. And I said, I don't know how your arms get so damn big. his arms were bigger than like his head and uh you know it is what it is you know but uh usually if you can get your arms over 20 inches that's pretty impressive. Let's go to Big Pete Labs. Hey Dave, curious what you feel about arginine or nitric oxide boosters in general. I know Chris Aceto suggests using arginine in his diets. I read online. I also know you guys think alike, but I'm pretty sure you don't have any N products. Thanks. Hope all is well. Well, we actually have a very potent N product, Nitro, and S Sid has got it right there. It's called Nitrolize and Nitrolize S, which is with caffeine, the S version. Uh, you know, nitric oxide back when Chris was, you know, I guess you could say, recommending arginine. Uh, no one even knew what arginine did. You know, this those books that he wrote are from the 80s, some of them. So, arginine was was recommended for growth hormone release back then. No one even knew about it from nitric oxide release. Um, arginine is good, citrilline is really good, agmatine is good, beetroot extract is good in nitralized S. I I put a combination of three together. I put arginine, beetroot extract and agmatine. And I felt that the synergism between those three compounds uh worked the best and that was just through trial and error. And the best way to test something and to see if it really works as as a good nitric oxide releaser is is put it in a formula that has no caffeine in it. because most people feel pumped just because they're on a ton of stems. Uh the nitralized regular formula with no caffeine. You take that and you feel pumped and you know it's working because there's no stim stems in there. Uh also there's a nice healthy dose of beta-alanine for in increased endurance and acid neutralization. So um there's some definite science, you know, two-way pre-workout. It's not shouldn't just be all stimulants and nitralize and nitralize are some of the products I'm the most proud of. A lot of people when they don't realize how good it is because it's not one of these things that's going to blow your brains out. It's because with all the stems in it. But then when they use it, they say, "Holy mackerel, this stuff really works the way it's supposed to," which is to increase pumps and increase endurance. Let's go to Team Star. Now, we've gotten poems before. Now, we finally have our first official Jack and Jill. All right, from team.star at Instagram. Dave and Sid went up the hill to fetch a pair of barbells. Sid doesn't lift and broke his crown and Dave warmed up with 405 after my crown. What? If you were eating a fatty fish like salmon once a day, would you still recommend using a fish oil supplement? Yes, absolutely. Because number one, most people don't eat wild caught salmon. They eat farmra salmon. It doesn't have as many omega-3s in it. Plus, I always like to keep the I always every single day of my life, I take an essential fatty acid supplement. Why? as an insurance policy for my health. Who knows how much you need? At least I know that I am getting three grams of fish oil and I'm getting 2600 milligrams of primrose oil every single day and I'm meeting my essential fatty acid requirements. When you meet your essential fatty acid requirements, your body will never hoard fat. Okay? It will never uh have a lack of hormone production. It won't have an over production of the wrong types of inflammatory prostaglandins. Uh, I know that everything is balanced in my body. And that's to me that soundness and peace of mind is worth the weight and gold. I'm telling you guys, taking an essential fatty acid supplement will improve your cholesterol profiles. It will make your recovery better in the gym and you'll feel better. I I promise you, try Omega. Take three pills twice a day for a month and then email me if you don't feel better. Available, of course, at speciesnutrition.com. We have time for a couple of more questions. We go to Blackwell Muscle. I hate this show so much. I'd rather be in the next anti- police viral video where I get tackled by George Farah after getting in trouble in school and then spending the week in jail where I would trip Dave Palumbo as he's squatting out in the snow and then offer him joint support from species nutrition to help his injuries. Dave, what is the most heart-healthy way to approach bodybuilding? I'm a little bit of a hypocchondric and relate every shoulder or jaw pain to something with the heart. even though on paper I'm fine. How would you rate the use of moderate amounts of anabolics on the heartalth compared to things like smoking, inactivity, etc. You know, I was in I was in a health food store the other day and uh they're carrying my species nutrition line and they I was I was having a discussion with one of the the customers. They were asking me what sweetens my protein and I said sucralose. And they said, "Well, isn't that an artificial sweetener?" I said, "Well, are you looking to lose weight?" She's like, "Of course I am. All women are looking to lose weight." I said, "Well, is it healthier to eat sugar or is it healthier to have an artificial sweetener that has no calories if you're looking to lose weight, increase your insulin sensitivity, you know, decrease your high blood pressure, decrease your likelihood of getting heart disease?" And when I put it into that context, she got it. She got it. I mean, that's what it is. It's all about relevancy. It's all about, you know, what are you trying to accomplish? you know, uh, if you're going to train, you know, with weights, you're going to do some cardio, you're going to eat healthy, and you take, you know, 200 milligrams or 400 milligrams or 600 milligrams of testosterone a week, uh, I think you're going to be way, way healthier than the guy who's smoking cigarettes, drinking alcohol, and eating fast food all day. Last question from Frank Samino 76. I hate this show more than George Farah hates Chris Aceto. When George cries himself asleep every night, secretly being in love with Chris, wishing that he was not only gay, but he could he could bring his competitors in shape like Chris does. Poor George, you can never catch a break. Just when you think you're going to get a George Farah free episode, right at the end, they come in there. I'm a natural lifter who is 23 years old and have been lifting now for 5 years. I started while in the army and of course we thank you for your service. I've seemingly hit a wall as far as progressing forward and wondered if you have any tips as to moving to the next level. Well, I don't know really what's what's uh you know what your diet's like or what your training's like. Uh if you're training too much, give yourself more off days. If you're not getting enough for training days in, up the intensity. If you're doing the same exercises all the time, change up your exercises. If you're not doing the mass building exercise like squats, deadlifts, you know, bench press, bent rows, add them in. Uh if you're doing training your body parts too frequently, take more days off. If you're not eating enough protein, up your protein. If your fat intakes too low, increase your fat. You know, you there's a million variables that you can play with. And that's why sometimes people get frustrated. But I tell them it's a good idea if you hire a coach because a coach can change these variables around uh and do them in a responsible manner, not an erotic manner where the person will make progress and continue to make progress. That is going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave. We are going to email the winners of Nitralize by Species Nutrition. We thank you all as always for all your questions. Reminder, tomorrow night, 7:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, it is the 100th episode of Heavy Muscle TV. For Johnny Styles and Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadique Farooqi. Have a good day.