New York Pro wrap-up on its way. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Don't worry. Don't worry. And we're back for another live installment of Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palumbo, joined by the technician Chris Aceto. And Chris, we are being filmed uh independently by my good friend Jesse, who is making a day in the life of Dave Palumbo. So, we're doing a day in the life of Dave Palumbo today. Uh which is probably one of my he most hectic days. started off at 6:00 a.m. Uh, I had to get my kids to school, Chris, after the weekend of having them and we went right to the gym from there and it hasn't stopped since. So, I know you had a busy weekend in New York, too. Yeah, good. I'm being filmed by 60 Minutes. Michael to my left smoking Palm Malls. Uh, are you still uh are you still uh functioning? Are you Did you get a pass on going to Pittsburgh and New York two weeks in a row? Yeah. No, I'm serious. 60 Minutes is here. They they they want to do a doc they want to do an investigation into the Pittsburgh Pro. Yeah, I heard I heard you took a little flack for the because you didn't think Nick Walker deserved to win that. Yeah. Oh god. Is there a giant battle on me, Dave? That's like um Yeah, I took some flak. I don't care though. You know what the truth is? And I said this, Chris, after Pittsburgh, if you remember, I said the best thing that ever happened to Nick Walker was he did not win Pittsburgh because it gave him the ability to go back to New York, win his third New York Pro, which is now a record, right? Yeah, but I don't believe I never believe that. I know, but I I hate that. I don't buy into that positivity like the best thing that ever happened to you has become a loser, you know? Just No, I'm I'm I'm all about finding the positive side of things. I think everything happens the way it's supposed to happen. Yeah. I'm I'm completely negative. So I No, I know you don't like you don't like to lose. That's why you have this like you really have this like terrible thing about losing. But you know what? You helped Derek. So you should be happy that Nick lost. Yeah, I was happy. I was That's why that's why you're you're you know, you're not liked anymore by by the family, right? I don't you know it's it's a bodybuilding show. You could be Bob Cherillo who predicted him to finish eighth at the Olympia. So yeah, that would be worse than what you are right now. Yeah. After Mike Wallace is here from 60 Minutes, he's Bob Chicka call. How come there are no interviewers out there like Mike Wallace anymore? Have you Have you noticed like Because people don't because people don't have an attention span past 12 seconds due to Tik Tok. But it's not No, it's not even that. No one asks tough questions. There's like no interviewers like that out there because no one will do interviews if they have Well, if you ask a tough question, they say it's fake. It's a fake question. I told you my father used to say that the like all the stars that didn't want to have tough questions like Sinatra they would only go on Larry King because Larry King would throw him softballs you know they went on Mike Wallace they might get a real question Larry King I always hated that show because it was just oh it was like let me kiss your rear end I'm investigating that's why that's why I can't get any any high people on our show he only had the investigator's desk and tie and voice. He didn't have one question that was like, "Now Dave, what is your favorite color?" That's right. Well, someone Jesse, who was who's filming me, asked me, he goes, "What's Kai like in real life? You know, you've interviewed him a lot." I said, "Is he is he like more gangster like when he's off camera?" I said, "Kai is Kai James. Get what you see, whatever. See what you get." Yeah. He's uh, you know, he has his own view of the universe and that's all it is. But how would Well, you tell me because you know what? I looked at the pictures. I looked at the videos and I I I didn't even go online to give my opinion on the show because I defer to you, Sid, guys who are actually there sitting in the front row looking at the show because for me, when I look at pictures, I think Bonak looks great in the pictures. And I know he he looks better on probably in photos and video than he probably did in person, but uh how close was it between Bonak and and Nick Walker? I think I alluded to to it in the prejudging wrap-up. It wasn't, you know, it was Bronac is very competitive in certain shots. I mean, this IFBB pro elite level bodybuilding. It's not going to be a complete blowout. You know, it's it's so um just Bonak looked really good. It was a good show for him, especially in prejudging. You know, his side chest and side tricep and I mean, he looked great. What went What went for Nick Walker then? size because at the end of the day, you know, he's a lot bigger than everyone and he was, you know, he's a lot denser and he's harder and that Bonak didn't have like a shot where he could beat Nick, but he had shots where he looked very good with him. Conditioning better or worse than Pittsburgh for Bonet? Um, I think it was overall um better here for sure. Just an overall better bodybuilder here. Yeah. Did you have Nick Walker winning? No, I had him fourth. I had Yeah, I of course I had him winning. Yeah. Okay. So, it was pretty unanimous in your mind. Now, let me ask you this question. I'm going to I'm going to put you on the spot because I know you like to put on the spot. If you if you prepped Bonak knowing his gifts and everything like that that he has. How would he have done at this show? Would he have won or you think he still would have won? I don't know. But I I think that he looked really good and I thought he was flat and holding water. That's my train eye. But was both flat and holding water and still looked really good. Can't say he was full because he wasn't. You can't say that he was not because he was. and he still look really good. Well, given that you just said that, if if you were able to get him peaked out, how would he have beaten could does he have the ability to beat Nick Walker? That's I guess a better question. Um, at this point, no, because Nick is um there's just a lot of shoulders and arms you have to deal with. And and of course, Bonak has great shoulders and arms. You know, even his legs a bit, you know, which in the past were a knock against him. They're not a knock. Back width is improved. She's just he's very very very very big. Yeah. Who who's you know, you we always say that Nick Walker's got a very very dangerous side chest pose. I think Bonak is got maybe has the best side chest pose in I thought I thought Bonak like that's why I said when when you when we when the minute you asked me I said he compared extremely well and the first pose I mentioned was side chest. Yeah. Yeah. He's freaking most muscular. Bonak's most muscular compared extremely well. And I would have you know I don't even think it was close with Nick's most muscular and anyone's most muscular last week including Bonax and this week close. Talk to me. Yeah. Yeah. Talk to me about Rean Grimes. Rean Grimes uh looked fabulous when he came out. Fabulous with a capital F and he faded with uh the 25 size font capital F as the prejudge went on. I thought he was going to slip the classic if they didn't end prejudging. That bad, huh? What what do you think happened? The the biggest or fastest flattening in it was the biggest flattening and the fastest flattening in the history of me going to bodybuilding shows. Wow. And that back double looks brutal right there. Brutal when he first came out. Yeah. I wonder what happened for for it was brutal when it first came out. And you know, Tyler had mentioned something that people won't get who don't go to shows and don't judge shows and just, you know, don't go to a lot of shows. He had mentioned in that Pittsburgh wrap-up. He said, "People don't understand how these guys, especially the big guys, at this level, can change minute by minute." And he's right, of course. Um, but I have never seen anyone like sink as fast as Reagan did because I'm telling you, Dave, he looked fabulous when he first came out, right? He came out by himself and I said, "Huh, I'll just have to see if Nick can if he can beat Nick here." Wow. That was that close, huh? You think? I I just, you know, I said he'll be too small for Nick, but like he was posing and I thought, "Wow, the structure, the side, he just looked big." That back double looks like he could beat everyone, you know? It did when it first came out. Unbelievable. Then it, you know, by the, you know, by the the last call with like he just changed very quickly. Yeah. Milos would say it was because he wasn't on enough insulin, I'm sure. Right. It's not an exaggeration. Fastest fastest flattening ever. And you know what's so wild, Dave? I wonder. I will say this. Visually, it looked like he lost X amount of pounds. I bet if he weighed pre before prejudging and let's say just the number was just for a number, right? 250 pounds. I bet he probably went back to the hotel room and said like, I'm, you know, oh my, did I I must be 240 and get on the scale and dropped the pound. You know what I mean? It doesn't make sense. Right. Right. No, you know, he probably looked like he must have felt it that he was flattening, right? And they lined it up, you know, they lined it up for him to be first or second, but you could quickly make the distinction like, well, the guy who just came out in the first minute, seven minutes in, is not even the same person. Yeah. Tough. I'm sure it's a very, very tough show for him. uh simply because he must have realized when he first came out or you know or backstage, okay, I look great and then to follow the fourth and arguably he could have fallen in my opinion fifth. Yeah. Yeah. It's a It's a shame. Yeah. Did you Did you see uh what uh Speaking of Milos, did you see Milos yelling yelling at Bob on that podcast, the Dennis James podcast? It's pretty funny. Battles outside the New York bro. You got the battles on the stage and you got the battles off the stage. Milos has gotten very very uh aggressive lately if you notice. Let me see if I can pull this up here. Hold on. This is this this I I I Milos is so funny because he's so passionate about what he does, you know, about the whole Let me see if this is it. So, do you stick by your word? Which word? Said a lot of words. That Nick can never win the Olympia. Nick will never win the Olympia. No offense against Nick. I like Nick personally, okay? It's not a personality contest for everybody. All right. We always got to give the exclamation. Okay. Nick's a fine guy. I like the kid. Okay. Listen, we could use more personality in the game. Do I think Nick can ever win the Olympia? No. And I'll tell you why. Because I think there's always going to be two or three guys that have better shape, better symmetry, better proportion. I don't think Nick can beat Samson. I don't think he can beat Hottie. I don't think he and I don't think he'd have he almost beat Derek, but he didn't. Right. And then you got Listen, Martin, who we haven't even mentioned. Hey, what's up everyone? We got a great episode coming up this week. All right. That that's not the clip I wanted. What? Since I put that clip up, comment on that. Do you agree with Bob? Um, I I I think that when you asked me to get backstage after the Arnold, you were right back there that Derek just won and you said he's going to be Mr. Olympia and you asked me and the best time to get get me on my real opinion uh is right immediately after the show and I said um I named Derek Hottie um Samson uh Andrew and then I paused and I was thinking other people and I said I threw in Nick. So my gut reaction, not even having seen him on stage, was simply after the Arnold within 2 minutes. Those were five people in my mind I thought could win. It's only harder for Nick um than maybe like say Hottie who's, you know, because if Hard on paper he can. Yes. Okay. So you don't So you don't agree with Bob? I I I I'm agreeing with you. I I think that I always said that Nick is is super dangerous. Do I think he's going to win the Olympia? If I was betting, I wouldn't bet for him, but I certainly would never bet against him because he's, like I said, he's got more mass than everyone else. He's when he's in shape. He's freaky looking on stage. And he could outm, you know, outmass these guys and and and win in a situation where guys who have better symmetry are not at 100%. He can certainly be Derek if Dererick's a little off. Derek in my mind is a guy who can be who beats himself. When he's not perfect on stage, he leaves the door open because he's not the biggest guy. So, he's got to be maxed out like like he was in in in what we call Pittsburgh or like he was at the Arnold, even better. He's almost unbeatable when he's like that. But when he's a little off, a guy like Nick who's bigger than him can absolutely beat him, you know? So, all these guys are beatable. Same thing with Hottie. If Hottie's a little off, he can be beaten. But when he's freaking shredded, shrink wrapped to the bone, it's going to be hard for a guy like Nick to to knock out Hottie. And same thing with Samson. I agree with that. But I don't think Bob I certainly don't agree with Bob that he's going to be eighth place at the Olympia. There's no way that's happening here. Yeah. You know, he it was probably a a you know, a stubborn I'm not going to defend Bob, but it was probably like a stubborn state based on the way he looked at the New York Pro last year. Right. Well, he's Yeah, he's he's right. He's he's assuming that he was going downhill rather than uphill. And I guess it's always easy to go with the trends, right? If the trend is the guy's doesn't show up at a show and he doesn't look his best at the New York, then you can probably pretty much say, "Well, he's he's he's on the way out." The problem with bodybuilding is you never know what's going on with people emotionally in their life stabilitywise. So, sometimes people are just not where they need to be and then they get to where they need to be mentally and then all of a sudden their physique comes back because it's not like Nick's 40 years old, you know, he's a young guy. Um, I assume that you're chewing gum because Nick Walker is chews gum on stage. Yeah, you wanted me to spit it out, but they didn't make him spit it out. So, I'm gonna All right, I found the clip I wanted to show you. Hold on, let me get to the clip. This is the real clip I want to show you. When Milos goes crazy on Bob. Here we go. Say you came with a proposal to take the posing round. Who the [\h__\h] are you to the athletes? That's who I was. Which athlete Which athlete vote for you? Which athlete told you, can you go please there with this proposal? We want you to tell them this. Who told you that? You represented yourself alone and you were in a on a dinner table again say you came with a proposal to take the round. Who the All right. So, basically what he he's mad that that Bob claims to have gotten the the the symmetry round, right, removed. Is that what it was? Yeah. And uh you know I don't know if Bob was Bob likes to take responsibility for a lot of stuff. I don't know if Bob was responsible. Bob may have recommended it that they do it and they and they took it away. But Milos is obviously very upset about that and what they were talking about. I I liked the symmetry, you know, the symmetry round. I liked Let's play it again. My phone's going to die. All right. You keep I'm holding me for moving around. Yeah. [\h__\h] are you to the athletes rep? That's who I was. Which athlete which athletes vote say you came with a proposal to take the posing round. Who the [\h__\h] are you? Sorry. That was the athletes rep. That's who I was. Which athlete which athletes vote for you? [\h__\h] athlete told you, "Can you go please there with this proposal? We want you to tell him this." Why are you playing that again? We heard it. I like I like it. I It's funny. I like when Milos loses his mind because um first of all, he's so passionate about what he what he believes. Whether you agree with him or not, it doesn't matter. He's so passionate and he's has no problem just laying it out there. You can see he's just it has nothing to do with he's not doing it for hits. He's not doing it for views. Milos truly feels this internally that it, you know, that by taking away the posing round and the scoring pos that it was that it was it was the wrong thing to do because it it it ruined the aesthetic, beauty, artistic part of of bodybuilding, which was self-expression and and and that's the reason why he got so upset. And it wasn't that him and Bob will go eat dinner. They're not they're not mad at each other, but he was mad that that Bob was saying, "Ah, we didn't need the posing round. It was a waste of time, basically." And so, um, I I that's why I keep playing because I love Muos's passion about it. And and once again, you could agree or disagree with him. It doesn't matter. Most people probably think he did a good thing getting rid of that posing round because it because it is it is, you know, very look, it cost Cedric McMillan the the victory at the Arnold Classic that one year. So, you know, is bodybuilding about artistic expression? Is it about um symmetry, about muscularity, conditioning, total package? Is it everything? See, everyone has their own their own viewpoint on it. You know, the fact that they don't judge the posing round anymore. Milos may or may not be right, but I like the fact that he's willing to go so passionately and and you know, defend his his position comments. Did I lose Chris? There he is. I lost you. Sorry, Chris. Okay, good. What's your uh what's your take on that? So, I guess the important takeaway from that, frankly, is I think the uh symmetry round. Um I like the symmetry round. You know, maybe at the elite level at the Olympia, you bring it back, but yeah, this was the posing round he was talking about. I I I misspoke at first. What was think I couldn't What was he yelling about? Because I couldn't the pos they used to score the posing round. They don't score. Bob Tuk said, you know, we got rid of the posing round. No, it's not scored anymore. So Milos is upset about that bit like who he felt like who is Bob just to get rid of the posing round you know but I don't it wasn't Bob's Bob likes to take credit for Bob probably proposed it to them they decided to get rid of it the judges and the powers that be I'll tell you I I'll tell you here's the problem with the posing round you know you have Derek in a tiebreaker beating Nick last week could you imagine if it came down to the posing People would want to burn the building down. Yes, I agree. Like if Hi, my name is, you know, Tyler Manion. I scored at 44 and I loved and enjoyed better. He showed it. God, you get into the intangibles of, you know, Oh, was it It was It was the symmetry round. Sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You know, it's just keep the focus on Yeah. Who's the best bodybuilder up there? Chris, I'm All right, it was the symmetry round and your camera's frozen a little bit. I don't know why, but [\h__\h] it. Um, but yeah, um I I I didn't watch the podcast, so I I thought it was the posing round he was talking about, but it was the symmetry round. I think they judge the symmetry round. They may not judge it separately, but they definitely assess the symmetry round when those guys are up there. Otherwise, they wouldn't have them do quarter turns. Uh, so I guess Milos liked the fact that they scored everything individually and gave it a score. But, uh, they assessed that that that symmetry round. There's no doubt about that. You know, and you know what the funny thing is? Nick Walker actually looks good in the symmetry round. I think he he does his quarter turns really well. His side poses are tremendous. His back poses really good. You know, his front pose doesn't have the smallest waist, but he he looks good. He sits down on those abs really well. So, if anything, I think it it doesn't it doesn't certainly doesn't hurt Nick Walker the symmetry round. One of the best guys in the symmetry round, obviously Flex Wheeler was great. Sean Rhoden was was phenomenal in that symmetry round back in the day because these guys with tiny waist, they'd sit on those abs. Milos was great at the symmetry round. That's why Milos is go crazy about it because that was probably his his best poses were his quarter turns. Um but but the judges definitely assess that. I I I think and and not to side with Milos or Bob, but I think that the judges as a whole when they look at a physique, they're judging everything because they're seeing the symmetry around. They're seeing the the mandatories and they're making an assessment based on what everyone looks like. You can't not see that because they start out doing quarter turns and then they go into the poses. So, it's it's a total um evaluation of everything that that that's up on stage and it's a feel and that's why, you know, you can't maybe tangibly explain why Derek won Pittsburgh, but I can give you a gut instinct as why Derek won Pittsburgh because when I was sitting there in the second row and I looked and I had to make a decision, I said, "For some reason, my eyes go to Derek. Derek has more polish pop. Wow. Even though he's not as big as Nick, that's what won it. It's the intangibles. And when things are close, that's what decides it. So the quarter turns probably do count, but it's probably not unless it's really close on stage. And that's the way it should be. Let's face it, bodybuilding is the poses, okay? Doing the symmetry round and giving an equal score to the poses is not going to solve the problem. It's good to have them so that the judges have that in their mind. They could say, you know what, who looks better in the symmetry round? Okay, Nick looked better or this one looked better. We're gonna give when it's close, we're gonna give it to this guy. And I guarantee that's probably if you talk to a judge and they they tell you the minutiae of what in their mind decided, you know, Derek over Nick, it was aesthetics and and and probably the symmetry round that did it for him. Uh just overall polish and stuff like that. And and you know what, that's the name of the game. When I look at pictures of William Bonak, I think he looks better in pictures, but I wasn't there. And that's why I didn't go on the record and give my opinion. That's why I defer to people like Chris who was there in Sid because they were in there and I asked them what do these guys look like in person. Chris already said it. You know, they looked amazing in in person and you know Bonak did not look as hard as he did in the pictures in person and Rean faded real quickly and that's the kind of input we need. So, let me ask Chris back. Okay, you back Chris? I'm back. Okay. So, like I was saying, I said the symmetry round is is judged. It's just not given a separate score. But, you know, if when it's close and there are nuances and you're trying to separate two guys, I think the judges always have that in the back of their mind. Who looked better in the court of terms? Yeah, I was listening, David. Your eyes always went by back to Derek. Not because he was more polished, because I was saying, "How's Derek look?" So, you're biased. I'm just kidding. Oh my god, that's funny. But all right, let's um let's go back to the show. What does Rean need to do, Chris, moving forward? Are we gonna I think we're going to see him in California. Is that right, Sid? Yeah. Yeah. He just needs to look like he did the first one minute of the show. And what made him fade in your mind? I saw him on at Guy Cenitos on Sunday and we talked about it a little bit and he couldn't put there was nothing like there was not one thing which is the most frustrating because I said Reagan you look so good when you first came out and you look terrible by the end of prejudging you look small. Oh, you told him that? Yeah. and he knew it and he said I you know I don't know if I asked what did you do or he told me what he did but the conclusion was and this is I told him this is well this is the worst of it nothing you know what I mean there was no like he didn't eat like 40 bananas on Thursday or like you know carb up on 10,000 pounds of sugar you know an hour before or there was nothing you know and so I thought in my mind, well, he was maybe just cuz he hasn't been on stage and he was excited, he was nervous and then that wasn't it and you know just there was nothing which is the most frustrating part because at least if you if you know like okay I did something crazy in the morning whatever that crazy you know I drank a gallon of water I didn't drink for two days or there was nothing really anything out of the ordinary which of course makes it more frustrating Because if you do something out of the ordinary, then you can say, "Okay, good. That's fine. I just not doing that next time." Right. Right. I I I agree with you. But, you know, Neil would say it's probably not enough insulin. I would think that's why he faded. He looked, you know, Regan is Yeah. be a t-shirt too big to fade, right? He's got really long legs. He's a big guy. Regan, he's over six foot. Uh the legs, you know, from behind looked amazing. I thought he has really good quads. Seemed like his adductors, you know, just were a little deflated. I don't know if that was Was he flat? You think he was? He was flat. Not as a pancake. Flat as uh the pancake mix at by the end of the prejudge. And it was a s Dave, it was it was a just Have you seen a client of yours do go through something like that before? Well, I mean, towards the end of prejudging, not only did he was he getting small, he was sweating. So, I I was kidding with him. I said, "My god, you made me look good. Uh, Reagan, not only did you shrink, but you pulled the Raone and started sweating." I said, "I wish." When he was sweating, the good Reagan's like over it. Sunday's like whatever. Next show. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He was laughing about it literally, you know, like, you know, I don't I don't see anyone beating him in California. I mean, who's who's going to be in California at this point? You know, Sass will do it. He'll he'll give him trouble for sure. Yeah. Yeah. Talk to me about Sass. Um, Sass just needs to be super sharp. Um he didn't have much oil on him prejudging so it made him look like he was white and soft and white and he's just got to be flooded in oil. If you look at the night show pictures he was just soaked in oil. I mean soaked and it just made his body look like gave a real representation of the way he looked like. Was his tan dark enough? That's his tan was dark enough. The lights were good, but they were bright lights. Like you could, you know, so, um, you know, nobody looked like perfectly tanned, you know, like Nick usually has got that color down toward, you know, science. He looked a little light, maybe, you know. Um, of course looked like he like Snow White. Yeah. No tan. Can I do a little rant for a second? You keep it brief because usually the whole show is one big rant. Yeah, guys, you're not you're not gonna rant like Milo. You're not gonna I'm not gonna No, I'm not going to go nuts. I'm I'm just gonna say I got to say one thing though, guys. I don't know what it is about you guys, but putting aside the fact that you might have had skin cancer, which I don't think any of you guys have had skin cancer because most of you guys are young. Why aren't you laying in a tanning bed and getting a base tan? You'll inject steroids. You'll do all you you'll squat 600 pounds which is dangerous. Okay. You dehydrate yourself half to death to get a say. Can you please lay in a tanning bed for six to eight weeks before the show a couple times a week and get a base tan. And if you can't do that, you could take melanotan and get dark. I don't understand why you guys are pasty white. Kriso, I'm talking to you. I'm talking to uh all the other guys that are Martin. Um go tan for God's sakes. Tan should not be something you say, "Oh, I lost the show because my tan sucked." I don't understand it. We all tan back in the 90s, okay? We all laid in the tanning bed and got a base tan and then we put our protans and whatever stuff we had available to us to tan at this point. You guys got great spray tan up, but you got to have a base coat. I've said this a million times before. When you paint your house, if you have a wall that's dark, you put you put a base coat first of all, you make it white and then you paint it over that. You don't just paint white over dark paint. Okay? It's the opposite of bodybuilding. Before you go and put a dark coat on, you can't be white underneath because if the thing smudges or it fades a little bit, you have no color. Why would you spend all that money on on supplements and and PEDs and food and suffer and lose all that body fat and get on a pro stage where they're offering, you know, hundreds of thousands of dollars and not have a tan? I don't get it. What What's the problem? I can you answer that question for me, Chris? Um I I just think, you know, I think it's good to have a base tan, you know, but I I I think that just what happens is people go to one show and their tan was perfect and they say, why risk it at all? Get a freaking base tan so you got something under the under the color. Why can't you do that? the the the a problem or an issue, Dave, is you know, you go to one show and one tanning company tans you maybe and then you go to another show and it's a little bit different and then you go to another. Why risk it? If you have a base tan, you don't have to deal with that crap. Everyone's got a good If you have a base tan and you get tanned over it, very rarely do you ever have a bad job. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you you call it no matter what. If you put like a tanning product over a good tan, you're going to look better. So, you're right. Why do you think black guys look so good on stage? They're getting spray tan, but they have a base a base of color under there. If you're white and you're pasty white, lay in a tanny better take melanitan. You got to have a base color before you put the spray stuff on or it's not going to look good or you're It might look good, but you're you're flipping a coin. You're risking it. It's not worth it. You have control over three things I always say. Conditioning, your coloring, and your presentation. If you screw up any of those three, you are a [\h__\h] M O R O N. You know why? Because that's something that should be perfect. You have control of that. You don't have control over how much muscle you have, your symmetry. You don't have control over that because that's just what you're born with and and how much you've built over the last whatever couple years you've been training. But conditioning, you absolutely can control. You can make that perfect. Color you can control because you can have a base tan and get good color. And presentation is just practice. So, if you give up those three things, especially as a pro, on a pro level, an elite pro level, shame on you. You don't deserve to win. That's how I feel about it. No, you you actually, I mean, it it is a good point because, you know, um I would you know, Mikeo's tan is always not good. And he's pasty white. Yeah. And even with the Pro Tan on or whatever, you know, whatever tanning product that he uses or he still looks like he needs a lot more color. So, you know, if you're thinking if you're in the audience and you're looking at Michael Kriso or, you know, and you think like, "Oh, he looks great." Tell me what's the negative. Well, you know, hamstring from the side and color. I mean, hamstring from the side is like you said, it's, you know, that's work in the gym or development. Tan could be fixed. Yeah. So, may maybe the uh the Arnolds can give out uh like what Samir Bernut won. Samir Boot won the Napper uh World Championships in Worcester Mass and they gave him a check for 22,500. They gave him a tanning bed. He went to the promoter house to beat him up because Dave They gave him the check. They gave him the check. Yeah. Then they gave him the It was like cash prizes worth. Oh, so he didn't get he got no money. He just got the tanning bed. No, he got he got cash, but he got the the tanning bread was valued at like 3500. He didn't want the 3500. Samir said, "What am I going to do? Mail it back to California?" Right. Right. Right. Samir should sell that tanning bed to Krzo and or one of the other guys. I donated it to the Hall of Fame. Martin needs a tan. I love Martin. Martin and I talk. Martin, you got a tan, man. I I I'm sorry. You You know, you you shouldn't look like Powder from that movie. Okay. You gotta have You got to have a tan before you get on that stage. Especially if your head's sick. Go lay in the sun. It's It's the summer. The spring is here. Summer's. Even in St. Louis, you guys got I think that's where he's from. You got sun now. Go outside and sit in the sun. It's good for you. It's good, guys. You know what? The sun is the most important. They say the the the one of the major predictors of long life is people who are in the sun a lot, Chris. Okay. Have a longer life because there's obviously a reason why the sun's out there, right? The sun without without the sun there'd be no plants, okay? Plants need the sun. We need the sun, too. Doesn't mean you need to go out and get burned obviously, but you need to get a little sun. If you go outside and sit out for 15, 20 minutes every day and and turn 15 minutes on each side, that takes a half hour. You will get a beautiful, beautiful bronze color. I promise you, you don't have to go out for three hours every day. 15 minutes, 20 minutes on each side. That's it. Should be part of your routine. Okay? And most of you guys are the next big thing. Tanning coaches. He's my t. I'm gonna have to I'm getting my my Where's my video guy? You're filming a day in the life. I got to show I got to take people out to my pool. I got to film out in my pool so I can show them how to tan because people people I just was teaching them how to squat in the gym today. I got to go show them how to tan. It's called get a lounge chair, put a towel on it, okay? You lay on on your back for 15, 20 minutes. You turn over, you lay on your on your stomach for 15, 20 minutes, and you're done. You can jump in the pool. If you don't have a pool, you go and shower, take a shower, and you're done. Do that every day. I promise you, it'll put you in a better mood, too. You'll be in a very good mindset. Your neurotransmitters will be firing. You'll be creative. You'll feel good about yourself. It's nice to have a little color in your face. people won't think you're, you know, you're dying because I know that when I, well, it wasn't me, but I know when people die at a lot of time for shows, Chris, and then they have no color, they're they're grandmothers think that they're, you know, starving themselves. They think they're like, they have cancer or something like that, you know, get some color. Please, no more excuses. And you know what? I'm gonna if I see anyone on that Olympia stage without color and and I know because they have no base, I'm going to go crazy on them. So, all you guys listening, I you know, I know you guys watch the show. I'm I'm giving you an assignment. Get a base tan. All right? And if you if you need help, contact me. I I'll be more than happy to tell you how to do it. Right. I have I have high blood pressure now because I'm screaming so much. That's that's exactly right. That's why I'm turning redder by the minute. So, all right. That's my rant for the day. I see Larry Wheels got his pro card. You see that? How about the classic, Dave? You want to cover the classic over Larry? Yeah, I was I wanted to just mention Larry Wheels before I forgot about it because because then I'll forget. And I like Larry Wheels. Let me pull up Larry Wheels picture. So, my good friend Hans Vogle, who I got to give credit, sent me some pictures of Larry. I guess Larry was in two divisions and so the first division came in fourth and then he he won the second division. But, uh, so he gets his IPV pro card. You know, Larry Wheels. This was at the muscle contest Ireland, which is where my friend Hans is from. Larry Wheels was in one of the first few um pros versus pros challenges we used to do back in the day. He was in one of the bench bench challenges. No one knew who he was at the time. He was super strong. He was young. He had to be in his early 20s. And I'm like, "This guy is freaking strong. Holy mackerel." Little did I know what he would become. But that's pretty cool that you can he can lift that kind of crazy weight in the gym and he got a pro card. So, good job, Larry. Couldn't happen to a nicer guy. He's uh he's he's killing it on social media. He's he's lived all over the world, you know. So, I don't I don't believe it was fixed. That was not fixed. You guys would People always got to like, you know, put everything down. Why was it fixed? Larry has a good physique. They Dave, they can't fix two shows in one month after That's right, Chris. That's right. One month. One month. Oh my god. Anyway, good job, Larry Wheels. All right, let's get back to um the classic division. Uh I thought, and I'm going to mention it. I'm just going to call it like I saw. I thought last week that uh Jose Manuel or as it looks like his name is on Instagram, Josema, but it's not Jose, it's Jose Ma, Jose Monre. I thought he he clearly beat Rough Diesel last week in Pittsburgh. He came back here. here. I thought they were going to give it to Jose for this show. Rough Diesel wins again. Was it deserved, Chris? I was not there obviously this weekend. I will defer to your opinion on this one. Well, once again, it's, you know, sometimes there's two shows in one. We if you if you watch the world's worst wrap-up in history that I did for the um muscle after the prejudge and thought Rough Diesel was the winner and me and here's the reason why. Why? Yeah, tell us why. Um, he looked not hard, but hard enough for that for him. He looked he he did he lacked massively the hardness that Jose had. Um, and I thought that um, like Jose's best pose is his back, but he looked like odd. This the shape is odd compared to rough diesels on the back double. So you would think that that pose would automatically go to Jose and I think you could make the argument for sure for Rough Diesel in the back double um because it's shaped better. It's hard for that physique that like better flowing tie-ins. You could argue that Jose's underdeveloped, although crazy hamstrings from behind. He's You could argue that he's a little shallow in the legs compared to the upper body because of the the back is a little bit too dominant and it's classic, which implies flow. Um, and then I thought rough diesel look especially good in prejudging only hard enough in the front double. So, I thought, "Oh, yeah, Rough Diesel." At the night show, I thought Ruff Diesel's upper body was I mean, uh, from the front and side was quote soft enough to not justify him getting by Jose at night. So, I thought Jose was better at night. I thought uh uh Rafisa was better in the morning. So, that's how I saw the show. What did you think about it in Pittsburgh? I I didn't see it in Pittsburgh, but I'll say this. I uh Jose was completely insanity, insane, insane, insane condition at night. So, he was only insane, insane, and prejudging, but he was like nuts and insane at night. So because of that and for sure Rough Diesel was not as tight at night as he was a prejudging I that was enough for me to um go with Jose for the win. Yeah. I was a little surprised there, you know, I was a little surprised. Um but I didn't watch a show like crazy attentive. Um, but my impression was, okay, Jose's got too much condition here. I think probably judges might say go back to him and say, "Your legs look a little undized for the upper body, which throws off the flow in some poses. Um, and therefore because you're up against a guy with great balance and you're in the classic division and in their minds classic is about lack of flaws and flow, then they went with rough diesel. Yeah. I I I look I really I when I was in Pit I'm only going to comment on Pittsburgh because I was there sitting in that you know front row and I I did watch classic there and I thought that Jose easily won not easily but I I thought he did enough his conditioning was you know insane judges Dave and you know what this is not this is just to illustrate judges different when I ever say like well pick another panel and and to some guy. You know, I was second by two points. Everyone had me winning or second by a point. I said, "You know what? A different panel of nine. Different judges may have had a different result." And you're freak. So, you probably go with, you know what I mean? The guy who was the most conditioned seven out of 10 times over, right? I I think we have to, but I think when you start rationalizing why a guy won, like you're trying to figure it out, like that's that's not a good sign. Usually, you have to try to figure it out. It usually means that maybe the the wrong guy won. I look I I would have liked I want to see both of those guys on the Olympia stage. I would have had a problem with maybe one winning Pittsburgh, the other winning New York. It's kind of a little weird that um that Rough Diesel won both. I mean, I'm the guy's a super nice guy. I'm glad he he did it and he he looks, you know, great. I'm not taking anything away from him. I I'm a conditioning guy. I thought, you know, and I think that Jos's got some insane, you know, symmetry. So, you know, maybe they'd like to see him a little fuller. I I don't know, but you know, he might have a a weight cap, you know, issue that he's, you know, sucking down to make almost like Raone Dino has the same problem. I don't know if that's the case, but uh you know, he certainly deserves to be on that Olympia stage. There's no doubt about that. So, we'll see. We'll see. What What about 212? You had a You had a course in that race, of course. Um, I think that, um, I wasn't sitting in the right seats to judge that show, and here's the reason why, meaning I was too far back. But my impression was when Angel came out, I thought there's no way he's winning. He looks soft to me. Um, and then he seemed to like tighten up on the prejudge. And so for the open, I was like five rows in, right? the prejudging of the 212. I was by like 17 rows back. So, um it looked like they were lining it up for Angel to win and I thought, "Huh, to me from 17 rows back to me looks kind of like not as tight as he needs to be or has been has been." And then they moved him out of that first place position. I thought, "Yeah, that's the way it's going to go." And then as he posed and posed and posed and the you know it looked like he got significantly sharper and they moved him back to what looked to be like first place. But on the other hand, um I know I've seen Fran compete for a few years now and I know he gets in tremendous condition. Like the only like the condition that you you like this like this picture, he looks in very very good condition, but he was definitely I'm sure sharper even than these pictures show, you know. So he gets into great condition. um a condition that can win shows and apparently um you know he was hard enough to to to get the win. He he did give I I liked his speech. He gave a a speech and apparently like it seems like if you read between the lines like Angel who he beat it seems like helped him in the past kind of like you know was a member. Oh really? Oh that's cool. I like that. Yeah that's cool. Francisco Barz from Brazil. You know the Brazilians are just dominating man. They're really, I got to tell you, they really are producing some amazing bodybuilders. He's not from Brazil. He's from Argentina. How come? Well, it does say Brazil on on the on the sheet. So, Oh, well, I maybe they got it wrong, but they said Brazil on the on the score sheet. So, I'm pretty almost 100% sure it's Argentina. Oh, you know those South Americans, it's all the same, right? Chris, George W. Bush thought that Africa was a was thatual countries. He thought it was one big country. Yeah, I see John Efer in there. John, when are you get when are you doing your uh your pro debut? We'll see if he answers. All right. Um let's uh I want to ask you one more question about that show. Who do you like for the Olympia in the 212? I mean, aside from obviously the obvious, which is Keon Pearson? Oh, cool. Who do you think is going to be that top group this year? I mean, we we've been seeing a lot of guys. There's not a lot of 212 shows qualifiers out there as there is in the other divisions. Who is who I mean, aside from Keon, who I think that should move up to the open, but he's not doing that this year obviously. Who can beat this guy? No, I don't think this year anyone. And I I think I mean Clarita will challenge him for sure, but I mean is it is it those two guys and then everyone else? It's um it is Keon and everyone else. Okay. So you don't think that you don't think that Clarita is even close to Keon? No, because when when Keon you know when Keon started to make a move Yeah. on started to make a move when he got seventh and I distinctly remember that show because Angel was second and um Claria was first and uh Keon looked completely outrageous and he ended up like tanking down to seventh which was a little odd. I mean, I think he came back from the previous year, not even in the top 15, and he looked like he would really put it together, but just not there yet. And then next year, he made a big I mean, two years in a row, he made big jumps in just development and maturity. And when he was seventh, he had made the round the super roundness jump and the maturity jump. And even he made the condition jump. He just didn't look like he had enough condition to like slam dunk top three. So, right. I mean, he's Look at him in Pittsburgh. I mean, he looks like he's be ready in seven weeks. Yeah, you're right. You're right. You're right. Brandon Hendrickson wins the men's physique. Uh what I wonder how what Alli Bal felt about that. Did Ali help him? Yeah, they they the top two top three were outstanding. No, I know. Wasn't Ali Bal giving him some advice after Pittsburgh? No, I don't think so. Oh, I thought he was. Didn't he say he liked Brandon's physique? You told me he said something about Brandon. He he he's a he's a you know, he's he he gives accolades. You told me he gave him advice. What was the advice he gave him? Ali Bal gave Brandon Hendrickson some advice about how to stand on stage or something like that. No, Dave. Dave, stuff that I share with you, it shouldn't be like shared on like No, but it was it was good advice. I thought, you know, don't don't share it because it's a private conversation I have with you. I'm not sharing it. I mean, if I thought Ali that we can get Greg Valentino on the show and he I'm gonna say all I'm saying is I think that OI gave him some good advice and I'm glad Brandon won because I like Brandon. I've been saying for years. I I thought Brandon actually looked really good in Pittsburgh, too. I thought he could have been a little higher, but I'm glad he's uh he won. He didn't have to qualify obviously because he's a former Olympia champ. Glad he's back in the winner circle. It's good for the sport. He's a good guy. I also wanted to bring up Nathalia Qualo who I now I'm friends with her and her mom without she had the best color in the show. Men, woman. Yes. And I wanted I wanted to bring something up and I don't know, you might not agree with me, but I I I feel that Natalyia Qualo reminds me a lot of l of Laura Cval's physique, your ex-wife um in the when she was competing in women's bodybuilding. There's something about the way their upper body is put together, the small waist, the way those lats flare out. Do you agree with me or or am I wrong? It's the abructure with the with the body. Yeah. And the upper body looks almost identical, right? Yeah. Yeah. Can she win the Olympia? I mean, she's won it before, but can she reclaim her Olympic? Yeah, I think I think she's capable, you know? I mean, hard, right? Anyone Yeah, she could. She's like the Milos of the women's physique division. She can compete a hundred times during the year and still look her absolute best at every single show she does. Which is funny because these guys can't do it. But she can tweak week show after show after show after show. If you guys are like this, how how was he last week to this week? Oh, 10 times worse this week than last week. She's she's the same. Yeah, right. She's the same. You're right. She does have the best tan on stage because she's she's a a details person. Yeah, she's a details person. You can tell in the everything about her weeks of de of detail from the suit to the posing to the smiles to the presentation, the turns, the tan. She looks great. Beautiful girl, you know, tremendously talent. Matter of fact, she just got her PhD. I don't know if you were aware of that, Chris. No, I didn't. I wasn't aware. Which what you get? She got it from the same college that that that George did, but she actually had to do labs and stuff like that. They somehow George was exempt from having It took her eight years. took George six months, but uh but she's she's a real doctor. She's a naturopathic doctor. So, congratulations to her. Very well-deserved victory. All right. What else did I want to talk? Oh, I wanted to bring up the the Lenda Murray thing. Did you Let me pull that up. Yeah. Sorry. You shut You said Linda Murray made a comment uh about the prize money because Arnold raised the Let's Let's Let's pull the whole thing. So, Arnold raises the prize money to the Arnold Classic. Big announcement as we know. 750 grand. You predicted it. Uh I predicted it. We all said, matter of fact, we all believe that Arnold will be the first person to give away a million dollars, but you know, Jake Wood has a chance to to eclipse that at the Olympia if he wants to, you know, raise it up higher than that. Arnold goes from 500 to 750. That's a big jump. 250 grand for first place. First of all, what's your opinion on that? I think it's great for the bodybuilders. Uh, I think that amount changes everything, you know. I mean, we saw the Bible building changes from from that announcement because um that is enough money to pull out every guy who wins the Olympia to to say, "I'm doing the Arnold." Every guy who wins the Olympia will also say, "And I'm doing the Arnold." It's just too much money to bypass. Yeah, it's too much money to bypass in the context of this. It's either I'm getting older. I got to get the money. Or I got an injury that's nagging that nobody knows about. I can I still can get the money, right? For this. I'm young and healthy. I might as well do it and get the money. every type of scenario you come up with, you're gonna have um every single guy in the top five, right, at the era, they will all go to the Arnold for the 750, right? How could you how could you turn it down if you know you have a chance to win it? Well, if you if you slip, you know, and miss a little, you still get 250. That's very very good point. You're right. That's right. So there's a lot, you know, when we when we handicap on paper the Olympia, I already mentioned five people can win it. Only one will. So the other four were like, "Well, screw it. I still got second at the Olympia or third. I'm going to the Arnold." You think we'll see hottie Chopen do it this year? Yeah. Yeah, I think so, too. That's a lot of money in Iran. You could probably retire on that money. Works right out of my mouth. He he can he can he can just never compete again and and probably just live like a king there. So yeah, that's that's a that's a big that that that is a bigger announcement than the five. It's a bigger announcement than than the three a couple years ago. Um of course you got the Olympia, you know, who are responding to it by increasing their prize money. Well, they haven't they haven't made an announcement yet for that. Well, they will. What what do you think they'll raise it to? Um, probably more more than the Olympia. Um, no, I mean, what do you think the Olympia people will raise the Arnold to? Um, you mean what will the Olympia people raise their first price to? Yeah. Yeah. Um, higher than 750. You think they'll go eight or you think they'll go a million? Um, I don't think they'll do eight because then it looks like they're chasing, right? Um, and they'll go higher than eight for sure, but they the only uh, you know, in in not it's in defense of the Olympia, but the, you know, to put on the Arnold versus put on the Olympia, the expenses are a little bit different, much higher for the Olympia. Yeah. And you know the the draw the total sum total of income is probably not that much more but the outlay is so much more because of all the divisions. That's right. And Arnold it's like having it's like having four kids versus one. You know can buy a car for one of my kids. I can't buy him for like every year. You know what I mean? For all four. Right. But like you said they can't go eight because it looks like they're chasing. Last year Jake raised it 100,000. So, let's say he goes to 850. Okay. Arnold has his show, does 750. After the show, let's say he announces, I'm going to, you know, I'm going to 900 or 950, you know, then I think I think Jake actually is in line to probably get the million first because if it if it keeps going up incrementally like it's been doing the last couple years, Arnold's not going to raise it to he already made the announcement 750. So, he's going to hold in 26. It's going to be 750. If Jake goes to 850 for this year's Olympia it and then Arnold raises it again, Jake has the ability to hit a million first. So I I think Jake's in a good position uh in terms of prize money. Do you think by in 26 we'll see a million dollars given away at the Olympia in 2026? Yeah. Um yes, you will. I I that's what I'm thinking. I'm thinking 26 we're going to see that million bucks and I think it's going to be Jake Wood that's going to do it first. which is fine. I mean, because then Arnold's going to have to go to a million. And that means we're going to see two shows at a million. And I think that once we hit that point, you're going to see talent going into the bodybuilding world like we've never seen before. And I think you're going to see a lot of those classic guys, you know, moving up to open. Do you think that might be the case? Yeah, I think everyone I think it I said it changes. Everything changes. You could talk entire show what changes besides the entire Olympia lineup going to the Arnold or the entire Arnold the entire top six from the Olympia going to the uh the Arnold. It just changes the dynamic in there's just too many things you can talk about but what it changes it changes classic people. I mean does Chris Bumstead compete? Maybe you think he would come back. Million dollars. Yeah, you might be right. That I didn't even I didn't even think about that, Chris. To be honest with you, I didn't even think about Does Phil throw like in the back of his head thinking like, you know, my arms and shoulders and legs are still as big as everyone's. And I don't even I I do like machines. You know what I mean? Right. What could he do for a million dollars? Yeah. It's a million dollars twice. It's a million dollars twice. What does Phil do for like the Olympia and the Arnold? I'm just, you know, you've seen Ramy coming back for sure. Well, I don't think Ramy needs the money. But yeah, I mean, who doesn't need a million dollars, though? You, like you said, that's it's it's a big it's a big chase. Let me ask you that. Let's I want to play Lenda Murray had some strong words to say about Arnold raising the prize money with regard to the women. I want to I want to get your feedback on it. I you know I know you and I have a different viewpoint than she did, but let's let me play the clip first and then I'll have you comment on it and then we'll Lendon Murray's an eight time Miss Olympia. Let's see what she says. You guys know what I'm thinking. Ladies, you know what I'm thinking. Okay. So, this message is in regards to the announcement that Arnold Schwarzenegger just made about 26 that he will increase the prize money for the open men bodybuilders at the Arnold to $750,000 for first place. Well, I love numbers, too. And I want to share this information. At your show in 25, there were 18 women, three divisions, and 18 women received together. They split $18,000. You gave to your third All right. So, that was that was the So, she's basically saying that that the the women at the Arnold, you know, all the women at the Arnold split $18,000 and and meanwhile, he's going to give $750,000 to the overall men's winner. And she doesn't think that that's and then in the in the post, she actually showed some statistics where the Let me pull that up so we just we're all fair to her here. She said that the um the 18 women have three million over three million followers combined. Third place open winner which was Andrew Jack ironically enough who won 800 right who won uh has 850,000 followers on Instagram. Now um I don't know why she's equating followers on Instagram as to um what's going to make Arnold money at the Arnold Glass, but I don't know. I wanted your your opinion on what she had to say about that. Is she implying like they're discriminated against? It's just an odd Yes. Yes. She's basically insinuating that number one, they're being discriminated against that women should have just as much money and that the they have more followers. All these 18 women that were in the show combined have more followers. When when a woman is flying you from New York to Los Angeles as a pilot for American Airlines, she may she should make the same amount as a man who flies you on American Airlines from New York to Los Angeles. Um, but I think she's confusing that where a woman should not be paid less for the same job with selling tickets and impact on revenue. men's bodybuilding um and men's divisions sell more tickets and therefore should be compensated accordingly than women's divisions. And if you are in doubt about that, you can just do a little experiment and have a Olympia weekend with the divisions that she just mentioned or Arnold weekend with the division that she just mentioned and see how you know the turnout is in terms of attendance. Case closed. Yeah, you're you're 100% right. And I think that's that's what she's not it's not it's not an equal type of thing. It's like saying LeBron is making more than you know whoever in the WNBA. Well, there is a reason for that. You know, there's people It's like saying you can you can be even more you could say like why is Tom Brady the quarterback making more than the lineman? Because the the front office puts value in who should be paid what based on it all comes down to money. How many tickets can be sold? I mean the number one way you're going to get the Olympia tickets uh you know uh prize money to 1 million for the men not for the women 1 million for the men is to get to an arena that holds 10,000. Yeah. The seats will stink, but they stink at NBA games when you're up in the rafters. You know what I mean? There's nothing like being able to sit very close at an NBA game, you know, to to to where it's happening. But people still pay for those tickets up in the rafters. Same thing with football and bodybuilding. Yeah. You know, maybe you can solve it with big giant screens and and just sell cheaper tickets for the, you know, the Wrestlemania, Chris. 100,000 people in an arena, right? But what's that? Wrestlemania. 100,000 people in an arena. They watch they watch the uh they watch the screens. They don't care. It's the energy of being in the arena. And you're right. If if Arnold only had men's bodybuilding open and they didn't have any other divisions, he would sell just as many tickets. You're not going to lose the 10 people that are going there to see bikini, you know, are are really going to still go and see the men's open. The men's opener would sell the tickets. The men's open would pay the bills and that's why they're going to give a million dollars to the men's open division at some point. And the fact that Arnold has the other divisions is really just to balance the show. It really doesn't have any revenue changes. I don't believe it brings any more or less revenue in for the women's divisions. I I think it's great that he gives away that much money than women. I like watching the women's divisions, especially women's physique. Um, but really at the end of the day, you know, the men are selling the tickets. I hate to say it. And and like you said, it has nothing. It's not like a woman versus a man. Like you said, it was a great analogy you gave. Uh the pilot does the same exact job as the man and the woman flying someone from New York to California. They deserve equal pay. But when we talk about Kim Kardashian verse, you know, uh, a lesser man, Kim Kardashian's going to bring in a lot more money and they're going to pay her a lot more. So, it's what the person brings to the stage in the bodybuilding world. Men's open bodybuilding brings tons of of much more money from live, you know, live streaming, uh, from ticket sales at the arena. It's just a fact. It's always been that way. Yeah. I mean, it's always been that way. And it it's kind of um you know it's a it's a it's a it's sort of a minor distraction the commentary from like the announcement because the announcement should be celebrated you know and and you know uh Jake Wood is I mean he's already stepped it up since he's had the Olympia. How many times has he uped the money? I mean, you could say like, you know, you hear this back, you know, I hear this like on the sidelines like the Arnold's in competition with the Olympia, the Olympia within the Arnold. It doesn't matter. Doesn't matter who the competition, you know, who's in competition or who, you know, decided to increase the prize money first. In Jake Wood's defense, he was, I think, the first guy to like, you know, in COVID, not only to have the show, remember there were no shows in COVID, including the Arnold, remember? Right. I mean, they had no audience, but you know, he put on the Olympia in Florida, moved it. Um, kind of sort of saved it because they wouldn't even have had it if if they had kept it or they couldn't have had it, but if they kept it where they're going to have it. And I think that year he not only that, but he increased the prize money. He's been increasing it ever since. And you know, maybe it's his desire to step up and increase the prize money that's led in the reaction of Arnold saying, "Okay, I'm doing the same. I'm going to follow suit and increase the prize money." Just happens that Arnold's increased it, you know, taken a big step to increase it to 750. Yeah. No, Lee Priest said the same thing as you did. I mean, basically the the women's NBA, WNBA had the biggest year ever, and then there's still, you know, 40 million in the hole. So, it it's it is what it is. And and and unfortunately, that's just the way it goes. Now, someone said that, you know, you you were hinting that that Ramy's making a comeback. Chris was just saying as an analogy, if they gave away that kind of money, Ramy would probably I didn't say Bill's making a comeback, but you know what? You're you're you're know you don't know who it draws. No. Yeah. I mean, Chris Bumstead, that's what I said. Chris Bumstead. I didn't say he's going to do the open, but I mean, you you think like, huh, two shows, $750,000, and they're, you know, not too far apart. Why not? Yeah. Right. Right. It is what it is. And uh, you know, we love Lenda and we love Linda's physique. Chris doesn't love Linda because she used to beat Follow You know what, Dave? Follow us on Instagram. do not win bodybuilding. I I I And they don't necessarily sell tickets either, Chris. Those guys don't buy tickets. They don't go to shows. You could have, you know, Yeah. Those Instagram files don't even buy the the live stream. That's the That's the funny thing. They're cheap. Go on Instagram to find the free coverage. You know, we don't know that. Well, the last little bit, Dave, of the Here's how the Olympia goes through well over one million. It's all in the live stream. People work from home and you do. There's nothing like going to the Olympia. It's very exciting. You mentioned energy in the room and you mentioned men's bodybuilding. Open division is, you know, the king of the weekend and the buzz and it's exciting to be there and you don't even need a good seat. So, if they've had a venue that's sold sold 10,000 tickets, even if you can't see well, it's still exciting to be there. You know, you get to see people, you get to see the athletes, even if you don't see them. But the live stream is the uncapped revenue stream for for the Olympia. It's it's you know it's it is the way to reach everyone everywhere and it's the generator that could allow for you know a marketkedly going forward years going forward um increase in price money if you know how to Well Chris you know what there's a very easy way to test lenders theory out when you sign up for the I don't need to test because There's no I'm saying when you sign up for the live stream, they should ask you a question. What do you What is your preference? What do you What do you want to see most? Do a little survey as part of the thing when you sign up and if let's see how many people check I w I'm buying the live stream because I want to watch the bikini or I'm buying the live stream because I want to watch figure or I'm buying the live stream because I want to watch one of the women's divisions and then we'll know what the statistics are. If 98% of the people check, I'm I'm buying the live stream to watch the men's open, then guess what? Then then the theory that she put forth that all these followers that these women have is not true. If 50% of the people come back and say, I'm watching I'm buying the live stream because of the women, then guess what? She's got she's got a foot she's got some data to stand on. Maybe she's right. I don't know. But I I don't come back that way. You you can there's an easier test, Dave. Go to the Olympia meet and greet and look at the lines for the top five men's Olympia. The lines are like my the people who go there. You're talking about live stream. People go there in person probably go to see the men's bodybuilding. I agree with that. But maybe maybe there is a whole host of people at home that are buying it because of the women. I don't know that that's called statistics. That's how you know. You don't have to profile the entire world to get the answer. That's why you can just profile you collect the data from 300 people. But but what if people who go in person like they they're likely to spend more money to see the men, but maybe the people at home are buying it for the women. I don't know. No way. How do you know? Do a survey. It's very easy on the live stream purchase. Because that's taking your common sense and flushing it down the toilet. the idea that you go to the to the the meet and greet and you see uh hottie chupin line that's a mile long and then you go to all the women's divisions and you see like the line 15 deep and you say but if we you know surveyed the people all over the world who bought the live stream would find a different result. You want it will not. All right. Let's let's I'm just saying if if if if this it's a very simple thing to do just to get some data and then you can say hey here's my justification for not paying the women more because I did I did a uh a survey of the live stream people and 98% of them said that they're buying it for the men, not the women. So here's a simpler test. Yeah. Here's a simpler test. We'll call we'll we'll uh we'll call Jimian and we'll say we're going to put on a uh Dave's putting on a women's pro show in on a men's pro show in Florida. We just want we want to we don't want to pay the sanction fee the year first year only come back and see what my attendance was versus your attendance. I get the men bodybuilding. You look I I am on I am on your side 100%. I think that she's out of her mind, Linda Murray, to say that. But, you know, sometimes you have to prove statistics, you know, to give data, prove data, I should say, or get data to prove your your your theory. And it's a very simple, you know, proof if you just put a question into the live stream why you purchased it. But anyway, the point is, and I think Linda really should understand that the men do sell the tickets for the show. So, I'm glad Arnold's raised. The prize money is 750. I can't wait to see Jake's response to it. Linda is Linda does commentary for Jake. So she can she's got access to Jake far greater and faster than you and I do. So she can say, you know, we need 750,000 first prize for the women's body. Hey, look, Jake is a is loves women's bodybuilding and, you know, loves the women's division. So if anyone is going to support that, it's him. But at the end of the day, he knows what sells tickets for for the Olympia, which he is the benefactor of at the end of the day, right? Yeah. So, well, I I like your strong opinions. I, you know, I think that it's good and important to put them out there because I think that they're right. And, uh, you guys in the comments, let us know what you think. You know, I'd like to do an iron debate maybe this coming week or the week after. We can go over this and see what people think about the prize money. Think about who's going to give away a million dollars first. Will it be Arnold? Will it be Jake Wood? Will it be someone else like Beta Badai? I don't know. Maybe Pittsburgh will give it away first. I don't know. That's what makes this so exciting. I love the times that we're in right now because bodybuilders for the first time in the history are finally being paid what they deserve. And I think those that prize money is going to continue to go up and we're going to see some uh bodybuilders be able to retire finally with some money in the bank. But I want to just uh once again thank Jesse for coming out filming me on the side here as we're doing Heavy Muscle Radio. Thank you Chris for all the coverage this past weekend. You and Sid did a great job. Uh even though prejudging was a little weird. The final wrap-up was phenomenal. You guys did an awesome job in New York and uh I am uh sad that I missed the show, but at least I got to see you guys in Pittsburgh. For now though, we are out of time. Uh as we say every week here, Chris with Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. We'll see you next week.