I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations dosed for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit Expo. It's our third year in a row. And uh what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching a tasty pastry. It's a low carb pop-tart. It's got 3 to four grams of net carbs. And we love this show. This is our best place to be in LA. So that so that video now, how did that video video get released? Did Jane release that or did you release that? No. Oh my god, I would never post anything like that because first of all, this looks terrible for me. I look like a horrible person, right? Filming something like that, you know? So, no, I would never never post anything like that. Okay. Um, my phone was actually hacked um during all this stuff when I got all the 350 death threats and etc., you know, during that time, Um, when you know, when he got sick and then afterwards. So, um, I have no idea how this got online. I mean, maybe the person being there with me leaked it. I don't know. I I mean, I'm not sure. Did she have a copy of the whole video that you that you had shot? Yeah. Oh, so only So, look, you two were the only ones who had it. So, obviously, you know, it was one of you two. Now, either you're lying to me or or or she put it up. So, I don't you know, I don't know. But I'm just saying you're telling me doesn't seem like there's any motivation for you to put it up. So, because you didn't really want anything, but it that's those are the only two possibilities. But the it's nice to know what the real story was because I think a lot of people didn't really know what was going on, you know. Yeah. I I know a lot of people are wondering about that and I got so much [\h__\h] from all that. I was like, "Oh my god, if people only knew the truth, you know." H Let me ask you another question. Have you ever stolen any money from Rich? Because that was another that there was a voice, right? Wasn't there like a voicemail out there? I think that was leaked. Yeah. No, I've never stolen anything from him and I would never do anything like that. Okay. What was that about? in the video. I know in the video we said something about me transferring money um on the on his bank account. First of all, I was not the one taking care of his finances, right? So like even though if you guys would go right now onto his bank accounts and stuff, there's nothing linking me to doing anything like that because I didn't do it. You didn't have access did you have access to the bank accounts? Did you have access to the Did as his wife, did you have access to to the bank accounts? Yes, I did. And but I would ne I haven't had no reason to go into his bank accounts or do anything because Jane did everything, right? So why did he like accuse you of stealing like in that in that uh that whatever audio clip that was released? So basically um that whole green card video was posted on, you know, he posted that because there was a person I know that was talking [\h__\h] about him online. Um, and he contacted me, Ritz, and said, you know, this person needs to stop talking [\h__\h] about me or I'll post a video with bunch of lies. Um, and then the person didn't stop. So, this video was posted and but but the video was obviously legit. I mean, he was, wasn't he yelling at you? And it was it was a pretty pretty heated argument, right? I mean, we know what was said in that video. Oh, you're you're talking about the green card video, right? Um, wasn't there another video though too that where he was accusing you of stealing him accusing you of stealing? Oh, talking about the recording or something? Was that the one? Wasn't that the one where he was using the racial epithets? Oh, yeah. It was a recording actually. Yes. And uh and that was one of our many fights that we had. And um in me from experience in the in the in the past with um certain individuals uh when um when they get angry um you basically just have to agree with everything they're saying otherwise they'll get more angry. Um so everything that I was agreeing to in that audio it was not because I I did what I said I did. It was more because I didn't want this argument to continue because it would only get worse and worse if I didn't just agree and say yes. Were you afraid that he was going to hurt you at some point? He was very angry. Yes. Um I mean, you never know with people. Um especially not if they're not in their right mind. He never put he never put his hands on you though, did he? No. you say that very um like you had to think about that. Well, it's that we did I wouldn't say, you know, anything like that, but it's uh I mean, we had um heated arguments, you know, pushing, you know, threatening, right? Um I mean, he was very scary when he got angry. Um but like I said, I I don't talk about things like that to anybody. Um because I am not like I'm not here to talk bad about him because he's gone. He's not here to defend himself. Um Yeah, I understand that. Yeah. But um but like I said, there was a lot of bad things that happened between us um because you know, no one was in the right state of mind. And you know, you're not yourself. You do things you you wouldn't normally do. I got So you guys drugs were involved is what you're saying. And and you guys were not were not the people you were when you first met. Is that safe to say? Okay. All right. Let's leave it at that. I don't want to rehash everything that Rick said. You said this. It's un it's un Yes. Yes. It's not It's not necessary to the to the what we're talking about. All right. You guys break up. Rich gets back together with Chanel. Did you Did you expect that to happen or were you surprised? I was actually surprised. Um she was never a threat to me. U because he had already told me he never loved her. So he just told me that it was he kept her around because it was convenient for him. she helped out a lot and did did a lot for him. So, it was convenient. So, um so she was never a threat to me, but I knew about her coming within a week uh to our house because the gates called me and said, "Uh, Chanel is here. Should I let her in?" And I was like, "What?" And I was like, "No, you're not going to let her in." And hung up. So, I was really shocked, actually. So, and then people were giving me [\h__\h] about going into a relationship couple months after when he had her there within a week. Like, are you serious right now? Do you do you um was Rich one of these guys that always had to have a girlfriend? I mean, was he was that like a a thing that was like almost like he was I don't know. Um he needed someone there with him, like a little bit of a codependency type thing. Yes. He always h had to have someone um he I don't know he just he was like he told me he said Sarah I'm uh the kind of guy that always needs to be in a relationship so he he didn't like be being single. And was he he was a was he a faithful guy? I mean in terms of when he was in a relationship with someone. Yes. I mean he is uh the most faithful guy in every way that I have been with to be honest. Um, it was just unbelievable regarding the phone and everything. Like, I trusted him 100%. Okay. All right. That's good. That That's nice to know. Now, here's the question. You guys broke up. Rich is dating Chanel. He dies. We don't know what we don't know what caused it. We still don't have a a true cause of death. Obviously, you and I could speculate all we want. It's not going to solve any problems. But when Rich died, technically you were still married to him, correct? Yes. Okay. So, you were the wife. Okay. With a prenup that we don't even that no one knew where it was. Is that correct? Did that get lost somehow? Um, yes. So, basically, um, we did the prenup, signed it and everything and obviously Jane was the one taking care of all that. Um and then um you know we just thought it was um returned to both attorneys and everything good. Yeah. But then um when I called my attorney um I he told me Sarah I never got the signed prenup and then I asked him to ask Rich's attorney the same thing and he said the same thing. He he never got a signed prenup. So I I don't know what happened. Right. But you didn't you didn't seek to get anything or you didn't I mean theoretically as his wife you could have you really should have been the person to get all his belongings, right? I mean when he died. Yes. Because you guys were technically married. Now as far as you know, do you know who got Rich's stuff? Yes. Uh Jane took everything and sold everything illegally obviously because she couldn't because technically I I was the one that had the control over everything. So um yeah so basically yeah Jane now I saw Chanel was selling stuff though too on some some sites. I mean like some of the I guess his I don't Yes, I heard about that. Yeah, it was not like his big stuff. It was like sneakers and stuff like that. She was selling his throne. I mean, see, I mean, it looked like all the vultures kind of went in, you know, and grabbed up all the stuff when when when he finally uh, you know, was declared dead, you know. Was that was it was that kind of like a give me your feelings when you found out that Rich died. What What was going What went through you at that point? I mean, well, obviously when I heard that, I cried so hard um for so long. I was devastated and and and this me being in another relationship at the time Um, I was so heartbroken, crying, crying, you know, like it was like the end of the world really. Um, because I truly did love him with all my heart and um, it it still to this day breaks my heart that this didn't work out between us. So, um, did you think you'd get back did you think you guys would get back together at some point in the future or no? Um, I mean, you never know really, you know. So, obviously in the back of my mind, you know, you hope so that, you know, both individuals are gonna, you know, get their [\h__\h] together, work on the things that were wrong. And, you know, if you truly love someone, you know, you come together down the road, you know, if it's like meant to be kind of thing. So, um, I mean, you never know. I mean, obviously I hoped, but, um, it didn't really look like that would happen, unfortunately. Right. Did it surprise you given what Rich was doing, you know, um to get ready for these shows and the pain he was in. Did it surprise you that he died? I mean, was it like a shocker? I know it was emotionally very painful for you, but did did it surprise you? Did you think that this could possibly happen? Well, um obviously knowing how um unhealthy his lifestyle was, um I I wouldn't say it was um that I knew it would happen or something like that because obviously, you know, he did eat healthy and all that stuff. Um take his vitamins and everything, but I mean, you never know, especially with steroids and other things. Um so um I mean there was always a possibility of something happening and that's just the risk that that comes with really this um fitness and lifestyle and you know everything that comes with it really. So um um I was not expecting this to happen this soon. I mean, I truly did think that he would, you know, get way older, but just not be maybe be in his best health, you know, but still live way longer than he did. Like, so that was very surprising for me that he he went away from us this young. So, do you think that there was foul play? I mean, this is just speculation, of course, or do you think that that something just went wrong with, you know, and and he had some kind of health, you know, issue? Well, crisis um everything that I've heard and you know, obviously me h having um um talked to the uh detective and everything that's uh working on the investigation right now. Um and um knowing more about everything and how how things went down and stuff, um it wouldn't surprise me if this was a foul play. Um because just things don't add up. you know, just so many things that don't add up. So, um I truly truly hope that, you know, um his family will um finish seeing this through and seek justice for it, you know, because what they want is to know what happened. Yeah. I' I I'd like to know what happened, too. Now, yeah, me, too. I know you speak to Rich's mom on occasion and I know your relationship wasn't great initially, but I think you guys have, you know, found some kind of a a piece and you guys do talk. What have you ever spoken to Chanel or Jane since this the whole thing went down? Since Rich's death? No, they didn't call you. Not at all. No. No. They actually blocked me everywhere. So, h did you ever have any conversations with Jane at all that was that were you know, you know, after you guys broke up or anything like that that that that was weird or anything like that? No, it was uh all the weird things that happened was basically during our marriage. Mhm. And and then, you know, when I was leaving and everything, um I actually took China, the dog, uh with me uh to Florida because they wanted Jane to have her in Florida. So, um everything around all that stuff is just, you know, it was really weird. It was basically just she was like, you know, just get me the dog and you know, she just wanted me out of their life and just away and just it's like she couldn't wait just to go ruin my life so she would make sure she would get everything. So So why would you bring in the dog? Well, that's something they had discussed. Uh Ritz and Jane. Um it was probably because Ritz was just very busy and he was going to be doing a lot of traveling. So, um, so I guess it they thought it was best for Jane to have the dog, uh, because she would have more time to take care of the dog. Oh. Oh, but you guys were still married at the time is what you're saying. Me and Ritz. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, this was during your relationship. All right. You brought the dog over. No, no, this was when I I left California and was moving back to Florida and obviously Jane was living then in Florida. Okay. So, you it was an amicable breakup. That's what I'm trying to get at. No, no, no. We didn't have any breakups or anything like that. No, no. When you brought the dog to Jane, you guys were you were leaving. Were you leaving Rich at that point? Yes. Okay. But see, it was it was you guys were still talking. It wasn't like you guys were like hating each other's guts at that point, right? No, no, no, not at all. I mean, Ritz actually sent me a text message when I was driving from um California to Florida saying that, you know, um um okay, like uh you know, I'll go and we can go to a therapist, whatever, if you want and try to make this work. But obviously, you know, in my mind, I was like, well, I wanted that before I actually left. Yeah. you know, so it was just everything just, you know, he was too late wanting to work on things and do things. So, um, you know, unfortunately. So, would you is there any is there a book coming out on this on this whole situation? Yeah, I actually saw somewhere that there is possibly a book coming out and I don't even know how that makes sense. Who's writing it? Because that's obviously going to be a one-sided story, right? Who's writing the book? I mean, H. Who's writing the book? I would assume. I mean, I would assume Jane. Oh, Jane did write a book. Okay, I got you. Okay. I mean, I I think so. I I don't know. To have a good book, you have to have the, you know, we don't have the ending yet. So, we at least I don't think we have the ending. I know. So, like, it's just all very weird. And I just feel like there's so many, you know, especially all of them, you know, they're just they're still making money off his name and everything. And it's just shameful. I mean, who does that, right? that I wanted. That's the next thing I'm going to bring up. Why? Well, we know why Rich doesn't I mean, we know who owns 5%. Okay? And that was Rich's decision to put it in his ex-wife's name. We don't know why. You don't know why, you know, that happened. She owns that. Okay? So, you really can't say anything with that. But why doesn't um his family or you or someone Why don't Why don't you guys have possession of the YouTube channel? How did how did that wind up in 5% or J? I don't even know who owns it to be honest with you. Why why didn't that go to Rich's family? I don't I don't get that one. Well, that's that's a good question to be honest, you know. Um well, it's probably because I didn't pursue anything. Um you know, obviously when we separated and and you know, and when he passed, um I didn't pursue anything. So, basically, you know, Jane just made it seem like I I did didn't exist, like I never existed. And you know, she just took control of everything. And um it's just, you know, unbelievable. I mean, even he she didn't even give Rich's mom, Christine, anything. I know. So, I mean, who does that? And um weird. So, I gave Christine uh Rich's shirt and some personal belongings that I had, right? That I I actually took for like more like, you know, I want to have him close even though we're not together. Momentos. And I gave that to her because it just broke my heart, you know, poor Christine. So, so there's a will supposedly that we don't know where it came from. Okay. Whether it's legit or not. Um, and I'm I'm assuming in the will what what does the will say? Does anyone know what the will says? Is everything being left to Jane? I mean, what was the will I mean, what did the will say? Well, uh, to my knowledge, I haven't read it, but I've just been told a little bit what's in it, but basically that it it goes to Jane, you know, and it just doesn't make sense to me. Um, it just doesn't make sense at all because there supposedly was no will, but then all of a sudden after his passing, there was a will. Well, well, let me ask you this question. Aside from five his his ownership in 5% which already Jane already had um because he already signed over to her which is on him. What was left? What what did Rich own? I know he owned a really nice car. Um what what what else did he have any money in the bank? Did Rich was he a saver? I mean was there what was left to actually take aside from the YouTube channel which is obviously worth a lot of money obviously too. Yeah. Um, well, he had his cars obviously and then he always had a lot of cash at home in a safe. How much is a lot of cash? Well, I mean, he always had at least 60,000 dollars in his pocket in his pocket. He would carry that around with him. Yeah, that's what he did. So, that's pretty. Um, but so yeah, and obviously I I don't know how much there was always in the save. It was just, let's say, it was a lot. Okay. So um and then he would um go and take some and put it in the bank in in um in a safe there. So um he was just very liquid. Gotcha. Yeah. So that there was cash in other words that someone got a hold of obviously. Yes. And which is you know that's untraceable because we know about cash. Was there any other possessions like that that aside from sentimental possessions that would have been worth a lot of money that I mean that should have gone to his family? Well, um yeah, I mean he he had a lot of very nice things and um I mean but he mostly liked, you know, he obviously loved money. I think everybody knew that. Yeah. So it was this, you know, he had a lot of money but then because he was liquid but then you know the cars and and his belongings. So um yeah. Yeah. So I mean that's really he had watches and stuff like that, right? Yeah. Stuff like that. Okay. Yes. Yeah. All right. So to me the one thing that I think should have gone to either you know probably to his family I would say his brother I would if if I was if I was King Solomon and I could make the judgment on this whole thing. I would have given his brother the YouTube channel at least. I mean because that's Rich's legacy in a sense. I mean I mean that's all. I mean you can give that a YouTube channel anyone you want. I don't know if it gets residual, you know, payments because people still watch those videos. I'm sure it probably does, but I mean, you can't really put anything new up because Rich is not on live anymore and it's that's his that was his thing, you know. I know that the I think 5% put that crazy video up of him like kind of bashing Gaspar recently. What did you think of that? Was that was that in poor taste? I thought that was in really poor taste. That was terrible. Why would you post a video, you know, after Ritz is gone of him talking [\h__\h] about another person? Like, right. When he when he didn't even want that up to begin with. Exactly. I mean, he he even had videos that he made when we were together that he was wanted to post, but then he was like, "No." And just put them to the side. Right. I would never dare to post them. Yeah. Did he do any on me? It wasn't. Huh? I was kidding. I said, "Did he do any on me that are on the side?" No. No. No. He he liked you a lot. He had only good things to say about you. Yeah, I'm kidding. No, we we we got along well. So, well, is there any other Now, I I kind of asked you my questions. What What is there anything you want to say that you think needs to get out there for the people who are watching this to hear? Well, um, basically, you know, um, number one, two, and three, just I I came on here just to clear things up, you know, because I've had so much, you know, [\h__\h] talked about me, so much hate, and I've been blamed for so many things that I didn't even do. Like, I am the good guy here. Like, I did nothing. and I I was put out to be this horrible person that literally did all the bad things that happened, you know, and I just think it's so unfair. Um, and I I went through a very very difficult time when I got all these death threats. I mean, people were making um you know, fake um Facebook and YouTube and and basically impersonating me and putting out fake information and um and I was literally scared for my life. I mean, I didn't know what kind of fans Rich had that literally would go, you know, out there and and hurt me, you know. I had no I didn't know anything about that. So, yeah, I was very scared. Um, and it was it was a horrible time. And I just want people to know the truth and that I'm not this bad person that everybody think I am. You know, I still get messages on Instagram saying I killed Ritz. I wasn't even in the same state. I mean, come on. First of all, you weren't even in a relationship with him at the time. I mean, I I think I don't think a lot of people know all the players, and that's why I kind of went through it step by step of of who was with who and when was they were with who. You know, you said it best. I mean, when drugs are involved, I mean, it changes people's personalities and relationships. And I think the smartest thing you did was get out before it escalated to something that you both might have regretted at some point. And so, right, I mean, look at what I mean, I and I'm not look I don't think that you guys are capable of what Kelly Ryan and Craig Titus did, but look what drugs destroyed those two. I mean, they were, you know, I know. Yeah. They were like, they were star couple and, you know, drugs got involved and and they made poor decisions and and and it ended terribly for them. So, you were smart to leave when you did and I think, you know, it it it improved both of your lives at that point, obviously. But yeah, you know, Rich was still caught in that celebrity trap, I call it, where, you know, he had to his fans expected more and more and more and he had to keep escalating things to create that sensationalism that he, you know, thrived on. That was his thrill. You know, he it used to be bodybuilding on a stage and it became, you know, performing at these expos and stuff like that. And it's a lot of stress. Look, I've done it before. It's it's it's draining and you know and it there's burnout involved and I guess and Rich does was a guy who didn't want to admit you know hey I don't want to do this anymore and you know I think he felt like the f the fans would think he let him down and so you know I don't know if the stress of the whole thing you know is what killed him or if there was foul play to me the way the autopsy was handled was horrendous and the fact that they they didn't do another autopsy is still beyond my scope of imagine ination why they wouldn't want to investigate the death of a young man like that just to make sure that that there was nothing you know and it could have just been him overdoing things like I mean look what happened in the hotel room when you said told that story I mean that could have been could have been as simple as that but for the family for his loved ones I think that there everyone wants closure you know and I think that there was no closure and it's and that's that's what you know people are upset about yeah absolutely I I truly hope that justice will be served and you know like I said the investigation is still going on and the family will not stop until they get answers. So um like I said I'm just you know with everybody else I I just I want to know what happened then you know I just and disregarding everybody you know using his name and um collecting money of it you know just let the man rest in peace. Sure. you know, I mean, I don't mention him anywhere. I could, but I would never do that, you know. Um, it's just awful everything. And I just really hope that people listen to this video with an open mind and, you know, actually realize that things are a little bit different than they thought. So, yeah. Well, you know, there's always people like always want to make someone the scapegoat, you know. Um, yeah. And at the end of the day, a lot of times, you know, the you know, people have to take responsibility for the life they live. And, you know, we all make mistakes and we all maybe have gone a little overboard. I I'm I'm guilty of that myself in my own life. Hopefully, you know, luckily I was able to change and and evolve and and move on to different things. Yeah. And some people can and some people can't, you know, it's that's just, you know, and it's a personal choice. And you you chose to leave when you did and obviously it it worked out well for you. And now you're going to be living where? in Iceland again. Yes. So, um me being here in Europe just making me realize how much I miss home, you know. Uh I actually lived in Sweden here u before I moved to um America 10 years ago. So, um but yeah, so I decided to um apply for nursing school in Iceland and I got in and um and I'm just super excited about it because I love helping people. So, um I'm starting next month. So, moving to Iceland next. Thank you. I'm moving to Iceland next month and I'm just super excited about seeing my friends and family. I have not seen them in 10 years. Wow. So, wow. All right. Well, you know, look, you've done it all. You're almost a lawyer and now you're going to be a nurse and uh you did the whole bodybuilding circuit. I mean, uh you have a lot of you if anyone should write a book, you should write the book. Yeah. But maybe one day. We'll see. One. Yeah. It's you got to move. It's got to be like 10, 20 years from now when you're when you've separated yourself. Absolutely. When I get old, you know, and I'll start thinking about it. Well, I appreciate you being brave enough to come on and talk about this because I know, look, I know it was a very traumatic time in your life. I know it was fun. I know it was, but it also was very emotionally, you know, um, damaging for you to go through what you went through and then obviously Rich passing and then all the people laying blame on you. I I I I I you must sympathize with these celebrities when you see that, you know, you see these guys, they see their their picture in the the National Enquirer and they make up these crazy stories about them. Imagine whatever you went through times a hundred. That's what these celebrities go through. Oh yeah. I I can only imagine. I mean, it's it's terrible. And like I said, you know, I you know, like I said before, I'm I'm still getting messages and I just want this to stop. You know, I've had enough. I've moved on. you know I am a good person and I only did good in our marriage. You know I loved him. I support him. I tried to help him as much as I could and I only wanted best for him and that's really you know the reason why I left because I felt like it was best for both of us for me to leave. Relationships begin and end all the time. So anyone to blame you for anything there you got to be a [\h__\h] you know at this point you know I'm you guys amicably you know decided okay look you know enough is enough and and that's it didn't work out and and that's all there is said to be done so look the the the sad part and the tra tragedy in all this is that we're you and I are here talking and Rich is not with us anymore and that's the tragedy I know you miss him I know I miss him I know the fans miss him and let's just remember him in a positive context and stop trying to you lay blame on, you know, on on things on people for things that are relevant right now because he's not here. And that's the that's the bottom line and that's the sad part of the whole thing. Yeah, I agree. Anyway, thanks for coming on Sarah and best of luck in nursing school back in Iceland. And uh say hello to Hapthor Bjornson over there. That's that's your guys national hero over there. And you and the wife can always come visit. So there you go. All right. Uh, I appreciate you coming on and uh, be in touch. Okay. Okay. Thanks. All right, guys. That's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live with, brought to you by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palumbo. We'll see you next time.