Oh, you're like I said, like I said, it's like I said, do you like my tail? ship. And we're back for yet another exciting episode of After Hours. And I am Oh, it's not After Hours, it's After Hours. Jesus. And I I got my two See, I need you guys to remind me what show too many shows, Dave. I'm not even And you know, I can't even say I'm on Percoetses for my foot. It's not It's not even true. So, I can't even say that. What do you got there, Lee? Le coming to America. Him and uh Eddie Murphy are coming back to America this weekend. This is this is my parking papers to put in the windshield. This is my authorization visa approved by the United States government. This is my other thing. And this is here. I got to go down to the testing place today to have a COVID test at laboratory. If that comes up positive, Lee won't be coming to now. You know, Lee, I know you're very, you know, OCD and anal retent. Are you like a little stressed out about this whole traveling thing because you really haven't traveled that much lately, you know? No. See, I got my papers here. I got my passport right there. My suitcase is pretty much packed there. And I start thinking, what have I forgotten? And even so far in advance, I pack the the the an hour before I leave. I do it I do it days in advance. I do it days in advance. And I show us your suitcase. So, I want to see how neat it is, though. And then and then Dave, it's like when we get there, we'll worry about what we forgot. Yes, that's right. I'll buy whatever I need. I'll just buy Look, look how neat that suitcases. Oh my god. Lee. Lee, don't forget finger cuffs, ankle cuffs, handcuffs, vibrating penis ring, [\h__\h] ring, anal for the I'll buy that there. I'll buy that there. You got You got to schedule a flight. There's plenty of stores in Venice. Uh, Dave, that he can find that stuff. Yeah, you got a schedule flight back east to Delaware before the flight back to Australia. Hey, hey, no, listen, mate. Listen, if I'm flying 13 hours to California, you can take the trip from Delaware to California. I got to haul my goods to you. Yeah. Is that Hey, well, I'm coming the majority of the way. So, you really are. Are you going directly? Three quarters around the planet. Yeah. Direct. Yeah. Direct flight. Yeah. But it leaves at Here's the funny thing. Tomorrow morning, Friday, 10:00 a.m. I leave. But I arrive Friday 7 a.m. So I arrive in LA. That's I arrive in LA. I arrive there 3 hours before I leave. Weird. You So So at some point in the air, you cross the space-time continuum. Yes. Yes. Folds like you go into the third you go into the fourth dimension somewhere in the air. Yes. Yeah. Where like that time thing folds on itself. And I You become a vapor and then you revaporize. There's got to be a way to buy a lottery ticket and and and make good on that. I'm just not sure how it is. Where do you buy the ticket? In Australia or you buy it in uh in LA? What about But what about going home though? Going home, I leave on Wednesday, but I get home Friday. Thursday just Thursday disappears. Thursday's in the air. Well, imagine if you had your birthday on Thursday. You have to wait a whole another [\h__\h] year before it comes around again. Think about it. That's That drives me insane trying to think about how that flight from wherever you're going. I think Sydney to um LA is such a pleasant flight because you know what? When you go on a long flight like that, they feed you. They're nice to you. They got movies. You can watch whatever movie you want. It's like a vacation le for you. Oh, snacks. You just watch as I watch movies and it's only 13 and a half hours which is easy because the longest direct one I've done is Perf to London. 17 and a half hours non-stop. But you know when I used to fly to Black Skull, they'll fly me to Long Way. So by the time I got there, it was 48 hours of travel until they flew me until they flew me to Quickway, which took 10 hours off. But going to Quickway, you got to stop in Chile. And when you leave Chile to go to Brazil, you got to fly over to Andes. And let me tell you, the turbulence over to Andes is the worst [\h__\h] turbulence. I start thinking about that movie Alive where the plane crackers and the hand is and they [\h__\h] eat each other and I look out the window right I was near the wing one time as turbulence is going I'm just watching the wing of a plane going I'm thinking how much [\h__\h] stress can this yeah but how much a lot a lot you get a paper you get a paper clip for a couple of years and do this snap it's true man it's only material at some point it's going to break and isn't isn't all the fuel in the wings too. Like it's all so the thing is flopping around with all the fuel in it, too. Yeah, exactly. Well, I think they got it down to a science. I think they pretty much worked out the bugs at this point. But the thing is, I fly Quantis Touchwood Quantis. They even had it in um was it Rainman? But they cut it out of the American version where Quantis has never had a crash. And people remind me that. They go, "Yeah, but Lee, Quantis has never crashed." I said, "There's always there's always going to be a first time." And I said, "And I don't want to be known, but you know, if there's ever a first time, that passenger list is going to be famous. I don't want to be famous for being on that on that passenger list." He was one of the first that went down on Quantis. That's not the way you want to go down history. So, let me ask you this question because I I always ask people this question. How many hours before the flight do you go to the airport, Lee? The plane leaves at 10. I'll be there about 6. Oh my god. I I knew you were going to say that. I knew you were going to say four hours. I just knew it. I knew it. I knew I knew it was going to be double what anyone else would do. Yeah. Which makes it worse because if it's delayed then I'm there. Yeah. You're there all day. Exactly. But the thing is I got to go early because my friend Matthew who's going to travel with me. He's getting his COVID test at the airport. So you got to It takes 90 minutes to get your results there. So he has to get his early. So I'm leaving home about 4. Get there at 6:00. He'll get his COVID test. Hopefully mine the thing is though if mine comes up positive for the from the lab I can drive to the airport and get another one. It could be negative. That's right. You know what the funny thing is Dave? He he he get he's going to get there at 6:00 in the morning which sounds pretty early right for for for most people. But Lee will have done it he will have done his whole day already. He's already been probably be up since 2:00 in the morning. He probably go to the gym. He'll clean the house. He'll clean the litter boxes a few times. He'll cook a few meals for himself. He'll be ready to go to sleep anyway, you know. Well, that's the word. That's the sad thing though, being at the airport that early and then being on that flight. I'm looking good now. When I get to America, I could be what happened. I'll be like I'd be like the fluid, you know, fluid on the plane. I just blew up the the the 10 weeks of transformation just out the window. Dave, you've taken that flight from LA to um Australia before? Yeah, several times. Yeah, because I and I've flown from New York to LA and then LA to Australia, which is even crazier because, you know, it's another five, six hours onto that. I love those long flights. I love them. I can't tell you. I fall I take some Xanax, I watch movies, I eat, I fall asleep for four hours, I get up, I watch another movie, eat another meal, I take another half of Zach, I go back to sleep again. I get there I'm so well rested when I get to to to Australia that it's it's I tell you what were you in Australia for to be what what did you go there for? I went there a couple times for the Australia Grand Prix and then I went once see me. What to see Lee? I did see Lee once. I went there. Yeah. I'm going to take I'm going to take this on the plane. Dave Oh, you'll really be [\h__\h] up now. You got to take Xanax. You take that when you get to LA before you go to bed. You take that. Are you done your round of perks, Dave? Well, I don't like I don't like I don't feel good on those. No. Wait, are you done taking them for the I only took them for two days. They they I stopped them. They're like, "Oh, don't stop these." You're not like everybody else who gets hooked every time they have an operation. No. No. I I You know what? I would probably take them a lot longer if it if they didn't constipate you. That's the worst part. They back. If I was able to poop, I'd probably be popping them still right now. I'd be like, "Yeah, I'm still in a little bit of pain, you know." Well, it doesn't take long. In a couple days, you are not pooping. Yeah, anyone that takes perks and they need something. Here's a great product. Believe me, I was doing three servings that daily. I'm a big believer in fiber. Guess what? I went I went I went to see Top Gun last night, Maverick. Great movie. Yeah. Well, here it is. Yeah. I went to see it last night, the first showing of it, and the flight scenes. It's incredible. It's probably better than the first one almost. But here's the funny thing. When I take these with food, I don't get the gabiting because after the movie, I'm like, "Okay, it's a 20 minute drive home." I was past my bedtime. It was like 8:20, 8:20 at night when the movie come out. I'm like, "Oh my god, I got to get in bed by 9." So before I left the movie theater, as soon as the credits come up, I took three of these, right? 10 minutes into driving home, the gabber tingles come on. I'm like, "Oh, you're driving yourself. What are you crazy?" Yeah. Yeah. The gabble tingles. You're not supposed to take that and drive, you lunatic. You're not so the tingles are from GABA on in that Yeah. So I'm driving not there's no Niain. Okay. Your breathing goes a bit funny and I'm like I feel like I'm going to pass too trying to focus on the road going just get home Lee. Just get home. I'm like maybe I should pull over. I think if I pull over someone might find me with the head on the steering wheel. But I but I made it home. Okay. But yeah, don't take him on an empty stomach. Don't take them before you're going to drive either. Like a little D. Did you direct him on the timing of the he? He just takes them whenever he feels like it. He figured he was going to time it perfectly so when he got home he can go right to sleep. It doesn't work that way. Well, I forgot because normally when I take him at home, I got a bit of food in my stomach so I haven't had those tingles for a while. But because I was at the movies and I couldn't eat, I just had like a diet Coke. So when I took it, I was so empty that 10 minutes into the drama, I'm like, "Oh, [\h__\h] Now, how now if you had to rate the movie like on a scale of 1 to 10, how good? I'd give it a 10 out of 10. Re that good? I read that. And then um the whole sto the story is great to it with the story with um Bruce's son in it. No, I won't tell. But he's in it and B Kilmer's in it. He's in it again. But then um yeah, it's the whole story is good. But even the the action scenes of the jets and that because I know a year and a half ago Tom Cruz wasn't happy with it, so they went back and they reshot the whole jets everything. Yeah. And like nothing CGI. It's all the jets doing the stuff and the way they maneuver these planes and do everything like it's very good. Little bit of comedy in there too. Bits in here. But I' I'd say, you know, sometimes a sequel can be really [\h__\h] or you doesn't live up to the expectation. But I'd say this one even like I said every movie review I've seen some of them even say Tom Kru should get the Academy Award for it because really he actually and for his age too they got the beach scene where they're playing ball on the beach. He's in pretty good shape for someone in his 60s still. So that's the thing he doesn't look when you watch him in the movie you look at him you're like the cat looks the same as he did in the first one. Do you know the first movie came out and I remember the reason why I remember is because I was my high school senior year. I was graduating 1986. Yeah, I remember seeing that movie. It was crazy. You know, that was the first time they had ever done flight scenes like that. But I Yeah, I heard Oh, yeah. the producers of the movie were going crazy when Cruz said, "We're going to re-shoot all the flight scenes because number one, it cost a fortune. Number two, there was it was a very very long shoot." So, and I watched I watched the making of it, too. I watched the making of it. They did um all the actors in you know how I went up in that fighter jet and I was doing all the stuff. Yeah. Like the scene, it looks like they're flying the plane, but in the scenes where you see them, they're in a jet like I was in where you sit behind the pilot. So, it looks like they're actually flying. But they took them up in one of those jets I went up in and they got the actors used to the G forces and that a few of them were throwing up and some of them passed out. But of course, the actors had to be in the jet and pull those G's in the maneuvers. Yeah. That a lot of the actors were like, "Oh, fuck." So he he actually made them all go up in planes and get used to the feeling of Well, Tom Cruz is definitely an adrenaline nut case because you remember that Mission Impossible where he was the top of the Burge and he jumped [\h__\h] that was him really doing the stunt. He almost killed himself. Almost died. And that and the one where he jumped over the building and broke his ankle and kept kept on doing the scene. But then the last one, did you see the making of the last one where he's flying that helicopter through the canyon? That was really him flying the helicopter. learned to fly it. Oh, really? He wanted to be Yeah. You've watched the making of it. There was like a chopper in front of him that with the cameras on it, but they said there's no way I could CGI it. So, he actually learned to fly that helicopter. Wow. And he flew a helicopter through the canyon doing all those stunts in it. So, holy mackerel. Yeah. But the funny thing is all his movies are pretty good like that where the action comes into it. But there's something to his Scientology. When you look at Tom Cruz, John Travolta, Kevin Bacon, these [\h__\h] still look young as there like must be drinking the Satan's blood. The [\h__\h] don't age. When you look at Kevin Bacon, even in some shows, you're like, he looks like he just come out of Foot Loose still. Doesn't get any older. But Tom Cruz in this when you see him cuz I'll show you a photo on the wall of where he's looking back at, you know, the first movie. Yeah. Then it shows you his face. You're like, he looks exactly the same. To me, he looks the same as he did in Risky Business. Lee, Lee, I got news for you, Lee. You look exactly the same as you did when you were younger, too. Satan worship. You just have a lot more tattoos now, that's all. No, but it's a really good movie. I recommend it when it comes out over there. Must be coming out over there. Must be coming out Memorial weekend for holidays. Is it? It probably is. I I can only watch things at home, so I have to wait till either I get a bootleg version or or it comes out on like iTunes and I can download it. Oh, there's a couple there's a couple of movie sites. There's one called moviejoy.to. If you go there, sometimes they put out the movies, HD versions on the download. You can watch them. All right. We'll have to take a look at that. Not saying that anyone should do that, but just Yeah. You know what? That's the kind of movie you really want to see on a movie screen. Probably. It's probably not as good on your phone, you know. No, that one there, that one there would be great on the IMAX theater on the real big that one in Sydney. That big IMAX they got in Sydney right there by the Sydney Opera House. Actually, yeah. It actually um I think it should be reopening soon. They actually closed it down just before CO started to rebuild it. It's going to be actually even bigger. I went in there once to see could have been one of the Transformer movies, The Rise of the Fallen or something. And the screen is that big. It goes like I know. I saw Jurassic World in there. It was amazing. Oh, have you se Have you seen the preview for the new Jurassic Dominion? No. No, I have not. Good. Really good. It's like Yeah. What's his name? Sam O'Neal's back in it and Laura Durn and all the original. It's gonna be good. That's gonna be good. Looks looks really good. It's the movie. It's It's Cisco and Eert and Palumbo and Pulsonella and Priest reviewing movies today. Now, speaking of movies, Big Ramy is it is looks like he's uh getting into the movies now. Did you see that? He had a scene with Claude Vanam. Sean Claude Vanam. And how good is it? I saw that. I saw I saw it. It looked pretty good. How are his acting chops, Dave? Not that great. Let's Let's see. It had him It had him had him running down the street with a backpack on yelling out a hold. Claude Vanam had this. You know what the funny thing is? That as much as Ramy messed up, he's still he's still way better of an actor than Claude Vanam is. I cannot make heads or tails out of what I just saw. What did we just look at? What was that? That was that was the C-grade version of [\h__\h] the um their version of [\h__\h] Mad Max. Yeah, it's there's this guy who was making fun of the of of what they were doing. That that's what it was. Yeah, that guy was tongue and cheek. Now, that guy was doing a movie review, wasn't it? Talking about Big Ramy in the movie. He was given Oh, oh, oh. Okay. The guy with the green hair was the movie reviewer commenting on commenting on Ramy's acting abilities. Oh, that looked It looked absolutely horrendous. But I But even still with Ramy messing up, I'm telling you, Claude Vanam is the worst actor of all time. Loved the guy's physique. Loved he never had to be a good actor. He was John Floyd Vanammy. He kicked the ceiling. That's all he had to do. Dude, that was Ramy just made Ramy just made Vanam look like child. All he has is a bunch of lumps and that's it. He should have just stood there. You know, the funny thing is that Ramy I saw a video of Ramy before he even became like big Ramy and he he actually had hair in the in in the video. He had like like he was kind of proceeding. remember that video I played before? And he was actually pretty funny. Like he's he's too dry now. I think maybe because he's That movie rivals Hercules in New York with Arnold's first attempt they dubbed his voice in. Yeah. And he's fighting that guy in the bear suit. It's about It's about on par with that movie. Ramy is so big though. He he you can't do anything with him. He's he's a monster, you know. It's too much. Well, the wor the worst thing is what they do is sometimes when they say act people overthink it then it's like some of the best scenes like when I did a couple of things was they'll say okay rehearse the scene rehearse the scene and you'll be rehearsing it and because you're rehearsing it you're relaxing you just whatever but they'll film that sometimes and that's the one they'll use because sometimes when they say action for some reason your brain goes I got to act now it's almost like when you're doing a photo shoot and they say okay just act natural you're like what's that okay let me let act natural now. It's like if if it didn't say that, you wouldn't think about it. But sometimes you overthink it and sometimes then your acne becomes, hey, where are you going? Do not do that. It's like it just looks so [\h__\h] bad. When Lee, when you would do photo shoots, um, you know, when I would do photo shoots with Parabanel, I liked because they used to have a mirror and I would always have put the mirror in front of me so I can see how I look when I was hitting shots and stuff like that. Did you have a good Did you need that or did you have such good body awareness that you were able to just do it? I hated it. I I hated seeing myself doing it because no matter how I looked, I thought I always look [\h__\h] So you could say you're looking great. If I could look at myself, I'd be like, "Oh, [\h__\h] off. I look like crap." So I'd rather not see it than just see the finished product when it comes out. Because if I if I saw myself, I go, "Oh, I look shit." But then you see the magazine, you're like, "Oh, [\h__\h] I don't look too bad." Not only that, but Lee, have you ever noticed if they like prop a mirror up against the wall, it stretches it a certain way. It makes you look long and skinny. Like I always noticed that the mirrors that were propped up backstage. Dave, you ever noticed this? Yes. Shows all the mirrors that were propped up backstage for you to pump up in made you real long and skinny. And I would stand in front of it and we completely [\h__\h] my head up and I couldn't even I had to face away from the mirror. Right. Right. Exactly. You caught So you add a sweep just sort of go. It's gone. I look like two twigs. Like I'm seven feet tall. Thank you for wearing that shirt today. I'm very That's very I fully expect fully expect for you to wear a Dave shirt. That's right. For both of Well, it it to be known, Dave, I'm wearing my Dave boxer shorts. Ah, there you go. Well, Dave, you have Dave pul boxer shorts. That's right. I like you. I like where it counts. It's the pulse. I love how that doesn't require a shred of proof. There in lies the when when I'm finished wearing them, I'm going to send them to you so you'll have the Make sure they're still soiled. Oh, they will be. They will be. I'm going to put them between my legs. You sold some old posing trunks before. Speaking of which, Dave Dave, did you save that interaction between me and that that homosexual person? Yeah, I have it on my phone, but I I it's too too much of a pain to ask. Explain the story. Put it in order and all that. Yeah, tell the story. I maybe by next week we can explore that because it's hilarious. I'll bet you Lee have Lee has been solicited way more times than you have. Oh, I way more than me. But I know he I haven't I haven't though. That's the thing. That's what I'm upset by because people would always say to me, "Oh, you bodybuilders do gay for pay, gay for pay." I said, "Apart from that one guy I spoke about who came to the gym and watched me and paid me." I never once got offered gay for pay. Listen, I'm coming to America tomorrow. I'll be there a week. If someone wants to make up for it, that's fine. But I I used to think to myself, what is wrong with me? Because I'll see some of these other guys who got hit on. Dave, like yourself, you're not the prettiest guy out there. And you know, don't don't get hit on. I'm thinking, I'm young. I'm in my 20s. I'm got blonde hair. What what's wrong with me? You actually got a commentary. No, gay guys were hitting on me. I'm thinking, what what's Did you Did you ever get the guy who emails He does this to a lot of people um through the grapevine. I've heard it and he's done it to me. He emails you and he wants to know if you'll meet him somewhere so that you will rip farts on his forehead while he lay on the bed and you and you squatted his forehead and ripped farts on his forehead. You may pay you per fart. He was going to pay me $12 per fart. Wow. Dude, you have to pay me a lot more per is Lou Zuick still emailing people. What is Lou Zoo still sending out emails? Did he ask you to fart at him? Yeah, actually it might have been Zwick in disguise. I don't know. No, but I used to I used to answer the phone at Golds all the time cuz you know if I was waiting for someone the phone would always ring and you could ask anyone that's been to Golds would know about it. This guy would just call up few minutes. You go hello. He goes muscle man. You're like hello. He goes biceps. You just talk like that. And then he hang up. He must be getting off. I'm like yeah. He goes how big are your muscles? It'd always ring the pay phone at Golds a couple of times a day. If you heard it ring, you just pick it up. They'd be muscle man and stuff like that. But Lou Zoo now, he's been known for it. Danny Hester told me, my friend, everyone, he would call it the weirdest hours. He'd call me in Australia. I'd be like 2 a.m. I pick up the phone. This is like when I was 18. Hey, Lee, what are you doing? I'm [\h__\h] sleeping. Oh. Oh, okay. How big are your arms? I'm like, I don't know. I'm like, he goes, who who do you like? I'm like, "Oh, I like Eddie Robinson." Eddie Robinson, do you think you could take him? You think what the he asked weirdest questions at like the weirdest times? He just ask these stupid He wanted you to tell him I'd like to put Eddie Robinson in a choke hole with my 23 in pythons. That's what he wanted. You know what he was doing? Yeah. So, he needed to get off. He was using you to get off. Yeah. So what I So really when I think about it, the only people I've had that have asked me weed questions on telephones any person are Lou Zoo and Steve Blackman. But apart from that, I've never I've never really You've never gotten guys asking you to do light wrestling. I'm Dave. I'm going to explain why. Lee, don't get accomplished. I'm going to explain why Ted Dixon explained it to me. You remember Ted from Gold's Venice? Well, Ted, well, Ted told me, too, because Ted being gay, I used to eat with Ted all the time. And Ted would say to me, Lee, I'm gay. Oh, look at that guy there. Look at this guy there. He start laughing. He goes, "Don't worry, Lee." He goes, "You're safe." He goes, "Because your father's gay, I feel more like your father, so I'm not attract I'm not attracted to you." I'm like, "Ted, why why you got to say you're not attracted to me?" He could have just said, "You're attracted to me, but you don't want to touch me." No. Ted explained it to me. Ted said those guys, the the the gay guys that don't look gay, you know, the the like like you know the guys from the gym, those guys like the big moosees. They like the big freaky guys. They don't even care if they have good straight shape or structure. They don't even have to be that good-looking. They like a lot of muscle, you know, and you were too short for them. I think that's what the problem was. You were too pretty for them. I would have been the right height to give them a [\h__\h] They don't want the pretty boys. They like the big moosees as as as And there's a whole segment that likes the hairy bears. Now Lee, when you let your hair grow in, all your body hair, you could have been a you could have pretty good mini hairy. Could have done some bears. I could have been like I could have been like a little cute cuddly koala. Koala bear. Yeah, there's got to be a market for that. I guarantee it. Yes, I'm sure. Koala. There's got to be there's got to be some market for some somewhat good-looking 50y old still make some money. Come on. There was the guy There was the guy who wanted me to squash small rodents under my bare feet. He picked the wrong person because you got They got the wrong guy with that. They wanted me to squash small rodents under my bare feet and fill it and send it to them. You know what the big schmo the big schmo things? I I had this girl who I was friends with for forever, bodybuilder girl, and she used to tell me that there was this one guy who would come and she knew him for years like as a as like a friend family. And as she got really muscular, he called her up one day. goes, "I I got to come over and pick something up." She's like, "What?" He's like, "I'll be right there." He drives to her house. He opens the door. He goes, "Um, yeah." He goes, "Um, can you punch me in the face?" She's like, "What are you talking about?" He's like, "Punch punch I'll give you $100 if you punch me in the face." Mhm. What? She's like, "What are you talking about? I'm not going to punch you in the face. I'm telling you, here's $100. Just punch me in the face." So, she's like, you know, he's like, "No, I want you to like punch me as hard as you can." And she's like, you know, hitting him a little hard. He's like, "No, pretend like you want to kill me." He hit me and she hit him and she knocked him out. He fell back onto the ground like and and almost unconscious, he got up and she's like, "Oh, I'm so sorry." He's like, "No, that was great." And he he got in his car and he he drove off 100 miles an hour and but that's like that's like he had to go home and whack off. You know where they like guys to [\h__\h] stand on their balls in stilettos and stuff. I actually saw one. If I find it, I'll send it to you. And someone said to me, "This guy, he has like a piece of wood. And in the piece of wood, it has like probably a hundred needles, like a hundred like needles sticking up. And this guy puts his penis on top of the needles like this. And the guy, you don't see puts his foot on top of it and pushes his penis down on these needles. And the needles go through his erect penis. And blood's coming out everywhere. Anything you can think of or dream up in your head, there's somebody who wants to do it or will pay you to do it. That's what I found. There's no limit to You should see these needles coming through his penis and blood. Lee, what would you hold on? Lee, you like it. Lee, what would you charge someone to step on their penis if they was on top of the needles? Like if someone said, "Lee, I want you to stomp on my penis while it's on top of a bed of needles." What would you charge for that, you know, service? At least a thousand. Okay. What would you charge per fart to fart on someone? To fart on their fart. I'm I'm not a really gassy person, so I might not make Well, you'd have to You'd have to I'd have to drink skim milk or something like that, Dave, cuz I'm very lactose intolerant. I was going to say I'm lactose intolerant, so if I had a big milkshake. There you go. I might You might [\h__\h] on their face, though. But I could fart and maybe get follow through. So, they look like a Van Go painting or something. Back when he solicited me for this, I was farting every 13 seconds. Oh my god. I had I had a gold mine in my intestines. And you didn't even utilize it. I just wasn't willing to do it. Right. Right. Right. Well, did you have to take your pants off to do it or could you do it through your shorts? I think you have to be naked butt butt hole to forehead. Yeah. Yeah. Cuz he because you could get some splash effect. Maybe he was hoping that diarrhea would come out and hit him in the face. So like stepping on penises doing whatever. I'm going to be in LA for a week. So if anyone's got any you might actually be able to do some of these services, right? Well, we're getting anyone who's interested in hiring me to do any kind of like demented uh acts. Please contact Do you know, like I said, Jimmy's going to meet me. I know Jimmy told you because Jimmy is coming out. He's going to be in a couple of days. We're going to go to Universal Studios. Probably not going to go to Disneyland because you got to book that online. There's only one day left, but Universal Studios Six Flags Magic Mountain because they got the good rides. And not Sperry Farm. And like I said, do you know how expensive these parks to get into? So if anyone has any spare cash out Oh, there you go. Help them out. Hey Lee, why don't you guys go like wine tasting or something like that? Jenny would love that. I know you don't really drink alcohol, though. So Oh, that that'll probably be wine tasting when we go for dinner. You know, Jimmy will be drinking at dinner time. So what what restaurant are you taking Jimmy out on a date to for for that night? Well, um, well, did he gets there around 11:00 a.m. on the Saturday? So, we got all a Saturday and all a Sunday. So, maybe Saturday when we pick him up from the airport, we'll go to Knottberry Farm straight from the airport because it's open to like 10 at night or 11:00 and then the next day, Sunday will be Universal Studios from 10 to 7. Monday will be Venice Beach and that and then the next day, not sure what we'll do. But yeah, we're gonna there's going to be lots of funny videos of Jimmy screaming on the roller coasters. I hope he survives. Make sure you film this stuff, Lee, because I know what's going to happen. You guys are going to be chatting up a storm. You're going to forget to film everything. No, I'm going to make sure we have the cameras going and that be hard. Sometimes you're not allowed to have the camera on the ride, Dad, because you might drop your phone when you're Yeah. Don't drop any Don't lose your phone. That's for sure. I think you can get those cases, can't you? That you put your phone in around. You got to get a GoPro and strap it to your head. Lee, that's what you should do. Hey, there there's an idea. I'll strap it to Jimmy's head. So, we'll both have one. So, we're just looking at these. I'll cut that. I'll edit that. Okay, that'll be funny. Jimmy will leave his when he goes to the toilet. Yeah, as long as he's not splattering the wall with any poop, then it'll look like that Fiber commercial. That's right. All right, guys. Well, Tyler's got to leave, so I got to wrap this party up. Lee, I want you to have a safe flight out to uh LA. And uh fingers crossed. Fingers crossed. I got to get this test done first. Don't get any new tattoos, please. You got to you got to get this test done 24 hours before. This is how [\h__\h] pathetic it is, right? 24 hours before your flight. I knew this couple got it done 24 hours before their flight. Their flight was delayed by a couple of hours. So when they went to check in the second time, they're like, "Oh, excuse me. Um, this is past 24 hours." No, are you kidding me? They they they wouldn't let them on because they were there at the airport on time, but because the plane was delayed like four or five hours, they says, "Oh, no, this is now like 29 hours since your test. You can't board the flight." That's how [\h__\h] pathetic it is. [\h__\h] I would have gotten apeshit. Oh, could you imagine? Yeah, that's crazy. So, so hopefully you'll get a video and a call from me, a message saying, "I'm on the plane." Any guys who want to do any schmo sessions with Lee, please let him know he needs money for Disneyland and uh and Universal Studios and hot dogs. And hot dogs. Oh, yeah. Jimmy's going to need plenty of of hot dogs out there. So, I don't Do they even sell hot dogs in California? It's so healthy out there. I don't think they even make hot dogs. If you if you pay me enough, we can make a special hot dog, if you know what I mean. I'm not sure I do. Will you Jimmy's going to put his penis in the BUN? In the hot dog BUN and I'll and I'll supply the mayonnaise. Okay, cuz that's a common hot dog condiment. Oh, I'm getting hungry. And on that deranged note, uh, I'm going to wrap this taco party up here. Thanks Dave. Wrap it up, Dave. I'm Dave Palumbo for another installment of Iron Rage. See you next week. No, no rapping, Dave. We go raw, mate. We go raw. A raw.