Listen, coming up, we're going to talk heavy duty. And I'm not talking about what Fiber Liz did to me. I'm talking about Mike Meer. I created species nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of species nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution week and a half. They just came out. Look at that. I love that fight. And we're back for another installment of After Hours with the Whackpack. I'm Dave Palumbo and yes, we're a little late, but we're here nonetheless. And we're going to be talking Mike Mener today. There's a new book out by uh about him and we're going to be discussing that. And uh all these guys on the panel all know Mike Mener. You guys got your own stories. I'm sure you've encountered him in the past. John, did you know Mike? where well we worked together at MD um later in his life but in in his bodybuilding career I I I knew who he was. I never really you know knew to talk to him. Everybody told me he was weird. So he was definitely weird. Yeah, he was weird. So, um, yeah, when I got to know him, was Ray. Well, he I think he got weirder as he got older and and Yes, he did. Some of his fantasies started becoming um like very vivid to him, I think, and he would describe them in detail on the telephone to me. Like like this one time he said that he there was this girl he he he was after who had uh you know some other love interest that um he ended up having a sword fight with what with like a duel like a sword fighting duel you know wow who won I guess he did apparently he didn't lose. Did he ever did she have a dick with a sword fight like that or No, no. Metal swords. You know what Greg's mind always is in that one location. Come on. No sword like you knowing, you know. Yeah. So, um you know why, John? Because too much it is. Well, I don't know. I don't know about Was he Was he a weed smoker? No. No. Cigarettes. Oh, cigarettes. And but he did like the alcohol though. Oh, yeah, man. Yeah. Although I never he used too many infetamines. I think that. Yeah. Oh, he was into the uppers. Meth. Any kind of in Really? Wow. Who are you guys talking about? Mike Manson. A new cookie recipe. This new powder that we I lived with him for a year. Wait, we got we got a special guest. Hold on. I'm I'm letting him on. He does all my social media for species. He's a good friend of mine. Alberto Pants. Welcome to the show. Alberto, what's going on? How you doing? If there was ever a Wack Packer who deserved to be on the Wack Pack channel, it's it's Alberto. He's very He's loud. You know, I I find it if you're not loud, you can't be on the show, right? That's what That's why most of us come from Italian families. We're used to, you know, Italian, Spanish, it's all the same, John. We're all loud. Yeah. Tell me at the dinner table. Especially at the dinner table, right? Like we got 30 people at dinner and you want a piece of bread and it's all the way at the other end of the [\h__\h] table. You better speak up or somebody's going to stab it. That's right. Roberto went with me. We went to Remember when I was in California, we went to the Ferrari dealership. I was showing you all that. He filmed all that stuff with me. So we were He didn't own He didn't own the clam house in New York, did he? No. Albertos. Yeah. Little Italy. Crazy Joe. He wouldn't be on the show if he owned that clam bar. I've eaten there many times. It's That's the only place in New York you can get for a Diablo. Really? Oh my god. Over that big stale piece of bread. Oh my god. It's incredible, dude. I'm a bleach skinny. I can't eat that [\h__\h] I love that [\h__\h] You guys know how to cook or no? I do. Great. John's great. George and kind of cook. Yeah. I think Larry uses a George Foreman grill, I think. There you go. Right. No, I just cook in regular oven. Do you? Yeah. I think those George Foreman grills are [\h__\h] amazing. If you have if you got to cook like 20 chicken breasted, you know, when at a time, that thing is amazing. You know, George Foreman, I I watched an interview with him. They they asked him about the Foreman grill. Obviously, George has passed. I think I have one. They he said, you know, when you know, he was like promoting all these other like companies, you know, for a while, you know, and he was like making all these companies money. Someone said, "You should sell your own product." And and he's like, "Well, what, you know, so they went around looking for different products and and someone came to him with this grill and uh he's like, you know, I didn't think this grill would ever catch." So I said, "You know what? I need 50 of them because I'm going to give them to all my friends and family to try and if they if I like it, we'll sell them." So they gave him 50 grills. He gave out to everyone as gifts. He's like, "I thought I made out like a bandit." He goes, "I got all these free grills." He goes, "And then and then, you know," I said, "All right, I'll I'll promote this thing if you think we can make any money from it." He goes, "Never did I think I would make any money. I just thought I got the free grills. I thought I made out like a bad offered it to him first." First check, the first check he gets is like five grand for a month. He's like, "Wow, this is this is cool." The next check was like 12 grand. He goes, the next month it was like 25 grand. Because I was like, "Holy back, people actually bought this thing." And he said, "I think his biggest check was five million for one month." Wow. Wow. [\h__\h] I just had a giant one right here. And I don't know my girlfriend. Oh, yeah. You must have the You probably have the original one that was ever made. Greg, they got Dave, you know, they offered to it first. Hulk Hogan. Hulk Hogan turned it down. He turned it down. Need to say no. I don't know. George Foreman grill the Hulk Hogan. I don't know. Can you imagine? They sold billions of those. It worked for George because he was like, you know, all I eat is hamburgers and you know and I make them on my grill and you know he you actually believe that he used the grill. That's why you know. Yeah. No. Doesn't he have like six boys and they're all named George? George. George. Yeah. And he identifies each one by what meat they like grilled on the one George's fish. John, George, like Geette, Georgin, Geette, Georgette. I just hate cleaning that thing. George Foreman is is a great uh example of how you can recreate yourself and go from being the villain to being the hero because not many people can do that in life. And he he successfully pulled that off. So yeah, man, he sure did. He was great. I I love that guy. When I was younger, that was [\h__\h] the Mike Tyson of of you know, nobody thought he was one of those. When he fought Ali, we were like, Ali's dead because he was a monster. And he he came out and he would always be like he would never be in shape. He was always like fat, you know, and and but man, the punches that he threw from like his sock. No, he was he was you remember him in the Olympics? He was jacked. I mean, he was pretty You know what the problem was though with the Ali thing? They it was all against him for hurt himself before the fight and they they kind of like pushed it anyway. They they made the ring bigger so Ali could move around more and and wear him out. There's a lot of there's a lot of hidden factors about that. Well, you did the rope a dope too. Yeah. Well, but that's how they out because Joe uh George they made the ring bigger. You know what I'm saying? So that could dance around and move around and you know they did it purposely did a lot of things. And the rope. I think they made the ropes where you could bend down more, too. Yeah. Right. They made them more. He But he still he still beat him, you know. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Even admitted. He said, "Look, he he suckered me into it." He goes, "He he he he completely sucked me in because he was talking to me the whole fight. He was, you know, down and I thought I was going to beat this guy to death," he said. And and and he and he fooled me. He tired me out, you know. Yeah. But I I remember that fight so well, bro. They Nobody He was the Mike Tyson today. He was undefeated, you know. You saw him hit hit Joe Frasier, lift him off the ground with a shot, you know what I mean? It was he was just like monster. And then also when he lost, I was like, "What?" You know what I mean? Nobody could take nobody. As Mike Tyson said, they asked Mike Tyson, "If you were 20 and and Ally was 20 and you fought each other, who would win?" He said, "It's not even close." He goes, "He would destroy me." He's like, "He's the kind of guy that takes you out to deep water and drowns you." I I think he says that, but I don't think so because Ali's been rocked. You know what I mean? I think that Alli could take a punch, too. That's that that's the whole thing. You know, some of these guys I don't I don't know. I don't know. I think Frzier fought like Tyson. Frasier Frasier was a bull. He came right in. So did Lennox Lew beat Mike Tyson. So a tall guy who's a good You're talking about it. But why Mike Tyson was the guy washed up at 26 years old. Washed up. He was done. That's all after Jay's He was done. He was cooked. Yeah. Yeah. He was done. He was done because he lost his mentor and he was that's what happened. But you're going to tell me that the young Mike Tyson, the one who fought like Marvis Frasier and all those guys, he would have killed him. He would have he would have killed Ali. I think he would too smart. I think I don't know, man. I would I what I would when you watch Ty when you watch Tyson fight in his prime it's like when the bell rings it's like you're flipping a switch and he just turns into destroy modes he runs up on you and starts beating the [\h__\h] out of you and there's nothing fight that was like Tyson Joe Frasier those were brutal fight you don't think that Joe how would Joe Frasier have done against Joe Frasier beat Oi once he broke his Joe how would Tyson have done against Joe Frasier because they fought destroyed Who would have destroyed who? Tyson would have destroyed Frasier. Maybe not. He knocked out Spinx in one punch. Well, Spinx was wasn't You could tell he didn't want to be there. He Yeah, but you're talking about You were talking about there's two guys who were not afraid of Tyson did very well against him. The guys that were afraid of him, they got destroyed by Who was that big gang banger that went up against him? He didn't Yeah. Yeah. He Tyson [\h__\h] toyed with him. really. No, those guys fought on the street, too. Getting suits at 3:30 in the morning. They're getting the [\h__\h] out of Tyson said he the best interview if you if you I don't know if I could find it. He said, "Man, when I saw Mitch Green, I was scared." No, but he but the afterwards he said, "I could have knocked him out in the first round. I could have knocked him out in the second round. I could have knocked him out in the third round." Meaning, he was beat the but there's two Mike Tyson's there's you know obviously you know Costamato was his mentor totally but then there was Jimmy Jacobs and Bill Kaitton and Jimmy Jacobs is the one who kept him on the straight and narrow was with Kevin Rooney and all those guys it was after Jacobs died and Bill Kaitton couldn't handle him Bill was a part and that's when uh what's his name came in Don King said let me handle this [\h__\h] you started that look we're black we're brothers together we got to do this together you know and all Tyson made, you know, even said that was like the [\h__\h] mind [\h__\h] You Tyson wasn't training as much. You know, they were stealing his money. They got his head all involved and all that other [\h__\h] you know. But meanwhile, if you would have had the Mike Tyson that fought like Marvis Frazzel, fought like uh Mike Spinx, you know, or any of those [\h__\h] they would have killed him. He would have killed him. He would have he would have killed I think he would have beat Ali. Ali would Ali couldn't take those body punches. Just like when they had that fake thing with Marciano, he would Tyson would have been breaking his arm. You know what I'm saying? Mitch Green was a thug, but you know, Tyson want to toy just like what he did with uh Tyrell Bigs. Yeah, he toyed with him. He just he toyed with Tyrell. He kept saying Tyrs was making girl noise like you know Tyson Tyson's exact words. He was making girl noises in there, you know. Ty t look Tyson was good but I think he was a bully and I think a lot of people were afraid of him too. So people you know you can't fight someone you're afraid of. Holyfield was not afraid of Tyson and that's why Holyfield did so well. But that's after though that's the after he went to prison. That's not the same Tyson Robin G. Mike Tyson in his prime was ferocious. Absolutely. Go play any video of him. Hit the belt. He would just run up on the opponent and just start beating the [\h__\h] out of him. Right. If he didn't beat you up in the first two rounds, you you had a good chance against him. That was a little No, not in his prime. You're mistaken. Who? Yeah. But you got to remember, who did he fight when he was younger? There was He fought everybody. Are you kidding? Nobody could beat him. There was no one good in the heavyweight division. No one was there. What? Are you kidding? What? Are you kidding? Who? All right. Oh my god. Was the Give me one person he beat that was good. Who? Tony Tubs. No. Trevor. You know what he hold on. You're a Tyson. That's what it is. So you're going to make up this [\h__\h] Yeah, he was good. He wasn't that great. You're a Tyson hater. So you're going to like I love Tyson. Are you kidding me? I just don't I think he was overrated. I think he could say I think he was I think he had a lot of talent like John said and it wasn't nurtured properly. But I I I don't think if he would have fought some top guys like Joe Frasier or Alli or Foreman, those guys were around. No way. Tyson was hypnotized and when Cass died that wasn't the same fighter. No time. He was unbeatable. You're right. The whole time when when Cass died that mindset broke and he wasn't the same. That's what most people don't understand. Gus died. That guy was unbeatable. He was hypnotized. He was He was He's right on Bur. He was He Gus had him hypnotized from the time he got him when he was like 12. Yeah, but wait a minute. Pro world champion. World champion. Gus was his mentor. But Jimmy Jacobs, wait a minute. Hold on. Jimmy Jacobs was the guy who really Jimmy Jacobs of Kevin Rooney and all those guys. Jimmy Jacobs had him when he was on Cus died before he was a pro. You he wasn't winning shows. I'm talking about Jimmy Jacobs was the death that really killed Jimmy Jacobs is the guy that used to sit and watch movies with him and [\h__\h] Jimmy, you know, like Yeah. Nonst did it with with him, but also Jacob, they were both that's they were almost like partners. Cus was his training, mentor, everything. Jacobs was his his his uh b like his handler, his manager. It's after he died, Bill Kaitton couldn't control him. And that's when that's when what's his name went in here? But he was he was winning when when Cus died already. When you every pro fight that you see him knocking dudes out, Cus was already dead, right? That was like a father figure to him died. It was after Jimmy Jacobs that he really went under the because remember what's his name? went in and said, "Get rid of all your handlers. Get rid of all, you know, Don King went in, said, "Get rid of all your handlers. Get rid of all your guys." And then you saw like, you know, [\h__\h] like guys that just got out of jail. Ghetto guys train. Yo, man. Get the [\h__\h] up there and just stop throwing punch and instead of guys like he lost the sign. Yeah. He went in there like an animal just started throwing punches like this. That's true. Yeah. And he didn't do any more bobbing and weaving. And that's when he they were like no direction. It's like a pit bull with no master. That was after Cas will direct him. It was perfect. Exactly. Just made him made him and without Cass is just a wild dog. Doesn't know what to do. He just goes and fights. Whatever. You're right. Cus made him. But the problem is he handed him off. Jacobs was his handler. Jacobs kept him on on still on that leash. Cus handed off the leash to Jacobs. Jacob still had him under control. It was after Jacob died and Bill Kaitton took over and and and that's when you know the brotherhood came in and started I don't listen to that white man this all other book. You got to mute George's microphone. Is that what that is? Any any technical problem is coming from sex. It sounds like a sex slang. Yeah. Where is he? Yeah, but you know I just saying to you all the fights that you see where he was unbelievable a monster that was still Jimmy Jacob Cus was already gone built a monster built the monster. We are witnessing right now the aging process of Greg Valentino because he has just told said that same thing four and a half times exactly the same. Well, didn't your father evaluate Tyson? No, my father was Teddy Atlas was a um Custom Amato and my dad were really good friends. And um Teddy Atlas had a legal problem and C cuss wanted to take him in and take responsibility for him and to convince and and my father's job was to convince the judge that he should let Teddy Atlas, you know, get, you know, um no jail time, drop the charges he was facing and be released in cuss cuss's care, right? And and um the judge did it. He said he he he told Teddy Atlas, he goes, "These two gentlemen have stuck up for you. If you let them down, you're going to prison for a long [\h__\h] time." And and he and that's when Cus started, you know, Teddy started working with Tyson. Oh, okay. I got Kevin Rooney, Kevin Rooney, Teddy Atlas, and Mike Tyson were all like in the same group. And Cus, you know, they were under Cusk. Um Teddy and and George and Kevin were actually fighters. They weren't trainers yet. So they were all trainer. They were all fighters together in Cus's little, you know, Catskill camp thing. That's how Cus got him out of being in trouble by Kept these guys out of trouble. And you know, Teddy Atlas had the bigger of the problems that required, you know, the psychiatric, you know, evaluation took over. I'll send you the link. I'm just kidding. Awesome. That's me and my brother with Teddy this past Thanksgiving at his charity. Is that when you stole the uh Is that when you and your brother stole the uh the show from them? No, I didn't steal the show. That's Joe Zapata show. That's uh Joe and George. Oh, really? No, I know. I heard I heard that the Smallies kidnapped Ted Teddy Atlas away from No, Teddy. No, we we don't say anything. We We were told We were told this is Teddy's event. Don't you know, sit back, you know, relax. That's the worst thing to tell you guys. Stay away. Yeah. No, because immediately they start thinking of ways of getting around it. Yeah. I wore my I wore my Air Force veteran hat and I was standing about 20 feet away from Teddy and he was talking to two guys. All of a sudden, he looks up and he comes running over to me. Oh, thank you for your service. Thank you for your service. You always you you were in the service for three months. Unbelievable. You were in the service for three months. You were still pulling this veteran stuff. What do you Hey, Dave. What? You should hope that someone like me goes and serves for this country. You didn't serve to a guy the option to leave. Only person in the history of the army of the of the uh armed services to ever be offered the option to go home. Because I have a conscience. My my my soldiers told me to do something to Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Are you implying that Do we have millions of soldiers out there with no conscience? Is that what you're saying? Our military is bar of conscience. Hold on. If your if your guy tells you go kill those [\h__\h] people and you know it's wrong, you're going to go kill them. Yep. If you're in the army, that's what you do. Yeah. That's my order. No. Yep. You follow your last order first. No, you have a conscience. Nope. If you have a conscience, you're in the wrong place. That's right. That's right. I'm in the right place. Government, you're you're in the military to be a killing machine. They say kill. You say killing. Go on. You're an adult. First of all, not everyone is a killing machine that goes in the armed services. The armed services is like a city. Only 1% of the people actually fight. No. Weren't you a chef? Yeah. weren't killing anyone. They want they want you to poison the general potatoes and meat. If if you were cooking, what what what was your what was the problem with your contract? I'll tell you what was the problem. I had this tech sergeant from from North Carolina, right? Because I'm from New York. You can't follow directions. That's why. No, I follow directions. I follow you conscience. I follow my conscience, buddy. And that's what you want. People who follow the comm. completely wrong. You're completely wrong. You want people You want drugs to follow orders. Drugs in the army. That's what you want. You want soldiers to follow orders. That's the whole essence of the military. You leave conscience at the door at boot camp. You don't bring that [\h__\h] with you. You are there to perform a duty for the federal government. You do what they say. You become property of the I'm not going to go hurt people that that that that you were cooking. You weren't hurting anyone and you're good at that. We know that I follow I follow my conscience and and that's what you want any anywhere. What not what you want in the military. You want you the your conscience in the military do not go together. They do not go together. You have to follow orders. That is the job. Or people get killed or people get killed. Wait a minute. The real story is Dave Joseph had that and George had real close with Teddy and they asked George to come down and when Teddy they saw George they told George come in. We're talking about the military Greg. We're not talking about the story. It was the story. It wasn't about the the military. We've heard it but you can tell it again. Go ahead. I Oh, you heard this story. About the military. I've heard your military story, but go ahead and tell it again. Could have poisoned somebody. I'll tell you. You know what? We ought to have a contest here among us to see who could come up with a new story. I got a new at at least less than a year old. What's up, Xavier Wills from uh Australia? I'll tell you the story. What happened with Teddy Atlas? Can I tell that one? All right, we'll let I'll let you off the hook with the middle guy. What happened? What happened to me and my brother? So me and my brother were told this is Teddy's event. Don't step on his shoes, you know, and uh of course we wouldn't anyway. So me and my brother as soon as we got there, we we we both separated. We let everyone go up to him and this and that, right? And then Ted and then all a sudden I'm standing standing about 20 feet away. Teddy's talking to two guys in mid-sentence. He's talking to both. He looks up, sees me, and he runs over to me, shakes my hand, puts my his arm around me, and says, "I thank you. Love that you serve blah blah blah blah blah." And it starts introducing me to everybody. It was unbelievable. He was bringing me around and introduced me to everybody. Yeah, but you got you got yourself a veteran. That's got you guys there. Sounds like stolen valor to me. Yeah. What's stolen valor? Hey, John. Joseph, that's went in. No matter where we would have went, I would have went. You would have gone. You would have gone. The word is that you would had would have gone. Past participle, right? All right. What's come from, George? This picture that you sent me. Oh, that that's 19 that that's uh in the 70s. 1978 uh trip with all my friends. A surf trip to Puerto Rico. Is that John Ripper next to you? No. See this guy with the beer in the cigarette? Yeah. But his name he's from Mtok. His name is Apollo. He lived So we lived at Mr. Gonzalez's house, right? Which was on the top. Ed Pariso next to you on the on the left. On the left. Like a young Edis. So this guy Apollo was a he used to drink. He'd surf all day and he'd drink all night long. And he used to cook toast and he would and he would [\h__\h] fight with his toaster. People used to stand up and stop in the stairs and laugh hysterical. Goddamn [\h__\h] toaster don't work. Son of a [\h__\h] He'd [\h__\h] break it, throw it out. We'd be up there laughing hysterical. Was this before or after you went into the armed services? This is after I got out. Then I grew my hair long and I was going to Nasuk Community College for physical therapy. Yeah. What happened with that? Quit. They kic me out. You you you had John. I did had a little bit of a problem with authority back then. He couldn't handle the military, couldn't handle college. Funny, I'm gonna give you a compliment. The funny thing is that you're brilliant and you just can't take instruction from anyone. That That's your biggest the your biggest drawback. You're too smart for your own good. I take in Hey, I take instructions, Dave. I hear Name one time. What? Name one time. He took He took instruction from me when I helped him for a show. He did. Okay. And that was how many years ago? Yeah. I take instruction I I take instructions when it comes to uh I train anybody train anything new. He has to be interested in it or he doesn't you know cooking you know like when you gave me a recipe John you gave me the uh recipe to make pistachio right? I I I hope you used it. I used it. Yeah. So I follow that. If I feel as though someone's telling me something wrong or against my conscience or choosing pe profits over people, I'm not going to do it. I'm going to stand up just like Unless you're in the military. What? Unless you're in the military. See, when for people like you, George, that are that intelligent who don't like to take, you know, basically don't like to listen to what other people say. You You have to have your own business. The problem with you is that you're not good at running your business, but you're you're a creative genius. So you need like a partner who will run the business for you and you just do the creative aspect of it. And John and I have been telling you this for for 15 years now, maybe 20 years. So well, don't don't The thing is George, you got to look at it this way. If you could go to work, okay, tomorrow morning in your own place, your own facility, and all you had to do was make cookies, and then there was someone else there that did everything else. They made sure the packaging was there. They made sure the labels were printed. They made sure the social media pages are being fed. They made sure there's free samples going out. They make sure your marketing is intact. They make sure your web page is working, your e-commerce is good. They work all of that [\h__\h] for you. All you got to do is create new cookie flavors and make cookies, pretzels, bagels, pancakes, waffles, whatever you want to do. That's what you need. That's that would make you so fulfilled and happy if you could scale your business to making all these great items that you believe in, that you think are good, that you think are going to help people, and market the [\h__\h] out of them. But you just don't know how to do the marketing part, right? So, you need a marketing partner, right, to take your genius ideas. That [\h__\h] cookie I'm still tasting and what with the with the three musketeers in it. That I'm telling you, if that one cookie didn't sell 10 million in the first year, I would be shocked. That is the most amazing cookie flip. Right. So, just one. Then he's But he's got all these other ones with the the white chocolate and peanut all of that stuff. All you have to do is go make that. The other guy does everything else. You would be a billionaire in five years. You know, you know who would be a good He'd be good partnering with Alberto because Alberto is very good at the business aspect and he's and stay keeping people focused. But I think that I think they would get into I think they would fight with each other too. Alberto wouldn't take any [\h__\h] from George. George wouldn't take any [\h__\h] from him and they would be No, that's not true, Dave. That's not true. Yes, it is. No, it's not. You would I think you guys would be I think you guys would make a ton of money. You would fight You would fight with Donald Trump if he was your partner. I don't fight I don't fight with you guys. All right, let get let's get back to um Mike. Let's get back to Mike Mens for a minute because Mike So I got contacted by someone. I got an email saying that there's a new book coming out about Mike Menser. It's written by John Little. It seems like you guys know who he is. I don't know who Don Little is and he's like the uh it's like the ultimate historian on Mike Menser. It's called Mike Menser American Odicius. It's coming out May 20th, 2025. They're sending me a an advanced copy of the book to review. I might get Mike John on our show here to to talk to us about uh what it took to write this book. But um it seems interesting because you know obviously the heavy duty system was something that that he was very well known for. But I think his rivalry with Arnold Schwarzenegger where you know they were they were ready to b he was ready to basically beat the [\h__\h] out of Arnold at the 80 Olympia that everyone loves that story and and this is going to be like a behind thescenes you know uh version of what happened according to Menser at least you know what do you think you think it's going to be you think it'll be a good book if John John Little knew it Mener very well I think it would make a good movie I haven't read the book yet but I I I think you've never seen really a biography about Arnold that didn't really wasn't wasn't told by Arnold, you know what I mean? Wouldn't you I'd like to see like a a movie about like Menser but involving Arnold. You know what I mean? Like that would [\h__\h] be one ticket. That's not true. That's not true. In World Gym, Joe Gold had up on the on the mirror a little sign, right, that said that said um Mike is coming. That was that was for Arnold. Okay. That's how worried Joe Gold was about, you know, Mens. The thing you guys got to understand about Menser is that as unique of his training system was was as unique as he was. He was he was a weird dude. He was very different. I mean, he woke up at six o'clock in the morning and read philosophy for two hours. He could he could quote Anne Rand like, you know, for almost anything. Um, and he was very different. He was very strange. And And if anybody followed his training system, you'd say, "Wow, that's [\h__\h] strange." Because if if it was such a it was such an output of energy and force and drive that nobody did it. I mean, hardly the only other person that made that. No, other people did do it, but I mean, you know, Dorian freaking Casey Ver Casey Very. There were there was a few Arthur Jones Arthur Jones, right? Mener took it to another level. People don't realize that when the reason Arnold came back in 1980 was because he felt threatened by Mener because everybody at the time was going on the Mener camp. Samir Bonoot followed Mike Mener. Um Tom Plattz followed Mike Mener. all the all the guys started to switch from the Arnold training uh high volume to the Mensor high intensity. A a lot of them. Um Edward Cowak came out uh he came out to uh compete and Mener had me driving him around for a week and Mener was putting him through training. There's videos of Mensor training Edward Kawak. So a lot of people were going to the Mener camp and that's what Arnold took that as a threat. He thought that Men was gonna like hurt his legacy. So he came back and rigged the 80 Olympia just so he could like put Mener in his place. Nobody liked Arnold anymore at that point. No, not until he came and scammed the 80 Olympia. That's when they all turned on him. Up to that point, they were starting to not like him. He was starting to get like really full of himself and people were starting to call him a dick. And then when that when that 80 Olympia came, that was it. It it was No, he came back because he was already in shape for Conan. That's exactly why he came back. He wasn't going to stop. No, he was not ready for the show. He didn't He only trained for a few weeks. He did not ice cold say, you know what, [\h__\h] this. I'm going for the Olympia. I'm going to try to beat Mike Mer because it's all right. He was already in wicked shape and he figured, [\h__\h] it. Let me finish it off and I'll jump in the Olympia. That's exactly why he went there. I mean, I talked to Menel. You're saying Arnold was brought if you brought all his name up to Menor. He got [\h__\h] mad. I lived with him for a year. Wait, Arnold was in shape. Wait, who? You lived with Mener? Yeah, for a year. Wow. You should know him better than anyone. Yeah. Really? What's Say that again. You should know him better than anyone. Yeah, I lived with him. Of course I know him. That was Arnold and Nate. He hated He hated Arnold with a passion. Yep. You couldn't even mention Arnold's name. Matter of fact, he [\h__\h] about him all the time. And then he'd tell me, "I don't give a [\h__\h] about Arnold." And I said, "Well, if somebody you don't give a [\h__\h] about, you sure talk about him a lot." What What was he like? I mean, you lived with the guy. Was he weird? Was he weird? I mean, so when I met him, he wasn't even training. the the uh steroid dealer guy that I was working with in introduced me to him. Wow. And um when I met him, I was shocked because he was small. Like had a little hot belly. He was smoking a cigarette. He had like 13inch arms. Wow. And um but I and I I couldn't believe because I saw the Mike Mener, you know, from the 80 Olympia, right? But then um I convinced him to train with me and so he did start. But in order for me to get him to train with me, I had to take buy him take him to the meth dealer every day. Oh [\h__\h] No way. Oh my god. Yeah. So our routine was Well, we leave the apartment in in uh West Hollywood. We'd drive all the way to the San Frernando Valley, like 25 miles away, right? go to the No, before we left the apartment, we take an Obatrol, which was like a this this uh inetamine that had like five It's sort of like um what is the new one that they everybody's taking? Aderal. Yeah. Yeah. It's like that. Wow. And then uh and then we'd drive all the way across the to the meth dealer and he'd get the meth. And I never took the meth because I didn't like it. Did he smoke it or snort it? I think he just snorted it. I don't remember smoking it. But then um then we drive all the way back to Nautilus. Uh you had to go to the meth dealer every day. Yeah. Why didn't you just pick up a couple days? Not every day, but on training days. Yeah. Why would you get like like a month supply so you just had it, you know? Blow through it all in one day. I don't know if it was money or what. That was the thing. Oh. So anyways, then we go to the the novelist and we'd go to the there's espresso shop next to the Naut double espresso and these 5 mgram dexador spans were these fact fast acting inetamines. Wow. He was taking that much inetamine. Yeah. And then well I only took the dexadrines. I didn't take the rest of the [\h__\h] because it was too much. Right. And then we'd be like jacked out of our mind and we'd go into the nautilus and we did train like like crazy, right? the high intensity just like you said, you know, such a failure, negatives, four reps, all of that. What did you do after the workout when the themes was still [\h__\h] cranking for another few hours? Well, the good thing about the dexadrins, they only last for a couple hours and then that's out of you. Yeah, but what about the stuff you took in the morning and and and Well, he was out. What about the meth? Yeah, it it didn't it it didn't matter for him. I couldn't do it. So, wait, so did he snort meth and work out on meth? Yeah. Yeah, that's Wait a minute. Wait a minute. I want to I want to I want to try to program my brain into this at the same time. He's rocking Dexis meth and the first one. What was the first one? Add aderall John in the morning. The aderall one. And this is all brewing at the same time. Yeah. Holy [\h__\h] What the [\h__\h] man? And then after we'd go to the good earth we'd go to that good earth restaurant and we'd eat and he would take those uh these little rolls and there was this sweet butter that came in the little balls and he'd put one ball of sweet butter on the roll and he would just eat it in like the whole thing. He he liked that. He would take uh butter and put it in the freezer and make ice cream and just eat it with a spoon. Wow. He sounds like Maholic. Guess what? Isn't that what Mahal made you do? Uh, George? Yeah, Mahal made me eat uh a dozen dozen butter rolls. Uh, and then a half hour hour later, another six uh butter rolls and then train. Wow. But I'll tell you one thing, like within within four months of us starting to train, he went from skinny little fat to just massive. Really? Was he on any juice? Yeah, we took uh NPP 300 milligrams three times a week. That's it. That's it. That's everything we took. That's all. Believe me, you take 300 milligrams of MPP. We took it the night before. The next morning, you wake up and you're just blown up. Just full of glycogen. Yeah. No testosterone. No, that was just NPP 300 milligrams through What year was that, Larry? Um, that I was 19 getting ready for the Teen America. So, Wow. 66 85. Wow. That's crazy. So, NP three times a week or 300 milligrams once a week? 300 milligrams at one time. Three cc's. 100 milligrams each. Three times a week. So, 900 milligrams. Oh, that's so Yeah, that was a lot of drug. Yeah, that was Yeah, that's a that's a bunch. Yeah, but it worked. Did it affect your sex drive negatively at all? I don't remember it doing that. No, I don't remember it doing that. But I was 19 and all I was worried about was bodybuilding. So I I didn't really care about anything else. Did he go to the show with you? Was it like he helping you out? I mean, no, we had a falling out like right like about a maybe a month before the show. Uh what happened? Um he disappeared for a few days. Yeah. And his girlfriend Julie Mcn, this bodybuilder chick, was calling me like, "Where is he?" And I'm like, "I don't know. Um, and then he calls me one day and he says, "Hey, uh, come pick me up and I'm like, "Okay." So, he gives me this address in Beverly Hills and I drive over there. There's this big mansion and I go up in there and there's this little Richard Simmons looking guy. Maybe it was Richard Simmons. I don't know. He had the gold record on the wall and all this [\h__\h] And he's sitting behind this long table with this little guy with the afro head. And the guy's like rubbing Mike's arm. Oh my god. And I'm like, I don't know what's going on here, but I'm like, Mike, you ready to go? And the Richard Simmons guy, he goes, "Come here, you fuck." And I'm like, "What do you mean?" And he's like, "Let me let me feel your muscles." And I I'm like, "What?" A guy comes at me. He just like runs across. He comes at me and he starts grabbing my chest like tits. And I [\h__\h] backpedled and there was a stairwell behind me. And I jumped backwards off the stairwell all the way down like a whole flight of stairs. Oh [\h__\h] And uh cuz the guy had freaked me out. And then I looked up and I'm like, "Hey, Mike, are you coming?" And he goes, "Not yet." No, he didn't say anything. And I'm like, "Fuck, I'm so I didn't know what to do." So I just left. I get in the car. I call my father and I told him what happened. He goes, "Get the [\h__\h] out of here. You don't do this shit." After he saw you get your chest squeezed, he started coming. That's what I meant. Not yet. Do you think you think Mike was doing like some gay for pay stuff or you know for drugs% 100% they all did it they all they all did it I did it but it was weird that he called Larry to come pick him up. You know what I mean? Like like I think he wanted to get me involved in the thing with the guy and I just I didn't I was like no hell no. Yeah. The guy probably said you got any friends? Yeah. Yeah. I'll call Larry. Then he came back and he's like you got to move out. And I'm like okay. He he kicked you out. Yeah. Holy mackerel. And I was paying all the bills. I was paying like the rent and everything. Wow. Jokes on him then. Yeah. That's when you do those kind of drugs, especially meth, your brain stops working normally. You know, you start getting like kooky, you know, and that might be why he he was so weird, you know? Maybe it was the drugs were messing up his dude. He sat in the gym that I own and watched me do like a [\h__\h] 100 sets for biceps and he was freaking out, you know. He went to jail for like he was uh he was like running down the freeway naked. When was this? What year? Um was right after that and um wait who did that? He was on the beach and he he freaked out and he said they're going to strafe the beach and he was started screaming and he started running through Venice and he took his clothes off and he's like running down the freeway naked. Wow. And then uh the cops got him and my friend Troya Pennington, this big guy from Worlds, he was a sheriff at LA County Jail and uh he was like taking care of Mike in there because I asked him to do it and he was like bringing him extra food and whatnot, right? And while Mike was in the jail, like Arnold Schwarzenegger came and like visited him, but not like in a visiting room, went like to the jail cell to just look at him. Oh, really? That's weird. They let him in there? Yeah. He was like I think at the time he was like a big [\h__\h] Oh, really? Did Arnold did some Arnold bail him out? Maybe. No, no, no, no, no. He looked at him like he like wanted to like gloat over him. Yeah, that sounds like Arnold. Ray was way worse though. Ray was pretty [\h__\h] lunatic. Ray was [\h__\h] nuts. Ray was crazy. I met Ray before I met Mike. Um, just once. Um, I knew Ray very dealer guy. He brought me to Ray, right? Um Ray was when I first met Ray Mener, he was huge. He was just massive. He must have been like close to 300 pounds. Wow. And um he we met at a gym and I was just a kid, you know, and he says to me, he says, "You think you know something about weight training? You don't know shit." Okay. Like this the first thing I had never even spoken to the guy before. So then they were we're in there training and uh he shows his arm. He goes, "You know what this is? You know what this is?" I'm like, "What is it?" He goes, "It's a muscle fiber." Like, "This guy is out of his [\h__\h] mind." Ray Ray was nuts. Rick Valencia, he was crazy. Yeah. And mean, too. Like you he was just at like a mean. And you got to wonder how these at the time. Was he doing drugs, too? I don't know. probably you got you gota you got to understand that these two guys had no job. Okay, they had no visible means of regular support. So like almost everybody else back then in those days. So the odd thing was that Ray and Mike were like a team but like what did they do, you know? I mean they would follow people around with a clipboard and you know personal training and it just was like well what I met was writing articles. Mike was writing articles. That was later in his life. That was later that was later. I'm talking about I'm talking about when Ray and Mike were running in Santa Monica. When I met Mike he was all he was doing was writing articles for Weer and that's it. And so like the day I moved in, he's like, "Oh, by the way, you got to carry you got to pay the rent and you got to buy the groceries and you got to do this and that." Right. And I'm like, I actually worked at the times. I was working bouncing and I was like selling steroids. So, Right. I had money, right? Right. Um, so I was paying for everything for both of us and and uh Lacy Rich was the apartment manager. He lived downstairs from us. That name always keeps going. No, wait. Who was the apartment manager? Yeah. And so he let us live like we I think we paid like 400 a month for rent. It was cheap rent. Yeah. Wow. Rich over and over. Wait, can you have like little peeppholes cut into the wall and [\h__\h] I mean, well, I would go to take the trash out and when I'd go out like I lived upstairs and he lived downstairs like right below us. And when I'd go to take the trash out, he'd be like peeking around the stairway looking at me like and I'd throw trash at him. I'd be like, "Get out of here, you faggot." It is. And Mike got mad at me because he said I was like mean to Lacy. And I'm like because that was his sugar probably giving him money. That's why that was his sugar daddy. That's why Lacy Rich was periodically Lacy Rich would fact everybody in the industry naked photos of Arnold. Oh that's right. That's where who told it was like it was like periodically and it was just a mass batch facts. I mean like 30 people would get it would be a messy like a mass email, right? All the writers, all the, you know, editors, all the magazines, art directors, they would all get these faxes. You know what a fax photo looks like? Black and white. It looks like spaghazi. And that was that's what And it would be Arnold naked and in various, you know. Well, he had pro bodybuilders coming in and out of his apartment like all day long. Lacy did. Yeah. Yeah. Like I could name names, but I'm not going to. Famous pro bodybuilders. Named it. Well, you know, the whole thing was run by gays at that time. Joe was flaming homo. I used to go to the photo shoots because Mike used to have me drive people when they come into town. Yeah. Like I drove Cowak around, Barry Demay, a bunch of other ones. Oh, did you? Oh, cool. Cool. Yeah. So, I would drive them and uh I would drive them to the photo shoot because they didn't have a car, right? And um Joe would say to me, "Why are you always here? Why are you always here?" I'm like, "I don't know. I just I drive." He'd be like, "Let me put on the oil. Let me put on the oil." And he's like rubbing these guys. I was like, Larry's like that like Waldo. He's like the guy in the backdrop that he's always he was he's he's been everywhere. He's like Forest Gump almost. He's been privy to everything that's gone on in the history of bodybuilding, but no one knew he was really there, you know. It's great. I love it. I love these stories. Yeah. Ray was wor Yeah. So what so when Mener died, is it true that that Ray killed himself? That's what I heard. I don't know. He died like both of them supposedly it was weird. They both had of heart attacks and Mike died and then Mener died like a day and a half after. So it was kind of strange. How they I heard that their parents had the same problem too. He didn't kill himself. He had a He basically Oh, he did. It's just like you you remember L Costello? He he had a kid who drowned in a swimming pool and they said he was so distraught, so upset that he wound up dying not long after that. What happens is is Ry was very First of all, both of those guys had to have a bad heart. I mean, Mike was always late. Mike was always Mike smoked cigarettes in my [\h__\h] All those stimulants, Greg. Yeah. Yeah. And he drank though, but what you're forgetting is he drank like a fish. He used to drink a lot of vodka. A lot. I'm talking about he had bottles in a trunk of a car. And he, you know, he would sit in my gym. He'd watch me [\h__\h] train. He would like put me down and say all this [\h__\h] up [\h__\h] you know? I I got along with him. But he was [\h__\h] I'm [\h__\h] nuts, so he's nuts. But Ry was way worse. And I think that Ry was so upset he probably, you know, drank, popped a lot of pills, and just basically had a heart attack, you know, but he didn't die. He didn't kill himself. No way. No way. I I believe he died just like Luc Costello. I think 49 he was. The grief that he felt over It's sad because these guys were so talented. both of them and you know what and they they just at the end they they just became dysfunctional essentially. You know what though like Mike after the 80 Olympia he just like lost his [\h__\h] KCVer too. Yeah. Yes. But he was super I mean if you listen to him talk about his training he's super smart about training. Dude in 1981 I saw Casey Vader train doing squats with one plate on each side. One plate. And it would take him five minutes to go. I mean, five, six seconds to go down. Five seconds, six seconds to go. It was so slow. I was like, "Holy fuck." Like, I can't, you know, like that's too slow for me. You know what I mean? And the same thing I saw Greg Defer Dave with 10 on the bench with 10. And he would go up real slow like this. Literally 20 seconds up, right? 20 seconds. I was like, I don't have patience. I'm the kind of guy like if I'm paint like I I had to paint a wall in the gym. I just drew a paint on the wall and then I just start rolling it really fast because I don't I can't sit there. Oh, let me cut in and all that [\h__\h] I just f I don't have patience, you know, to watch those guys. I mean, Casey Vader, too, who was so [\h__\h] big at one time. And to see him standing there with that bar and just one plate and going like like down real slow and then come back up and do another. I interviewed Casey Va. He also from the 81 Olympia. He was he never got over that either. You know, it's like these why would why why why grown men would allow one incident in their life to completely rest because they put everything they put their whole life into that and it was it was such a robbery. It was so obviously it made them very popular too. I hate to tell you making good money with the training everyone. Mensah wouldn't have won if you took Arnold out of that. Mensah wouldn't have won. I think Zayn might have won again. No, he was in great shape that [\h__\h] Mener took fifth. Yeah, look at the photos. They took fifth up because it was political. I don't know. I don't think he Look at the photos from the 80 Olympia. You put them side by side. There's lots of photos of of him and Arnold standing right next to each other. There's no comparison. But he wasn't hard. He wasn't separate. That Zayn was It was not hard. Mener wasn't Menson. Menson [\h__\h] Look at the photos from the 80 Olympia. He was shredded. He didn't have any separation. He didn't look any Yeah, whatever. No, that's Greg. That's not true. Look at the pictures. He was in the best shape of his life. I just don't I thought that Z he was the He won the heavyweight at the Olympia 79 and Zayn won the overall and Muncher was way bigger and then he came better in 1980 and then they just [\h__\h] him. I don't know. I don't I don't think he he's he was also narrow. Uh no, he was wide as [\h__\h] No, you're wrong. He was really wide. You know, Arnold had that big structure. So, you know, even you look at black and white pictures, you can't really even tell. I'm sure if you at the show, everyone I know who was there said that Arnold there's color there's color photos that you can see. Yeah. You guys got to remember the only bodybuilder to ever score perfect score on at the universe. Yeah. Perfect 300. So, you can't say he's not wide, he's not this, he's not that. He was [\h__\h] perfect. when when I was training with him, he's like after I said he got really big in a few months, um Victor Richards came into the gym and when we were training and he was sitting next to us. I mean Mike was sitting on a bench and Victor came in, he was talking to Mike and you know Victor like he was like the biggest thing you ever saw. Yes, I was. And when they were sitting there, I was like, "Wow, Mike is like he's not as big as Victor, like as far as like height and weight, obviously, because Victor's like six foot and 300 lb, but just like width and the size of his arms and shoulders. He was right there with Victor. That's how big he was at like 57. He was Oh, man. Yeah, I was there in ' 81. He was He didn't look like that. I mean, there's pictures made 81. He was He was big. He was really big. Victor Richards is a much bigger man, though. He's huge. I'm saying Victor was bigger overall in like height and he weighed much more, but I'm saying just like muscle size and width and the arm size. He was right close to Victor. I was shocked. Listen, Mentor was thick. I'm not going to take anything away from the guy. I I actually liked Mike Mener, you know what I mean? Physique wise. Greg, perfect score at the universe. Only bodybuilder. I get that. That's the But that's the universe. You're talking about Mr. Olympia. That's the Arnold. Arnold is a won the universe. Frigno won the universe. Everyone won the universe. The next year Dickerson wins. I didn't think that I still thought Tom Plattz had [\h__\h] uh had could have won beat what's his name only because his legs were so huge. No, Franco won the following year. Franco was Franco. Yeah, I mean that was another that was another fiat. He gave it to He gave it to Franco. That was terrible. Uh that was terrible. one giant [\h__\h] and [\h__\h] uh had one leg. Yeah, but it didn't look anything like it didn't look like he could Tom Plattz had that one. I'm sorry. I agree with that. Tom Platz had that one. Dickerson won the next year. You know, you know what the the real truth of the matter is here is that first of all, everyone gets screwed in bodybuilding at one. The only guy who's happy is the guy who wins, right? So, I mean, everyone has had situations where they didn't get what they felt they deserved or maybe the fans didn't think. You don't let it negatively affect your whole life, but you don't win by merit. You take it into you, look, you take it in. You realize bodybuilding is a is a beauty pageant. It's a marketing thing. Weer was using it as a market marketing machine for his magazine. And you say, "Okay, all right, I am." It's like in WWE, I'm not the champion, but it doesn't matter because I'm super popular with the fans. I can make money for myself. I love the bodybuilding industry. I do this because I like it and I can make money from it, right? And and that's better than than the rest of the population who has to just be a a hobbyist bodybuilder. It wasn't just Mener though. It was like after the 80 Olympia, Frank Zayn, Boyer Co, Mike Mener, a bunch of them, they all boycotted the 81 Olympia. Yep. They all said, "We're not competing." Such a fiasco. And you know what Joe's response was? Because Chris Ace loves to tell me this. Remember when Vince McMahon started the WBF? Joe told Chris Ced, he goes, "I'll make new champions." He didn't care. It doesn't matter. You don't want to do the show, don't do the show. Joe, find 10 new guys that will do it. That was the the mentality back then. You know, the funny thing was after the 80 Olympia, Joe was still promoting Mike in the magazine like big time. Yeah. Because he was popular. That's why Joe's not Joe was actually upset at the 80 Olympia. He was pissed off when uh when when he saw the result, he actually walked out. He probably was doing that just to be Yeah, because Arnold was his cash. Yeah, that was Arnold was in every he was pissed off at the 81 Olympia as well. Look, you don't think he go to win that? Come on. You guys can't look at this in a bubble, okay? Everybody who was competing back then knew about the politics, the screwing, the favoritism, the this, the that, all the malfeasants that everybody alleges. It was not like Mener cruised into the 80 Olympia in a virgin environment and all of a sudden his great travesty befell bodybuilding in front of our very eyes. It didn't happen that way. So for him he and that ended his career. He never competed again. That was it. Done. Finished. Stupid. Okay. He knew he was never they were never going to let him win no matter what he looked like. Who cares? He was making money at that. Right. He was all over me. I think Yeah. Would you want to train and compete and and knowing that you're have no chance of winning no matter what you look like? I did it. I knew I wasn't going to get a pro card. I knew they Yeah, but Dave, your thing was your thing was different. You weren't the best one necessarily on stage. It doesn't matter though because I who gets the opportunity to make a living from what they love to do. Not many people mention doing it. He allowed it to negatively affect his whole life and destroy his life because of that. And that's not you. Life is not like that. Not everyone gets to be number one. Not everyone gets to be the champ. Yeah. But nobody gives a [\h__\h] Mike O'Harn will draw more people than Derek L. You could have a line. Mike O'Harn will sit at this table and there'll be a line out the door. Yeah, but things have changed. This is now we have social media. There's other things back then. I agree with that. You had only bodybuilding in the magazines. Was super popular in the magazines. He was a celebrity. He could do seminars in Europe and make probably $10,000. He could have he could have parlayed his heavy duty system into a train. And Mike Lener is still an icon today. I still get asked by about him. His heavy duty system is still out there. You know, you know who resurrected him? Who's that? Really? We got to give credit where credit's Bill Phillips resurrected him, right? I mean, he put him in that muscle media magazine and made him an icon really, you know. And then after that, I think did Blackman also eventually get him also? Yeah, Blackman put him under contract. He was doing his own column. I was working. He was making money. Menson was making he made made more money at the end of his career than he did, you know, when he was competing. Probably he had it made. He had it made at that point because he was he came out of obscurity, okay? And now he was writing regular articles, regular columns. He was and remember no internet back then. So he was, you know, people were hanging on each issue of the magazine waiting to see what, you know, people were going to say next. And he was very, very popular. And there was no reason why he couldn't have parlayed his heavy duty system into a great training system, marketed it all over the world. He would have I had his Yeah, I had he attempted to, but he did not pull it off. He could have been he could have been bigger than any of these guys out here doing it. But he just he just dropped the ball. Another pretty much pretty much he followed Georgie's business model. Yeah, but he didn't still alive, Dave. Mentor didn't have the personality. I'm alive and well and kicking ass. Well, you're smarter than you're smarter than he is. I told you that's I in fact I just can't I was just ser I served for three hours this morning. Listen, I tell everyone I tell everyone who asked me about you because they you know they they know I'm friends with you for a long time. I said he's one of the smartest guys I know. But the most but you know you march your own drummer so you you know that's that's when you do that you I think we're all doing it. You'll lift to 120. I I'm convinced of it and you'll always make money. I'm on the journey. I'm on a journey to to figure out how how through me, you know, being older to pass on other people the things that I'm doing and trying how I can help other people because fact of the matter is I didn't really lift heavy weights and I'm still I'm still able to surf like I did when I you saw that picture at 19. I surf better today than I did then. I could I can go and decide I wanna I want to train for a fight and actually train for it that never really officially training. How am I doing that? I'm not I'm not some extraordinary guy. I'm just an ordinary guy doing these extraordinary things and I want to pass it on to other people. Listen, I want you to make a billion dollars because I know you'll share it with everyone. That's what I'm Well, that's You need a businessman who you're gonna go in business with. Much is given, much is required. Georgie. Georgie, just make the cookie. Yeah, that's all you got to do. Just make the cookie. All right. All this other [\h__\h] Just make the cookie. Just do that. That's it. It's gonna happen. No, it's Dave. Why don't you buy him, man? I don't want I I I don't want to lose my friendship with him. Alberto, I'm telling you, I'm gonna hook you guys up. You You market that cookie with him. You tell him, you'll run the whole the whole thing. All he's got to do is bake the freaking cookie and you'll do everything else. But you got to get him. You gotta direct him. You gotta get him to just make the cookie cuz if you leave him alone for five minutes, you got pretzels, bagels, upside down cake, you know, like what the [\h__\h] Just make the goddamn cookie to move in with him, Alberto. Unfortunately, it would be a pie green Oscar. What's his name? You need a small You guys should get a big [\h__\h] warehouse there together and and just bake cookies all day. No, you need a small little a small little ghost kitchen like facility where you already look. He's already complicating it. He's already complicating it. You need someone to tell you what to do, not vice versa. Just cook to make the cookie. Make a [\h__\h] cookie, dude. That's all you got to do. Dude, make make them like mener cookie. Put a little meth in it and [\h__\h] People will be like they'll be like a dick that I need to [\h__\h] I need to [\h__\h] the cookie. Pre-workout. Pre-workout. I think I I think you you're on to something, George. Maybe. I mean, Greg, I think what he should do is there should be each cookie could be named after a different legendary bodybuilder and for what they're known for. So, the the mener cookie would be like a a cookie that has a little caffeine or something like that in there. It would be a preworkout cookie. Remember me and my friends? We That's a great idea. Preworkout cookie, Dave. Remember me and my friends at MD? We [\h__\h] named our dicks after pro bodybuilders. And I need mine Marcus because mine's got a big fat purple head. It's vain. And yeah, I don't want to know about your purple head. I don't really want Hey, I need marketing. I need to have I need to have a commercial on every single one of your shows. I need to have my my my website. You need to have a business plan so you can sell the thing. We need a Hey, hold on. Need a cookie. When it says species, Captain Protein cookie get 20% off. That's a massive marketing. You need to drive. I know, but you got to be able to make the cookie first. Make the cookie. Make the cookie. He's got the I'm going to give I'mma hook it up on Berto and Mr. G after the show. You guys got the cart so fast. Tell him what you would do. Tell them what you doing something like in Peru they make cocoa leaves cookies. Yeah. Yeah. What? I used them. Exactly. They use them and gives you energy. Yep. Wow. I brought some home. It's least kind of like you you donut, you know? Tastes like that but you don't get that jittery but I used it in Peru to beat to battle the um altitude. Yes, man. You went I forgot you went to Peru, John. That's right. Yep. Of course. Much of Right. could have hooked you up down there. Yeah, I got hooked up. My He would have hooked you up with some malaria. No, I place that made the Coke tea. You drink it like tea. Holy [\h__\h] Yeah, that was that was slow. Is the natural root. You think it's better for you than like the synthetic versions that they make? I mean, or you think it's still not good for you to have all that stimulant? I I don't think it I didn't feel overstimulated on the on the leaves at all. No, just kind of like a nice smooth, you know, it's good for you. Has a lot of like amino acids. It's amazing. Don't they chew those? Isn't there a culture that chews those leaves? Yeah, absolutely. Chew it. Yeah, you chew it. And beetlenut, too. They chew beetlenut and made tea out of that. In school, chew the cocoa leaves and run. Yep. If I if I ever chew if I ever live down there and chewed those leaves, I'd be writing I'd write I'd have 25 books written already. You know, I never sleep. I'm I I'm too scared to to do any kind of stimulants because I think I you know, I'll I'll just never stop working. You don't take any caffeine, Greg? If if I I sip a diet coke, I feel like I I did a line of coke because I I don't do any caffeine normally, you know. So, I made that for you, by the way, Dave. the the that coffee thing. Coffee cookie. It's in the freezer. Oh, you did? Yeah, it's in the freezer with the lion's mane. I added the lion's mane to it. You know that you told me to put the lime Yeah. I said I wanted him to make a uh a cookie for cognition. So, it would be it would have like mushroom extracts in there with I put it I got great ideas for him. But we need someone to run his business for him. John, that we got to find I'm telling you I You should like mentor him, man. You already have successful. Yeah, I know. But you know what? I don't have time. You know, I'm Bert. I'm telling you, you guys would be here. Here's here's your biggest challenge. Your biggest challenge with Georgie is going to be to direct him. Get him to do the same thing every day. Make the cookie. If you can get him If you can get him to make the cookie, then then you got the goose that laid the golden egg. But you got to get him to make the cookie. Now, for like 10 years, we've been trying to get him to make the cookie and he just won't do it like that. I don't have enough people going to my site. Don't you understand what I'm telling you? I don't have enough people coming to my website. Yeah. Why? Why is that? Because I need marketing. I need more people to come to the site. That's why. But you have because you got on 50 people going to your site, bro. You have Dave giving you this platform. I mean, dude, you are the luckiest man alive. You have marketing here. I don't know what you're complaining about. Yeah, exactly. It's like you have Dave, everybody knows you make cookies, man. You should be giving away cookies right now. Yeah. Yeah. What you should be doing. Are you bringing cookies to the show in in June in Alabama? Yes. You need to give away your cookie, man, because nobody knows about your cookie. Like, it should be a debut. Yeah. Give it away right now and after hours. Give it away. People are gonna get hooked. You should bring like like like like 500 cookies with you and you should sell them there. Give away break up pieces and give away samples so people could try. They're gonna buy the cookie from you. There's no hot girl. A hot girl. A blonde with big boobs next to you. That's right. We'll see how you sell. There you go. You don't you know anyone camera? Get a nice camera, man. You look like you could you could put a cookie in her in Alabama. All you need is your shotgun, man. The problem the problem Alberto is he'll bring like the the the most dysfunctional street people you've ever seen he'll bring with him to to work the booth with him as because he was trying to do goodwill for people. But you gota you're right he needs a [\h__\h] girl with big boobs standing there with with the cookie in her cleavage. Doesn't have to be that extreme. John, I think it should. I think actually I think you ought to have a cookie eating contest out of her cleavage. Is that Now now that would sell cookies. I think we should bring Alberto to to Alabama and put the two of them in a booth together. That might that would be that would be worth the video, you know, footage that we would get along. I got news for you. You want to come to Alabama? I'll bring the raw materials from Peru and and we'll we'll be rich, man. You can bring your you can bring your wife. She'll she can work the booth for George. Yeah. Yeah. You'll be lucky, man. You want to come? I don't mind. All right. I gota I gotta hook it up. You you look at your schedule, George. If I get you a booth there, can you cook enough cookies to bring it with you so that I can have you guys work a booth together? How many you want me to bring? Well, you talked on Berto. You guys figure out how many you think you need. My wife My wife is a model, man. My wife a model. So, she'll promote the whole shebang. Awesome. So, you guys set up You can give you break you give some cookies out of samples so people can taste them and then you you sell them like a a six-pack or something. Here's what you do. Here's what you do, Georgia. You make a whole bunch of miniature cookies. Okay, that's the sample. All right, so you're not cutting cookies up with a [\h__\h] scraper like the fitness girls do at the shows at the booth. All right, so you mini cookie is the sample and then you take orders for No, no, no orders, John. You got to He's got to bring He's got to bring product. People want the product right there. They get it. They get it shipped to them the next day. Hey, you you'll overwhelm them. They'll never send the orders out. You You bring the cookies. Bring 300 400 cookies with you. You know, have a a database there. Name, email, or ship them. Yeah. Ship them ahead of time. That's what I'm saying. Venue. You got to do it. What you want is collect a database of people. Do it. We will not do it. Listen, we we're going to do a seminar the night before and then you got the whole show. You could have a booth for two days. You could be selling cookies, you know. I got like I got like 60 cook frozen cookies right now ready to bake right in my freezer. I make I make stuff every day. I know. But you you're going to have to for that event. You're going to have to bring a lot of product. I think you're going to sell a ton of it because I'm going to be I'll be promoting it non-stop for biggest volume that we had in one month was like 10 grand. But Dave, Dave, every time you have a seminar, can you can you bring him and he brings his cookies and there's only one promoter out there, Michelle, God bless her, that will bring these guys in at the at the same time. You have to keep them separated. Normally, it's like, okay, there's certain rep there's certain reptiles you can't cohabitate with them. They don't they don't do well. You only put them together. Hey, we're chameleons. We're comedians. We ch we can change colors. So that's the kind of reptiles we are. Yeah. Yeah. They only you can only put them together for like one day out of the whole year. That's it. If you do that, you get John Scaderi to come with some of the reptiles. There you go. I I have more reptiles than he does. I got news. See if John Scader's frog could eat one. Then he got He defin shop all the time. We're We're both get talking about big fish tanks now, too. So, you know, he's he's the guy that brought the frog on the show that day. He brought Yeah. He was the first guy who brought all those exotic animals to our That thing was bigger than my fist. It was like two. Remember he was getting frustrated that it wouldn't eat the it wouldn't eat the rat and he was whacking the rat into the door jam. You got to knock it out. Your head busted open and there were brains all over the place. Oh my god. The crazy [\h__\h] we did. Well, thank you on birthday. You should come back next Tuesday, too, because I I think you're a good addition to this cast to be honest with you. And by the way, I just want to send my um get well soon. Arman is battling a strep throat and Amin is in court today. So, uh he's he's got some new developments on his case that he will share with us next time. H So, we miss those guys, but they'll be back next week. For those of you who are wondering, for those of you who don't care, don't listen. Once again, uh, this coming, well, not this coming week, the following week, I'll be in Pittsburgh for the, uh, Pittsburgh Pro Jim Manion show where they're giving a $100,000 away to first prize in the men's. Wow. First time they're ever going to have an expo in men's open in Pittsburgh. So, that's going to be super exciting. And, uh, I will then be at the end of the month, I'll be at Dean Caputo show. You, Greg, you know, that's my boy Dean Caputo. Yeah. I'll be his show at the 23rd of May. And then June 21st, we'll be in Alabama. Dean Dean is a great guy, bro. He's home Alabama. Dave as well. Dean should have been Oh, you go to Pittsburgh, Larry. Oh, good. Okay. Yeah, I got my plane tickets and hotel. That's a great venue. Pittsburgh. Any I think it's a new venue they're doing for the show. I know that the expo at least is. So, it's going to be black and yellow. Black and yellow. Well, they're right on that street. Right in that in that where all those stores and all those restaurants, right? That's no that's where they hold the North American and the Masters Nationals. The for the for the Pittsburgh Pro show they're gonna they hold it in a different place. But when's the Dean show? Dean show is uh May 23rd weekend and that's uh in uh Streetsboro, Ohio. I'll be there for I haven't been back there. I haven't been there since I think 2001 I did a guest. That's my guy Dean Dean. Dean Dean's a great guy. I know him for Rich Richie and I are doing a seminar there. Ask him about I hooked him up with a girl. Ask him about all that [\h__\h] Oh, really? What girl? I I don't want to tell you here, but somebody very close to me, but he he'll he'll tell you all about it. Trust me. All right. Hey, Dave, give away some cookies, man. When you're doing the same. It's a female bodybuilder. That's why I don't want to say who it is. Well, if you want if you want to go, Alberto, I'll talk to our promoter friend, Michelle, and I can try to make it happen if if you if you and Mr. G really want to work a booth together and do some stuff, you know? I don't know if Mr. G wants to be at a booth. He's a people guy. He likes to be all over the place. Well, I I'm trying to help him make some money here and launch his business. So, I think that's your idea. It's not his. I can see Look at him right now. I don't need any more. No, here's how here's how it's got to work with Georgie. He's got to think it's his idea. That's what I'm saying. If you think if he thinks it's his idea, he'll do it. If you won't listen to anybody else, though. So the what you got to do is exactly what I wanted. You have to subliminally convince him. I played you guys. I can play a drum like a little violin. Yeah. The average bear. Boom. Boom. I think maybe we should bring his brother John to have the two of them in a book. My brother My brother would Yeah. Oh my god. Oh, forget about it. Forget about Maybe your brother could do the What about Maybe your brother could do the t-shirts for the uh for the show. You want him to do the t-shirts for the show? Get me and Bobby the show. I got to talk to Michelle and see if she's doing t-shirt. It What they should do is have Georgie and Bobby MC the show. Are you kidding me? Are you That would be amazing. Are you kidding, dude? This ain't Ohio. None of the names. None of the names would be pronounced correctly. The the music would get [\h__\h] up. It would be like It would be like the biggest smash bang you ever saw. It would be hysterical. It would be hysterical. Tell Michelle to get to get buy one of get one of those order one of those boxing things. You know the thing you hit. Yeah. You know what I'm talking about that that boxing speed. He means that he means the thing that you know that game thing where you punch it much pressure. No. You need the He's already lost the focus on the cookies. Now he's got a punching bag. I wrote that off ages ago. No. You got anybody thinks you got cookies, you got nothing coming. There's no cookies. There's never going to be cookies. He'll show up. He'll have all these gimmicks and and no cookies. Could you imagine Georgie and the cookies the day before and they didn't make No cookies. Forget the cookies. There's no cookies. There's no cookies. Especially if you bring if you bring Bobby, then there's definitely no cookies. You eat them all on the way. So, you got to get a gong. All right. The gong is going to go behind the podium. Complicating it again. They going to do a G. Remember they did the gong show? The gong show. So you're gonna have the competitors come out and Bobby and George are you gonna have the mallets, the big [\h__\h] stick with the thing on the end and they're going to hit the gong when you know somebody's like not doing George. Hello. Wait a minute. George, didn't you guys find a gong you wanted me to buy? It was like It was like $1,000 or something. We did buy it. We did buy it. I wouldn't do it. They bought it themselves. John, I went 400 bucks. No, Blackman bought it. Oh, you didn't get blackman to pay for it, Steve. Yeah, but yeah, we put it on the bill. And where is it now? It was expensive. I remember that. I was like, you're not getting that gong. They said you're not spending $400 on a looking at the builtin. Nobody even knows what a Gong is on. They're listening to how loud that freaking thing was. That thing was so loud when you just back. It was like unbelievable. I don't even think they make gongs anymore. Does anyone know about 600,000 worth the costumes? All those costumes they got all the but Chuck Ferris, the gong show guy. Yes. Chuck Ferris. Chuck Ferris. Remember he was a secret agent and all that [\h__\h] John, do you remember? He was a CIA secret he had Adrien Barau on there with him. Oh god. remember her? Remember her? Yeah. She was like a 70s machine. She was a 70s 12. Yeah, man. I remember her. Oh, she was [\h__\h] awesome. Yeah. Adrien Barbau. She's an old lady now. You know what's funny, though? See, we're older, so we remember that [\h__\h] for a lot of Barbie Benton, too. Adrien Barau and Barbie. Barbie was my girl. I wrote her in my senior prom. That's the gong right there. $396 for this gong. Yeah. The stand and the mouth. I know it was. I know. Where is that Blackman? The Blackman has that. That thing was great. It was handmade. This thing. Yeah. Hand hammered. Wow. I bet you John can make one of these. I can guarantee John, you can make one of these. Oh, yeah. I could I would believe that. I We had the first Maybe you should make him a gong, John. You're always looking for new projects, John. cheaper just to buy that one. No, you got you got a couple months to do it. Come on. Make you make him a gong. All right. I'll tell Michelle George will be on the stage the whole show. If he doesn't like a competitor, he'll gong him. Yeah. That'll go over great next year with the next year's competitor. Can you imagine if the Olympia if they had a gong and like the judges could like if they didn't like the way someone looked, they could just gong you and their gun. Exactly. That was my whole point. Gong them off the stage. be great contest for the for the uh people who come there for the fans. The judges should have the ability to to gong you off the stage if they don't think you showed up in good enough shape. You should be like that's it. Yeah, but then half the people wouldn't even compete ever again. You lose all your competitors cuz they all need to get gonged. You know what, Greg? The audience would grow exponentially. Oh my god. It would be so They knew that the judges were going to gong somebody. Are you kidding me? pack the house to the rafters if that was going to happen. The audience is all the guys are telling them that's their family. Too close to these shows. These are [\h__\h] families. That's that would add another dimension. Get call them athletes rep Bob check. Let's see if we can get a gong in. We got to get the gong their own idea. I don't I don't imagine Imagine Weinberger standing up with a [\h__\h] mouth and whacking the gong. You know, he would love that. He would love that. Oh, I know. Hold on. What did Lee say? Mike Mensah pulled me aside one day and told me that Arthur Jones was God. That song How Great Thou Art was about Arthur. He told me while he was chain smoking in front of Gold. That's great. Oh man, if anybody had video cameras back then. All right, I got I gotta go. I The show has gone too long, but I actually enjoyed myself very much. Thank you, Alberto, for stopping by. Thank you for joining us live. We'll be back again next week with another installment of After Hours with the Wack Patton. See you later. Bye.