 kSESEA, naringin,phausabergolonililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililil one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RxTelevision, RxMuscle.com. I'm Sadiq Faruqi. This is Iron Debate. The show is back, and we are so glad to welcome you in to the 2025 Iron Road to the Olympia. Let's bring in our esteemed panel here as we are joined, of course, by Dave Palumbo, Mahmoud Aldera, now four weeks out from the Classic Physique Olympia, and Leo Mayahofa. Leo, we're going to start with you because you just had some interesting tidbits, some information. You just trained with Mike Sommerfeld. Now, many consider Mike Sommerfeld to be truly maybe the prohibitive favorite coming in for that Classic Physique, that vacated Classic Physique Olympia title. What can you tell us about what you just saw out of him four weeks out? Well, I know that Neil Hill was also on my podcast yesterday, so we'll have him on on Sunday. And he told me Mike is like about eight pounds out from the weight limit, and he's striated glutes. He looks really polished. His skin is amazing. His X taper is even better. He closed the gap he had between his thighs and the back shot, which was, I would say, his only real weakness, because his legs look smaller from the back. From the front, the legs are sweeping like insane from the side. It's like horse legs. The guy looks so aesthetic. And it's, I mean, to me, it's like, I don't see anyone beating him. No way. Like, I mean, anything can happen, but he looks so good. I think he, I see him like getting on his streak. If he comes in shape year after year, I don't see anyone beating him. Well, man, who's going to be on that Classic Physique Olympia stage is Mahmoud Aldera. First of all, welcome into the show. Welcome onto the 2025 Iron Road to the Olympia. How do you feel four weeks out? I feel good. I think, I think I look better than I did in Alabama. I'm ahead. I'm about maybe six, six pounds out from my, from my weight. But yeah, I'm hoping to bring in a nicer look than Alabama. Fixed a few things, brought up my legs a little bit in the last eight weeks, I would say, since the show. I'll probably be in maybe 5% more conditioned. And I was already very conditioned at my last show. But yeah, I mean, it's my first time doing Classic. And I didn't honestly believe or think that this would even happen. So this is all, any outcome is positive for me. Biggest difference prepping for the 212 Olympia years back versus prepping for the Classic Physique Olympia? Drug wise, I'm on a, I'm on way less stuff. I'm on a, what I call on, on Greg's Doucette, I call the dad cycle, which is, so I'm on that, you know, so health wise, I'm great. My blood work is, everything's fine. And I was, I was honestly doing the same cycle when I was not competing during the last seven years. So I was on that every summer. So I was like, let me try and diet and just see what happens, you know. And I think that's the biggest difference. Other difference is food. I don't eat as much, which is great. I only have three solid meals a day, two shakes, and that's it. So let's get into the first topic, the first topic of conversation. Of course, this past weekend, we saw Urs Kalsinski competing in his Open Class debut, winning the 2025 Italy Pro and qualifying for the Olympia, where we're going to see him back on stage this weekend at the IFBB Europa Pro, of course, finishing runner up, was Quinton Arias. You get a look at Urs Kalsinski making his Open Class debut and a successful one at that. So let's go around the horn first. Leo, your thoughts seeing Urs, again, you used to coach him back in the day, so you have a unique perspective, what you saw in his Open Class debut, winning the show outright. Yeah, well, I was also a little lucky to see a check-in quite early before the show, so 10 days out or something. So I knew what he would look like, I mean, by himself. Yeah, I think he won deservedly, and he should win Germany again. What was the question? How he's going to do in Germany? No, no, no, we'll get to that, but just your initial thoughts. Again, your unique perspective, you having obviously coached him, gotten some of, yeah. Yeah, I feel, I know that he's just the happiest person alive to not have to lose muscle and to not restrict his body where it wants to be. And he's, like, his mind is in a totally different place. It's like back when we were going to these pro qualifiers together and, yeah, we're like kind of the kids living the dream and then even winning. So he has the enthusiasm back, and I think you can see it on stage and in his videos. And I'm very happy for him. I think his look was amazing. And no, he does not look like Dorian Yates. Yeah, thank you. I saw a couple of these comments. I wanted to get your thoughts. I know because you came on and you were like, can I say anything? Anything is on the table. What do you make of the Ors, Dorian Yates, slash Dennis Wolf comparison? That is, that is the dumbest thing I have ever read. So, I read this comment like, what the fuck are these guys talking about? This is, uh, He looks like three people that look different to each other. You know what the problem is? I think it's, we're so desperate for news and for something like sensationalistic that people will put anything out there on social media. And you know what? A lot of times by putting sensationalistic stuff like that out there, it gets a lot of comments because people don't know what to talk about. There's kind of like a little bit of a lull right now, right? Leading up to the Olympia. Now it's kind of building a little bit. But I think that, you know, I noticed that sometimes the most outrageous, ridiculous stuff that people put up, it gets the most views. I mean, the whole, the whole Phil Klohar, uh, you know, Dorian Haywood thing at the Masters Olympia, that got way, way too many days of flight. And it really wasn't that big of a deal, but people are bored. You know, that we, we want controversy and, uh, we don't have enough controversy right now, which might be a good thing. But, uh, so we, we, you know, someone put up a picture because they happened to facially look a little bit alike and it blew up. But it's not even, I don't think it's, it's one of those things that that's controversial. There's no controversy. This is like saying, but you know what? A lot of these young guys don't know what Dorian looked like back in the day. So they see pictures on them and they say, well, it looks kind of the same, but if you ever saw Dorian in person or actually, you know, were there or even looked at magazine pictures, you'd know that there's no comparison whatsoever. Yeah. There's no comparison whatsoever. They put this offseason picture of Dorian next to Urs being like on stage. It's like, buddy, have you, and then they're like, oh, they, they weight the same on stage. I'm like Dorian in his, these famous black and white pictures, uh, Dorian was like more conditioned than Urs was. And that was probably 20, 25 pounds over what he competed at. He was as shredded as a classic physique guy. And he was that heavy. So, I mean, you know, if, if Dorian, if Urs would get the 92 haircut from Dorian, I mean, that would be epic. And then look to the side on his, on his, uh, last spread. I'm giving him that one. Yeah. Well, okay. So let me bring this angle up. I mean, again, we're talking about maybe to you guys will be a laughable comparison at this moment, but would you give any credence to saying that, well, maybe Urs could be in the mold of a Dorian in the shape of a Dorian, but I mean, again, obviously it's going to be years and years and years to even dream of putting on that kind of a mask, that kind of a shape. No, no, absolutely not. No, there's, there's even genetically they are. Maybe he has a little bit of, uh, of the chest, like in, in that crest area, there was like this little bump. That's the only thing I can be like, Oh, okay. They have that kind of looking the same, uh, obviously maybe the hair color, but other than that, when you look at Dorian's back and where is his back is, is not good. He does not have a good back double bicep. He doesn't have much hamstrings at all. And just the idea of comparing both together is just like comparing some, um, random guy to Ronnie Coleman, just cause he has a little bit of an X frame. Well, or his hamstrings though, like the back is lacking, but the hamstrings are pretty good. No, no, put a, put a, no, put a side. No, no, hold on a second. Are you talking about good or as bad or as in for the open class? No, just his hamstrings is his weak point to put a side chest. There's no hamstrings. It's not there. It's just the quads. He's got glutes. He's got glutes. There's no hamstrings at all from the sides. Yeah. You're talking about backshot. Now you're talking about a side shot. Okay. Dorian's side, side shot was, was everything. I think, I think, I think what you, I think what you mean is he's got hamstrings, they're ripped from behind, but when you stand to the side, it looks like the hamstring drops. It's not really a hamstring drop. It's really your adductors getting pressed against your other leg that drops. So his, his middle, his inner thighs, his adductor compartment is a little weak. I think that that's what he needs to bring up. He's got good quads though. Really good quads. Yeah. Good quads. He's pretty dense. Um, good shape. I love the person. It's the shape of his head and the haircut. Probably it's just that facial features that resemble Dorian. And I think that that's what people are picking up on. He definitely looks like him. They definitely have a resemblance to each other. There's no doubt. They're both European. So just like saying all the black guys look the same. No, it's that they, they have, they have an absolute resemblance to each other. Okay. Okay. I look like, let's bring up this angle because again, this was a debated topic when Orr's made the announcement that he was going to be going to the open class. Chris Bump said, came out and said that it's a controversial opinion in his own words, but if you were to give the top end of the classic physique lineup, a good offseason and put them all into the open class, that the open class would be a complete shakeup. They would look completely, completely different. Leo, what do you say to that? I'm, I'm thinking who could move up. Um, so the top end, from the top end, Ramone, everyone will say Mike, Summerfeld, Summerfeld, right. But the more has to stay healthy. Wesley's condition. So if Mike would be as healthy as anyone else, um, I would say yes, but I don't think he will ever try that because he needs to have his blood work perfect and stay healthy. He can't overdo that stuff. Um, so I don't think Mike's ever going to do that. Um, he could, if he would be healthy, yes, then Ramone definitely could do that. Um, Wesley, no, I, sorry, but I know how it is to not have the greatest legs and I don't see them ever being competitive in the open. I hope I'm wrong for Wesley if he tries, but I don't believe it proved me wrong. And hopefully he's not mad at me for that, but I really doubt that. Um, opera body wise. Yeah. Um, who else do we have? Um, the short guys would never make it in the open, like a rough diesel. No. Yeah. Dave, you made this point in heavy muscle ready the other day. You feel like that opinion would apply more to the taller classic. Yeah. But Logan, do you think Logan has enough? I don't think he has, has open genetics potential. He absolutely does. He absolutely does. No, no, I disagree. I don't think, no, I disagree with that. Yeah. Yeah. I, I agree with Leo. I don't think, uh, I don't think Logan has enough muscle mass to switch to open plus age is not right now. I think he, yeah, again, the point is not right now. The point is again, if you don't think he has a potential to gain that much. Yeah, I don't, I don't think, yeah, exactly. I don't think he can gain that much. He's in his thirties. I think he went, he went from men's physique to, to, to where he is now. And he looks, I mean, it's a tremendous amount of muscle he gained. How many jumps came to where they are now? Yeah. No one's how close to see to his limit. You know, that's the question. I think, I don't, I don't think he can at his age in particular at a certain age, I think it's very hard to add on that, that kind of muscle and that kind of, you're right. You're right. You're right. Let me give you another one Grego. He might, he might, he might. You could. He's with Asito. Asito is usually also very conservative. So if he goes to, uh, Chet Nichols. Listen, is there, is there a classic guy out there who's young, who, if they felt they could do it, wouldn't go to the open class? I say probably 98% of them would. There's maybe a couple of guys that have some medical issues. Maybe they don't want to push the envelope too much. And I understand that, but I think most classic guys go to classic because that's where they fit in, uh, when they're younger. And then all of a sudden they start to grow like hers. And all of a sudden they're like, you know, I can do this open thing. I still got plenty of years left behind under my belt and there's a lot more glory, a lot more money. And, you know, I'm still going to be classic. I'm just going to be classic in, in the open division. And I'm going to, I'm going to beat a lot of these guys because I have a better structure than them. So I think it's a great idea. We said it right from the beginning, Chris Ocino and I, the classic division is really a farm system for the open. Not everyone will cross over. It looks like not everyone goes from playing minor league baseball to major league baseball, but if you can do it, why not? I mean, there's a lot more glory and money and, and let's face it, we're not doing this for, you know, for as a hobby. Most guys are doing this for, to make a living. And if you could win, you know, 400, 500, you know, six, $700,000, you know, winning the Arnold or the Olympia, Dubai, you know, Pittsburgh. I mean, who's, who's not going to do that? I mean, you'd be crazy not to do that. What's the name of that Russian kid? There's this new, there's this new classic guy. I think he's competing soon. I think he's, he's Russian baby face with blue eyes. Anton. Anton. Yeah. Anton Ratushni. Anton Swole. Yeah. There's another one that, I don't think that's a, that's just him. I know who he was talking to. You think that's a 21 year old kid? I think so. Yeah. Very small waist, ginormous legs, huge arms. Was it, was he, was he Brazilian or was he Russian? Okay. I think he, I think he was Russian. Oh. You, you, you're a guy that just trained with Hany Rambot. No, no, I haven't seen him with Hany. No, no. Okay. Well, let me throw a couple of names. Uh, Jose Manuel Munoz. If we're talking about young classic, was he competitive, right? Okay. Yeah. Um, the guy who finished 11th in his debut last year, uh, Kyle, England, Nile Darwin, Nile Darwin. He might also have, uh, the potential to get really big. Maybe he put on a lot. Like when you look at him in 2022 or so, or 23, uh, he put on a lot. Yeah. You know who I'm thinking of too. Uh, he went to two 12 and came back. Um, and I, I think he's also pretty young. His name is Valentin Petrov. He won the fever. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. That's what I'm talking about. Yeah. He has such a good physique. I was like, why did you do so bad in the two 12? I don't, maybe he was not in that condition that he needed to, because this guy has a crazy good, I love his physique. Um, let me ask you this, uh, Mahmoud, because again, you transferred from two 12 and the classic physique right now, this is a point of debate that I feel like we've had for a few years now. And that is gone. Oh, he was like, I'm out. I'm out. You know, I was going to bring up the fact that, and Leo, maybe you can answer this as a classic physique competitor. Like Dave and Chris made the point and Dave just reiterated right now, that classic physique is essentially now kind of a farm system, right? For the open class. I, I, I tend to disagree because I feel as if there are a lot of classic physique competitors who just prefer that look. This is the look that they feel as if allows them to bring the best or is, was carrying a lot of size, right? There were a lot of questions to whether or not he was going to stay in the open, right? I mean, Steve Weinberger said it himself. I interviewed him after the New York pro. He openly asked the question. Look, he's looking very big. I don't know if he's going to stay in classic. Maybe he's going to the open, but to you, you yourself, your fellow classic physique competitors, is there a segment of you that say, we just like this look. We prefer to stay within this frame, within this look and not necessarily chase the open. Oh no. I, I think, um, Earth is a really good, um, example for people to go after now that they see it, that it's also like possible to do well. So it will. Um, and I think most of the guys turn pro open, then they stay open, but a lot of classic guys that just grow too much will be like, well, earth did it. I just keep growing. Why shouldn't I? And it could really reshape the open, uh, criteria also a little bit. It could bring better posing. So the other posers will be like the other, uh, competitors will be more eager to, you know, put some work into their poses because, uh, posing because, um, you know, if you win the Olympia and like number 10 out poses you by a landslide, I don't know if you, that doesn't feel good. If you're the best in the world and you're outdone in a certain, you know, area. So maybe that will, I think a few guys will move up. I think Ramon also said he will eventually move up. He just doesn't know which year, but it's going to happen. This is the way I look at it. There is more than just the competition aspect of it, right? There's a marketability aspect. You don't think there is a crop of classic physique competitors. And again, I want, I wouldn't know what the percentage is that say to themselves, look at how Bumstead did, right? Being the flashback bearer of the classic physique division, right? It's a marketability. It's a very marketable look as is men's physique. Just to an extent. Now, do you look at that from a perspective of, all right, look, I could, I would have to put on a ton of size in order to chase that rabbit. Urs is a big dude. He put on a lot of size, but this has been progressive over the course of the last three years. Is that realistic for the vast majority of classic physique competitors? I think hard to say probably for most of the guys, they don't have that hypertrophic potential. I would guess I don't have it. I can't be an open guy ever. Like I have a hard time filling classic out. Um, so you, you, I can't look into people's muscle fibers. I would need to know more about their history and how they grew into what they are right now. Um, but I, I think a bunch of people will take the same route. And obviously like same with Keon, I'm like, dude, you get second at the Arnold in the open. You went three times as much as like, you know, three times an Olympia win. Like he had all the three Olympias he won. He gets less money than getting second at the Arnold in open. So the open class and being an aesthetic guy in the open class, that's also something, uh, um, the, the people are looking for. So you're more marketable in the open class. You don't have that much, you know, aesthetic competition in the open class. You get actually more eyeballs. So I think the open class is, is still more, uh, is still more beneficial financially for the athlete. Two words. Lee priest. Lee priest, Lee priest, Lee priest, Lee priest. Lee priest made of his whole legacy in the open class. And he was always the shortest guy on stage. So, uh, I think if you have the ability to move to open, whether you're coming from two 12 or you're coming from classic, you should make the move. Not everyone has the ability to move like that because a lot of guys can't mentally, you know, mobilize enough muscle, you know, and say to themselves, you know what? Yeah, I started in classic, but, but really, the end goal is to win the Mr. Olympia in the open class. I have the tool set. I have the structure. I'm going to put the muscle on. I'm going to, I'm going to put my nose to the grindstone. Not everyone wants to do that, but the people who do, who can do that should do it. It's, it's silly. You're putting all this, you're putting the same drugs into your body. You're putting the same stresses on your body. You're going to the gym. You're doing the diet. You might as well get the rewards. Like Leo said, you might as well cash in and make as much money as you can and be as, you know, as pop. I would rather be like he said, number one, two or three, uh, or even top five at the Mr. Olympia in the open than, than be, you know, than win the classic physique Olympia five times, you know, it's just, I don't know. I think more, but are you though, are we, are there, are they taking, are they taking the same drugs in the two 12 as they would in the open? Yes, they are. Yeah. The men's physique guys take the same drugs as the open guys. Now, are there people that go overboard and take too much? Yeah. Well, there's guys to do that in the bikini. This bikini girls that take trenbolone and testosterone. That doesn't mean they should. It just means that there are people who do that. But the majority of people, I think in classic and open, take the same drugs. Yeah. I do. Let me wrap this topic up with you. I mean, again, you, when you, before you got cut off, you might be an exception because, because, you know, you can't, if you take it, you'll never make the weight, you know, but most people take the same drugs. Okay. Yeah. Cause I noticed, uh, yeah, I have to significantly reduce everything to bring myself down to one 87. So, right. Right. You're a separate, you're a second, a different circumstance. You're not the typical. Yeah. I suppose. I suppose. But I would, I would think Keon being genetically superior, I would think that he would still be on much less drugs than some of these open guys. And if he'd had to switch, I think he'd have to increase everything. But by the way, I don't think Keon needs to get any bigger. I think he's perfect. Yeah. I agree. You're right in there now. And at the same weight, he was last year at the Olympia and probably be top five at the Olympia. I could imagine 90% of the men's physique guys take more than Keon. You're probably right. Right now. You're probably right. If, if, if, if, if Keon were to announce tomorrow, I'm going to the open class in 2025, I've had fun of the 212. Where would he place at this 2025, this shirt Olympia? Mahmoud, you first. Okay. So I have first and second between first, second and third and fourth is obviously Dauda, Nick and Derek and... You don't think Keon is shaping up that top three at the moment or top four. I, I, I can see him being closest to Derek and beating Derek because I'm, I'm always, you always have to compare the most similar physiques. And I would say he's, he's a better version of Derek. He's the same height. He has way better arms, way nicer arms. Maybe Derek is much thicker or has a little bit more density. I think he's a lot shorter than Derek, don't you? But yeah, well, again, no, I don't think he's that much. No, no, no. I don't think he's that much shorter because I saw Keon, I saw Keon in New York pro in 2018 and I think he was a little bit shorter than me, like maybe that much. Oh yeah. But I'm as tall as Derek. Yeah. I, I, I, I feel like he's shorter, but, but I know what you, I know what you're getting at. I see what you're saying though. I think, yeah, he, he would replace. I have him, I have him probably in third, anywhere from third to fifth place in this year. Yeah. That would be a minor. Yeah. I, that's, that's a sweet spot. You think he, oh, here's a hit. You want to throw some controversy at him? Does he beat Nick Walker? Oof. Um, maybe with seven pounds more, seven pounds more muscle. I think he would. Yeah. Eight pounds more. Yeah. Seven pounds. Seven pounds. Yeah. I would say if Nick and Keon are a hundred percent, I would think Keon would win. Um, it really depends on how, how, yeah, how conditioned the other guys come. But if everyone's like a hundred percent, I don't see him winning. Um, but he could potentially win because also we haven't like a lot of them, like most of them don't come in at a hundred percent every show. Hottie. No one. We've never had a show. Hottie. Hottie. Hottie is always, Hottie's always a hundred. Hottie's the lone exception. Hottie wasn't a hundred percent last year. No, but he's close to it. He's closer to a hundred percent. Close. Yeah. He's the most consistent. So I would say one to five. It could be anything. Let's take up our last topic. I see him either way. I see him either way beating Derek. Just because they're very similar and it's just like a better version. Let's wrap it up with our last topic, guys. So this came out about a week and a half ago. It was the new rules, not for this Olympia, but for the 2026 qualification. It doesn't affect the men's open class, but notably it does affect classic physique, men's physique, bikini, and wellness. But again, both of you being classic physique pros, so let's drill down on that. The big talking points, the big broad strokes, I guess, if you want to call it that, with the exception of the Olympia, with the exception of the Arnold, Dubai, Pittsburgh, Romania, New York, and aforementioned Arnold, you cannot win one show and claim an Olympia spot. You have to win essentially two shows or finish in the top 25. And then the additional spots go to Olympia top three and the winners of those aforementioned shows. Mahmoud? I think it's... I love it. I love a challenge. And I think they even need to tie the knot a little bit more. So you want it even more? That was going to be the next place I go. You feel as... Because it still grants about 32, 33 spots, if my math is correct. Way too much. Obviously, with no repeat winners or whatever. You feel like there should be even less competitors at the classic physique Olympia? Yeah, yeah. I think 20 at most. I think it's 20 at most. And I think the point system that they have, I think, I don't know, they said like the top 25 guys or something like that. Top 25 of the point bearers, yeah. Yeah, no, it should be top 15. And then two pro show winners, that's perfect. And then you have the other five shows that lead to a qualification, the Arnold Classic and whatnot. I think 20 guys is more than enough. And that way, at least if you go into the Olympia as a classic competitor and you earn that qualification, at least that alone would be such a big accomplishment. Like I am either way top 20 on the planet, wherever I place. So I think they should tighten the knot a little bit more. Zio? If they have 60 classic shows a year and every show is going to have, like we have 32 show winners. We're going to have 60 something competitors again. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. I kind of like the system. Maybe they will, if we have too many two show winners, they'd be like, dang, we have to subtract them from the 25. Or like count them into the 25, but just that they're safe. That might be an issue. What is also an issue with the list is always, when do you close it? So when's the last show to qualify? Because some people will have to start a prep. And then they were like, oh, I'm out. So, um, as it's kind of, maybe they have to close it maybe eight weeks out instead of four. Um, and, you know, change the calendar up a little bit. So it's, it's a little more better for the athlete to have a little time to, because otherwise everyone's going to jump into the last three shows because they're like afraid they, they need more points. That's going to happen probably, but it's a little unfortunate, I think. But I like the reduction and I don't think it's, it's bad. I mean, if, if I would ever win a show, I'd probably be good enough to get enough points in the, in the following shows. And I don't, I don't personally compete on the hell of a drugs that I'm like done after a show and I'm hospitalized. So I can do five, six shows. I don't mind. And if I win one, I'll, I'll get enough points. So I don't really think it's going to be that much harder for people that have some endurance, maybe for people that are like, start binging every time after they have a show. And that's going to be hard. I want to make a comment, see, cause I have to go because I have an appointment, but I'm going to throw something. I've been thinking about this very deeply and, uh, I have, I have, I have another solution. I'll throw it at that. You guys can debate it when I leave. Why not make it the top three at the Olympia? You know, the first place at the Arnold, New York pro Pittsburgh pro Dubai pro. Cause those are the, those are the highest prize money. I think the Romania has a very high prize money. So you're going to get a good lineup at those shows. So that brings us up to about 10 people. Right. And then five more people get invited. Now, how do you, how do you invite five people? Well, the judging panel of the Olympia sits down at some kind of conference they have toward the end of the year. And they decide looking at all the winners of all the shows of the rest of the shows throughout the whole year, they decide who the next best, I mean, it doesn't have to be five. It could be another 10 people if you want 15, whatever, seven people. They invite five to 10 more people in that lineup that they think actually will do well at the Olympia. So it's kind of an elimination round type of thing right then and there. And that, and so they, they invite 15 to 20 people in every class. And that, I mean, 15, 20 people will be in every class. That's the max only if you want to qualify for the Olympia directly without having to worry about being selected. You could, you have to win one of the major shows that place top three at the Olympia. And that's it. That's it. That solves your problem. The way the point system is now, the, the weakness to it is you can place second through fifth and never win a show and make it to the Olympia if you do enough shows. And that person will never do well at the Olympia. So as far as I'm concerned, they're a workhorse, but they probably don't deserve to be on the Olympia stage. What do you think about that idea? Well, couldn't I argue that you just kind of built in an elimination round? We're going from about 38 to 45 classic physique to now, what's going to be next year? What? So in office elimination. In other words, the, the, the Olympia judges are doing an elimination based on looking at all the, the, the winners from the, over the course of the year. So if there's 60 shows, they're looking at 60 winners and they have to decide who of those people should go. They got to pick seven people. These are the best seven people. In addition to the people who qualify automatically. Wouldn't that leave a lot of room for ambiguity? A lot of room for like. Yeah. That would be a disaster. That would be a disaster. Those are the guys that are going to be judging these people on stage anyway. So who better to pick the people to go than, than, than the Olympia judges. If you want to directly qualify, win a big show. That's it. There's no guarantee. This is the Superbowl. And I know who, who, because the judges that are sitting at the Olympia or the judges that are, are choosing the athletes to go to the Olympia have not necessarily seen the rest of the athletes in person. Like they're only seeing pictures. Imagine a show that has shit lighting. Well, then you have to get an, then you have to put together an international panel selection panel of, of, so that you have a representative of every person so that you can say everyone has seen, every judge has seen everyone and everyone submits. That's not, that's going to open a Pandora's box to every conspiracy theory ever known to man. Yeah. It doesn't matter because there's going to be people that do directly qualify. It's just the other people are going to be invited. And will there be some swayed decisions? Sure. But at least we will have 15 to 20 people max on that Olympia stage. And it will be, I can guarantee you, it will pretty much be the best in the world. And just make a tough 10 list. Or we just do a point system and the top 10 of the guys that have points qualify. But that, you don't always get the best people that way. You get the people that have the most endurance, you know, for the sport, essentially. You know, that's the problem. Good for them. They still deserve a, they still deserve a lot. Yeah, but they deserve, but they're not going to do well. If I place fifth at 20 shows during the year and I qualify for the Olympia, do you think I'm really going to do good at the Olympia? That defines an athlete, though. How far can you go? Hard work can give you, like, can beat the talent then. I like it. And also it's more merit-based. We're in America. Exactly. We're not in a communist country. It's a tough, it's a tough thing. I think what they did is definitely helpful. Absolutely. But I know I've talked to promoters myself and these promoters that now have shows that don't have automatic qualifications are not happy because now they feel like their number is going to drop because people are going to say, well, I don't want to do your show because your show is not an automatic qualifier. And, you know, it's not going to help me out. You know, obviously that's a silly mindset because it will help them out because if you have to get multiple wins, like I, who did we interview, Dari? Remember I interviewed that men's physique guy? He won two shows on the same weekend in Alabama. I forget who his name was. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I remember. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, he did a double. He got two wins on the same weekend. That would have given him a ton of points. You know what I mean? Yeah. You know, you can get things like that happening, you know. But the biggest conspiracy that's going to arise from the judges choosing who goes to the Olympia is the first thing people are going to go to, they're going to go to their social media and they're going to be like, oh, okay, well, it's basically the best, the most popular guys or to what it seems like maybe there's going to be some kind of bias to, hey, let's bring in the most popular. Well, you still have to, you know, but you still got to win a show. No one's going to invite someone who hasn't won a show. No, but to my mood, a Spanish judge would be like, I have one hot athlete out of Spain. You know, that's my pick. Right, but that's one vote. That's one vote. So if you only get one vote. But no, no, but to his point, again, you're opening up way too much interpretation under that. There's no interpretation. If you win a show and they throw all the winners into the hat and they look at who the good winners are, they pick the best. It's going to happen on the stage anyway, you know. So, but yeah, but then you're going to be looking for judges who have seen all these athletes in person. That doesn't make sense. There's guys like Steve Weiberg who goes to every major show. So he's seen the majority of them. And Tyler, Manion has seen the other majority. I've done shows where there was no Tyler and there was no Steve. Hold on. Between Tyler, Steve, and Sandy, they probably see 98% of the shows through the whole year. No, no. None of them were in Alabama. None of them were in Utah. Yeah. It won't work. And do you think the winner of Alabama and Utah are going to win the Olympia? No, no. I'm just breaking your balls. I'm breaking your balls. But the point I'm making is that there has to be a cutoff somewhere. You know what I mean? At some point. You winning next year, you winning Alabama won't qualify you for the Olympia. Yeah. Well, may the toughest man survive. Let's see how many shows you can do a year. Yeah, let's go. Yeah. I got to go, guys. And on that note, that's going to do it for this episode of Iron Debate. Guys, a lot of fun having you on. We'll do this over the course of the next four weeks leading into the Olympia. Leo Maya Hoffa, Mahmoud Aldera, Dave Palumbo. I'm Sadiq Faruqi. Thank you for watching.