Welcome to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo, and today is Wednesday, February 17th, 2016, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. The 2016 bikini season is finally upon us, and it looks like budding star Adriana Hill is ready to show the world what she's been working on this offseason. Last season was really a banner year for the third-year pro who snagged her first career win and Olympia qualification along with a few other top five finishes for good measure. Now that she's got a few more assets in her arsenal to work with for the new season, she's certainly someone you're going to want to keep a close eye on as the year moves along. Get out your pens and paper because secondyear pro Ian Valier is handing out lessons on chess training. Over the weekend, he released some video from another intense offseason workout where we see the future star completely smashing five plates for reps. Valier's physique has improved by leaps and bounds over the past few years and it doesn't look like 2016 is going to be an exception. And so don't be surprised if we see the young Canadian sneak up on a few people and bring home some top finishes before all is said and done in 2016. Fresh off another stellar season that saw him crack the top five in a very deep super heavyweight lineup at the USA Championships, Big John Ward is gearing up to make another strong push toward earning his IFBB Pro card. Late last week, the California powerhouse leaked some footage from a recent chess training session in preparation for what could very well be his last year as an amateur. Ward already has a more than enough muscle to hold his own with anyone in the MPC. And if he dials it in 100%, it's hard to imagine anyone being able to stand between him and Destiny. After a successful season that saw him return to the stage for the first time in nearly 3 years, Al Augusty's road to reclamation is still alive and well. After battling through a series of injuries that kept him sidelined for the entire 20145 seasons, Augusti rebound in a major way, taking home the win at the Tampa Pro before going on to place top 10 at the Olympia. Once upon a time, Augusti was considered one of the top dogs in the 212 division. And with another victory or two under his belt this season, it won't be long before we start hearing his name mentioned in those conversations once again. If you're a fan of the women's physique division, get out your pens and mark your calendars because women's physique is coming back to the greatest city on earth. This weekend, it was announced that the New York Pro would play host to some of the divisions leading ladies once again as they hit the stage under the bright lights of New York. Remember, it was last year's New York Pro win that catapulted Loria Watts all the way to the Figure Olympia crown. So, who knows what sort of fortunes might lie ahead for this year's women's physique champ. Stay tuned. And finally, I'd like to wish our very own IFBB ProLeague president, Mr. Jim Manion, a very happy birthday. No, sorry. I won't be texting him in the middle of muscle in the morning today, but it is kind of cool that he and I share the same birthday along with IFBB pros Todd Juel and Mimi Jaby. So, happy birthday to all the unique February 17th birthdays. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out iron magabs.com. Today I'm your host Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions. And make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo!