Daniel Fletcher from rxmuscle.com. I'm here with the two owners of XCD Nutrition. Um, a new supplement brand to the Australian market that's taken Australia by storm. Um can you talk a little bit Matt about your new intravenous? Okay so uh this has actually been in development for about a year. Uh what we originally started off with was the idea of making a branch chain amino acid to have intra-workout that would uh combine and work in unison with our uh our first products actually our flagship product VIP. Um we were throwing around the ideas of uh using various like ingredients and uh different combinations and things like that. And um what we ended up coming to design was uh would actually double as a non- steam pre-workout and a branch chain amino acid intra-workout. So um we've actually got some unique ingredients in here such as uh like coconut water extracts. coconut water electrolytes for uh hydration which supports recovery and supports the branched chain amino acids in their actions. And uh we put uh Hydroax in there and we got uh 4 g of Hydramax glycerol, you know, the pump formula uh per advanced uh serve. So that's in a double scoop and also the uh Noob Booster Agmatine sulfate. Um and we've actually the the coolest thing actually is the flavors. We've designed them to stack with the VIP flavors. So, you can stick uh an intravenous scoop into your shaker pre-workout along with a uh VIP scoop pre-workout and you get like a brand new flavor and they go together. So, that was actually part of uh the lengthy development of this was to get them to work together cuz we wanted it to work in unison and you know be the best. And Chris, um, talking to you earlier, um, you guys have really hit the flavoring on the head. Like, every product I've tried is is very, very nice in flavor. Um, what what is your favorite flavor of any one of your products? And what products is it? Uh, the new orange spider VIP. Easy. Yep. Yep. It's the best. Simple, but just easy to drink. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. And I I think it really helps with used to also being bodybuilders as well. So you really got an idea on what we need uh when we're training, before we're training, and after we're training. Um so I think it's a really really good blend and I can honestly see your business, you know, really skyrocketing through the roof. So, um I wish you all the best and um and yeah, and keep up the good work because you both there hit the nail on the head and um we believe in what we do and uh when you believe in what you believe uh you you make unreal products. So, I mean my gym bag is full of this. I use it every day, especially the VIP. And uh and you obviously use all all the products as well. Yeah, I use them all. Every single one of them every day. Yeah. Yep. So, well, that's good. Anyway guys, thank you very much for your time and good luck with XCD Nutrition and keep the good work. No worries. Thanks.