the state you want the natural clean in Acapulco, Mexico. How do you feel? Up to the eighth, explain to the fans how you feel right now. I'm happy because it was an experience, but this encourages me to keep going, to look for another opportunity, and now I'm not going to see how it is, how it will turn out, but to win first place. My style is unique; people really like the way you pose on the catwalk. So, definitely, how has the experience been over the years you've had in Mexico? Coming here to a stage in the US is very different. Obviously, the level in Mexico is exhausted; there wasn't as much competition. Here, obviously, the competition is stronger, so I have to improve. I just have to keep improving to be able to reach the guys at that level. We have a better physique, we're bigger, with more mass, but with better conditioning than what we have in Acapulco. What do you attribute that to? What do you think helped you in this competition, to get in such good condition? Mainly, the idea of ​​improving myself, of having a better physique. Secondly, trying to reach the level that they are here.  Introducing the Copper athletes, well, my pride in being able to keep moving forward, obviously the diet, the exercise, and the teamwork have helped me keep going. Now people want to know where they're going to see me again. They can find me on Facebook as Yaco Guarnieri Jacob (with a double K) and Warner (with a double N). Also, if you want to follow me, I have some upcoming professional events. I'm planning to compete in Florida, in Lord West, Coral Springs, and possibly in Europe at the Europa Games in Phoenix, Arizona, on October 25th. I have a lot of fans, so stay tuned. And after this package you've brought, what would be your best advice for these fans who are watching to get into your physical condition? Well, more than anything, don't get discouraged. First, be patient, exercise properly, train, and think like I do: if you train very hard, think that in another part of the world, or in another part of your city, or in another part of the gym, there's someone else training twice as hard as you. So you can't give up; you have to keep moving forward. theatrical to give you 100 in 211,000 percent Yago Warner tours in generating and is super America would like if you are no longer Acz Yaguana weapons or are here