Scitech Nutrition Premium Quality products State of the Art look uncompromised ingredient quality Our products work and taste good www.sytecnutritions here with rxmuscle docom We're here at the Mr. Mexico Classic in Mexico City and what's better than one Puerto Rican in Mexico, two Puerto Ricans around the world is pending interview let's talk straight how you feel here in Mexico I feel super happy with all the love and support that people have shown me you can imagine how happy I am to be here we had out there with an incredible line of people When you arrived and you were like this you saw I had several followers here but I did n't imagine it would be so much so Imagine I'm still in disbelief I'm so happy I'm the first time you've seen an event here yes the first time I'm here in Mexico and now that you're seeing how the sport works here what do you think well I loved this I like that people support the sport a lot here Besides there are many athletes I like that a lot so they're going to give me here Soon I'm sure yes  Well, we saw you with the Nutrex company, we're really happy about that. I have a lot of girls asking me about the line, so please tell me the truth, since you're friends with her. What does Yarishna use to look like that from the line? What's the stack, the cycle? My favorite is Lipo Black, I love it, so I recommend it to everyone. Explain to me, when you take it, why do you feel so much energy? Besides, I'm also burning fat and all that, so I recommend it to all those girls who want to know my secret. That's one of my secrets and one of my favorite products. So always keep an eye on my pages because I'm always posting all the products I use to stay like this. This is to finish up, my love, because that's your thing, my love, my loves, my loves. Tell me, what did we do this year? You did several shows, and each show you looked better and better. You're there, five shows, and you kept getting better and better, and your fanbase keeps growing. When are we going to see you again? Possibly, and I'm giving you the scoop: at the Arnold in Brazil.  Wow, Arnold from Brazil! Tell me, why Arnold from Brazil? Because, well, because I want to go there, because we're Latinos and we're going there to represent Puerto Rico with so much pride! Wow, that's a scoop here! You know, because we're family. The last thing I'm going to tell you is that people are watching you in their homes all over the world, especially in Puerto Rico. Send a message with lots of love and affection. Hey, I want to send a huge hug and kiss to all those beautiful people in Puerto Rico who always support me, to my coach Carlos, to Cholo, for always being there from the beginning, to all my family, to all my followers, to Cristian who always supports me, to all my people. I send you a kiss and a big hug. And is it true that you're a Cambumba? Yes, I'm a Cambumba at heart, from Mexico to the whole world. The two Puerto Ricans, Johny Bikini Pro, bye!