It's the weekend here at Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo. Today is Friday, May 20th, 2016. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Patience is a virtue most sports fans seem to have a short supply of. But by tomorrow, all that patience and anticipation that this year's New York Pro event will come to a head with what on paper appears to be one of the best lineups we're going to see all season. And that means that it's almost time for species nutrition athlete Brian Yurski to make his first trip back to the pro stage since 2014. The former NPC national champ certainly seemed to make the most of his long sbatical, packing on all sorts of muscle in all the right places. That'll serve him well as he squares off to do battle against a roster of naturalb born monsters. Yski is heading into this show bigger and sharper than we've ever seen him before. And in a few days, he'll finally get a chance to validate the blood, sweat, and tears that he's put in all these past few years with what will hopefully be a very happy ending. Speaking of blood, sweat, and tears, our old friend Big Heath Williams has been busy putting in some work of his own. After years of taking criticism for having a blocky midsection, Williams went back to the lab this offseason and emerged with what looks to be a dramatically improved and much more streamlined look. Last season, Williams really seemed to come into his own, earning his first career top six placing and showing all sorts of improvements in each of his three contests. When he's on top of his game, Williams hits the stage at a shredded 260 plus pounds and packs enough muscle to stand there and trade shots with just about anyone. And now that he's added a new dimension to his physique, getting a little bit closer to that coveted X-frame, it'll be curious to see what sort of damage he can do as he dials it all in. Alexis Rone is a man on a mission. Just a few weeks out from making his long-awaited pro debut, the former NPC National Overall Champion has the Jedi Focus dialed up to an all-time high as he prepares for the biggest contest of his young career. At the moment, Rolong's physique is looking Freddy Krueger scary, packing enough muscle, shape, and crazy vascularity that it should be giving his competition plenty of nightmares. With just about three weeks to go until his first IFBB contest, the first NPC national champ from Puerto Rican descent has to be considered a serious threat to show up and make history in front of what is certain to be a rockus crowd. And if he can find a way to dig deep and pull out the win, I think you might be able to make the argument that it's the most historically significant rookie win in the history of bodybuilding. The men's physique lineup at the upcoming New York Pro is stacked from top to bottom. But if you're looking for a dark horse to come in and steal some thunder, I would put my money on Jeremy Podin. The outstanding second-year pro already has first and second place finishes on the books this season. And it looks like he's in prime condition to step up and make a strong push to add another impressive win to his quickly growing resume. Potfin has classic wide shoulders with a small waist that literally jumps out at you the minute you see him on stage. As long as he doesn't have any lastminute mishaps, it seems like he should be right in the mix of things up there in the first call out. Over the last few years, there's been a flood of new talent pouring into bodybuilding from our neighbors to the north, and this year doesn't look to be any exception. Just about 10 weeks out from making his IFBB Pro debut, last year's Canadian National Champion, Mike Cypriyani, is starting to round into shape. The 270 lb Cypriani spent his offseason packing on a ton of new size and is heading into the Baltimore Pro 10 weeks from now, looking to make a name for himself. When he's in shape, Cypriani has enough good parts to make things interesting in the right lineup. So, if he buckles down and does his homework over the next two months, he'll have a shot to follow in the massive shadow of fellow 2015 Canadian National Pro Card winner Paulo Almeida and step right into the mix and make an immediate impact on the pro scene. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo!