So when you break down muscle, the internal components of the muscle cell are made of actin meosin. That's protein, which is the majority of the cell, which is why you need so much protein in your diet. But the outer portion is made of fat. Some of it's made from cholesterol fat. Some of it's made from saturated fat, but a lot of it is is made from what we call essential fatty acids. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Now, we have two other macronutrients we haven't discussed. Fats and protein, excuse me, fats and um carbs. They're both fuel sources, okay, for the body. Which one do we want to use? Now, something needs to be expendable when you're dieting, right? If you want to lose weight, you got to take something out. You're not taking protein out. We just we spent 20 minutes explaining why you can't remove protein, but you can take out fats or carbs and or both, right? But which is a better option? Well, let's let's look at fats for a minute, which tend to be vilified. You know, people see think of fat as fat getting fat. And I think that's they probably should have changed the term. They probably should say essential, you know, oils or something like that because I think it people equate, you know, dietary fat with white fat on their body that they store and that's really just not a good it's really not a good comparison. And eating fat doesn't really make you fat because what is the one hormone that causes you to get fat? insulin. insulin is the only hormone that can store carbs as fat. doesn't store fat as fat, but it can store carbs as fat. So, it's a store it's a fat storage hormone. It's also a muscle building hormone in the sense that it drives nutrients into the muscle cell. But when the muscle cell is filled up, it can store stuff as as fat. So, you you really don't want insulin levels too high while you're dieting in your body, right? Because if they're too high, then you're going to have a propensity to store fat and not burn uh body fat. Okay? So, by eating lower carbs, we lower the insulin amount in the body. So, we're going to get that. Let's hold that right now. Let's go back to fats. Now, why do we need fats in our diet? >> Did anyone answer that? >> Hormone regulation. >> Certain hormones are made by fats, right? Steroidal hormones are made by with cholesterol and fats. >> What? >> Yeah. Brain function, right? brains. The myelin sheets that surround all the nerves are you need fat. Muscle. How about muscle? What surrounds every cell in the body? A cell membrane and it's made of fat. So when you break down muscle, the internal components of the muscle cell are made of actin meosin. That's protein, which is the majority of the cell, which is why you need so much protein in your diet. But the outer portion is made of fat. Some of it's made from cholesterol fat. Some of it's made from a saturated fat, but a lot of it is is made from what we call essential fatty acids, omega-3 and omega-6 fats. If you don't take those into your body in adequate amounts, what happens while you're dieting? Well, what does the body sense? The body thinks it's it's not getting enough fat. And when the body thinks it's not getting something that it needs, what do you think it does? It hoards. So, if you don't eat enough dietary fat in your diet that your body needs, your body is going to hoard fat. And if you're a woman, it's going to hoard it right here. And if you're a man, it's going to hoard it right around your waist. So, not taking in enough essential fatty acids will do that. Now, the good news is that you don't really need a lot of essential fats in your diet. You probably only need about about six grams of essential fats per day coming from omega-3 fats, omega-6 fats. Now, there's good omega-6 and bad omega sixes, but we most of us know the omega-3s that you need are DHA, EPA. That comes from fish oil. Animal sources of omega-3 fats are the only ones that humans can should consume. So, why is it bad to to take in flax seed oil? Why is flax seed oil not a good idea, which was always the standard back in the 90s? Does anyone know why flax why is flax seed not a good source of omega-3 fats? It's high in omega-3s, but what's the problem with it? Nope. >> You got you got a ratio of fats. So you got a ratio of omega-3s and omega sixes. And if that's off, it'll pull you off. >> That's true. But that's not why the the omega-3s in flax seed is not good. Plant sources. So the parent compound of omega-3 fats is known as alpha linolenic acid. Um the way I remember that is ALA. Three three words omega-3. Okay. Alpha lenolic acid must be converted to the in the active metabolites which are DHA and EPA. You've probably seen those on like a fish oil bottle. If it doesn't convert to those metabolites, okay, then you're not you don't get any benefits from it. Humans, not animals, humans only convert 10% of the alpha linolinic acid they consume to usable DH. and they convert all that flax seed into DHA, EPA, and then you eat the egg yolks or the whole egg, but it's it's in the yolks and you get the benefits of those omega-3s. Likewise, if you eat wild caught salmon, wild caught salmon, they eat algae in in the uh in the ocean and then they convert that into usable DHA EPA. We consume the salmon, we get the oil from the salmon, and now we got the benefits of it. So, because it's kind of hard to get it in your diet exclusively, I always recommend people take a supplemental form of fish oil. Um, likewise, a supplemental form of omega6 fats. Now, the there's two types of omega-6 fats. There's gam gammaic acid, which is GLA, which you can find in like primrose oil or barrage oil. And then there's arachidonic acid which is in copious amounts in all the be meats we eat, the chicken breast, all the chicken we eat. Anything that is like farm-raised in our country that eats corn has a lot of arachidonic acid. Now that's a pro-inflammatory fat. That means it promotes inflammation in the body which is not bad, okay, if you're working out, but you don't want an excessive amount of that because that can cause coronary heart disease. So all those cooking oils and all those, you know, those remember omega-6 fats are very temperature sensitive. So you don't want to heat them up or they lose their health benefits. So when you heat corn oil and sunflower oil, which is what everyone cooks with, they make potato chips out of it. They make popcorn and all the other, you know, fried weird stuff that you eat, fried chicken and all that stuff. They're all using these these seed oils. You hear RFK Jr. talking about how bad the seed oils are because when you heat them, they turn into very dangerous fats and they're not good for you. So what you want to focus on is getting the gamma linoleic acid. Hard to get from your diet, easy to get in a supplement form. I made your job real easy of getting the right essential fats. I made a product called Omega. Been selling it for over 10 years from Species Nutrition. You take three pills twice a day. You get three grams of fish oil. You get 2600 milligrams of evening primrose oil. And as a bonus, you get some palminoleic acid, which is an omega 7 fat, which actually reduces inflammation in the body. So that's something that every single person should take for health benefits and for for dieting purposes. This way you don't have to worry about am I getting enough essential fats. It's very hard. And once again, the benefit is that you don't really need to take a lot of them in. But if you're a woman or a man and you're lo having trouble losing that last bit of fat and you don't understand why your legs just won't get hard enough or your lower back won't get hard enough, it could be that you're fatty acid deprived, essential fatty acid deprived. and putting in a supplement like that can instantly change around everything that's going on and and and change your whole life. So these are things that a lot of people just don't know and it's that's why it's important to have this science background so you now you understand why you need these essential fats, okay, and what they do in the body. Um likewise these this essential fatty acid supplement will lower your LDL cholesterol, okay? It'll lower your inflammation in your body. it'll lower um your triglyceride levels in your body. So there's a lot of health benefits that in addition to the bodybuilding physique benefits that we get from that. All right. So now you got your essential fats taken care of. What what's another good So we got three categories of fats. I break fats into three categories. Saturated fat, which we kind of don't want to take too much in, but we do need some. You get that from red meat, you know, uh whole eggs, a little bit of chicken. We have second category we just talked about the polyunsaturated or essential fatty acids. Those are your omega-3s and sixes. And then the third category is your monounsaturated fats which is your good hearthealthy fats. These are also the fats that burn really well for fuel. Those are the ones you want to get the most of. And you're not going to take them in a supplement form. Um you're going to take them from with a teaspoon or a tablespoon or you're going to pour it on your food. Those are your extra virgin olive oil, macadamia oil, which I sell from Species Nutrition, avocado oil. I like macadamia oil the best because it it number one, it tastes like butter. So, if you if you put on your food, you're going to love the taste of it. I make my eggs with it. I I mix it into my foods. Um, you can even put it in a protein shake if you want to use that as a fat source in there. It also has a very high smoke point, which means you can cook with it. Olive oil burns. You cannot cook with olive oil. If you are, anyone out here is Italian, you know that Italians add olive oil after it's done, after the food is done. They add it for taste. Okay? If they do cook with olive oil, it's cooking olive oil, which is not really olive oil. Extra virgin, you don't cook with. But if you want to cook with macadamia nut oil, you can because it has a high smoke point. That's another reason why I import. I also import it from South Africa because no one else sells macadamia nut oil. So, if you haven't tried the macadamia nut oil, I'm telling you, it'll be your favorite oil once you start using it. I put it on my kids like bagels and toast. They like it. They won't even they don't even want butter anymore. They want that. That's how good it tastes. And it's super healthy for you. It burns really efficiently, too. And you'll notice when you increase the monounsaturated fats in your diet up to a certain point, of course, you'll start sweating more. You'll see your metabolism start cranking. It stimulates your metabolic rate because a lot of people are very fat deprived. Okay?