All RX Television on RXMuscle.com. This is Iron Debate, the pre- Arnold Classic episode of Iron Debate, brought to you by Quest Nutrition. Quest Nutrition powering RX Muscles Road to the Arnold Classic and our coverage of the 2017 Arnold Classic. I'm your host, Sadique Farooqi. We're glad you can join us on rxmuscle.com for Arnold Week. Right now on rxmuscle.com and the YouTube channel, we have a whole catalog of interviews with the top Arnold athletes heading in. It's the Road to the Arnold Classic brought to you by Quest Nutrition. And then Thursday night, we will be we'll be at the Grand Battel Ballroom. Chris Aceto and I will have a quick scene setter. Dave Palumbo and Johnny S are going to join us Friday morning and then we are going to bring you wall-to-wall coverage of the Arnold Classic. If you're watching us on YouTube for the first time, hit the subscribe button below. You're not going to miss any of our updates from Columbus, Ohio. Let's introduce our panelist, Johnny, our producer. You want to point All right, first we're going to go to our Cape Coral Studios, the temporary home of rxmuscle.com, and bring in Dave Palumbo. Dave, hard to believe this week we will be in Columbus, Ohio, covering the Arnold Classic. Yeah. Not only that, I mean, uh, obviously we love going to the Arnold. We love, you know, the competition. We I I actually like the buildup better. I actually like what we're doing now better because it's more exciting. It's like when you plan a wedding, the wedding itself kind of sucks, but the actual whole planning of the wedding is the exciting part of it. So, today's show is great. I We haven't announced the special guest yet. I'll let you do it. I don't want to ruin the surprise, but uh we got a great great panel of people. It's going to be a lot of fun. Let's uh unveil the mystery guest. It is a guest that I had to do some negotiations with. We had to arrange uh come to an agreement on price. He gave me his invoice. I returned it. We bargained him down to a reasonable sum. I think you know who where we're going with this from Sheffield, England, and he's not charging us. Zack King. Zack, it's been a long time that we've wanted to get you on the show. We finally have it on this big Arnold pre- Arnold episode of Iron Debate. Welcome to RX Television. What you guys been playing out, man? You've been talking to Zack Khan here and there, and you haven't even talked to the real Zack Khan. So, will the real Zach Khan please stand up? I'm here now. All right. Well, of course, his Instagram handle is, of course, real Zack King. So, of course, we're going to have Zach and his hard-hitting opinions. We've been waiting a long time. And of course, we were duped by a Zecon impersonator, but we had the real Zecon in the flesh. As we now go to, I believe he's home in Portland, Maine. The man they call the technician, Chris Aceto. Chris, your thoughts as we head into Arnold Week. I just can't believe how big Zack Khan looks on that little square on my computer screen. Um, thought thoughts running into it. It's just another Arnold. You know, hopefully we're not going to get snowed out the and I don't think we will due to global warming compared to in years past. But, you know, it's exciting and I think the the the nonsense of it is just because Kai's not in the show or Phil's not in the show, people say it's a weak lineup. And I think that because those guys are not in the show, you know, people who it opens up the mentality for other guys in the show is like, well, Kai's not in it, whether they say that or not, or Phil's not in it, or, you know, a Wolf is not in it. Then they just, you know, probably go go for broke in their prep, thinking that, you know what, I might have a shot because these top top, you know, three guys are Dexter, you know, Dexter, Kai, and Phil in it. And of course, we check in. I believe South Carolina. We No. Okay, he's shaking his head. Uh, we'll get his location, but the man they call boss number two, I believe, Guadalajara, Mexico. Right. There we go. John Romano. John, last week you and Dave did this iron rage on the iron addicts raid. That one blowing up on YouTube right now. Some very strong thoughts. Still a developing situation. Yeah, it's a it's a big situation. Really only in in the in the sense of the amount of money involved. I mean, I I had uh you know, when I read I read the criminal complaint, the federal court documents and and I was just shocked to see that in in two years time they did $10 million, you know, in business. and and you know according to uh some people I know in the industry that we talked about this that's really probably one of the biggest uh you know single busts probably in steroid history. So uh it's a big deal and you know a lot of people are going to pay uh an undue price for that too. Let's get to our topics. Again, if you want to chime in or ask the panelists any questions, you can comment on the YouTube the YouTube comment section. But again, this is a big week of Chorus Arnold Classic this week. Let's get to it. And we're going to start with the most prominent member of the open class and that is Cedric McMillan. Now, when you talk about Cedric McMillan, he has essentially become a darling of the Arnold Classic. when you consider two years ago he came in fourth and then the Sunday after Arnold Schwarz the next day Arnold Schwarzenegger in the infamous comment saying that he was quote unquote pissed that Cedric didn't do better and he voices displeasure as far as where the look of bodybuilding was going. Well, last year he gets edged out narrowly by Kai Green. This year he's going in as the odds on favorite. We're going to get to that in a second, but first, Cedric McMillan refused to do an interview with us leading into the Arnold Classic. Now, we have had this back and forth lovehate lovehate relationship. I don't know where it comes from with Cedric McMillan, but he has had this hesitancy to do interviews with us and I guess in general, Cedric McMillan is a he's a he's one of the funniest personalities. He's one of the most educated personalities in all of bodybuilding. So, Chris Aceto, I'm going to go to you first on this one. Why do you think it is that someone of seven stature and others um you know, Lionel Baki being another one actually? Yeah, Zach, you're you're kind of nodding your head, so I'm going to go to you first on this one. Zack, why do you think prominent bodybuilders are shy or hesitant to do media, especially leading into one of the two biggest shows of the year? I think the main reason is sometime it's the way they perceived and sometimes when people do an interview they either come off as too cocky or being cocky is same as being too humble you know like I always say be your fuckingelves don't try to be somebody else what you're not if people like you for that great and if they don't [\h__\h] them simple you know if you're going to if you're going to tread on eggshells and you're going to watch your P's and Q's and say oh you know what I'm going to post everything what this bodybuilder post because I'm going to get likes on social media. That's the [\h__\h] problem. You go to every bodybuilder's page on Instagram, they post the same [\h__\h] [\h__\h] So, you know, why you going to follow why you going to follow a 10 10 15 20 bodybuilders, they're all going to post getting up in the morning eating their [\h__\h] eggs. Two hours later cardio, two hours later a motivational call. Two hours later, they're in the gym killing it. [\h__\h] that. Be yourself. you know, have a personality. There's more to bodybuilding. You know, the problem is sometimes there we go into a show focused just on winning that show, that trophy, but we end up losing in life. And and most people most people come out of a bodybuilding show afterwards in broken relationships. They're [\h__\h] broke and they're bitter. That's the problem. And they need to see that, you know, listen, you know, even though you don't get your place what you're wanting, long as you do your [\h__\h] best, what more can you do? Well, well, Zach, here's another angle to this because so many bodybuilders, you know, on the other hand, have told me in particular, and I'm sure they've told Dave this as well, that they feel as if there isn't enough media in bodybuilding, that for all the hard work that they put into their sport, they don't get the coverage that they feel that they deserve, and they feel there should be a bigger platform. So when these bodybuilders, the top ones are offered this kind of a platform, don't you feel like they owe it to their fans to connect in this kind of a medium? Come on. Listen, you know when uh 15 20 years ago when there was Dorian, there was only Flex magazine around then to get your uh you know to see your idols, you know, and that used to be released once a month and you saw the Olympian news two months later. You know, you would have to ring up ghost gyms in California to find out the results. You know, it's like now if bodybuilders are complaining about media coverage, what the [\h__\h] are you guys doing? You got YouTube, you got Instagram. Get your [\h__\h] finger out your ass and make your own [\h__\h] media. Simple, you know? Don't expect people to come up to you and sponsor you because you're you want this show, that show, and that show. Listen, most of these bodybuilders, why do you think they are losing sponsors? Because they're [\h__\h] lazy. Simple. They're [\h__\h] lazy. They They're thinking, "Oh yeah, I go to the gym. I train. I eat. I'm suffering." They're all [\h__\h] suffering. Yeah. Why you [\h__\h] suffering? Nobody's put a gun to your [\h__\h] head. You know, you ch You chose this life. You know, you you're either going to enjoy it. If you don't enjoy it, get the [\h__\h] out. Simple. John Romano, I want to go to you because actually, actually, you know what, Dave, you got the biggest laugh out of that line of Zack saying that bodybuilders are lazy. Of course, you took a lot of criticism for your video that you did about four months ago. Why don't you chime in? I agree with Zach. I think the body bills, not everyone, but I think a lot of the bodybuilders out there are lazy and I think they don't want to do it because they're lazy and then they complain that they, like Zach said, they say they don't have contracts, they don't have this, they don't have that. You know, your lifespan as a bodybuilder is very short. If you don't do well in a couple shows, no one wants to know your name anymore. Then all of a sudden, you're begging for for media attention. So, I think it's a big mistake when when top level bodybuilders like Cedric McMillan or Lina Biki or or whoever the case may be don't do media because that's your guy's calling card. You have to promote who you are. Get people excited about it. So, and like Zach said, you don't have to do it on my show. You could do it on your own social media, but you got to be out there. Show value to the to the advertisers. Show value to the supplement companies. show value to the clothing companies because those are the guys that are going to say, "Hm, who should we sign? Let's sign that guy that's got his face out there all the time." So, I I do believe that a lot of these bodybuilders are lazy. Not all of them, not you, Josh. I know you're watching. Um, but I I think and I saw your new website. It's very good. Uh, but I think a lot of guys out there are lazy. And I said, and I think that that's a problem. I it's a huge problem, you know, uh, because years ago when the women's bodybuilders were complaining that no one wanted to cover them, I wanted to interview them and these girls all would be like, "Well, I'm busy. I'm busy." Well, yeah. Well, now you have no division left. So, look what happened to you before you know people lose what they love. Get out there and promote it. We are the ambassadors of the sport. And Romano want to jump in on this? Yeah. Yeah. I I'm I you know I agree to a certain degree that you know there's there's a air of laziness out there but I think there's also a tremendous amount of paranoia and that stems from the fact that you know bodybuilding is a subjective sport and you know these guys are working you know hard all year to get win this show and then they're and then they wonder oh you know if I talk to RX Muscle is that going to piss off the IFBB or you know is this if if I talk to them am I going to ruin my chances of getting an an a contract or, you know, one of Blackman's, you know, infamous covers or um, you know, am I going to be thought of differently because of what I've said? Am I going to say something wrong and piss off the wrong judge or, you know, whatever. So, I I think, you know, the the um the concept of staying quiet before a show might be, you know, advantageous to some people just to, you know, just because they're a little bent and feel paranoid like that. um it does do nothing for their for their for their popularity and that's where you know the laziness component could be but but John but a lot of that is here as well isn't it? Come on. It's like if they if if they're that paranoid about not placing well or not doing well come on Jim Manions is the head of the IFBV. Yeah. Probably if there's an issue just ring him up. Like I was meant to be going to India with body power and uh people were saying to me, "Oh yeah, don't go. Don't go because uh you're with the IFBB and they got WBFF athletes and stuff like that." I rang him up and I said to him, "What's the situation of me going because these people are saying this and other people are saying that, so I'll rather ask you because I rather hear it straight from the horse's mouth." He says, "Well, Zack, what Zach, you are saying exactly what the truth is. Okay, that's the way it should be. I'm saying this is the way my position is is that some of these guys think this way and yeah but but but why do they think that way? Exactly. They shouldn't be thinking that way. It's like this. If I'm working a 9 to 5 job and somebody some coworker says to me, listen, somebody's reported this about you. I'm going to hold that inside myself and walk around like a paranoid idiot. I'm going to say no. I'm going to go up to my boss and ask him what's the issue. You know, simple. which is what you should do. Which is exactly should do. And I think I think a lot of people need to man the [\h__\h] up and stop passing the book, you know, and they should do interviews. Yeah. You should you know, it's not like it's not like we have a long uh long life in this sport. And you know what? and the and the time we do have in this sport, you need to pass your experience and do as much as you can to help the young people, you know, who are coming into this sport. You know, if a young kid comes to me and saying, "How do I get sponsored?" I said, "Don't go around, what's applying to every company saying, "Oh, yeah, I want to get sponsored because I need protein and I need this." No, just do your own [\h__\h] thing. Train hard, promote yourself. Don't think about nothing. And somebody will see you and they'll say, "You know what? That kid is a hard worker. I'm going to sponsor him." And that's the way it happens. Let's let's go to Chris because Chris, I know in the past um and again full transparency on this one, you know, if we reached out to Cedric, again, I don't want to pick on him, but as an example, where we reached out to him directly, he didn't get back to us, and then you we reached out to him through you or through a supplement company, just have better results. Now, I remember one time you told me that close to the Arnold or close to the Olympia that they are going to be a little skittish about what it is that they say and how what they say couldffect their placings. But my counterargument and I want to get your take on this is that look, leading into the Arnold, leading into the Olympia, this I would argue is when bodybuilding fans want most to hear from their favorite bodybuilders. Shouldn't Shouldn't this be I don't want to say an obligation, but really an obligation I'm gonna [\h__\h] try to break the [\h__\h] record of Zack [\h__\h] con and guy [\h__\h] sister needles to say [\h__\h] the RX muscle fa Johnny get a get a counter going ding ding ding ding ding ding. Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Z Khan pulls the head of Guy Cenino. you know, I guess when it comes to Cedric, you know, bodybuilders in their careers, I think, have different, you know, levels of maturity or immaturity. Uh, and I think there's at different times, you know, they have different goals. You know, a lot of bodybuilders, you know, they of course want to win competitions, but they want to get out there and get as much publicity going as possible. And I I think with Cedric, you know, for this show, and I haven't talked to him about it, and you're right, in the past, I pressured him to do this show or these shows running into the Arnold. Um, I think, uh, he's at the point where he's just trying to be the best bodybuilder that he can be and come into the show the best with the best or the the right look that he wants to bring. And frankly, he probably doesn't care. Um, I know he wants to win, but you know, he wants to come in with a look that he wants to bring in. And I don't think he cares at all about um, you know, people talking about him or not talking about him or hyping him up for the show or not hyping him for the show. And, you know, you the flip side is you got to put yourself in his shoes, too. It's like last year, uh, you know, he won the prejudging. The year before Arnold was, you know, out there after the show saying he should have won. The year before he was third to Wolf and Roden. I mean, I helped Roden. Arguably, he was as good as Rhoden that year. Um, I guess what I'm saying, he's had a lot of disappointments at this show, and he he's probably just focusing on the show. I mean, I haven't had a lot of communication with them outside of, you know, send me pictures and this is what I think you should do. I think to be fair on most of you guys as well, is when you're dieting and as Chris will know, as many of you guys will know, like, you know, when you're dieting, you you don't think right anyway. And uh you're probably low on carbs and you're tired and drained. Maybe some people handle it more different, you know, who knows? But you know a lot of bodybuilders in the last couple of days coming into a show can be very you know what can I say they can be very you know touchy you know so that can affect their mental attitude. Dave I want to go back to you on the final word on this one. Now you chimed in when Zach made the comment about bodybuilders being lazy. Of course, that's a much joked about topic on this channel, but your thoughts as far as whether bodybuilders, the top bodybuilders, owe it to their fans, especially during the leadup to the Arnold and the Olympia when, again, these this is the time when fans really want to know their thoughts going into a big show. Anyone has an obligation to do anything they don't want to do. Like Zach said, they could do whatever the hell they want, but I think it's a mistake not to take advantage of your heyday years, the years where you're your best in your prime, in your peak. Show the fans that you're you're a champion of the fans. You're a people's champion. You're interactive. You want to give back to the It's not just a selfish sport. Oh, I just got to be introverted and worry about myself. You owe it as you're you're a public figure now. People idolize these guys. They want to know what their champions are thinking in their head going into a show. That's what makes it exciting. I want to know that. That's why I ask the questions I do. I ask the questions that I think the people out there are thinking in their minds. And when I can't get an opportunity to do that because these these guys are like hiding away in their house, um it's not doing anything for their popularity and it's not helping, you know, the press cover the sport properly. Uh part of the sport, the obligation to the sport is that we promote it. That's why the Arnold Classic people love having media companies come in there because it makes the sport bigger than it was if we want to make this mainstream and like we this is a later question. Um the athletes have to participate. I think look at UFC you know the athletes have got an obligation to go to cities to cities and do press conference in front of people. Yeah. It' be it would be awesome if all these top bodybuilders came on your show at the same time and [\h__\h] talk it out. simple, you know, say like, you know, why does he think he's going to win? Why do you think I'm going to beat you? You know, simple. It'd be cool, you know, to to get that rivalry going or whatever, you know, because half of the time most of these bodybuilders are talking [\h__\h] about each other while hiding behind the computer. Do it do it face to face. We're going to save off the second part. We were going to talk about uh whether Cedric can win this year's Arnold. I'm going to hold off on that. We're going to give our predictions uh towards the end of the show. Obviously, it is a a a packed class at the top with Cedric Lionel BKI and Dallas Macar Fuan Aiad who of course uh joined us last week on the RX Muscle Road to the Arnold. That interview and all our interviews available right now on rxmuscle.com and the YouTube channel. This of course is Iron Debate as we lead into the Arnold Classic. Again, this Thursday, we're going to be live from Columbus, Ohio, giving you all the latest interviews, top interviews with the athletes as we see them, interviews from the expose, um, all sorts of analysis, all on rxmuscle.com. Let's go to our second topic, and that has to do with the 212 classic. We look at the open class, and obviously that's going to be the crown jewel of event at any bodybuilding show. But when you look at this year's 212 class and you look at the likes of defending champion Hide Yamagishi, you look at the 2015 champion José Raymond, which also includes David Henry, Guysino, and then the added wrinkle of Amadani who came on and in his rookie year last year really burst onto the scene second to Flex Lewis, really pushed Flex Lewis in the 212 Olympia. So here's the question. Can you make the argument that the 212 class is actually going to be more intriguing than the open class? Chris Aceto, let's go to you first on this one. Well, I I think you know we we repeat ourselves every 212 Olympia or 212 Arnold in that you know the depth and the level of condition and the level of preparedness by all the you know the top seven 6 54 guys in the 212 is is tremendous you know because you know unlike in the open where the guys are big right and they're taller and they're you know like a wolf wolf type or a rodent or just, you know, anyone, there's always the chance somebody in the open's going to be holding water or they're going to be flat or they're going to be flat and holding water. Um whereas these guys to me, they're so compact, dense, and hard. Everyone's, you know, in the top five of the last couple two or three Arnolds and and two or three Olympias are on the money. um you know, you don't see guys coming in like, "Oh, he's flat." You know, they they're just totally on the money. So, it's an exciting class. Um you know, of course, it doesn't rival as as great as the class is, you know, there's only one open class, super freak class, and that's the open division. But, you know, in terms of um you know, this year's uh competition probably be the the best one. That's the best 212 Arnold Classic show that we've had. You look at past champions again, you've had a champion each of the la a new champion rather each of the last three years. Flex loose in 2014, José Raymond 2015, and of course last year heeded edging out Jose in the 2016 Arnold. John Romano, what do you make of this? Do you look at this particular Arnold class, how deep it is, how competitive it is, and is there more of a level of intrigue with the 212 than the Open this year? Look, you know, the 212 has class has classically brought us some amazing amazing, you know, battles and some incredible physiques. And to Chris's point, you know, he's absolutely right. You don't see guys that are off in the 212, at least not in the top three or four. These guys are like fighting to the death for for that for that uh that title. And it just seems like it's a little more, you know, intense than it is in in the open. And this is no shade to to to Zack Khan because he's in that big crowd. But, you know, I I I just think I just think the Open guys, it's expected. It's like when you go to uh you know, Formula 1 racing, everybody wants to see the for Formula 1 cars. They don't want to see Formula A. So, even though Formula A has great drivers, they're going to graduate from Formula 1. They're going to be, you know, incredible. this incredible competition. The same goes with motorcycle racing. The same goes with, you know, a minor league sports. So, you you just expect that the big the big show is going to be the big show and then the little show is going to be the little show. So, um you while you can have some great battles in that, you know, lower level, the eyes of the world are always going to be on the top. And that's just that's just the way it is. Zack King Khan, let me position it to you in this way. Obviously, at any bodybuilding show, the big event, the main event is going to be the open class. And look, this year, I it looks like I don't want to say a done deal, but many are labeling Cedric McMillan as their odds on favorite. And really, the secondary question is, well, who's going to be his biggest challenger? Whereas in the 212 class, you can make a case legitimately for three to maybe four competitors that can take that class. So from that perspective, do you look at this and say, you know what, I might be a little bit more excited for this. Or someone like you, you might just say, you know what, I don't care. I want to see the big boys. No, obviously I I always want to see the mass monsters and you know the big guys, but obviously you can't deny the quality of physiques of the 212 guys because they are getting better and their muscles are, you know, most of them are in better condition than the big guys. Let's just face it. Simple. Condition wise, the big guys don't even come close to some of the 212 guys. It's simple, you know. But like I said, the situation is I don't want, you know, people I don't as much as they love Flex Lewis and they love David Henry, they love Guy, they love uh what's it all these 212 guys, they always get overshadowed by the big boys, you know. That's the problem, you know. It's like who puts the bums in the seats? It comes down to that fact, you know. That's the problem. Maybe if if they if if it was marketed better like you know we then they would but I don't know bodybuilding's always seen that point where you you always would go and see the bigger boys you know what I mean obviously for the smaller guys they look at the 212 guys and that's their hope and that's what they want to aim for because it's given them a lease of life before when it was just one class it was hard. Most of these people's careers are over who got their pro card and they're like five foot two or whatever. You know, Dave, let's go to your final word on this topic. For one, do you see the 212 division as more intriguing this year than the open class? And then two, is this the most competitive division at this year's Arnold Classic? Well, I think it definitely is is is the most competitive division because these guys are all so close, you know, with obviously Heday winning last year, Jose winning the year before that, David Henry being a former Olympia champ, you got Ahmad Ashkani who was second at the Olympia. So, to me, that's exciting. It's also exciting because every one of those guys have come on our show and talked smack about the other guy and they're all like, I'm winning. I'm winning. Jose's winning. You know, Heday's winning. Ashkani is winning. So Guy Sister Nino is winning. You know, it it's they're putting life into that division that the open division doesn't have because everyone's afraid to say anything in that division. So yeah, I think that the 212 division at the Arnold is is something that more people are anticipating. Even though, and I agree with what everyone else said, the open division seems to carry the show and that's always, you know, the big boys. We all want to see the biggest guys, but um and I and I'm sure someone is going to show up in that open division is going to dazzle us and and it's going to make us start talking our asses off about how great they were. But the 212 division has excitement because those guys are exciting. Let's go to our third topic. Again, you're watching Iron Debate on rxmuscle.com. All part of our Arnold Classic Week coverage brought to you by Quest Nutrition. We thank them for all their support leading into the Arnold Classic. And of course, we're going to be having interview upon interview analysis, full wall-to-wall coverage of the 2017 Arnold Classic. Let's go to our third topic. And this one, you know, we talked at the end of the year, we had the year-end version of Iron Debate, and we talked about some of the most over-the-top stories that we had. and you know, stories that included Rich Piana, the slap hurt across the world, Giannis Makos slapping a judge, um, and obviously Boston Lloyd who gets mentioned in so many different uh, ways throughout the bodybuilding landscape. Well, there is a label and that is called Meathead that the bodybuilding world has fair or unfairly, you know, absorbed. The question is this, what does the bodybuilding world have to do to to shed that label? And do you see bodybuilders ever truly being widely accepted by the masses? So, Zach, I'm going to go to you because you are arguably the largest human being in all of Sheffield, United Kingdom. I'm sure when you walk down the street, you surely draw a lot of looks. So, from your perspective, what does the bodybuilding world have to do to shed the label of that whole mead uh persona that has unfairly plagued this industry? You know, it's one of them. It's one of them things. It's like if a woman is dressed as a nun and she could be a hoe, they're going to treat her with respect and say, "Oh, she's a she's a nun, but she could be a hoe. It's a fancy dress party." And vice versa, if a woman's dressed as a copper, she's a copper, so you're going to respect her, you know. But the problem is sometimes when you when you've got muscles, you can see them in clothes and whatever. And people are going to assume straight away like, "Oh, he's big. he's a Jew head and until you know they don't even know nothing about you, they're going to assume you're just you're dumb. Simple as you know you're dumb, you're aggressive or whatever because the problem is they probably know people or probably had experience with people and that's the the way they see most of these people and it doesn't help our case in that way. So, it's hard to shine a light and make people the public change their mind unless you follow the sport of bodybuilding and and you realize that most of these bodybuilders have got decent jobs and have got degrees and have been to university. Apart from that, the Joe public don't look as as uh look at us that way. You know, it's sad. And so it's hard for it's going to be hard for us to change our mind when they see stuff like two uh two bodybuilders slapping each other in an expo. You know what I'm saying? That makes the headline news. So you see it's easy to point out the bad stories on bodybuilders than the good stories. You know, John, I'm going to go to you on this one because it's funny that Zach brings up how some of these stories have made the news cycle. It's amazing. the Giannis Makco story, um, Rich Piana story, the slap her around the world. Those two stories made the, I guess, mainstream news cycles. They were on every blog, they were on Dead Spin, they were on Rolling Stone, they were at every single guy's blog that exists. And again, it further perpetuates the quote unquote meatthead cycle, which of course, both stories you talked about uh, in depth on Iron Rage. your take? Well, you know, you can look at it a couple of ways. You know, I I I think that um you know, in in general, bodybuilders incorporate a a a very wide swath of the population. And within that wide swath, you're going to get all kinds of people. I mean, you know, I I could I could easily answer this question by saying, well, bodybuilders should get more MBAs, but we have a lot of bodybuilders out there with advanced degrees. Rick Collins is a lawyer and Ron Norman is a CPA and a federal tax litigator. We know lots of guys who are, you know, big competitive bodybuilders that have lofty titles and lots of letters after their name. So, I don't think you can really pigeon hole all of bodybuilding by, you know, the the sort of, you know, stereotype that follows us around. But the bottom line is the the what Zach said is absolutely true. You know, if you if you created the Good News Network, you would have nobody watching it. So, it's because of the bad stuff. If you got a bodybuilder that cures cancer, you're not going to hear about him on all the blogs, it's not going to be raging about the next day. But you get a bodybuilder that, you know, robs a liquor store and then, you know, beats up six cops and gets away and, you know, there's a nationwide manhunt out for him and he's swimming across the ocean. Well, you're going to hear about that like, you know, until they catch the guy and maybe even more. So, you know, I I don't think it's I don't think it's really bodybuilding in in and of itself. I think it's the public just makes that association when we're seen being, you know, behaving badly and not enough attention is paid to the guys who are bodybuilders and and exemplify, you know, a higher degree of education. I will say this though, I don't care what group of people I'm in. I could be with lawyers, doctors, businessmen, criminals, athletes, it doesn't matter. If I'm wearing a t-shirt or a pair of shorts, invariably that conversation is going to lead to, you know, I want to gain a couple pounds of muscle. How do I how do I get leaner? You know, I've been trying to go to the gym three days a week and, you know, how do I, you know, eat it? It doesn't matter who I'm talking to. That conversation is going that way. So, you know, how bad can we be? Chris, I'm going to go to you from the perspective of this. We've always talked about whether bodybuilding is a sport and, you know, how it used to be on TV back in the day and now trying to figure out if it's ever going to be accepted as a sport that the masses would watch from your opin and I and I ask you this because again, it go falls under the umbrella of the masses accepting bodybuilding and bodybuilders. Do you ever see a scenario and if so, how would bodybuilding become a sport which would bring now bring bodybuilders back in the light of masses that we could ever get into that kind of realm where now the fans the masses are watching bodybuilding and beginning to follow bodybuilders and taking more of an active interest in them. Well, you know, there's a lot more to see these days by the masses. You know, I mean, if you look at the ratings of the three big TV stations, ABC, CBS, NBC, whether it be for their news, whether it be for their sports programs, they're all down because there's just so much competition from so many different places to watch sports. You know, NASCAR's dead now. You know, 10 years ago, it was right. It was like this big, you know, sporting event that was just growing by the leaps and bounds and multi-billion dollar industry. Now, you know, you go to see a NASCAR event and you see empty seats everywhere. They shrink in the stadiums so they're not so embarrassed uh due to, you know, the smaller crowd. So, when it comes to bodybuilding, I don't think anyone's ever really sat down, right, and defined how do we get it accepted by the masses. I mean people have done people have crossed over you know Arnold and uh I mean not many people have crossed over right look I'm stuck on one I mean but but bodybuilding has been recently bodybuilding has been you know remove Joe Wido whose goal was his sole life mission was to get bodybuilders and bodybuilding respected by people not just bodybuilders. But athletes and people there's once Joita died there's no vision out there being you know set so that bodybuilding can be accepted as something other than kind of like the sideshow. I mean granted you go to the Arnold coming up right we're all going to go there. You're lucky if I didn't beg someone, you know, beg Dave to beg someone else to get me a hotel room, I wouldn't even be able to get one in the whole greater Columbus, Ohio vicinity of downtown. So, you know, it's going to be a crazy event, but at the same time, outside of the Arnold and the Olympia, it's kaput. You know, there's there's there's in terms of there's not a lot of growth. maybe this classic thing will parlay it uh you know into the conscious of of of quote regular people. Um I think bodybuilding can grow and survive and not be accepted by the masses. I don't think it's required to be quote accepted by the masses and you don't need to be accepted by the masses, but it'd be nice to be uh respected by the masses and you know I I I don't see any group with a vision to get it there, you know. Well, Chris, it's funny because Vince McMahon it's it's it's f Hold on. Just, you know, Vince McMahon comes to my mind. I want to hear what you have to say, Zach. But, you know, Vince McMahon comes to mind because anyone who follows wrestling knows that Vince McMahon has had ups and downs and up ups and big downs and almost bankruptcy and and you know his activity, right? Wrestling. It's like sport. It's like muscle. It's entertainment. It's a little bit of everything. But he's he knows how to survive. Um, and we don't have that embodiment. We have the bodies, right? And we have personalities. Zach's got a personality. Phil Heath's got a good personality. I mean, Dexter's got a good personality. Cedric's got a personality. There's a lot of people with great personalities, but you know, they're not exploited in a way that that that people outside of who already know them get excited about. Zack, let's go to you. You had some thoughts you wanted to comment as well. Yeah, I said the the main issue as well is if bodybuilding is going to move forward, let's get one thing straight. You know, when people walk away from a show and they're saying, "Oh my god, do you see that guy? sight injections. Yeah, everybody can [\h__\h] see them. Why can't they be penalized for that? Then you're walking around in expose and these guys are overdoing it with the sight injections and they're walking around like these [\h__\h] freaks and they're making YouTube videos and these guys are the ones who are more famous than Phil Heath or anybody else. And these are the simp newspapers saying this guys has got the biggest arms in the world. They're 30 [\h__\h] inches. You know this sport. I didn't think I was going to see bodybuilding sport where porn would cross over into bodybuilding, you know. Exactly. Women Women have got fake asses and selling [\h__\h] booty programs, you know, to [\h__\h] naive young girls for 50 bucks. You know, you can build an ass like mine. [\h__\h] tell us your surgeon, not what the [\h__\h] you're doing, you know, in the gym. You know, you know, I I would have more respect for a person or a woman. It's like this. Why the [\h__\h] are some of these people saying, "Oh, 12 weeks to build big arms and they're selling this [\h__\h] journal for 50 bucks." You know, when you know in a fact, why don't you sell a journal on how to build your [\h__\h] weakest body part? Simple. You know, when you got a good body part, [\h__\h] you. I can lift my dick up and my arms will grow. Simple. You know what I mean? [\h__\h] my mind and muscle my mind and muscle connection is so [\h__\h] strong in my arm. I can lift my dick up and my arms will grow. But by me selling a [\h__\h] ebook to a [\h__\h] young kid saying, "Oh, you can have arms like mine." I'm giving that kid false hope. Then what's going to happen is either that kid's going to go up to some meatthead in the gym who [\h__\h] sites injects everybody saying, "Oh, this is what Zach actually does or this is what this person actually does." And then getting wrong advice from wrong people. That's why I think more people should be giving away information for free, not keeping it to theirel and hiding it and putting a price on it. You know, because you know what's that? Blackman would buy that book from Zach about how to build big arms lifting your dick. Only only if Zach signed it with his dick. Yeah, but but you do you see what I'm getting? You got these sinful [\h__\h] freaks or who are more popular than bodybuilders. What the [\h__\h] going on? You got these porn stars. You got these porn stars who are making videos on Instagram and who have got millions and millions of followers. So people who aren't bodybuilders have got a bigger following than bodybuilding. So tell me how does that work? Yeah, exactly. How does it work is you know we can laugh about it and say look at this freak and we can post it up but then we giving that person promotion free [\h__\h] advertisement instead we should say [\h__\h] that get rid of that don't give him no space on me what do you do Zach what what was the solution Zack because I mean you you bring up some important points you know like I said to you it all started off from where people would go to shows and they would see bodybuilders with side injection and basically these These kids who were newbies have taken it to the next level. And then they're walking around with [\h__\h] fake muscles. You You never got that in the 90s, you know? You never got You got muscle or muscle feather detail. Now when you walk go on to a show and you see some people and you know they putting [\h__\h] in there and why are these people getting rewarded for it? Exactly. Dave, let's go to you. Final word on this one up first. if you want to respond to what Zach just said, but then again, your thoughts on what bodybuilders and bodybuilding can do to I guess shed the quote unquote meathead label. Well, I I think Zach hit a good point in the sense that the repres what people the public the general public see as our sport are these idiots on YouTube that look ridiculous that have like he said more hits because mainstream America finds them amusing. They don't realize that they're laughing at them. they're not necessarily fans of theirs. Um, and I and I think so we h this bodybuilding image we have is is is of a meatthead. It's like the image people have of a sanitation worker is, oh, they must be dummies because they got to they got to empty garbage cans for a living. And a lot of these guys are really smart guys. They just that they like to do an early morning job and they go home and they have another job after that or whatever they do. So, um, you know, I was always misjudged, you know, until people actually sat down and talked to me and realized, you know, hey, this guy's pretty smart. you know, he has a education background. He knows what he's talking about. And I fought that stigma for years when I was over 300 lb. Now that I'm I'm I'm more presentable to people in the sense that I I only weigh 200 lb. I believe that the the general public can relate to me better. It it's a shame, but that's what that's why bodybuilding is not mainstream is because people cannot relate to the way we look. And unfortunately, book is judged by uh most books are judged by the cover, not by the inner contents. And so we're always gonna fight this this battle uh you know for for the for eons and eons and eons. That's why Joe Weider I mean and Ben Weider who wanted to get the bodybuilding into the Olympics never succeeded because the Olympic committee looks at us and they're like these guys are are not drug-free. Even if we were, they wouldn't believe it because it we just look too super sensationalistic. What's the answer? I don't know. That's the truth. Education. I always say education, education, education. And I think the more we educate people, uh, you know, the more they get to know the lifestyle. And I think as more people keep dying of heart disease and realizing that exercise and weightlifting is going to help them live longer and be healthier, I think they'll accept the bodybuilding subculture more and more because we have the answers. That's going to do for the debate portion of the show. Now, we're going to make our official Arnold predictions. We're going to make predictions for the top three in the 212 class and in the open class. So, did I say that? Wait, open and 212, not open and open. So, John Romano, I'm going to go to you first on this one. Lester with the 212 division, your top three. I'm I'm going to use this opportunity to not answer that question because I'm not going to answer those questions anymore. And I'll tell you why. predictions for me anyway. It's it's any thing coming out of my mouth is going to sound like a fart trying to describe its own smell. I haven't seen these [\h__\h] guys. All right? I don't know what they look like. I don't know what Cedric looks like today. I don't know what, you know, whoever. I I don't know what Jose Raymond looks like today. So, if I'm going to make a prediction, all I'm really doing is is telling everybody who my personal favorite is. And that's really not a prediction. It's a popularity contest. And so, you know, I I don't spend my time, my year in the trenches like some of you guys do. I don't prep these guys. I don't see these guys. They don't send me pictures. I don't follow them on Instagram. So, I can't answer that question other than just giving you a guess that, you know, I think, you know, Jose Raymond's going to beat David Henry. I I have no idea. So, you know, I I rather just not answer that question. So in the future when we have predictions, we're going to just skip over Romano and go know to somebody else because I'm officially abstaining from giving predictions. Zack Khan, do you want to weigh in with your predictions for the 212 class? Tell me who's been on the show. Which which guy's been on the show? We've had Jose. We've had Heday, we've had Guy, Sisterino, and we've had open class. In the openani, no one in the open class. In the open class, who's been on? Fouad. In the open. Who's been on in the open class? Oh, in the open. You're right. We have Fouad and uh Vitali Fativ and Luke Sando. Well, well, Fouad's been on. So, he's made an effort to come on the show. He deserves to win. I like I love it. I like your train of thought. If that plays out from your lips to God's ears, we are going to keep this clip. So the next time we want to bring on a guest, we're going to just show off interview and the fact that that resulted in him hoisting Arnold Classic crown. Chris Ace, let's go to you if you want to weigh in with your predictions. 212 class, your top three. It's not my top three, but it's it's the the top three who have been there before. And it's the top three who have the hype coming into the show. And the hype coming into the show is Arsenani because he was second at the Olympia, Hyde because he won last year, and Jose because he won the year before. So your natural eyes, right, if you're a fan or even if you're a judge are going to be like, how do those three look to the detriment of everyone else in the show? Doesn't mean that other people in the show don't look as good as one or two or three of those guys or have, you know, their own strong points that might not really break through because the idea is how do those three look? And it's the same with, you know, Cedric in the Open and you know, Biki because he's been in shape for a couple shows and and Dallas because, you know, he's the, you know, the the the the next big thing after Compton and the next big thing after Klo, the, you know, the big next white guy. So, I mean, those are the three in each class, I think, that people are going to be looking for. And judges are people, too, right? So, they're going to be looking for him as well. I don't I don't know. Uh, you know, I agree with John. I don't I have no idea how people look. I don't follow really anyone on in Actually, I don't follow anyone on Instagram, so I don't know the way they look. Um, I just know how the guys who I are helping look. And that's all relative compared to who they're standing next to on the day of the show. You know, Zach, it's an interesting point. I want to go back uh to you on this one. Again, bodybuilding is a very subjective sport. It is all in the eye of the beholder. I wonder what your take is. The fact that three of you panelists who are so heavily involved in the bodybuilding world have no idea, let alone the fans have no idea what these bodybuilders. The only thing they're going to be judged on is what they look like. The fact that you guys have no idea. Is there is that a problem to you or not? Is that to me now? Yeah. Yes. Zach. Like I said to you, listen, you know, I was brought up in the area of Dorian. You know, you hardly ever saw pictures of him. But, you know, then again, that was because there was no internet. You know, it wasn't as popular as now. But the problem is now you need to get your finger out your ass and you need to cause some excitement for sponsors to contact you know to sponsor you. So sponsors are not going to sponsor you for that long if they realize this guy ain't doing [\h__\h] over the brand, you know. So you know if you So basically you have to do the work. If that is meaning putting one post up a a day a week or something, you have to give something for the fans to buy the product. You know, if you are keeping hush and quiet and you you're not end of the day as a bodybuilder, you're a marketing tool. So, as a marketing tool, your job is to make money if you're getting paid for it. That's your job. You could either work, you know, 9 to 5 job and bust your balls off. And, you know, why shouldn't you be doing the same if you're sat at home eating, sleeping, [\h__\h] and [\h__\h] going to the gym? We we live in that society now. You know, it's our job. We're ambassadors of a sport of of a supplement company, not one company. Some of these guys have got three or four companies. So you tell me something like, you know, when you hear some when you hear a bodybuilder saying, "Oh yeah, uh, I've decided to leave this company." No, you [\h__\h] didn't decide to leave the company. They got [\h__\h] rid of you. It's simple. That's the fact. Before I go to Dave, uh Chris and John, I want to get a quick point on you on this topic in the sense that I understand bodybuilders going to a big show or going to any show and some of them will post progress pictures. Some may be leaked, some just want to have that air of mystery going into a show. The pictures are fake. It doesn't matter. It don't matter anymore because the pictures are all fake. You know, five years they're fake. Five years ago, you could take a photo. There are people doing this show who are set putting out fake photos from Adobe photos to filtered up the yin-yang that they look peeled out of their minds. How many shows have we been to at the Olympia where people look Go on Instagram. There's people with condition that I've never I've been helping people for 30 years, Zach. I see people with condition. I I I don't even know how to get that type of condition. Chris is right. I know people, right, I know people running into shows that say, "Chris, can I beat this guy?" And I say, "Well, the good news is, uh, that guy is not the guy who's going to be at the show. The guy you're looking at pictures of on Instagram is a fake picture. The guy who's going to show up at the show is is not going to be you." And and I and I mean that. So So, you know, people they have these they'll take the the perfect light, right? the perfect like light like shadows and and the sunlight and then they'll filter it out the yin-yang and you'll see crazy striations that you've never seen before in your life more than Andreas Monza ever had and they'll say that's me four weeks out. Meanwhile, the guy I'm helping still fat four weeks out. John Romano again true. What John? Again, does it does it is there still a point? Is there still a benefit the fact that you who is so heavily invested in the bodybuilding world has no idea what some of the top competitors in in 212 and open let alone the other divisions you have no idea what they look like. Do you see that as something that I guess even matters anymore or should they be you know showing little previews or giving the fans something to to chomp on or analyst going into a show? No, I I don't. And it's because bodybuilding is only relevant on that day you're on stage. There's no pre-season leading up to it. Like, you know, in football, if you like, you know, the Raiders, you can watch them play all year long. You know how they're playing. You know how the quarterback's doing. You know how the backfield is. You know who's injured. You know who's not. You know who's having a good year. You know who's not or who's getting arrested and doing blow and, you know, banging the other guy's wives. You, you know, all of that [\h__\h] you know. So, um, you know, you got something to go by, you know, leading up Super Bowl. No, bodybuilding is what the hell do we hear? You know, they're not and and really anything that you're going to see on them, as as Chris said, leading up to the show is either going to be fake, you know, fake news or um or it's going to be highly adulterated and it's got really nothing to do with what they're going to look like the day they come in on competition. So, don't show me anything. The thing you should do is do interviews. Obviously, you should Exactly. you know, out there in terms of, you know, in in the public eye so that people know that you're getting ready for this show and they understand what you're putting into it and they get a feel for your level of competition and commitment and and passion for what you're doing. And that, you know, is is is is in and of itself, you know, magnetizing. So, they should be doing that. But as far as me being an industry insider and having any kind of inkling as to what's actually going to happen on the day of the show, if I could do that, [\h__\h] bodybuilding. I'd be on Wall Street bang banging stocks every day and making, you know, hundred million dollars an hour. Dave, I know you're going to be doing a standalone prediction segment. So, if you want to hold off on your predictions till then, we could do that. But I did want to get your thoughts on what we're talking about right now. And the fact that I'm going around the panel and again, we're talking about industry insiders such as yourself who may or may not have any idea what a bodybuilder looks like going into a show. When we talk about, you know, some that want to keep their secrets close to the best, some that will leak progress pictures. What is your take on how I guess a bodybuilder should approach going in a show? Whether they should show anything or whether they should really keep it at locks. The truth of the true answer is that it doesn't matter what they look like on any day except the day of that they step on stage. So, they can put all the pictures they want up. It doesn't I've seen the guys that look the best on Instagram and even the guys who don't filter their pictures never look like that on stage because you know what? I've seen pictures of Dallas Macccarver going into a show. I you never see a back shot of him. You see all the the best shots, his crunch shots and his double buy, his side chest, and he looks great and then you see him on stage and you start and you don't see the weaknesses that he he didn't put the weaknesses up obviously on Instagram. So yeah, I take that with a grain of salt. I think it's exciting. I think it's cool to put pictures up because it gets people talking. I don't have a problem with that. But like uh John said, you got to do interviews. You got to do media because that's important. All these guys before the Wby uh these UFC fights or boxing matches, they all do media because you want to get people excited about the match. You don't have to show the person what you look like, but you better talk some stuff up and tell people what they're going to see on stage because you want to get them excited. As far as predictions, I'll make I always make my predictions. I'm usually wrong, but I don't care. I have Cedric McMillan winning. I have Lino Bayiki in second, Juan Morell very close third with Dallas Macccarver right behind him in fourth and Fouad Abiad in fifth. Um, in the O in the men's 212 class, I have Jose winning unanimously. I have a feeling he's going to come in and he's going to crush the competition. I think Ahmad Ashkani will finish in the second position with Heday third, David Henry fourth, and Guy Cistino fifth. That's my top five predictions. Whether they're right or not, who know who who the hell knows? But I'm not afraid to put it on the line. Well, with that, that's gonna bring us to an end of this pre-own classic episode of Iron Debate. Zack, I know we uh kind of went back and forth and we had some misunderstandings, but we're glad we could finally get you on this show. Uh, and I think we do we have them all right, Zack, we would love to have you back for our show live with that is our one-on-one interview show. I know the fans have been clamoring for that. So, after the Arl, if you make some time for us, we'll renegotiate the terms of the deals and the contract, but we'd love to have you back for the interview show as well. Any anytime, guys. Exactly. Absolutely. John and Chris, as always, we appreciate it. Dave, we will see you in a few days in Columbus, Ohio. for everyone involved in this broadcast and our producer Johnny Styles. I'm Sadi Farooqi reminding you that Thursday night will be the first piece of coverage live from Columbus, Ohio, the site of the 2017 Arnold Classic, Zire Debate. I'm Sad Farooqi. We'll see you in a couple of days. Thanks, Zach.