The Mass Stack NT from BSN available now. This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the 2010 Phoenix Pro Show. I'm here in my hotel room the night before the show with female bodybuilding competitor Zoa Lindsay all the way from Japan. Hi Dave. How you doing? Good. You're a hard girl to get in touch with being all the way over there in the uh whole like 15 hour time difference. Now, when did you come in? Um I came in about a week and a half ago to Portland, Oregon, and uh stayed with my coach Null uh just to get the time change worked out and get the water out. And coming from Japan and living there, how hard is it to diet over there? Do you have all the foods and everything you need? got a grocery store on base and so I just do the chicken and my normal staples of dieting and I I can't really eat off base cuz they eat small strips of pork and fat with uh really noodles. I mean the reason why the Japanese are thinner I think is just because they have smaller portions not necessarily I would starve on their portions definitely. Yeah. Joseph gets like five you know portions every Yeah, that's right. Let me ask you this question because you probably of all the people who turned pro last year were probably one of the the biggest largest girls. Uh and a lot of people said that this is someone who can compete on a pro stage and I know we talked about that after you won the North American. Yeah, it was my fault. I I I build you for that. Somebody said that. Yeah, somebody. It was me. So, having said that, um now you're here at the Phoenix Pro. You're going to be standing on stage against some seasoned uh body Olympia competitors, Betty Pariso and Yaken. How do you feel? Um, I feel uh overwhelmed and excited and um just I just feel excited, you know. I feel like it's a compliment to me to be able to be up there with the women and um I mean I just met Exenny downstairs and you know she you said she she's a like someone you look up to. You know when I was training cuz she's a little taller and uh you know she's has a beautiful physique I think nice flowing lines. So when I trained, you know, of course I always thought of um extending my co my my old coach call me yaks. I mean not that I was her or anything, but you know to motivate me and um you have a possibility of possibly maybe even beating her this year. You know I'm not I'm not going to even go we're a little more pressure. I [laughter] was going to say um on this is what I do when I train. I train to be number one because otherwise why are you suffering and putting yourself through all this kind of stuff? But um I also recognize there's women in this sport who've been doing this for many more years than me and who have um far more years of experience and could possibly beat me. Um but you know, the field is open and I'll just do what I can and see what happens. Well, I have you picked in my top three, so hopefully you'll live up to my expectations. Yeah, I read something about that. I thought, "Oh, great. Here we go." No, no. I I take it as a compliment that many people support me. Um, but I tend to like to just sit in the background, do my work, and um, we'll let the judges decide tomorrow. And top three goes to the Olympia, and then you have the Arnold next week, of course. Uh, if you do qualify, will we see you in uh, in Vegas in September? Um, it's difficult to say that now cuz I'm tired and I just really want a steak in a baked potato. But, um, she has to steak and baked potato. She'll she'll change her mind. My husband says, you know, within within 3 minutes after, uh, figuring out that if you did qualify, he said, you were going to be wanting to start dieting right away and get on that stage. I mean, it's a dream, right? Of course, you heard it. The dream from uh Zoa Lindsay here uh one day before the 2010 Fenix Pro. Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.