The Mast NT from BSN available now. This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com here at the 2009 IFBB Phoenix Pro Show. I'm here with our third place finisher and very very happy person, Zoa Lindsay. You're going to the Olympia. Yes, I am. First time out. Um, yeah. Kind of thrilling. You win the North American. You come in your first pro show. You place third. Very impressive lineup, too. What are you saying? Are you saying you're right? Yes, I am right. Didn't I tell you to go right? Congratulations, Dave. Let's congratulate. I was right. I did all top three. So, thank you. Were you surprised? Um, right. That I got third place or that I qualified for the Olympia? Both. Both. Um, well, I feel very um honored to be on the stage top three with uh two veterans like Exit. One Miss Olympia, right? And I do think that um you know that the density of their physiques um and the time they've been competing, you know, they they deserved their placings and I was happy to be the place I was. I'm not disappointed. I'm thrilled. I mean, you looking forward to the Arnold in two weeks? Absolutely. I mean, I'll probably be scared silly, but I'll be smiling. I think you got a very good shot at top five there. I mean, given that you're going to add Iris Kyle to the mix and a couple other girls. If you're you've been right so far, so I will take that as gold. Top five. Okay. Okay. So, and if you're wrong, what's the bed? There's no I'm never wrong. No, I'm always wrong. Usually, I'll take you out to dinner. You and your husband. Okay. That's my husband. He's big, you know. Yeah, I know. He eats. I serve him. But if if I win, then what? You got to take me out to dinner. That's fair. That's fair. Sushi dinner, too. That's fair. Have we got You heard it. I documented it on here. Zoa Lindsay, third place here, qualifies for her first Miss Olympia. She'll be at the Arnold in 2 weeks. Let's let her go eat. Any uh any thank yous you want to give? Um yeah, I would like to just thank everyone for their support. I mean, it's um you know, it's a big endeavor to diet for a show and you know, my husband obviously you know the drill with uh what it's like living with somebody who's dieted. So, in Japan, nonetheless. Yeah. And you know, he's um he's always been there for me and you know, family and everything. So, friends, just fans, Arc Muscle, very good contributor. Yeah. and um waiting for your training video. We we do appreciate the women's coverage for sure. Thanks, Zoa. Dave Palumbo, Zo Lindseay, RXMuscle.com