I haven't seen the stuck a week and a half. They just came out. Look at that. I love that fight. And we are back for another exciting episode of After Hours. And who are we back with? The entire Whack Pack. We got the Brady Bunch here today. We got Richard Rodriguez joining us again. John Romano, Greg Valentino, Mr. Ganis Carr not in studio today because Tyler is on vacation. And we have the the muscle chef Carlo Filipony of the Chicken Pound. And Carlo, I have to start the show off by saying I love your chicken meatballs. Woof. I eat them every night. Thank you. Thank you, Dave. I appreciate it. They're uh they're new. They're exciting and people are really enjoying them. So, I'm so glad you love them. I You know, I hate whenever I say this stuff on the show, Carla. Everyone else who's watching gets this like saliv saliv saliva running down their mouth and it's like I got some food that they don't have. You got to send out some You always have the food we don't have. said it to me first. Universally, you have the food we don't have. All the time you have the food we don't have. Well, I need an expert Jewish Italian opinion on meatball. Somebody will tell it to me straight. So, I send them right to Dave and he gives me all gives me the low down cuz he's the combo. He's half Jewish and half give you I can bridge you guys. Three meatballs is 14 grams of protein. So, I'm eating like meatballs, which is 45 grams of protein. It's great every night. Yeah. And we've kept uh we've kept the fat to a minimum. Um and then the it's rice flour as a binder in there rather than breadcrumbs. So they're soyf free, gluten-free. Um so your sons don't grow boobs and your little girls don't grow boobs at six years old. So you know takes them puts pops them into his mouth the whole thing in one time. He throws in his mouth. Yeah. They're they're like I love them. I they're bite-size and I I just think they heat well and they're convenient. So, uh, I'm glad you like them. Thank you. It It's almost embarrassing to say, but you can literally, John, put these things in the microwave oven for for two minutes and you can eat them right there. You don't you don't have to do anything. The best thing. That's what you want, convenience like that, you know. Yeah. Yeah. You I mean, you can throw in a pot of sauce if you want, but honestly, everything the bodybuilders are ordering them and they're using them like as a cheat meal or their off seasonasons because they still get enough protein. They're better than regular meatballs. There's no preservatives in them. Um, you know, it's literally eight eight ingredients. It's chicken, it's water, uh, onion, garlic, dehydrated, dehydrated onion, and pepper and rice flour. And parsley, I'm sorry. No, parsley. Parsley. Yes, that is parsley. Yeah. The only the only thing is I I there there is there is some garlic and and onion in there. So I do taste it, but I it doesn't repeat on me later that day that that night. So that's a good thing. So yeah, there definitely garlic and onion in there. Now, do you use the chicken thigh meat, Carlo? We use thigh meat, a little white meat, and then some fat, too. Yeah, there's not enough fat in the in the thighs. I'm sorry. There's not enough fat in the thighs. No, no, there is. But when when you add the actual fat, it just makes them a lot more tender, so they're not chewy and pasty, right? Fat in each in each one. I'm sorry. How many grams of fat in each one? Eight grams of fat. And how much protein? 14. It's John. That's per three meatballs, not one meatball. Yeah, it's for Okay. Yeah, they're real. So convenient. Those are great. Those are great for kids. Yeah. Great for kids. Put it in. Put in sauce for kids. Yeah. Mac and cheese. D put in your kids mac and cheese. I put those things in sauce for like six hours. They would They would probably melt. They would probably be amazing, you know, but I I'm too I'm lazy. I I I cook it with f in five minutes. I I got to cook everything. So, this is perfect for me. I love it. Yeah, definitely. Um definitely let's connect, man, later on, man. Because I would love to try them out with my son. The chickenpound.com. What's the RX Muscle uh coupon code? By the end of the show, I'll have a coupon that's RX20 so that people can save 20%. How about that? All right. All right. Excellent, Carla. Great job with those. Now, thank you. I wanted to bring up a a topic that we we lost another bodybuilder. Not thank God not to a heart attack again, but Robert Rothrock, a lot of you might not know who he was. He he won the 1990 Junior Nationals. Um I I think it was in Louisiana that year, was it? Greg, don't you remember that's like your era? You remember that? Um I actually don't I don't remember the junior nationals at all. Uh I the Roth rock now is is it's ringing a bell. I'm digging through you know the brain. Um right Dave remember I was at the uh that year and um I was at the one where uh Paul do beat Kevin Lev. That was the year. Yeah that was after that. That was the that actually matter. In fact that was the following year and Liverman Lieberman actually. Yeah, that was 91 nationals. What's that? That 90 Lieberman was in that show cuz he told me. But can you hear me? He looked [\h__\h] good. I gotta be honest with you. Lieberman looked [\h__\h] good. He was in He was in the top five, I think. Let me get this thing up here. Hold on. All right. Lieberman. So, how did Roth Rock die? He had cancer. 90. I'm going to get a guy on who knew him well, but I want to for you guys first. Of what? He was a freak. I'm telling you, when you see this, I remember short and thick. Yeah. Wow. Super thick. Supposedly, he I mean, he literally This was a different show obviously. This is another show, but that that this I wanted to show some video of him. This was not the show he won, but Oh, [\h__\h] had a lot of him. Greg don't remember him. Wow. I'm surprised he hasn't didn't stay at Greg's house, John. You surprised Greg didn't feed him spaghetti and meatballs? Oh my god. It's a classic poser, too. Look. Yeah. Yeah. But that was back in the day, everybody cared about their posing. He worked extensively. But how tall? He was an art, man. How tall is he? They just gave his height. How 5'11? 5'11. 225. I'm surprised Greg wasn't there. No, I wasn't. No, I wouldn't know Louisiana. You went to all those shows back then, Greg, though. I can't picture Greg going to shows. He was like a promoter, John, too. Yeah, I know he was a But I know that, but I can't just picture him. Greg was a big icon. Yeah, Greg was he was he was a renegade. He was the first one to start all the stuff. The fact that he looked short all of them. All of them. I don't remember him competing against Think about that. He shows up at this show 1990. Was an [\h__\h] then was there who's expected to win. You guys hear me? Yeah, Deo is there. You know, it's his first junior national. Flex Wheeler's there. Flex winds up finishing second. De Mayo third. The following year at 91, you're talking about Greg Deo wins and beats Kevin Levrone. And then eight, 10 or week, 12 weeks later, they go to the nationals and LeBron wins. You know, I don't know if he was in that 90 junior nationals or not. Was he was Dean Caputo in that lineup? Yes, he was in 91. He was Greg, you got a bad connection. Terrible. I'm gonna boot him. [\h__\h] Like I said, you think he'd reach under that desk and and and pull out some kind of like a technology, you know? He's got everything there. All right, we're joined by Terry Terry Nelson. Terry, flip your phone sideways if you can. Gotcha. Now, Terry, we were just talking about uh Robert. Hey, check out this hat. I love it. Hold on. George, put the Uncle Sam on hold for a minute. We got We got a guest here. Terry grew up with um Robert Rothrock, right? You I think you met him when you were 15 or something like that. Yeah, I met him at a bodybuilding contest. Tell us the story about how that how that happened. Well, uh, Don Smith of Crazy Wear fame. We've had him on the show. Yeah. Yeah. He, uh, he used to own a gym, Don's Health and Family Fitness. He put on a little bodybuilding contest every year in Mcome, Mississippi. And I entered it. I was prepubescent. And, um, ended up getting second place. Some pretty notable guys. And then Robert, you know, uh, you know how those shows go, the teens go first. I'm sitting with my parents and I see this big thing, you know, this big mammoth making his way around. He's tapping me. I don't know who he is. And he pulls me. How long have you been training? Are you really 15? I said, "Yes, sir. I've been training for seven months." And he goes, "Oh my god." He goes, "You can be Mr. Olympian." He was just so freaking nice. Anyway, he guest posed and um um I thought that would be the end of our relationship, you know, but he took my parents' number down, got it from my parents. He would call periodically. He would check on me. He would I had a little Isuzu impulse and my mother wouldn't let me drive it to Jackson, which is about 60 miles where Robert lived. And Robert would come down to Tylertown, Mississippi, pick me up and drive me to Jackson so I could train in a real gym. Oh wow. And uh he was just that was Robert. He would call all the time. And he did that with dozens of bodybuilders. He was the kind softspoken just gorilla that you had ever seen. And that that's really how we met, you know. And our relationship has, you know, spanned for about 39 almost 40 years now. It's, you know, really, really sad. It's a big, big, big loss for us because he's really all we had right in Mississippi over there. Now, when he won that junior nationals, I mean, no one expected him to win that. No one even I don't think he even knew he wasn't on anyone's radar at that point. Um, so what happened after that? Because we never really no one really knows that name. It's like he beat Flex Wheeler and Deo and then dis kind of disappeared in a sense, you know, where was he? What was he doing? Okay, Robert came home after that. Actually, Robert of late in 2007 went back with very little prep and placed in the top four at the uh Masters National, but he was just a shell of his former self. Robert trained really odd, Dave. He uh he was a strange character. He did a lot of I think we're losing. Everybody's got a terrible connection. What the hell? It's this [\h__\h] It's this stream [\h__\h] That's what it is. You sound great now. What happened? Oh, there it goes. It's because I'm ask somebody else would come in and make me sound like were very basic, you know, and this is going somewhere. He would do like eight sets of leg extensions, eight sets of squats, and that was it. But Robert knew no warm him up. Robert, you know, his squats, you know, he would go down and just stay down with it and kind of We're losing him again. This Streamyard [\h__\h] sucks. Yeah, I don't think it's Zoom is better. I've got good Wi-Fi. Zoom is way better. No, it is. Watch. Some If you hear me, fine. I'm good. Somebody will knock me out and then all a sudden it's going to I'm going to get bad. Well, what happened to Robert when he got back? Robert was notorious. He walks in the gym. There's no 135, 225. Robert comes in the gym 3:15 and he unrackcks it, you know, and he reps. He would do these reps 10, whereever, whatever. If he do 20 racket, he'd go 405, 44, 455. And that was like kind of his chest workout. It was really odd, but Robert was in the gym one day and he unrackcks the weight. No, no one went up first set. Just we get to the punch line. on edge right at the best part too. I know. I know. All right. He's got to start. Gee, I was on the edge. We lost. He get So, he's in the gym one day. Terry, it's bad. I think it's his connection actually to be honest with you. It is. John, you and I are fine. Richard's fine. You got to be in the top row. That's That's I don't think that top row. I can move him to the top row. There he is. He's in the top row now. All right. Still hear me, right? He's muted. Yeah, you're muted, Terry. Terry, you're muted. That's the problem. Yeah, he's muted. Yeah. Unmute your mic. Terry, your mic is muted. All right, Dave, you're fired. You're fired for the judge. Not my fault. I I'm not muting him. It's not me. Am I fine now? You're fine, Greg. You're still No, Greg, you're not really that good. You're You're delayed, too. Greg Dave, I think you can unmute him if you're if you're the host. I can't I No, it tells me it's not my fault. It's his fault. I I can see if it's my fault or his fault that he muted himself. He muted himself right out of existence when he did. Hey, Richard, let's talk to Let's talk to Richard for a minute. Richard, you wanted to bring up something about the Mike Rasheed. First of all, explain to our explain to our viewers who might wish, you know, let's hold. Terry just got back. We'll get back. Got it. Well, um, hold on. Wait, wait. Richard, Terry, is you back? Yes, sir. All right. So, he goes into the gym one day. What happens? So, what happened? Robert unrackcks the rack like he always does. Doesn't warm up, begins benching, and he does his half reps, finishes the set, racks it, and he says, "I'm having serious chest pain." lays down. I'm having terrible chest pain. Of course, they call the ambulance the Jackson Athletic Club. Um, and Robert has severed his sternum in half. His pectoral muscles have separated his two pieces. What they had to sew the sternum back together and you know, he continued to train and even compete after that. Robert had a myriad of injuries like that. All levels of the spine. Ronnie Colemanish. If you see recent pictures of Robert, which I have a few I could share with you, Dave. Um, you know, you could tell there's a lot going on, you know, spinally. I think he had seven maybe spinal surgeries. Oh, wow. So, uh, you know, that training method definitely took its toll on R. You think it was because he didn't warm up and he just ripped his he would tear muscles and stuff like that? Yeah. And just the way he trained was, you know, uh, more of just kind of pumping, you know, sort of half reps. A lot of people in the gym attempted to copy Robert, of course, to to to their demise. You know, he would do everything sort of like half reps like this and rack it with crazy amounts of weight. Just ridiculous. Jimmy Pencio, they should train together. Yeah. Yeah. To watch, John. It was really, really crazy. Oh, bet. Yeah. So, now what happened with Now, he got cancer though at some point, didn't he? Yeah. You know, I just spoke with the family and I told them that I was coming on and they really didn't want to discuss it, but they did want to tell everybody, you know, Robert was relatively famous. You know, of course, Mississippi, Louisiana, the Gulf Coast there. I I'll just go ahead and tell you guys his funeral is going to be tomorrow at 10 a.m. in Brook Haven, Mississippi. Anybody that's in the area, I'm sure it will be packed. He was loved by everyone. What did he do for a living? Was he still training people? You know, I don't I don't know there at the end. And I just spoke with some guys that trained with him and they said they hadn't seen him in four or five months. And Robert was a very private guy, you know. Well, he had cancer. I'm sure he was fighting a battle, right? I mean, at that at the last months of his life. So, very sad. Exactly. You know, he was a proud guy. I don't think that they really, you know, want they want us to remember him as Yeah, I think we lost Terry again. Hey, we we've lost too many people, guys. Just too many guys recently. It's just very sad. 32 and 21. Yeah. There it goes. Well, how old was Robert, Terry? How'd he die? He died of cancer. I think I got All right, Richard, let's go to you for a second here. Hey, Dave, what are you having? Yeah, here. Cancer. Uh, okay. All right. Now, Richard, I want you to bring up something about Mike Rasheed. First of all, Mike Rasheed was a pretty popular social media guy. Explain how you met um Mike originally. Um, well, Mike Rasheed um when I was looking to u launch my own gym. Um, I've was an avid follower of the hashtag iron addicts. I saw what um what um CT Fletcher has done. I saw what Mike Rasheed, Big Rob, the strife cartel, all the people that were associated with the Iron Addicts hashtag what they done from a branding perspective. However, they didn't do anything from a monetization standpoint of launching a gym because let's face it, Iron Addicts gym my Iron Addicts gym in California doesn't make money the way in which a real properly ran gym um does. So, I had the money to do it, right? So, um, CT didn't want to partake in the, um, venture because he didn't want to be involved in Miami. So, I brought in I brought in Mike. I knew about his history about a hasb been rapper about being, you know, like a wannabe personal trainer and all that stuff. However, I saw what he was doing from a social media perspective. I wanted to bring him on. The relationship um, was always was always like unilateral, dude. It was it was it was from the standpoint where for the amount of effort and the amount of investment that I was putting forth for Iron Addicts versus what he was asking for. I mean like the dude had horrible [\h__\h] credit and I'm putting him up in a [\h__\h] condo in the beach. This guy is like asking me for like women. I was like he's asking me for like all this crap and I'm like dude it's like it's a gym. This is not like you're promoting you know like you know steroids you know steroids. Yeah. I'll pay you $5,000 for your following because it's going to yield me 2% of your followers and that's going to correlate to like a half a million dollars maybe the first month. This is a gym. But he didn't want to understand. Make a long story short, fast forwarded to my um to my case that earned me um eight months. He started like, you know, he started backpedaling like a [\h__\h] you know, talking about like, oh well, I never knew anything about this. I never knew about the illegal operations in in the gym, blah blah blah, and all that other stuff, right? So, first time I had access to a phone illegally on the um in in prison. I reached out to him like, "Yo, dude, what's up with the whole slandering and the bad mouth, man? It's like I thought we were brothers. You know, I took care of you a lot. I brought you prostitutes. I brought you cars. I brought you pretty much everything you could possibly imagine, and you [\h__\h] slandering me, man. That's not right. My wife reached out to you, man." And it's like, and it's like, you say that you have all this money, Mr. Philosopher, and all that other crap. It's like, "What's up, bro?" I was like, "Why you even hung up on my on my wife?" And he's like, "Oh, well, no, bro. I got to disassociate myself with you and all that other stuff." I'm like, "All right, cool." Never um you know, saw past that. Fast forward five years later. Um I'm here building my you know, building my presence again, my social media presence and all that other stuff. The dude sends me a [\h__\h] text message last [\h__\h] week. He's like, "I would appreciate if you stop using my photos and my videos, you know, uh you know, on all your social media and all your posts." I'm like, "Listen, [\h__\h] If that's the only time in which you're going to invest seconds to reach out to somebody that practically [\h__\h] made you and who you are right now, don't even invest those seconds into sending me a message. You [\h__\h] ungrateful piece of [\h__\h] And on top of that, if you do not want me to expose you for the womanizing, child molesting, I mean, like, you know, underage [\h__\h] don't make accusations. 100%. He's like, you know, it's like 100% if you don't want me to like, you know, to really expose you for the true person that you really are that I'll be more than happy to expose. Dude, it's like I personally think that as a professional, let us get on a phone call, let us get on a video, let's hash out our differences and do it for your fans and do it, you know, and do it for the people that, you know, that follow the industry because you're so-called Mr. Philosopher, do your so-called Mr. Positivity and all that stuff, but you are fake. you ungrateful and you leech onto people and just use them practically for their resources until they no longer no longer viable. You're pra you're practically promoting a plant-based [\h__\h] protein and you and I've seen you with my own [\h__\h] eyes. I got videos of you eating more [\h__\h] steak than a bull, dude. It's like don't be a hypocrite, bro. Like this industry is just full of freaking hypocrites. Do it for your followers. I could show him a slew of messages from people saying, "Hey, I unsubed him because of all his lies, bro. His lies is worse than actually Michael Hearn saying that he's a natty, bro. in all in all honesty. And and when you think about when you think about that and you think and and and you see what he has done to me, bro, and what he has done to other people, not just me, to women in the industry that he has dated to, you know, of of utilizing them as a as a he was like he was like a he was practically like a pimp telling girls, it's like, "Hey, hang out with me, date me," and all that stuff. I'll build your social media profile and all that other stuff and then scrap them. when he was tired of those women, he would literally scrap them. Right. But were they were they dating him because they thought they were going to be popular, too? I mean, so were they using each other? No. Incorrectly, bro. Incorrectly. This dude was this dude was like an R. Kelly, Harvey Weinstein type of person messed up allin one, bro. He would he would pimp these women and give them a false story, you know, to the standpoint when they were no longer a benefit to him, dude. He would dump them. And it's sad. And look, I want to move past this whole situ. Did he make you money though? because he was obviously very he was kind of like the face of your gym there, wasn't he? Yeah. But you got to look at it this way. The amount of money would Did he help me get budget positive sooner rather than later? Abso [\h__\h] lutely. But look at it from the standpoint of how much money I put in. How much were you paying him? Yeah, I I was paying him collectively with his contract of WFN and his contract as partner with um with uh with with Iron Addicts. was easily the highest paid person. Probably on average paying his apartment, paying his car, and all that stuff. Easily about $15,000 a month. Easily. Greg. Greg, you'd blow him for that, right, Greg? Oh, Greg. Blow him. I' I'd [\h__\h] bend over. Whatever you want. I'll walk around my finger. Your belt loop. Your your uh microphone is not working, Greg. That's the problem. Did he hear me? No. Yeah. Now we hear you. All right. We heard like half of what you said. Yeah. Well, knowing Greg, I know I know what he would do practically for a dollar. It seems like Richard though, you John, you could maybe chime in on this. Richard had this like dream situation there where he was making crazy amount of money and he was basically able to give these guys so much money to get them to to help him promote what he was doing. And a lot of these guys might not have been, you know, solid guys in the sense that, hey, they saw a big paycheck, they went after it, and then when the money dried up, they went on to the next thing. I mean, what I think actually what I think is this, because it wasn't just Rasheed, it wasn't just Flex, it was I think Richard had a run of of unfortunate experiences with uh known people. And what I think, and I'm this is purely speculation, Richard. What I think is they were looking at what Richard was doing, right? It's it's like it's like I'm going to rob the drug dealer. What's he going to do? Call the cops, you know? I mean, so it's it's it's kind of like that attitude. They know what he's doing. They understand the ramifications and the implications if if it if it gets out. And they figure, I got him over a barrel. I'm not gonna I'm gonna take the money. I'm not going to do [\h__\h] because who who's he gonna complain to? Right. Right. That's exactly what I think happened. I think so. I think they took advantage. That's a valid point. That's a valid point. Uh that's a valid point. And very few people uh evolved from that u that were genuine because look, I'm the type of person, dude. I was like, I don't care if you're milking me for something, right? You know, but at least be have it had at least make your ulterior motives transparent, you know? It's like I have no problem telling somebody's like, "Hey, man." And like especially like certain women, I'm like, "Hey, man. I just want to [\h__\h] you, man. I don't want to have a relationship, you know? So, I pay you $1,000 after we're done and leave you and then leave me alone. I'm transparent, dude. I've always been that way." So, like, what frustrated me with a lot of people, specifically like Mike Rasheed, Flex Wheeler, certain individuals, is that they went into the public, which they didn't have to do. You didn't see you didn't see LeBron, you didn't see a lot of the other athletes go into the public saying, "Oh, no, well, I was bamboozled." No, they like they literally went in there saying, "I was bamboozled." Yeah. because they wanted they wanted to like get they didn't want to get arrested. That's why they they were they knew what they were doing was wrong, but they were so greedy for the money because you look you you didn't just like say here's 500 bucks. You were you were throwing big amounts of money at people and and and look, it's hard to say no to large amounts of money. I mean, let's face it. And so when they knew, look, everyone knew it was going to come to an end, including you at some point. And when it did, these guys were like, "We didn't know. We didn't know." Meanwhile, they knew exactly what was going on. They absolutely knew. You know what's even crazier is that you have what's even crazier is this. Not only did they lie that that they didn't even know, it's because I actually seen this because I've had a cell phone with me in prison. Individuals like Mark Lind or Shawn Ray and all these fools like Mike Rasheed videos of him publicly endorsing WFN. They try to do copyright claims to my damn YouTube. Yeah. Like I can see show you screen copyright claims saying, "Hey, you know what? That's a fraudulent, you know, like that's a fraudulent video. They should they took them down from their from their YouTube channels. And I was like, "Wow, man." It's like this, like they're really trying to cover your asses. But at the end of the day, like, you know, Greg said it, Greg said it best. You said it, John Romano said it. Um, said it. It's like, look, at the end of the day, they don't give a [\h__\h] about personal users. They don't give a [\h__\h] about that. Unless you're like a unless you're like an athlete, like an NFL, Major League Baseball, somewhere where there are severe repercussions, i.e. suspensions, fines, they don't give a [\h__\h] about you, right? And that's the reasons why I didn't cooperate is not because of the it's not because of the bodybuilders and the powerliffters and all that stuff. It's because of the other 43,000 clients, the NFL people, the the Major League Baseball, the UFC people that I could have literally ruined their [\h__\h] lives. I don't bite that hand that feeds me. That 100% that 100% has a valid reason of getting into the public be like, I don't know what the hell you're talking about. Right. You know what? Let's say I was stupid enough to let's say you had Thank God you didn't contact me. I told you this because I it would have been very hard to turn down your money because you you you you pay a lot. If you would have said, "Hey, Dave, I'll give you 15 grand a month to run ads on RX Muscle." You know, if I would have taken the ads because I wanted the money. If when you got in trouble, they're going to come to me and they're going to subpoena everything that's on my website and they and they're going to threaten me and say, "Well, you're promoting his stuff, so you're part of the conspiracy." So, I'm screwed in a sense. Let let me let me get let me let me throw this in there because I am one who turned down money because I was in Mexico. I had my lab running in Mexico and Richard and I were talking about me doing production for him. Right. Okay. and and bringing it here to the states which is no no man the amount of money he offer that I could have made with the amount of production I could have done if I was bro I wouldn't right now what' you turn down you wanted me to make two you he the original deal was for 2,000 bottles a week oh my god that's a lot look at it this way if I was averaging I when when John Romano came on board to write to write for me, I was at about $35,000 in sales a day. I was, you know, if if he was 50 was towards the end towards the end. Yeah. When I when all the SEO, social media, and and all the things that I was doing on the back end started kicking in, that's when I started doing a huge uh on average. But when you f came in first as the writer, um I wasn't I wasn't up there. I wasn't up there. Yeah. But towards the latter part, like the last year, that's when I was at about, you know, like 45 to 50,000 a day. He paid me very well for my writing, though. Absolutely. Well, that's what I'm saying. He he he took care of everyone. So, you really No one should be complaining whatsoever about anything is then. That's why Richard's upset. I could understand that because he he overcompensated people really. Well, the media would have loved that. Yeah, the media would love that. Yeah. Yeah, they would. Think about it, Greg, though. you what was the your biggest days when you were selling just on the street? I mean, you couldn't reach the half the audience, a fraction of the audience that Richard met on the online, you know. No, his connection's terrible. We can't have a connection. I got to kick him. We can't hear you, Greg. Your your um microphone is not on, Greg. I think he's using the wrong microphone is what? He's using the wrong program. No, you know what it is? He's on the right program, but I think his He's picked the wrong microphone. You got to go into the settings and pick the right microphone for the show, but he's not doing that. Yeah. Yeah. Because I had that problem in the beginning, too. Yeah. He needs a tech to do that. You know, it's it's a crazy it's a crazy thing out there, you know, that people get involved in things and they know what they're doing risk-wise and then when when the [\h__\h] hits the fan, some guys, you know, prove to be, you know, solid guys and some guys will, you know, sing like, you know, a canary. Houston. Exactly. And at that what what what I what I don't understand about this whole thing is that you know on the one hand Richard says all these 43,000 people you know who I could ruin their own careers and you know I don't bite the hand it feeds me correct h I don't how did it come up that certain of these people certain wrestlers Wahberg where' they get the names why those guys what actually transpired by them to to cause you to go after them. Um, it's very simple. When I saw my indictment and my docket sheet, um, aside from, um, being surprised that my brother and my best friend of 22 years cooperated against me, um, I started seeing names of athletes that I really took care of. If you think $5,000 back up, back up, back up. Were you saw you you mean they profer they gave profers? They there were it's called triedand-true statements. Uh what tried and true statements are is where is where um a federal prosecutor would interview each and every single person that if the individual is considering and going to trial will be willing to take the stand and say yes I know him. He has done this. This is how he distributes it. This is how he has helped me beat tests. Ex. So they're willing, you know, they're willing to testify. So did they give actual Did they give actual affidavit and they were profered? Exactly. So you saw Wait, wait, wait, wait. You saw you saw their profers in your documents. Exactly. So I is my question is why them? What? High names, high profile, John. But but he a high-profile you don't know anything he's not even about that um Dave because uh because there was many more there were many more there of highprofile people were right but some people probably said talk to my lawyer other people probably got scared and and said I'll I'll cooperate because I don't want to get it prosecuted you know that that no for me you know but but to answer John Romano's question is for is that I chose particular individuals and I didn't is because of the amount of effort effort, time and dedication that I focused on those individuals, not charging them, not you know giving practically giving them free product, helping them in so many ways from a financial perspective in hopes of obviously them obviously in re introducing me or or or or bringing me into the industry and expanding into the industry. So I had my ulterior motive. However, when I saw the amount of effort and the amount of dedication, the amount of money that I've provided to these people in comparison to to the others, I was like, I was hurt, man. I was hurt. I understand that. But did the feds pick them out of your choose them out of your client list and go after them? Is that I'll tell you I'll tell you exactly what happened. out of the nine charges that I, you know, that I was looking at, the only one I cpped out to, if you look at my um plea, is marketing of a control substance because that's what they had me dead to write. Dude, they hacked my freaking social media. They went down the list of every single person and and all the instant messages and and seeing all me talking to each and every single one of them was like, "Hey, your order will arrive in so and so time, blah, blah, blah. This is how to take it. This is where, you know, I would be in that shoot. I would be in that, you know, it's like I would be in backstage, blah, blah, blah." and all that stuff. So that's the only thing that I cpped out to because when I saw the proof I was like [\h__\h] I can't debate that, you know. So when when when I saw that and when I saw all like the slew of messages and all that other stuff, I was like that's when I negotiated obviously. It's like, okay, let's figure out if we can get the moneyaundering and all that crap out of the way and and in some form of way and let's let me cop out to this. So when I so when I started seeing the messages of these individuals this you know their their profers u and all that stuff I'm like I'm like [\h__\h] man it's like you know it's like it hurts bro and it's like and Jeffrey Ward said it best you know in his message that he wrote to me saying he's like yo rich you were a nice guy in an industry expecting the people that you were compensating that were to be loyal to you and treat you like family like you were treating them and you know what that was my bitterness and till this day I still have some of that bitterness to some people and that hence the reason why even talking about Mike Rasheed today about about it because I try to move forward. I try to move Hold on, let me ask you a question, Richard. What was the most outrageous thing you bought Mike Rasheed like that you gave to him? Like that was like, "Holy [\h__\h] this guy's out of his mind." Uh, I bought him a condo um in 57th Street in Collins called in the May condominiums. It was about 230 something thousand. Um, I made the deposit for that for that condo. Wow. And I purchased him a $213,000 SLS black edition. the one day in which he was u rocking in a lot of his videos. So you gave that to him as a gift. Those were gifted to him. Yeah. You you saw you saw the uh you saw the you saw the screenshot of of him having horrible credit. I had to end up I had to end up um you know like being the person to uh Hold on. Let me ask you a question. Why did you give him So I mean that's over that's almost overdoing. Were you just did you feel like you guys were that close like friendship wise that you wanted just Well, let's face it. Let's face it, dude. I'm a businessman, so there's no way in [\h__\h] hell like, you know, I would give AI would give anybody that if I'm not making any money in return. I mean, his social media following, his social media following was unheard of from a conversion ratio. I mean, look at Flex Wheeler having uh a certain amount of followers. I was lucky to crack 0.5 or 1% of his followers into clients, whereas like Mike Rasheed, I was at about a five to 7% ratio. Oh, really? So, you're making a lot of money from him. In other words, that's like that's like that's like three times the norm, dude. in in in in social media marketing conversions three times the norm. Yeah, it got to a point where the ends didn't justify the mean, hence the reasons why I was weaning him out from the exorbitant amounts of payments that I was giving him. But in the beginning, oh, he he made me he made me a lot of money, man. Made me a lot of money. But you it seems like you took very good care of him, too. So, I mean, of course, very generous. Of course. I mean, people like, you know, it's just like it's just like, you know, like keeping John Romano on for writing because everybody was congratulating us on on the great on the great content. Dude, I have no problem in paying somebody well. And I've done and it's a methodology I've learned even when I was a director in in in the corporate in the corporate world. I have no problem in compensating somebody very very well if he or she delivers, right? Like because because I've been in sales. At the end of the day, you're only as good as your last sale. That's one of the things in which I learned in in sales. So, if you consistently delivering and if you consistently are are providing value, rest assure, I'mma break my [\h__\h] back to keep you, you know, to keep you on board, bro. Right. Well, sounds interesting. I think uh the problem was the whole thing was was predicated on on on an illegal activity that was going on. So eventually eventually it was going to crash down and and you know fall through the gutter. So that's what happened. Pretty ballsy though, I gotta say. Yeah. Yeah. You had some out of all the capers I've seen perpetrated over the over the years, Richard had the the biggest balls out of all of them, man. Because he was right out in front of he was doing the most illegal thing in front of everybody. And it was like no problem. It's a miracle it lasted that long. I I'm shock I I am shocked that it did. You know what's crazy? It's cra You know what's crazy is that when New York Time uh when the New Time Miami New Times did the article on me, they said that um six months prior to the arrest, I still did not have any inquiries with the feds, nothing. like it. Like if it wasn't for the fact that they grabbed my uh my uh my brother uh my brother and my best friend at 22 years, I would have probably still been operational now. I would have been long gone though. But but I would Right. Yeah. It if you had gotten if and with we could we could debate that if you had gotten out and just although you never would have stopped because the money was just too much. If you had gotten out, it would have been it would have been a great story that you could have written down the road, you know, about how you made all this money and then and then parlayed it something completely legitimate and got away with it because no one How many people get away with it, you know? That's But that's what he was doing. Yeah, but I know with the problem he just ran out of time. Everyone runs out of time. It's like I told you. It's like I told you guys, literally four months prior to being incarcerated, I already had Mike Rasheed Fle uh I already had Mike Rasheed, Ric Flair about to be signed up. I had Kevin Leone promoting um the Hormone Club. So I like, you know, which was the secession plan and and the gym was [\h__\h] thriving. I was I had plans with Mike uh with Mike Rasheed opening up three more, you know. So it's like everything was in place. However, like the the secession plan didn't happen fast enough. That's all. There's a guy in law. I won't mention any names, of course. And he I think he was I know he sold drugs, you know, back in the day, you know, like cocaine and stuff like that. He saved every dime he made. He would sleep in it. It would be in his mattress when he would sleep at night and then he took all and then he just stopped one day. Took all the money, opened up a bunch of gyms on Long Island and and was very legitimately successful. Um never stopped working his regular job. this guy and he's the only guy I know who've ever done that and and and didn't get caught, didn't go to jail and and and just was able to stop and say, "You know what? I made enough money. I'm gonna take it and build something with it." One of the biggest mistakes these guys make is quitting their day job. Yes. Too. Yeah, you're right. Red flags, right? All over the place. Absolutely. What is this guy doing with his feet up at 11:30 in the morning? And that's that will start the chain rolling. I'm telling you right there. Yeah. That's how you get the eyes. Because it's funny you said that, John, because I remember uh the first three years, even when I was averaging about5 to$10,000 in sales a day, I was still driving a $99 a month Beetle. And and sometimes I didn't even clean the [\h__\h] And dude, I was never getting any eyes. I would go to the gym. People be like, "Excuse me, sir. Can you get it? Can you give me your ID?" I'm like, "Fuck you." You never get out. You never get out. Yeah. Yeah, if you would have kept it there at $10,000 a day, you may have still may have still been operating money on the side, you know? 100% 100%. I think for me, what really [\h__\h] me up was the fact where like where I just started going crazy with [\h__\h] cars. I started rapping a McLaren P1 with like Iron Addicts all over and all this other [\h__\h] Every every having every hot chick in fitness posing next to it. And it's it's it was it was it was it was you were intoxicated with with with the with the money. That's what it was. Yeah. Those were those were the real red flags. Not not standing in the middle of those are the real red flags when you start, right? Even on a local level, right? There's people here. I'm in Jersey. So, these guys as soon as they start making a few bucks and, you know, they're they go from making $50,000 a year at an odd job to all of a sudden buying uh, you know, Cadillac Escalades for $200,000. And the government's kind of like, where'd you get that from on a $50,000 salary that you quit two years ago, you know? So, even in our supplement industry, when I see guys starting to buy the the the Lamborghinis and the Ferraris, I start saying, "Oh, they're doing something illegal." You know why? They're not going to be around much longer. The problem is that people don't understand. You could sell a lot of nutritional supplements even legally. But you have bills to pay. You have taxes to pay. You have employees to pay. There's not that much extra. Okay? Unless you're selling something that no one else has got because there's something questionably legal about it. And and that's just the way I mean look what happened to Aaron and PJ. I mean, and you know what, Dave, the margins in supplements are pretty good compared to other industries. Well, we're getting killed in the food business. My margins are ridiculous. And that's why we're adding a bunch of line extensions. If I could just be honest with you, chicken breast has been Oh, chicken breast has been I mean, at at at 100 over a 100,000 pounds a month in chicken purchased, I was paying four bucks a pound up until about a week and a half ago. Really? That much? Yes. Raw. The industry has gotten demolished. Well, there's there's a new bird flu going. There was a bird flu. A Purdue plant burnt down which put pressure and stress on a lot of other uh manufacturers and farms in uh and of course the labor shortages are affecting everybody. The gas prices are affecting everybody. It it's been insane. So people look at our industry like, "Oh, chicken breast is $2 a pound." You know, first of all, if you're getting it for two bucks a pound right now in the supermarket, it's because it's a loss leader. You know, they'll sell the chicken breast as a law at a loss to get you in the store to sell you something else. So, our margins are ridiculously low and slim in the food business. And then, of course, the way we do it where we go direct to consumer, you have to pack it in a recyclable box with recyclable stuffing, the marketing and all that other stuff. But you're right, John, that the margins in in supplement industry, Dave, you know better, are are are not bad. They're not bad at all. It's just a matter of what you're going to do with. They've gotten very bad recently, though. I'll tell you the whey protein prices are through the roof now. Creatine, it doesn't even pay to even carry creatine anymore because if you can even get it. Yeah. Reasons that I just mentioned times the cost. John, it's so it's so true that you say that because one of the things in which I am trying to procure is is is is my own supplement line and it's like I've been looking at time to do it. Richard don't do it. Yeah, it's it's horrible like the price points. I mean I've secured my partnership now with you know with the concierge base and HRT company that I'm gonna be partnering up with. So that's secure. HRT is the way to go if you Yeah, that's Yeah, that's Yeah, that's secure. So, I would start I'm gonna start promoting that sometime next week, you know, once, you know, once the once the deal is signed. But, you know, but but as far as like the supplement line, man, it's just [\h__\h] like the the sourcing of the materials. I looked at on demand. I looked at even bringing it into silent investors or doing our own fulfillment and and and manufacturing. I was just like, man, it's just like the the margins are no longer there as it was before. Right. What you see what you needed to do, Richard, was when you were making all that money, instead of bringing Flex Wheeler on and Mike Rasheed, you should have brought you should have paid off some government officials and see if they could have legalized the [\h__\h] That would have been a much a much better methodology on your part. Well, let's just say this. I had the way in which I was getting some of these athletes to pass their tests is because I had people inside of these government agencies like Rousada and Wada telling me what they're going to be tested for. Oh, really? Yeah. So, and so, so the the the strategies that I was using to help these people pass their test should have been a strategy that I should have used to pay lobbyists, you know, individuals. You see, and it's crazy because I've worked with so many pharmaceutical companies where when I worked at McKenzie and that's the reasons why people in Fizer, GSK, right, weren't getting [\h__\h] arrested because they were spending millions a month just in lobbyists. However, I didn't I had I was making money, but I wasn't making Fizer money to the standpoint where that where where that could have afforded me the right lobbyist that would have kept me out of prison. What What would the um I think I was going to ask him now. Um Oh, so what were the some of the compounds that they didn't test for that that would you could use at that point in time at least? Well, it's not really the compounds that they were they were or were not tested for. It was about knowing what they were going to be tested for in order for you to have sufficient time to develop the right masking agents for them to be rendered negative. It's just like um give you an example like with the whole Lance Armstrong situation where you know he figured out a way to circumvent the um testing to the standpoint where the hypocrite levels wouldn't show but they were but all his athletes were taking an obscene amount of BPO. So if I had, you know, if I would have a week or if I would, you know, or or or a few days to go to Arizona and talk and speak and work with my chemist, you know, specifically for a particular athlete, and he would pay me 20 to $30,000 to make sure that he, you know, he gets tested negative. That's incentives for me to stop what the [\h__\h] I'm doing, go to [\h__\h] Arizona, make the right compound, you know, you know, collect, you know, have the collective brains there working and formulating something that who cares if I just sell it once. I made 20 $30,000 in one [\h__\h] day. That's crazy. I mean, like, what what I mean, what compounds were there that were undetectable at the time that you were having made in Arizona? Um, man, there sometimes it was as simple as compound. Sometimes it was as simple as just developing uh, you know, a compound of [\h__\h] sugar to render a particular testosterone product to be [\h__\h] negative. like the the the ingredients and the exipients were so simple like like like I don't want to reveal it because it kind of it kind of like um like gives a person like a recipe or a cheat sheet but let's just say that every compound there's an agent or an exipient that can mask it. It's just a matter of I mean Victor Ki did it um Tony Bosch did it to you know you know to to their athletes and they did it very [\h__\h] well. Uh but you know what it's like it was just about having the right chemist and understand right but K cont was getting Patrick Arnold's stuff that he was making that they didn't even they didn't have they didn't even know it never existed so they didn't have a basically control. So when they ran it through the HLC machine they they didn't see that the the metabolites because they didn't weren't looking for those metabolites. Were you guys making new compounds that didn't have metabolites that they knew about? Is that how it worked? No. the way that we worked uh the way that we worked and we didn't we we we didn't see that as a market. What we would do is like um our plugs on the inside would say, "Hey, Joe Schmo is going to be tested X day. This is the markers that we're going to be testing him for." So, it would give us ample time to research. It's like, okay, if he's going to be tested for him levels, um let's see what kind of compounds or recipients we can formulate um within, you know, amongst ourselves that could render it negative. And then what we would do is like we would take a couple of guinea pigs um infuse them with like you know with EPO and say it's like okay now take this and then we're going to test you to see if your if your increased hypocrite levels um would show. So we would test it on ourselves and and some of the app and some of the people that I would work with before you know obviously charging a ridiculous amount of money. I madeund 36,000 in one what is that one what one week? One day. One day. Yeah, but that was only one day out of the whole year. We have a He's mute now, John. He He's gonna be doing sign language pretty soon. And it's killing him, too, because you on the show and put the Dave. Yeah. I don't know why he can't. I mean, I mean, a lot. Not as much as him, but pretty close. Can you hear me? Oh, there you are. Okay, now I can hear you. Yeah, but it goes on and off now. He was making that every single day though, Greg. Greg, not just one day out of the year, isn't it? Like god damn close. What? Pretty close. Pretty close. So, what where do you guys think John? You're you're like the voice of reason. Yes, kind of. We can hear you, but not really. every time wrong your microphone. John, where do you see this industry going now with the elevated price of food, supplements? I mean, are people just going to have to get used to paying more or do you think that are we are we heading for a crash, you know? Oh, crash is coming and a whole bunch of Only fan accounts and a whole bunch of new Only. But you see Larry Wheels with an only fan account. You see all these people, they're like, "Shit, Larry Wheels has one now." Yeah, man. It's like It's been publicized YouTube. It's been publicized on YouTube that he has I don't [\h__\h] know. I'm not subscribing to his only fan account. I don't know what the [\h__\h] content he has there. Let's buy Greg a subscription so we can go find out what Larry Wheels is doing on it. I you know I think what's happening is these guys have these unsustainable like business models and they're and they you know they were just escalating escalating escalating escalating and then what happens it kind of levels off everyone's channel even on YouTube would level off and then they they can't make more money and then so what ultimately happens is they start doing stuff that they shouldn't be doing on the side to make extra money because they they become intoxicated with the with the money coming in at a higher rate with the lifestyle 100%. Yes. Yeah. I mean, Larry's living in Dubai, like traveling all over the world, you know, taking videos from everywhere. I mean, so that's expensive. It's It's not cheap to live in a hotel, you know, wherever he's living. I don't know where. I'm assuming he's in a hotel. Adds up, you know, if you're not making it steady type of money. So, do you think, Richard, do you think a lot of the these high-profile people that we see on on social media are overspending maybe to try to create a perception that they're like these big, you know, these big wheels, so to speak? I don't think so. I know. So just given the fact of when I was in existence, I mean when I was in existence, Mike Rashid, you know, falsely portrayed like he had it going and he was living in my houses. He was living, you know, he was utilizing my cars. I still see it till this day with some close people that I even work with still. Um I'm not going to name names because the you know they you know they're you know we are in good terms. Um and however um I still see like I mean he I still see it with with with Mike. I mean he like I'm working like you know I've been talking to Generation Iron I've been talking to a few different people and and the thing is that the world is very very small when you're trying to develop a documentary or film or book or book deals and all that stuff typically some individuals at that same level that have a a pretty comparable story are probably interacting and negotiating with those same type of people. So you know when they ask me it's like hey what do you know about Mike Rashid? we're we're considering him for blah blah blah and all that other stuff. And it's like it's like he's telling me that he's making x amount of money, you know, with his supplement line, Ambrosia, and all that other stuff. And I me knowing the industry and knowing the margins and all that stuff. And I was like, knowing how he's living, I was like, there's no way in hell he's netting $2 million a month. He was $2 million a month like he's telling you he is because he wants you to like finance his documentary. Hell, I would finance it right now if I'm making $2 million a month. So, it's it they do it with a lot of people. I mean, and some of those people, just to kind of give you an idea, like a Greg Duchett, some of those individuals, they get so much endorsements, they get so much views into their channels that sometimes it's as simple as a dealership or it's as simple as some type of organization to be like, hey, you know what? Let me lend you this Lamborghini. Let me lend, you know, let me lend you this condo in exchange film in there in exchange. You know, it's like utilize this car and all your videos. And when and and when when one person just one person locally tells you, "Hey man, where you got that ride?" Oh, I got it in so and so dealership. Boom. They made their money, right? They made they made their money, you know, like nine like nine ways to Sunday very very easily. I did that [\h__\h] with my jewelry. I did that [\h__\h] with my cars. I did that [\h__\h] with my apartments. I want like and I even used to do that with the photographers. All the top photographers that used to film film and videograph all the hottest chicks in fitness. I would tell them I was like, "Yo, dude, I'll give you $10,000 a month under one prerequisite." And they're like, "What? I want all the hot chicks, all the [\h__\h] physiques, all the bodybuilders that you film first be filmed in Iron Addicts in Miami." However, you know what? In exchange for that, you are guaranteed the amount of money wherever [\h__\h] show I want you in. Guaranteed flights, guaranteed first class [\h__\h] uh accommodations. However, I have direct distribution for those photos, too. You think they give a [\h__\h] I could have a [\h__\h] picture of Fabola Martinez and physique marketing a boner pill for all while I get I paid for it. I paid for it. Influencer marketing is the way to go one million%. You can get a handful of influencers on board and your brand will just skyrocket. We're in the middle of negotiating with two very high-profile individuals in different sports. One in bodybuilding, one in MMA. I can't say their names right now because it's not finalized, but we're very close. And I I believe they'll change the direction of the company. Not that we're not heading in the right direction, but I know that our followers will just increase to fourfold. Carlo, I would like to give you some insight and we could talk about this off off topic. Um I'm you're talking to a guy that used to spend $60,000 a month on influencers. I'm a month boy and Romano could tell you. And at the end when I was making my most money about $50,000 in sales a day, tell me how many influencers I had in payroll. One. I went from 12 to one. So it's one difference. You were doing something illegal. I look, but this is the thing. Especially for your industry because I did it I did it I did it in jail. You are lazy. That's what he's trying to say. A lot of times you don't get your money's worth out of paying these people because they'll post for the first week and then and then they just collect the check after that. I I I have I've had I Richard, I hear you one million%. I've walked down that road with some other influencers, but with these in particular, they're contracted out. There's agents and attorneys involved. If they don't do it, the contract is terminated immediately. We I I'm not, you know, I've been around a little bit myself. So, you know, I I and trust me, I it's not going to be a $50,000 a month budget. So, I It's But it's scary though, Carla, because you're throwing money at these guys, you know. Oh, Dave, listen. I I I had a previous company, so I know I I know what these guys cost and what they think they're worth. And Richard, you're million% correct. They think that by grabbing their phone, throwing up a post, their job is done. It's not that easy. No. So, I have parameters in place with minimums and expectations. So, you know, there'll be things in there. I I can tell you, listen, you know, we have, I think, one of the fastest growing food brands on on social, on Instagram, and we're growing very, very quickly. I get contacted every single day by at least a dozen IFBB pros. Hey, I want to promote this and hey, I want to promote that and MMA fighters, including the UFC and Bellator. Sure. And we just look at them and we put them on a list and we're like, okay, let's keep an eye on these people. That's it. But we never start a relationship with money. It's always a productbased and with contingencies on posts in order for you to receive your product because if you don't post like we ask you to the very next month you're not receiving product. It's simple. It's over and I have somebody watching that freezer. You're making me nervous. Yeah. Well, he's salivating. He's he's salivating. No, I don't want I don't want to go bad. Put the freezer. But you know what it is? It is. This is an interesting topic you bring up because and John, you've worked for multiple companies, too. You give people, you think you got the you get this bikini girl, she's got six million followers, and you think, "All right, this girl could sell a fat burner." And you know what? It's all [\h__\h] guys just ugling at her [\h__\h] ass cheeks and has not she has no sales capability whatsoever. She's just got a lot of followers who want to look at her ass. And so you have to really evaluate who you're, you know, bringing on board to who's going to help you potentially sell product. I mean, right? And it's funny that Carlos said it right. Um, you see, when one of the reasons why, uh, I was really efficient in weaning out the um, athletes is because I followed analytics. I looked at the conversion ratios of their of their coupon codes, their activity, their participation, and all that stuff. And that's a full [\h__\h] time job, you know? Um, and it got to the point where people like Shawn Ray I would fire like you know in a month is like you know people like Flex Wheeler I'm surprised you even hired Shawn Ray but you know Shawn Ray it was purely a power play. He was a presenter for all the top major shows like Arnold Classics and and and and Olympia and all that other stuff. So it was purely a power play. I was like look I don't even want you to [\h__\h] promote uh my company Shre. However, I want to go to back I want to be in backstage in every [\h__\h] show that you that you're in. And he's like oh cool. So within a week time I give him $5,000 and the following week I'm in Ohio. I'm in backstage at the Arnold Classics. Well that's you know Sean Sean and God bless him. You know I've never really had a direct problem with him but but has anybody thrown their name around more in this industry ever than Sean got more money out of people? It's amazing. I watch doing very little distracting. He's got people clapping that he's getting there and I'm going, "Dude, you haven't been relevant in the industry in 30 years. You've never actually won the highest title in the world." And how do you get these people to believe that he's got a good line of [\h__\h] and you know what he he's not afra he he knows how to market himself and then that's that's his his best. Yeah. But he puts a but he puts a value on his name that is just absolutely absurd and ridiculous. People pay him but people pay him. Carlo, that's the thing. You know what? You know what though? There's a saying in business, no one in life is is smart enough to cover their [\h__\h] forever. I personally think I personally think people like Shawn Ray, people like, you know, Mike Rasheed, people like Flex Wheeler and all that other stuff. It gets to them. It's it's already getting to these people. Uh and that's why you and that's the reasons why like when a person was going to ask me like, "Hey, were you engaging in illegal activity?" Abso fuckingutely. Is it a possibility that you're gonna get arrested? Abso [\h__\h] lutely. Why? Because I am not smart enough to cover my [\h__\h] forever. So, I'm just not gonna [\h__\h] lie. And I was like, "Yeah, I was engaging in illegal activity. Yeah, I did this. Am I going to get caught?" Abso [\h__\h] lutely. When? I don't [\h__\h] know. However, you know what? I'm going to milk this track, you know, like, you know, I'm going to milk this as much as I possibly can learn from it. And now just just the strategic alliances in which I'm building thanks to you know thanks to you David for on a lot of on a lot of things and and and the people that are calling me in I've at least have the corporate business acu real entrepreneurship experience from the you know from these two businesses that I've launched that became gigantic in the gym and in the HRT business that will enable me to like if it's a supplement if it's an apparel if it's you know if it's a food if it's a what any type of particular product, understand what enabled me to be successful and easily replicate that into those into those into those partnerships. But that all come I mean your resume with just the experience from McKenzie alone will carry you to any position you want to. The street experience that you have and what you've done on your own is separate and far apart. before you ever got involved with any of that. If you would have just went along on your resume with your experience with McKenzie, that in and of itself would have catapulted you to any top company in in the world. 100%. 100%. And I was in a path of doing that. The only situation was that um my ex-wife wanted to live in Miami. Yeah. And uh and I was living in New York. I was making over $200,000 a year just myself in my in New York. But in Miami, there aren't those corporate companies. I interviewed with Burger King. I had job offers in Burger King. I had job offers from Oracle, from Citrix Systems, even from motor um from uh BlackBerry when they existed and were relevant. I had offers from all of them. However, when you're accustomed to making 200 some odd thousand dollars a year in New York and now you're doing a BP position in Miami for 40,000, 50,000, same job, same responsibilities. I mean, there's no way in hell I'm going to take those jobs. My my experience is that you know what, you're better off using your talents and doing it slowly. As long as you're making money and you're increasing your sales and you're increasing your business on a on a steady incremental way, why try to hit the home run out of the ballpark? You don't have to. Just build it slowly because it's more sustainable that way because once you throw smoke and mirrors at everything, those smoke and mirrors, like you said, Richard, can come crashing down. Eventually, people are going to see behind them and they're going to see that there's no substance behind it and you're going to go from making a lot of money to making zero and you could lose it all very quickly. I mean, I think the organic growth, Dave, is what you're talking about. When you grow a company organically, it's like everything else. You build relationships and you build the foundation. The foundation will always be solid. So, if something comes your way, you're kind of able to just push it aside and keep it rolling. If things fall apart when you've taken all this money and thrown it at somebody and that person is no longer there, you don't have the foundation to begin with. So, it just crumbles. The whole oper operation crumbles. So, yeah. I mean, and I tell people this all the time. I mean, I built species nutrition starting in 200 I think it was seven or eight and it's been around for years and I've steadily grown the thing and made money and I'm not making a hund00 million a year. I'm not I'm not making I'm not even making $50 million a year, but but I'm I'm doing well enough to to live a really comfortable, really nice lifestyle from it. And that's enough for me. I I mean, yeah. Do I want to make a lot of crazy? Yeah, but I don't want to do anything that I'm going to have to like roll the dice and then at night not be able to sleep at night because I'm thinking, "Holy mackerel, I just threw 50 grand at this project and I'm probably gonna it's probably going to be lost, you know, and then I I think about what I could have done with that 50 grand." So, you know, you got to assess, you know, do you want to live with stress, uh, you know, or do you want to have a steady, you know, a steady amount of income coming in. And I think that's at the end of the day, that's really what, you know, business is all about. It's about making yourself building something that you can do on a regular basis that you enjoy and get paid from it, you know, and that there's substance there. You don't have to worry about are people going to find out that my products suck and that they're not going to buy them tomorrow and then I'm going to go from making all this money to making nothing. So, right. And it happens. You see you see these companies get exposed for protein spiking or putting sh nothing in their products or the wrong ingredients. I mean you saw it with these guys with the turquestone that they were selling that really didn't work anyway. Yeah. Turns out there's no turquesterone even in the product you know and so I don't know if they didn't know or they did know these guys. I'm not mentioning any names but let's face it was you know they're exposed and now that that's going to kill their business and so Yep. It is what it is. Yeah. 1 million%. Can you hear us, Greg? How's your microphone doing? You fix that? No, he didn't fix it. Okay, next week we'll be back on Zoom. Hopefully, your computer will be uh usable with that. I hope he I hope I hope he doesn't think that that you're punishing him, Dave. No, he How come How come everyone else could be heard except you, Greg? Because we know how to switch our microphone. You got to go to the in the settings, Greg, and pick the right microphone. You don't have the right microphone selected. That's the problem. You got to pick the settings in your settings of of of Streamyard. Go in the settings and pick the right microphone. You're on the wrong microphone. I guarantee it. Yep. I agree. Guaranteed. Get your girlfriend to check the settings. I know you don't know how to do that. Nope. You have a good microphone. It's It's not even plugged in. Look, he doesn't even have it plugged in. You can't just talk into the computer. You got to plug it into the computer. Greg, Greg, put it in your ear. See what happens. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Plug it in under your desk. I'm sure there's a some under your desk you can plug it into. Well, I want to thank um I want to thank Richard for coming on and sharing all that. Of course, Carlo with the new chicken meatballs. They are phenomenal. Check them out at the chickenpound.com. Carlo's going to give us a coupon code for 20% off. We'll have it in the description below when he gives that to me later. Mr. G'sprotein snacks.com if you want to get your keto cookies, your pretzels, and protein bagels. This guy's making it all. And uh you know, I wanted to talk to Mr. G about, you know, he drove out to uh Louisiana there to see Ricky's fight. And Ricky got disqualified because he got he kicked the guy low, I think twice or something like that. They they disqualified him from the fight. But uh I think it was a success at raising a lot of money. And that was great that they they did that. And uh Greg Valentino will be taking donations on his mic GoFundMe to get him a new microphone. It works. Richard Rodriguez will be funding Greg's new new computer, a new microphone. And Greg, all you got to do is uh is promote his new company. That's it. He pays very well. And thank you, Terry, also for coming on to talk about Robert Rothrock. He gave the funeral uh I didn't write him down, but he gave the funeral. Uh I guess I think it's tomorrow he said, right, John? Yeah, tomorrow. Tomorrow's the funeral. If you're in Mississippi in the area, you can go stop by. It's open. Uh he was a great bodybuilder. He will be missed. And you know, we hate to see any of our Iron brothers or sisters go down. And um you know, he was even though a lot of people didn't know who he was, he beat some seriously great bodybuilders. Wheeler and Paul Deo back in the criminal. And next week once again, Tyler will be back from his vacation. I'm sure Jimmy the Bull will be back as well. And uh and oh, by the way, uh our good friend Johnny Bravo is moving to New Jersey. Did you know that? Today. Yeah. Very nice. Anybody would do that is beyond me. I think he's gonna I think he's moving right up the road from me. Oh, you know what? You should get him to do a documentary about your company, Tom. Carl, I would love that. I'm gonna I'm gonna try to connect with him. Dave, if you can text us both, I'd appreciate that because I I know I know where he's from. He I literally live a mile from where he grew up. Oh, really? Oh, so maybe you guys could go up to Valentino's Greg's place and do like a little video up there. All of you guys. Sure. With a microphone. Yeah, Johnny has good microphones, so that Greg will be fine with that. He should take You should take Carlo and and and Greg to like a like a like I don't know, like a supermarket or something like that. Go go go ch go go go go shopping and see what Carlo puts in his cart versus what Greg puts in his shopping cart. That would be a little docu drama on that. I guarantee it'll be dramatically different. You know for sure. I got my three my three-year-old daughter eats three staple items in her diet. The chicken meatballs, steak, and salmon and and her vegetables. That's that's like her she want that's what she wants for dinner every single night. I wish my kids So my kids don't listen to anything I tell them to do. My although my kids my daughter and my son eat sushi. They seem to like that for some reason. Of course, because it's expensive. And my youngest only eats she's like a like a a fruit. She'll only eat fruit. I don't know why she doesn't want any protein. She just wants bananas and and plums and apples and carrots and the weirdest [\h__\h] eating habits of all time. All right, we're wrapping this thing up today. Thanks for joining us as always and uh we will see you all back