I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations dosed for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution from the 2025 New York Pro. The New York Pro just letting out Nick Walker shutting the door and becoming the first ever threetime New York Pro champion. Alongside Chris Aceto and Matt Grego, I'm Sadique Furuki. So glad you can join us. Chris Nick Walker slamming the door shut. It seemed almost as if the inevitable became reality. Initial reaction what Nick brought here to the stage maybe as compared to what he brought last week in that epic battle with Derek in Pittsburgh. Well, both weeks he brings overwhelming size, overwhelming density, uh, freak factor that fans, judges like, competitors hate. Um, I think at this show, he was actually tighter in the glutes and hams than he was last week. His glutes and hams are like outstanding here. I think overall last week he had a little bit more pol Well, not a little bit more. He had more polish last week, which polish is like the intangible of just sharpness in all the poses, and all the key areas. It's not just that he wasn't sharp here. Um, but he wins this uh based on overwhelming a field, you know, just more of everything from arms to torso right down to quads and calves. Matt, what you saw here tonight on this New York Pro stage and really last week against obviously one of the best in the world and Derek Lunsford, what attributes have you seen out of Nick over the last two weeks that makes you think this is someone that can stand with the best of the best with the Dereks, with the hotties, with the Samsons in four and a half months on that Olympia stage? I I think it's safe to say that Nick announced himself as someone who is definitely in the running to win the Olympia right now. and you know he's been going against some very very high quality athletes and last week was a close call. this one. I think he pretty much dominated the field and showed that there is a level in bodybuilding for sure cuz I feel like you know Williams great competitor uh Rean Sasso all great but Nick just had overwhelming size, density, muscularity that just you couldn't leave uh when you were looking at him and some some of the things that I look at is the back double. Yeah. You know, people criticize his waist. I am one who goes to his waist too. But in that back double, you just see a crazy X-frame, crazy hamstrings. The glutes I thought here were better than um last week in Pittsburgh. And I will go on record say that's probably one of the best back doubles in bodybuilding right now period. Obviously his most muscular same deal that he has one of the best most musculars. And those are two very important poses and those are two poses that he dominates most competitors. So I think going to Olympia he's cementing himself as one of the top guys for sure. You know last week we talked about that epic battle between him and Derek going to overtime and much of what was discussed was from behind that Derek obviously very dominant from behind but more so particular from the glutes. A little bit sharper in the glutes. What did you see different from last week to this week from behind for Nick Walker? Like I said he was tighter in the glutes and hams. um which is important because he's you know it's a back I think we look at the back double bicep as we look at backs but it you have to put up the double biceps too so he's got towering biceps very big shoulders so great glutes and hams here so it's it's a total package from the arms all the way down to the hams um so we tend to obsess about glutes and hams and then we obsess about the back but it it's it's inclusive. So he you know he's very very impressive in the back double because of the shoulders and arms and the glutes and hams and the back too. I mean the back is far better than last year. It's improved immensely since last year and uh you know he's just got a a very powerful physique and I think fans love a powerful physique. Judges love a powerful physique and like I said before, the only one who hates the powerful physique is the competitors. Well, you know, I'm glad you brought up that point because we've al often talked about the attributes and the look that Nick brings to the stage and Dave mentioned this all the time that he needs to be the biggest, freakish, most shredded, most conditioned guy on that stage. There is such a variety now in the open class, especially at that top level. You have tall, you have short, you have the more quote unquote aesthetic, and then you have someone like Nick who, as Chris just alluded to, is more of a power bodybuilder. And that kind of brings me to we're looking ahead four and a half weeks from now. Again, we I mentioned um talking to you about prejudging and you said that maybe last week his his abs are a little bit more etched in, right? Maybe the pretty factor is never going to be his game. His game is always going to be the power look. What would you like to see between now and October out of Nick Walker? I I think it definitely comes down to playing up your strengths. You know, you can't um play other people's strengths. The perfect example is Martin Fitzwwater last last week. He did not play up his strengths with his conditioning lines and it hurt him. And I think for Nick, you definitely need to play to your your freak factor status, right? And I do think if he can kind of build upon that to some degree with aesthetics, I think it'll really translate to an incredible physique at the Olympia. And what does that mean? I think just something minor like adding a little more quad sweep. Um even I know some crazy a little more lats from the front. They look great in the the rear shots, but for example, like the front lat, he just doesn't get out there enough. And when I look at a Mr. Olympia champion, I don't think of many weak poses. And that's a pose that I think that he really suffers in. So, if he can bring a little more quad uh depth, more sweep, maybe a little more lats and kind of get that upper pecs to pop a little more, especially on that front lat, I think that can really go far from him at the Olympia when there's guys who, you know, Andrew Jack who hit a front l spread and just wide as a house, Samson Da, Derek Hottie. So, I think it's he doesn't need to reinvent the wheel, but just minor improvements in the right areas to go a long way. Thought out of you as far as what you would like to see maybe some improvements, some refinements out of Nick Walker between now and October. Well, ideally I'd like him to see that he not do it for the third year in a row. Incoming the comments section. Uh what you know he's he's imp he's improved a lot since the show last year. And the bottom line is he's not going to be the same bodybuilder in that's a long time. 16 weeks, you know, coming off, you know, close second place finish to to Derek, Arnold champion, Mr. Olympia, just beated, you know, that's going to work in his favor in terms of focus and motivation winning here. So, you know, sometimes you can caught up in the details of like, well, you got to bring your, you know, peerrations or quad detail up more. It's just more the same, you know, and in the time, you know, I'm sure he'll be better by the Olympia, which is, you know, he's he's going to be a a problem for everyone, including the judges, because it's going to be these are hard shows to judge with the variance of physiques. you know, Derek, Kim, Samson, Totty, Andrew, Andrew, Martin, you know, there's just it's not apples and oranges, but it's just everyone has strengths and some people have vague weaknesses. I wouldn't say weaknesses in those group. And sometimes when you throw people into the mix, you know, where there's five really good guys, right, it has to be judged and it comes down to the smallest little things. And you don't know what those little things are until the prejudging's done and you can analyze it and you say, "Ah, was clear to clear to see. You know, if this guy had only come in this way, he would have beaten this guy." But, you know, hindsight is 2020. Let's get a quick thought on you from uh two through five. William Bonak the conqueror in his third appearance of this contest season placing second. Uh Kriso coming in and placing third. There were smattering of booze. Why? Because that meant Regan Grimes came in at fourth. William Bonak. Again, we talk about just the impressive nature. Another vintage performance. You know, we keep talking about turning back the clock to 2019, but I think you can make a very strong argument. What we saw in Detroit and what we saw in Pittsburgh here tonight, perhaps even better than what we saw in his runner-up Olympia finish in 2019. William is just bringing excellent looks in every show this year so far. And he's been running the gauntlet, if you want to call it that. He's won Detroit. Was he he wasn't FE, was he? Nothing. No, there were rumors that he was going to. He was at Pittsburgh, now uh New York. And I feel like he he's somehow making improvements, which I don't even know that's possible. I think he's in his his mid-40s, so kudos to him. Um, I had William a strong second. I I will say in prejudging more so than finals, I actually thought he was pushing Nick in some shots, like truthfully. Um, but I finally think Nick was just a little bit uh too dominant. And with the booze for Rean, I love Regan, but he he just faded drastically from when he came out. I I went to Chris in the morning time like this guy looks like he win the show and by the end of the uh the final call it's like he just disappeared and you hate to see it but I definitely had Chriso ahead of him. I would have liked to see Sass actually in that call out with them. I think he could have fared really well for the night show. We got some oil in him but that I think that the judging and the placements were pretty fair all around when it came to the open. Absolutely. What did you see out of Regan? Again, so much was made. You know, we look at social media and we take these little clues, right? So, with Rean posting pictures and you see the cheeks noticeably sunk in, which for Rean is something that we Yeah. Ex. There you go. Exactly. Just Just like just like that. Now, when he first came out on stage, again, watching your comments in the uh pre-judging wrap-up, he comes out on stage and you say to yourself, "Oh my god, this this guy could literally win the show and it just didn't seem to hold itself together." What would you like to see Regan do throughout this course of this contest season? Do you see him doing more shows? And what improvements would you like to see? I have no idea because when he came out, um, he was so impressive when he came out. I thought he could win the show. I I just had to see him next to Nick and Bone, for example. And he, you know, Tyler Manion said something last week when I watched his wrap up of Pittsburgh and he said, "You guys don't understand that these people, you know, at this level can change minuteby minute." And it, you know, I've seen that, but I never really conceptualize it until, you know, and people have told me, and you don't really listen to it, but people do change minuteby minute. and he was like a submarine sinking from the second he started out like boom and by the end of prejudging I I said there's no way he's beaten he should beat Grizzo and I I would have had without a shadow of a doubt him lower than where he ended up and he was he was still flat tonight he tightened up a little bit you know for tonight but like his look that was the fastest I've ever seen anyone change ever in a bodybuilding show in my life where he went from like blasting full hard dense muscle to just like flat on all body parts and it was a quick prejudge. We were talking about, wow, they're really going fast. 212s, they done, you know, bikini done. They didn't really, there weren't a lot of people in the division, so they judged him very quickly. So, there wasn't even a lot of time to to like flatten out. So, having said that, one, I feel bad for him because his package that he bought was like on the money for about a couple minutes. And you know where you go forward it's like you know that in the recess of your mind is like I know I left the hotel room like bang bang bang on and then I wasn't bang on you know through the prejudge and so where you go from here you have to go back to the drawing board and figure out like how did that happen and you know God only knows I mean it's it's who knows that's how dramatic it was. wanted to get a quick thought from you uh about Krzo because you know obviously Kriso way taller but you profile as a taller competitor and there is an art form behind being a taller competitor and unifying so many different body parts and making it flow on stage and look social media to stage is a totally different beast we've seen post social media pictures and you know by himself looks like Mr. Olympia like many others on stage. However, it just hasn't fully translated and I don't think the story book is closed. I think there's still a long way for him to go again transitioning to competing against a higher level coming over from another federation. What does Krisen need to do in your opinion as a taller bodybuilder on the stage? He for one, he's super impressive and he he was super impressive tonight, but it's it's way easier than he probably thinks. It's literally presentation. He as a tall guy needs to learn how to move his body, place his body. What does Samir say? Point and shoot to be able to to show his body to the fullest. And that's really what I think for him is the biggest factor to work on because presentation makes or break shows even from your color, your oil, of course, posing. And I think for him, he just can't lock in his poses and for one hold it, but for two, hit an angle that favors him and how tall he is. So obviously I would say you know work on your glutes, hams, you know, work in this. But I think the thing that will go the longest way for him in the short term and long term is just presentation. Work on your posing. Get with somebody, hammer it several times a day because we talked even with Jay and we were all super impressed by Kriso, but the only thing we're not impressed with is his presentation. Sasati competing now uh in his third appearance of this contest season. This being his lowest placing. What did you see out of Sas as compared to what we saw uh in Detroit and at Fibo? No oil and prejudging. Um I mean he looked everyone's like wow he looked dramatically better tonight and it was just his he's so dry his skin is so dry the Persian conditioning. Yes. You put on oil and we were watching with you know me Matt and Ali Bal saw him in the hotel room and thought like wow. Um, and then we went went to prejudge and I, you know, he just didn't look like the same as he did in the hotel room. Of course, we go back to the hotel room, right? We said, "Let's see what you look like." Wow. And we concluded uh that he he had no oil on, like you couldn't see what you can see. So, he was flooded with oil tonight and, you know, he looked uh, you know, drastically better. And Ali Balo said that uh black people and white people should go light on oil, but if you have brown skin, you should go heavy on oil. Ali, I'm just I'm sorry. I'm I'm picturing this in Ali's voice. It was not an opinion. It was an absolute absolute declaration of of historical fact. So I went I actually went back and just put as much oil as I possibly could on on the on the night show and people were like tonight like wow he was blazing tonight. So you know this is everything's a learning process. Cal is next now for SAS. Uh what's the game plan it would just the snapshot that you have right now come in like this and different lineup you know minus out Nick. I think he can beat Kriso side by side be a battle. I definitely think he can beat Reagan. Um, you know, he's he's almost that's the bottom line. You know, you just got to keep showing up. You know, if you keep showing up consistent, you know, it's going to happen for you. And, you know, he's got the eye of the judges and it's just a matter of sometimes like the lineups, you know, look at look at this lineup. You got a headliner winning the show. Yeah. Uh, Francisco Bario's book. I know his name is PR spelled like VLK but it's pronounced BU winning the 212 impressive fashion over truly a perennial powerhouse in Anel Calderon but Matt I knew you were very interested in talking about what we saw in the classic physique Terrence Ruffin second consecutive week coming out on top against truly one of the rising stars in all of classic physique in Jose Manuel Munoz I'll ask you the same I'll frame it the same way as opposed to you know what we had with Nick Walker what impressed you most about Terrence tonight here as compared to in Pittsburgh. Terrence is very impressive. Um the shape, the posing, he he knows how to place his body in the right spots. He just knows his body awareness is second to none. Some of the best in the IFBB. I have to say I in the morning I was team Ruffin and at night I was team Jose. I really really liked Jose's conditioning. It was it was next level. And I want to give a personal message to Terrence. Ruffin. Terrence said that Hold on. You got to stand right here. Grab the mic. Look right look right into the camera. Here we go. So Terrence explained that all the classic guys need to take notes because he's a teacher now. However, he just got schooled in conditioning by Jose. So I think he is the one who need to take notes and he'll be taking all my notes at the Olympia when I'm the winner. I did not see that mic drop coming, but that was um a year off for Terrence Ruffin. Chris, what improvements, differences have you seen Terrence um from when we last saw him, which was, I believe, two years ago at the Olympia as compared to over the last two weeks Pittsburgh and New York. He He's bigger and um bigger is always not better. I mean, he's bigger and he he's better, but he's going up against someone, of course, with elite level of condition, so his condition still has to be better. You know, I I had him winning. I I I had him winning prejudging and the terrible prejudging wrap-up that we did. Uh, you know, I was praising all his, you know, attributes. I was just like hammered with Jose's conditioning tonight. like lights out. I I I haven't seen the score sheets, but you know, some judges love conditioning. I didn't think that as as conditioned as he was in prejudging was enough to get by all the bells and whistles and flow and shape and body presentation, all those things that Terrence Ruffin has. But at night, I I thought it was. It was just so ridiculously hard. Like, it makes all the open guys look miles off. not off, miles off. So, generally when you and and standing relaxed, he doesn't have the greatest stance, but it's really good and it is diced like dice diced. So, I had him winning tonight. Finally, uh, Jose Manuel Munoz placing sixth in his debut Olympia last year, and we've seen him come awfully close over the course of the last two weeks short of going in a lineup that does not include Terren Ruffin. We talk about the conditioning, are there any adjustments you would like to see out of Jose as he approaches or at least chases that Olympia qualification? Firstly, love for you, Terrence. I love messing with you, but uh, congrats to him, of course. But Jose, you know what I think is really special about Jose is he doesn't have the smallest waist, but he knows how to adjust his posing in a way that it makes it look somewhat small. But I think the reason for that is he needs to do that is because his quads don't flare enough. So I think for him, he has such a dominant back. Dominant back. So I think what's going to stop him from, you know, being the guy to win the Olympia would be the quads. He needs to have that flare to match the crazy laz. So, if I was him, I would just literally focus on bringing up that quad sweep. I don't really see much missing besides that. I I see I heard he needed triceps in the past. I don't see that now. I just really think for him it's just building his quad sweep to kind of help with the waist that it's not it's not big. It's not small. It's a good size, but with bigger quad sweep, it'll just complent physique so much. our full catalog of winners, pictures, and everything on the Instagram right now. Official_RXMuscle. Big shout out right here, Matt Grego, Chris Aceto. Congratulations to all the winners. And a big time shout out to Alone Powers who've been holding it down all day here at the New York Pro. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. As always, we thank you for watching RX Muscle.