Dave Palumbo here in Pittsburgh for the Gym Manion Pittsburgh Pro. I'm here with Dennis James, my good friend Tony Dary all the way from Australia and we're going to do a little preview for you guys. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations dosed for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. This is going to be one of the most anticipated shows of the year. Obviously Arnold was a great event, but this one super stacked lineup here. We did lose one person. Good veto dropping out, tearing a lat. Um, I wanted to ask you about that. If you had torn a lat, would you drop out of the show or would you be on stage anyway? Well, by judging him by the pictures, it his whole sight was swollen, so all the definition was gone. Yes, I probably would have pulled out too. I don't know if it's a lap pull. Yeah, maybe it's just a partial micro tear or whatever, but it's enough. It's enough for swelling and it's only going to get worse from here on out. I mean, tomorrow he's probably going to have be one cuz you can see in the picture his condition was gone on one side. So, yeah, I would have pulled out. It would have been hard, but I would have been gone. Would Dorian have been on stage? He probably would have back then, but you know, but but but it didn't have that kind of depth. And Dorian was on a roll. You know, this kid's coming up and this was his show. I think um he was probably the most anticipated guy this weekend because those pitches like two weeks out, he looked insane. I thought he looked like a little Jay Cutler, right? He really did, you know, and and front and back, legs, everything was in. So, I really feel for him. I mean, it's got to that's got to be hard to make that to make that call like Dennis said, but I think um he had to come into his all-time best, not kind of broken. Yeah. Well, let's talk about the guys who are in the show. Derek Lungsford trying to do something that no other bodybuilder has done. win three major shows in one year, all separated by several months. Ronnie won, you know, obviously the Arnold and the Olympia, barely won the Olympia that year doing that. And other guys, Brandon Curry has done it, but no one's done a a middle of the year show like this. So Derek wins the Arnold. He's coming in here. What's your anticipation of him and what he is going to bring to Oh my god. Honestly, I talk to somebody that knows better, like Tony Doherty. You're you're usually the guy who predicts everything correctly. Who wins the show? Who wins the show? Whoever is first place on Oh, come on. You You always go on the record. Well, because I've seen them. They've been coming through the gym. Who do you think is going to win? Oh, I can't say that cuz if they win, they'll say it's fixed cuz my last name is Matt. Yeah. It's true. My last name was Doy. I could say whatever I wanted, right? Like he does. Whatever I want, you know. Derek. Yeah. That's what I say. I I think it's Derek's show to win or lose. you know, if he if he's at his best, I don't think anyone's going to touch him. I mean, there's a guy that when he won the Olympia, he was untouchable at the Arnold this year. He was I think he's alltime best. And that's only just a few weeks back. So, if Derek looks like that, who's going to beat him really? Getting back to my question, is it hard for a guy to peak multiple times during the year? And can Derek do the impossible to win three shows? Is it possible? Absolutely. Is it hard? Yes, it is super hard. and maybe not so much to peak again from the Arnold to now because the the the the gap is not as big, but I'm afraid that if he really peaks now again, how what is he going to end up looking like at the Olympia when it really counts for him? So, yeah, I think it's possible. I just uh I don't know. I just believe that yeah, Derek is it's it's the it's the clear favorite to win the show also for me. But I think if there's anybody that can beat him Mhm. that going to be Nick Walker in my eyes. And I tell you why. Cuz Nick Walker doesn't have this pleasing physique like we we all talk about it all the time. But he is the only one that when you look at him in pictures online and you look at him on the stage, he's 20% better on stage than any picture he posts. And everybody else is better in pictures. No. So I got to I got to challenge you on that because I think Martin has got like a Dorian aura about him that he never looked as good in pictures as he does on stage. Like he looks better. at the Olympia last year. Damn, he just kept getting better and better and better and he didn't look like that in his picture. So, I think he's the one to watch. This is just my take. I I you know, I thought I thought that Martin beat Nick in New York last year, but Nick looks better than he did last year in New York. I think this will be the best Nick. And I I I I'm sure he will, you know, he will he will be spot on. Is it going to be enough to beat Derek? Depends. If Derek is slightly off, maybe. But if Derek is on, then this is that's not even that's not even a there's another factor here that we never considered in the past. There's a lot of freaking money on the line. Yeah. If this show is 100 grand, the Arnold gave away 500. The Olympia 600. I mean, these guys are competing. They they could almost retire on a couple years of of winnings. Well, that that's I wish we would have had that kind of prize money because we would be doing every show all year, every year for 10 years straight. The one with this kind of money that Samson didn't just jump in and shock the road. I'm shocked. Yeah. He likes the money. Yeah, he loves it. Yeah, but I think for Samson and losing the Arnold was and and and kind of wake up caller and say, "Listen, get get my [\h__\h] together cuz he's still favorite for the Olympian and he's the Olympian champ." Yeah. Yeah. So, for me, you know, good video would have been a little dark horse coming into the show because just by looking at his front double biceps, yes, the picture was filtered, but you can't filter the frame. You can't filter the the the the way he look. Yeah. So, I would I would have loved to see him. And by the way Chris was talking and José Raymond who also saw what he looked like. They had him in the top two, top three. Well, yeah. I I you know, and I know other people who saw him that Yeah. said this guy is super dangerous. Look, I said it on the show. I put it out there. I said, "How why doesn't this guy good veto? Why isn't everyone saying this guy's going to win? I mean, this guy's got sensibly the best structure out there." Yeah. Because they all judge him by what he looked like at the Arnold. And they're all short, too, these guys. So, they're all kind of on the same level, you know. I just think that um he would have been the wild card for Nick Walker. He's the one who could have just mixed the whole thing up. So, you know, what does Nick Walker need to do to beat Derek? Derek's got to be off best and hopefully Derek none. Yeah, I think if if if Derek's at his best, which I think was the Arnold this year, if he can just duplicate that, I think he's untouchable. But we haven't seen Nick. Don't forget he missed the Olympia last year. We haven't seen him since the New York Pro, which he just won. He only beat Martin by a point, right? And I'll tell you what, this sport moves forward. I'll tell you what I saw an hour ago. I saw some video. You did see of Derek posing in the room. And I got to say, I've never seen this always. That's what's missing with him. Yes. Yes. That's what we complained about this whole time. He said he doesn't have the thickness and the density here and he's finally putting it together. So he's most likely a much more dangerous uh uh uh person than he was at the Arnold. And that is of course uh dangerous. But again, here I'm going back to what I said. It's so hard to peak several times a year. You know it. You know it. We all know it. Is it possible? Yes. If he's if he's going to do what he said, I'm going to take my hats off to him. I think you you said it right. I think we're going to see the a great Derek here because I think it was close enough to the Arnold that he's still kind of rebounding off that show. It what's going to be tough is the Olympia for him because to hold that till October is going to be crazy. But all right, let's let's look at some of these other guys. Wild cards. Michael Kriso. What do you think about him? I mean, he's looking pretty freaky in pictures. I don't know if that's going to translate on stage. I always said he's Mr. Olympia, you know, in the gym and in Instagram. When he came back from that injury and his comeback was phenomenal, you know, the way he went from this guy was all bandaged up and bruised and kind of small. Like what, 3 months later, he looks the best he's ever looked. He's got that real thin skin and he's got a small head, which makes everything look big. Well, he does. You're right. He's got a pin head, so it makes everything else look makes his arms look so damn big, you know. And if you look at each body part, that's why I had to be so big. I have a big head. You have balance. And how'd that work out for you? Not so good. Just kept getting bigger. But I got a big brain in there, you know, and and you know, Bonax in the show. I mean, the depth of this show is crazy. It's, you know, normally you've got two or three good guys. You got like six great guys in the show. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Can Martin beat all these guys? Yeah, he can. if everybody's, you know, I mean, Martin is definitely right there neck neck with Nick now. So, I don't know what Martin looks like. He know structurally he's better. He's awesome. Yeah, supposedly he gained 10 or 12 lbs. That scares me a little bit from the Olympia to now. That means yeah, he's going to be bigger, but is he going to be as conditioned? Because next to Nick, in order to beat him, if you're not his size, you got to be super conditioned. And that's my only concern. And that's why I had Will his waist be as small as it was last year. Right. Right. And I don't know because, you know, he's young and and and I know exactly at that age what kind of mistakes you make. You look at the scale. He's like, "Oh, I'm going to be big. I'm going to kill him." Right. Right. You know, and I'm h about Michael Kriso. I'm happy that there's finally a guy that's going to take my title. Mr. Mr. Tanktop Olympia going to take that away from me so I don't have to listen to that [\h__\h] ever again. No, he is tank top. Mother, that boy. That [\h__\h] look like a [\h__\h] super freak in a tank top with super thin skin. If he can look like this, if he can bring the pictures to the stage, right? What I find is I see him in the pictures and I'm like, the guy's unbelievable. You see him in person, he's unbelievable. And then when he stands on stage, he just your eyes just he doesn't flow as well as these guys. They look good on their own, but next to everyone else, they don't. I just want to think back to Martin. Like at the Olympia last year, I thought he could have beaten Derek. Derek was I mean the Olympia last year was probably the worst Derek. Yeah. I had him over Derek, too. Yeah. And and Martin's the first person I've seen since Dorian has got that. Why I always put it to people? Looks like everyone else is carved out of wood and he's carved out of granite. And I never said that about anyone since Dorian because he's got he's so pasty white, right? And he's got that real thin gnarly freaky skin. I mean, like when he does his most mushroom, so he's peeled top to bottom striations from here to here. And if he brings it and he he's put on even, you know, five pounds more and he's got that same conditioning, small waist, I think he's really the one to watch. The guy's dangerous, which is what makes this show so enjoyable because the handicap to watch because every one of these guys can win this show and they're all top Olympian guys. All of them. And and like I said, just because we predict one to win and one who plays third doesn't mean the one that's fourth can't win this show. Well, you know, it is it's the old Branch Warren thing. You know, not everyone's going to be in the best shape of their life. Guys are going to be off. So, who's going to be that guy standing there when the other guys are a little off? And Branch did that. Dexter did that so many times. We just caught someone caught someone sleeping, you know? And back to Nick. I mean, no disrespect to him because he's got a point to prove. He's got a mindset like nobody. That's why he won that New York Pro last year cuz he out to the stage. We still have a day. Nick, don't don't let me down. Don't jinx him. Don't jinx him. Don't Don't Yeah. Don't Don't hurt yourself. Don't even walk. He's the branch warrant. He's standing in those in the wings. these guys come in a little off. He He dominates the show. Yeah. Yeah. And like I said, he looks better on stage. There's no picture that he ever post that looks anything close to I'm just comparing He's freaky looking on stage. Yeah. I'm comparing Nick to If I would If Nick would show up the way he did when he won the Arnold. Oh, that would be a top two, top three plays right there. Is that physique still around though? Or is has that physique come and gone? I don't know. We'll have to see because we haven't seen him. Cuz you know what happens as you get older? You get worse. He's not that old. How old is Is he 30 yet? He said, "Yeah, he's 30." Yeah. But he he hasn't competed so long in bodybuilding where the sports gone forward. Is he, as you said, already peaked or is he going to get better? But the one thing he's got is confidence and stage presence like no one else. I mean, and the guy's that wide. Remember the New York Pro last year? He was doing his side tricep and he was wider in that shot than the others facing forward. I mean, he's it's freaky. It's the Marcus rule phenomenon. You know, sometimes size wins. It's a bodybuilding show after all. And that's what makes this show so exciting. I was talking about all this. What do you think? What's your prediction? I think that Dererick's the guy to beat because, you know, I thought he was super impressive at the Arnold. I think that Nick Walker is going to have his work cut out for him. I think that if Martin brings what he needs to bring that I think Martin will beat Nick. I have Martin a solid second behind Derek and possibly even challenging Derek if Dererick's a little up. From what I hear in the pictures I've seen, Dererick looks like he's going to win this show unless something seriously goes wrong. And I think that you're going to see Kriso, Bonak, and and a couple of these other guys, you know, battling for the the, you know, the bottom of the top five. Yeah. But I think it's I think we know who's going to be in the top three. Yeah. Yeah. I'm I'm 100% the top three is not going to change. And I think that um William, Kriso, and now I'm going to go out on a limb here and say Justin Musio from Germany is going to move into the top six. That would be a tremendous if he can place top six in this lineup, that's going to raise his stock. Yes. Unfortunately, this is because Good Vito is not here. But then again, we don't know what he would look like next to Good Veto. So, I I hope I mean cuz there's a lot of guys in the show that I don't even know what they look like. I don't even know who they are. I apologize. But uh I I think that Justin is uh cuz he came up in the last two years like literally from zero to hero. He he did a regional one of my regional shows in Germany. I remember. Yeah. He won the overall in the regional show. He went on to the pro qualifier, won the pro show at pro qualifier, won his pro card, and now he got fourth at the at the Fibo show. So he in Detroit, he got six. He looked great in FIBO. Yeah. Yeah. So I I have high hopes for him. So let's see. The the good thing is, you know, we can speculate all we want. I love this. At the end of the day, when they step on stage, the first two minutes, we'll know. We know. We'll know. We'll know. Yeah. I often sit with him at the front of the Olympia every other show. We always pick it in the first two minutes. You know, it's just where else other than in Pittsburgh can I run into these two guys in the lobby the second I walk in the front door. Guys, stay tuned to all our coverage on RX Muscle all weekend long. I'm Dave Palumbo with Dennis James, Tony Dy. We'll see you tomorrow.