 shoulda man wait for his testosterone levels to come back to normal when going off cycle before contemplating going back on cycle. That's the question. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hello, everyone. This is ASTVE, your weekly 30-minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. I am in a hotel room, as you can tell right now, in Dubai for the 2025 Dubai Muscle Show full disclosure. I flew in today, had an event earlier, and I am absolutely exhausted. But the show must go on as we are going to go right into the questions, the first two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Wondering how many weeks, once you come off cycle, till your test numbers are back to normal? It's kind of a loaded question because everyone's body responds really, really differently, and it depends what you do for PCT as well, post-cycle therapy. Let's say you go off a cycle that you're using long-acting testosterone on. First of all, you've got to understand that long-acting testosterone is going to mean your system for three to four weeks after the cycle stops. That's why I always tell people, it's silly not to go off for eight weeks after your cycle because three or four of those weeks, you're still going to have something in your system. Assuming while you're going off and those levels are coming down, you're taking some HCG and clomid to bring your natural levels up a little bit. What happens invariably is once you're off, you really can't figure out what's going on till at least week five because week four, you might still have some stuff in your system that you took four weeks early. Week five, now you're going to probably be at a low, you might start feeling low. Some people might have their levels back up already to 500, 400, 500. Other guys might be in the toilet at 50. It really depends on just how your body decides to turn itself back on. If you're still on HCG, you might be artificially elevated. I'm assuming after four weeks, you do your first two weeks of HCG, second two weeks of clomid or anilovonix, and then you're off for four weeks. During that period, usually you're pretty low. In my experience when I was trying to have kids and I started taking HCG and the HMG protocol, at some point, once I had my first kid and I went off and I didn't go back on cycle because I knew I was going to have another kid. My levels were stabilized, but it took me about six months, I would say, before my levels went back up. Just because mine were staying in that 5550 range, they were dropping down to 400 occasionally. But mostly they were in the average 500 range. Not everyone is like that. Most guys are below 200. When you say come back to normal, are you talking normal when you're 18 years old or normal for what you are right now, as a 35, 36 year old guy? And that is variable. So the real good thing is that you don't have to wait until your levels get to a certain amount before you go back on cycle. So if you're cycling and you're competing and doing this and you clean out for eight weeks, who cares what your levels are? To be honest with you, the lower they are, the better because the lower they are, the more sensitive your angiotin receptors get because your body doesn't know what doesn't have enough testosterone. It thinks it doesn't have enough angiotin receptors. So it keeps making more and more and more of them. So the longer you're off, the more your angiotin sensitivity increases because the more receptors you have, the more sensitivity you have to these angiotins. So that's why it's such a good idea. It's not a detoxification situation. It's stay off so that you produce more angiotin receptors so that you respond better. Second question again, these first two from the Deep Lumbo Experience app. Would a woman get a different blood work panel than a man? You know, the stuff that we test for, for bodybuilding purposes, you know, as far as organ health goes, kidneys, which is creatinine, BUN, liver function tests, which really aren't specific to liver. They're mostly specific to muscle. The cholesterol levels, LDL, HCL, you know, glucose control, blood glucose and hemoglobin A1c. These are all stuff, you know, red blood cells, which is, you know, how many hemoglobin and hematocytes. These are all things that both men and women should get tested. The only difference women really have is progesterone and estrogen. But we test estrogen for men anyway, just to see, you know, if they're too high. So, you know, I know some of the women's panels are more expensive because I think they throw some other esoteric stuff in it that's really probably not necessary. I mean, thyroid function, we test that for men too. So I don't, I give the same recommendations. Like if you ask me, you can email me, I'll send you a free list of all the blood work you probably should get done. That's a good idea. And it's the same for men and women. So I really don't see a difference. And I don't know why they would charge more, but I do know some places do charge more. Before we go to the rest of our questions, our friends at Titan Medical have a sale on their weight loss medications. Dave, so $100 Zaw, five amino, I'm cute. Actually, rather, let me backtrack. So $100 off all weight loss medications. So they're broken down in tears. $25 off. There's a list of them. Five amino one, cute tests. So fencing, carnivore medias. We can put up the list in the article description. $50 off single therapy. So GLP ones like semi-gluteide, terzepetide, better to try $100 off combo plants at a growth peptide from maximum fat loss and loss of protection alongside any GLP one therapy. So I asked some REL and CERM REL and CJC, if a more L and extra REL and maximum REL and IGF or MK-677. Yeah. I mean, I know a lot of people are looking for those GLPs, the Monjaro or the red and true tried and the Monjaro being the chose appetite. They got the best deals on them. They give, I think they give it a hundred bucks, 50 or a hundred bucks off those, those therapies now. So a lot of pharmacies don't even have it because there's so many people who are using it. You know, I'm talking about regular people like, like, like just regular fat people taking it now to lose weight for bodybuilding purposes. If you're a cheater on your diet, you know, and you tend to get hungry in between meals, it's a great appetite suppressant. But remember, don't use it and then not eat because if you don't eat, you're going to lose muscle. So continue to eat your prescribed meals. It's just going to help you not eat between meals. And one of the things very important to remember when you use any of these GLP one agonists, you have to take fiber lies with it. You're crazy. If you don't, you will not poop. I promise you it slows your digestive tract. It's hard to poop anyway when you're dieting and now throw that on top of it, which is slowing down how fast you digest the tract is going. The problem is that the colon pulls water out of the, out of the, the fecal matter, the stool. Um, if it sits in the colon too long, it pulls so much out that the poop turns to like rocks essentially. And then you can't get it out. I know it's disgusting, but that's what fiber lies gels that makes everything gel up. So it just kind of slides out. So even though it's going slower, it's still sliding out. It's not going to get stuck in because a lot of guys and women who take these GLP one agonists get impacted and then they have to go to the hospital and they got to get them, you know, they basically got to get it sucked out of them. And that's not a pleasant procedure. Let me tell you. So take your fiber lies twice a day. If you're going to take any of the GLP one agonists. And remember when you go to Titan, tell them, Rx muscle Dave sent you, cause they're going to give you that great discount. Dave, you want to plug the app before we go to the rest of the questions? The app obviously is the day problem experience app. You can download it from the Android store and your iTunes store. You get me as your coach in your back pocket. You owe my videos, all my writings in one place organized. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum. So you see everyone's questions and everyone's answers. It's a great learning experience. I do a Q and a video exclusively for the app members every single week. And so you get the opportunity to look at that. That's a great learning experience. Plus all my cycles in there offseason, pre-conscious begin as advanced men, women, all my diets, the keto diet, this carb cyclical diet, everything is in that app. It's a great, great resource. It's only $29 a month. If you subscribe, you can subscribe. Once again, the Android store and the iTunes store. Thank you for the support. It's because you guys out there are demanding it. I keep doing it. Let's go to the rest of our questions from our YouTube community page. Should one stop bodybuilding with very mild left ventricular hypertrophy, knowing that it was caused by high blood pressure untreated for years, assuming that it's in perfect range and reverse significantly throughout the years. I'm not sure, but I think you mentioned that you had it to at some point. Listen, anyone who lifts super heavy. And that was like blood pressure because when you lift heavy, you're generating high blood pressures while you work out. That tells the heart, the body needs blood delivered to the muscles very quickly. And what's the best way to do that? Well, make the heart thicker like you're making your bicep thicker. So when the heart contracts, it propels the blood faster through the bloodstream to the muscles. The problem is when the muscle gets thicker, okay, the chamber size gets smaller. Okay. When the chamber size gets smaller, even though it's projecting blood faster, it's releasing less blood. So your, your cardiac output or your rejection fraction will go down. That doesn't mean that your heart is damaged. It means that you have an athletic heart and that needs to be distinguished between a defective heart because if you have a defective heart and you don't work out at all, but your heart is all thickened and enlarged because it's not functioning well and it can't do its job. That's a different story. The problem is that the doctors don't differentiate between a damaged heart. Okay. And a athletic heart and it looks the same to them when they do all the diagnostic testing. The problem is the guys who have the athletic hearts are in the gym killing it. They have no, they're not short of breath. They don't feel bad. They feel great. And then they go to the doctor and they tell them they're on their death bed. You know, so take it for a grain with a grain of salt. Like I said, if you feel good and you're able to exercise at a high level and you have no blockages in your coronary arteries because we, you checked that with a cardiac CT scan and we've talked about that before, then don't let these doctors tell you that your heart is damaged. If it's not damaged, they're just, once again, an echocardiogram just gives you cardiac output. It doesn't tell you why your cardiac output might be reduced because you're delivering blood faster while you're training. So athletic heart versus deficient heart. You got to make that distinction. Uh, question about the Roy test. I had used your Roy test here recently on some tests, SIP that came back, propionate, uh, then use test D to check their primo. It read that the primo was fake. I'm about to retest their test SIP again with new Roy test. I had an order from your website. The seller tried to tell me that the Roy kits aren't accurate. So how accurate are the testing kits to test the products that he ordered? The test kits are really, really accurate. Okay. The, we sell, I sell so many of them on daypalubba.com. And you know why? Because people realize for 20 something bucks, you'd be crazy not to test your drugs, especially if they're underground. Cause like, like this person found out he was, thought he was using test SIP, he was using test propionate. All right. And, and this happens all the time, especially with growth hormone. 50% of it out there is fake. 50% of the adivar is fake. It's not adivar. It's actually dienival. It happens all the time. The kits are very accurate. The only time they're not accurate is when people make the drugs in MCT oil. Sometimes MCT oil can mess up the, the Esther test. So in other words, you can tell what drug it is, but you're not sure what Esther is. So it may be testosterone, but you can't tell if it's SIP and they have that appropriate. And that's only if they're using MCT oil. That's the only time it screws up the test because the devile will tell you if it's an injectable and if it's a real drug, but then the, the B or a devile, depending on which one they recommend you use tells you what the Esther is. So is it test SIP innate or is it test ananthate? Is it test SIP innate or is it test propanate? Okay. Is it trend and anthate? Is it trend acetate? You know, and so, and then the, for the, uh, orals, the C vile is defender. It tells you if it's, if it's a real oral for anivar, well, you need is the C vile, the C vile. If it, if it comes back golden yellow, you got real anivar. It doesn't even matter what the B vile says. It's the SIVA. Now, for the other drugs, you need to use this, the, the B vile to differentiate like for dianabol, anadural, halo, testin. Um, and all the drugs are there, a generic name. So like a fluoxymesteroin is, is, is, um, is, uh, excuse me, halotestin and methanteric, stenolone is, is dianabol and methan, methanaloxy, methanalone is, is, is, you know, is anadural. So you got to just, you'll look at the chart on my day, Paloma.com website under the right test and all that information is there. Very accurate. Like I said, I sell it because I knew that people needed this and I needed to make it available to people. And when Bill Llamo came out with it, I said, Bill, I'm going to be a guy to sell this because I said, I feel so terrible that people in this day and age have to use underground stuff. We need this product. They need to know what the stuff is. If it's real or not. So check it out at daypaloma.com. Like I said, it's very reasonably priced. Uh, question. Sorry about that. All season cycles. Usually all season you recommend test and one anabolic. So he gives you the options of test and EQ, test and Deca, test with trend or test with Prima Bullen. What would you suggest for an offseason scenario? Uh, yes, all of the above. So what I recommend doing is like do test and an anabolic for six weeks and then switch to a test and then another anabolic for 10, six weeks. And then after six weeks, do it again. So you might do start out with testing EQ for six weeks, then you'll go to test and trenbolone for six weeks. Then you go to test and Deca for six weeks. Then you can go back and start the EQ again, test and EQ, or you can say, you know what I want to do a test and masteron one for, for six weeks. I try to save like the short acting, the windstroll, anivar type stuff, or like I'm transiting with else, like even, even trying to acetate, I saved that pre contest. I don't do that offseason. Uh, he wrote this long. I hate to show. I'm in the morning, like 105 over 66 blood pressure. It raises a bit when the day progresses, 125 over 75 in the evening. Can I start using clen with that low blood pressure? Yeah. Let me clean your drugs, your blood pressure a little bit, but not that much. The key is don't take too much of it at one time. So you should only take 20 micrograms per dose. Uh, I know guys that I get them up to 80 micrograms a day. And all of a sudden I find out they're taking 81 shot and their blood pressure is like in the toilet hole and they feel like they're passing out. At least as long as it's 20, be your works always space it out. 20 micrograms per dose. So if you start with 20 twice a day and you go to 23 times a day, you don't double up the morning dosage. You go 20, 20, 20 throughout the day. And that's, if you do that, you'll never really drop your blood pressure that much. What is the weirdest, craziest thing you've seen backstate at a body building competition could be pump up, pump a food, athlete, drama, people passing out, crazy thing from your competing careers to now, obviously, the coach that you've seen backstage. Back in the money, first time you compete, I would see guys with the, you know, talk, we were talking about, you know, how terrible, you know, what we didn't go through over the last 24 hours. And I had a guy tell me, yeah, I haven't brushed my teeth in a week. And I'm thinking, no wonder what that smell is. And I'm like, why haven't you brushed your teeth? Oh, sodium fluoride. You know, you can't have that sodium. And in the toothpaste, I said, well, you're not, you're not swallowing the toothpaste. And you know how small that amount is in it? I said, it's the fluoride. It's a, it's a sodium atom attached to a fluoride atom. You know, it's not taking in a significant amount. He was my coach told me I shouldn't do it. This guy's breath stunk like fucking fish. Like that was 20 days old. It was horrendous. Another guy stunk, he hadn't showered in a week because he thought that the water that we put on his skin would get absorbed into his body and make him hold water. And this guy fucking reaped. I couldn't even, I couldn't even, I was ready to throw up. It was so disgusting. I've seen guys backstage eating, like, you know, drinking like, like, like a bottle of vodka. I'm like, what are you doing? Oh, that brings out the veins. I'm like, I got veins and I haven't done it. I haven't drank any alcohol. I said, I don't think any of you veins are coming out. You could, you could drink that whole bottle. All you're going to do is wind up in the hospital unconscious. I said, so people just do dumb shit, you know? And then they wonder why, what happened to them? I don't know what happened. I died so hard for 16 weeks. I did everything I can. They, but, but, and I didn't do well. I was, you know, you look like, you look terrible, but you ruined yourself over the way. I had a friend, I used to do his diet. He, he lost, he took so many diuretics. I told him to take a half of the eyes out the night before he took like starting like five days out. He was taking diuretics. He took like, like two late six, like the morning of the show. He looked like he had this red, red pose. He's, I don't know if he got, he's not with us anymore. Maybe the rest of the piece, but, um, one of my friends said, he looks like a stop sign because he just, all he was was ahead and his body was like completely drained of all, all liquids. He was completely dehydrated. And, uh, some people do stupid stuff. I, that's why I was telling people, don't do kooky shit the last week. Do exactly what you've been doing because the less you change, the better you're going to look on stage. Yeah. TRT related question on 43 on a hundred and GTRT twice a week. I used to be obese, 267 pounds went down to 170. So congrats on that. I've trained five days a week and eat clean, but when I add some muscle, can I still make decent gains, uh, on a hundred and GTRT twice a week? I think you can. I think 200 milligrams a week is a good amount. I think that it's enough that if you eat right and train right, you diet, you'll lose fat. The TRT will help you maintain muscle and you may even put a few pounds on and you can have no side effects. It's, it's, it's really the best of all worlds. It's, it's a little higher, obviously than TRT levels because 500 million, he said 500 milligrams, right? Uh, no, I think I said 100 or 200 million, 100 twice a week, 200. Oh yeah. Yeah. Sorry about that twice a week, right? Yeah. 200 milligrams a week is the high end of TRT. So I think you're going to be fine. And I know a lot of guys that will put muscle on taking that amount. So absolutely you're doing the right thing. I think that's a very safe cycle. And I think you can probably look really, really good. Question about Oris Kalachinsky has given that what we just saw in his open class debut, how many years do you think he realistically needs in order to be a top threat at the Mr. Olympia level? Listen, it's impossible for me to predict if he'll ever be a top threat at the Olympia level. Uh, I think in another two years, he's going to be very dangerous. Cause I think he will continue to grow. He's young. He has plenty of time. There's no reason to rush. He put a ton of muscle on already. If he adds another 10 pounds this offseason of, of, of real muscle weight, I think he's going to be dangerous. He's got a good structure. You got a small waist. It's just a matter of how is this muscle going to look once it's on his body and how is he going to display it on stage? If he can handle that and do a good job with that, I think he can do very well in the open question about the best calves. Who had the best calves between Mike, Montero and Ruby almost Quera. Montero's those calves were pretty freaky. I gotta tell you, I'll tell you who's, who's calves might be the freakiest of all time though. Um, Eric Fankhauser, I don't know if anyone even remembers him. He, the guy had the freak. He was, I think it was from PA freaky, freaky, freaky calves. Like just genetically freaky, you know, but Montero's was like, almost like mutant calves. I have to go like they didn't even have a lot of shape to me. We just big and around and gnarly. Um, that, that I thought that was pretty impressive because they were, they matched his arms. He had these huge arms and huge calves. And you know that that's just something like it was a gift from God, essentially, you know, so close it out with this one. Interesting one here. Uh, I'm hearing from my sources that legit pharma grade anabolic are becoming more limited or due to tariff strains globally. That said, more lifters are starting to resort to the black market, but underground gear. Do you think there's any ramifications going that route? If that's the only option, obviously your test kits are a good source to make sure that it's true. But what are your thoughts if essentially we get to the point where black market seems to be the most viable? I mean, in his words, his only, but I'll say most viable option to get here. Yeah. It's a very disturbing situation out there because you're really, I mean, there is no legitimate, the very little legitimate gear out there. And, um, I highly recommend that all body bills sign up with, with some sort of a, you know, rejuvenation clinic, at least to get on their replacement protocols. So at least at least when they're not on cycle, maybe, and if they're not off and they need to take something, at least to have some, some TRT to take. Cause I know guys that were on major cycles and then they went on TRT and they actually grew better on the TRT because the other stuff was crap. So you just don't know. And I don't know if at some point maybe they'll start making the actual raw materials here in the United States. It's possible. Possibilities. We're trying to get away from dependence on other countries for all our drugs. Why not make some testosterone in the United States to make it available for people who are on TRT? I mean, that only makes sense. So that, that's one possibility of what could happen. You know, just the problem is that once again, you just don't know what you're getting is legit. And even if it does have the real drug in it, you don't know what else is in there and that's a scary, scary thought. You know, and the tariffs are real. I mean, because I try to order this like flea and tick spray for my, like, uh, for my animals. I use it like some months of my snakes get a snake might, uh, might, excuse might, and I can't get it anymore. And they said actually on the website, no, and I keep getting it. I keep getting like promotions from them. I'm like, I'm trying to buy it right. I can't buy it. They're like, we don't ship to the United States because the tariffs are too high. We can't make any money. So there's a definite reality to that. Um, I still think there's a lot of gear around, but you know what? If there isn't in the future, you're going to see a lot more people having to, you know, resort to other, other avenues. Once again, I hope they start making testosterone and other drugs like that in this country so that it makes it a little easier for, uh, athletic, athletics to get a hold of them, rehab guys, and then people who are on hormone replacement. Obviously. So we'll see what happens. That's going to do for this episode of as Dave again, if you haven't already done so, subscribe below all new episodes of heavy muscle radio after our podcast as well as Dave going to Greg Valentino's house and infamous 38 year old pasta, the same pasta. By the way, that Lee Haney ate and it still tastes great. 38 years later. I hear that it has fermented some and created some special peptides and a that actually lead to longevity. And I hear that if you ferment your pasta for 35 plus years, you actually, if you ingest these peptides, it'll enable you to live to 150 years old. So we'll, we'll set the seat if it becomes sure or not. You know, I thought you're going to go the route of it's going to enable you to make your bodybuilding comeback or something. No anabolic properties in that. All right. Well, again, that's going to do for this episode. Subscribe below hit the notification bell so you don't miss anything that we have coming up. I'm here in Dubai for the Dubai muscle show. So tomorrow, uh, Friday, which is going to be very early midnight ish, um, US Eastern Standard Time. I'm going to try to get as many interviews with some of the biggest names. It's two weeks after the Olympia. So all, all these big names are shopping at the bit to give their Olympia analysis. Uh, and we'll be sure to try to get as many of these big names and try to get them on camera and, uh, we'll get some, uh, juicy quotes out of them, but, uh, keep an eye out for all those interviews. And then I have my stage interviews. Um, I'm going to get the full schedule tomorrow. So as we get them, as we get everything processed, we'll be dropping, being on channels, some in clips, some in full form, but especially the stuff that we do, you know, at the boots, like, you know, I'm, I'm hoping to get filled tomorrow, uh, that would probably just be dropped in this entirety, but nonetheless, keep an eye out on the channel, uh, interviews from here at the Dubai muscle show. And then again, uh, the Prague pro is this week, I am in touch with someone who's going to give us a discounted link for the paper view. Uh, so it's not available for everyone, but there are about two or three different entities that are getting this exclusive link. It is for a discount code to watch the pay per view for the pro pro for D-Pullable, I'm Sadiq for rookie. See you next time.