Sass Harati after 11 years is headed to the Olympia. I created species nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're live here at Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palumbo joined by the technician Chris Aceto. And the Toronto Super Show is over. And SAS Herat, I don't know how many times you probably know that you're coach. How many shows has he done this year? Uh, I think this was the fifth. Five times is a charm for Saserat. He's going to the Olympia. Wins the Toronto Super Show. Beats a very good Rean Grimes. And uh some people are happy, some people are not. Well, Reagan's not and Sass is. Just like in Cal. Reagan was and Sass wasn't. It's only two people. You know, I did I did a wrap-up, Chris, on the on the show yesterday because we didn't do the radio show last time. And I did a wrap-up and I and I and I looked I really analyzed the pictures and I analyzed the video and I said to myself, you know what, Rean Rean Grimes is a better bodybuilder than Sasserati. I mean, structurally speaking and and he's taller and he's wider and broader. He's got more gifts and bells and whistles, but you know what? The way bodybuilding shows are judged is who's the best man on that stage on that day. And you know what? Sasserati is the most consistent guy I've seen. I don't think I've ever seen him out of shape in all five shows he did this year. And he I think this might have been his best. And he came in here and he beat a better man because he was in better shape, better tan, better presentation. And Rean was sweating a little bit. He was looking a little unprofessional. He looked like he he wasn't quite as hard as he was, you know, at the last show. And I think the judges made the right decision. Well, um, you know, it all comes down to apples and oranges on that day. I mean, I think that, you know, Sass gave him a great run in Cal, and that was the most conditioned he'd been all year, SAS. And then this this time around, you know, I think that Reagan was tighter in at the Cal and and um Sass had more roundness at this show. I think uh that's what what did it you know I think it was last week I think it was at the cal I think it was Dave unanimous first but I always say this you can get unanimous first and it's a lot closer than the scorecards show um it just means that five judges said this guy is the better day but darn you know damn it it's really close but I'm definitely going with Reagan and then a whole different judging panel you know, one week later. I think it's only a week, you know, says, you know, with a little bit different physiques in front of them. I think SAS was better this week and Reagan was not as good as Cal and and there you go. And I think that there in lies the danger. And when I say danger, I I mean it really. I mean, the danger is that you can't I mean, Lee because Lee Haney went on, you know, went on a rampage this last like week or two and he's been saying how the judging is not good and they're going in the wrong direction. They're going to collapse bodybuilding, which I don't even know where this came from, to be honest with you. But you can't pick the physique that you like best, just because you like that physique best. Just because Rean has a better structure, has better lines, and is is is more impressive on stage doesn't mean that he deserves to win every show. Okay? because Sass was better on that stage. And that's what the judge's job is to pick the best man on that day. And it doesn't matter because you know what, Tom Brady could could is the greatest quarterback arguably of all time, right? If he has an off day and he throws six interceptions and he his team loses, you don't just give them the win because Tom Brady's the best quarterback, right? I mean, he had an off day and that's what happens. Uh Reagan had had a day that it wasn't as good as he was at the Cal and Sass was better and he wins and and Chris that's very dangerous when people start saying that certain physique should be winning shows and other physiques shouldn't be winning shows because it's not a good look for bodybuilding. Bodybuilding is the best man on that stage on that day and that's it. That's all it represents. Well, lines lines can only will carry you if you're in tremendous condition. And condition will only carry you so far. I mean, they're just one part of the equation of what winds shows. I mean, you can be lights out condition against somebody with kind of sort of soft glutes and hams, but a lot rounder than you, you know, bigger than you. And the condition, while important, is not the beall end all. It's at the end of the day, it's it's what's in front of you. you know, it's shape, it's condition, it's size, flow. I mean, polish. There's so many things that go into weighing. Who's going to win a show? And it's not, as you said, always quote the best physique in terms of, you know, structure. I mean, Dennis Wolf, if we want to talk about structure and best physiques. Yeah. who you know Dennis Wolf was uh you know he always generally lost to like a Kai Green and you know certainly his structure was better his flow was better insertion's better but at the end of the day when he was going up against Kai in that case total amount of mass and you know key areas of condition would win. Yeah. Yeah. And I mean, arguably, if you remember that show, what was the Olymp he was actually beating Jay a few shots and because he was so big and wide, you know, he obviously from behind he couldn't beat Jay, but but from the front and sides, you know, he's just enormous. But you can't give the guy just because you like the way he looks, you know what I mean? It's the best body on that stage on that day. And that's the way bodybuilding has always been and it's going to continue to be into the future. If you know there are sometimes there are shows we've seen where there are guys that we never in a million years thought would win you a show. I mean Franch Warren proved so many people wrong, right? This was a guy that people said structurally is not good enough. He'll never win big shows. He won what two Arnolds. He was second at the Olympia because he was the best guy on the stage on that day, you know. Yeah. And that's just the way bodybuilding is. And I don't know why people get, you know, their panties in a bunch. These are the same people that never go to shows, Chris. They they judge everything from their from their Instagram, from their phone, not even from a computer screen where you can actually see something from a little phone that you can see no detail on and they pick their favorites, you know. Uh, I know that Derek Wunford, I don't maybe I don't know if you want to speak to this, but Derek Wunford did a video today where he was really expressing how he was in a really bad funk and depression because the Nick Walker fans, you know, that uh love Nick and think that Nick should have beat him in Pittsburgh have been harassing the hell out of Derek over this and that, you know, you know, most people would just ignore it, but it was obviously got to Derek and it was bothering him. And I think that you, you know, fans are great. Um, but you have to learn if you're going to be at the top of the the heap, so to speak, if you're going to be a celebrity in a bodybuilding world and you're going to be a a top Mr. Olympia guy, that you have to ignore the noise. If you can't ignore the noise, the noise will destroy you, you know. And uh, we've seen great bodybuilders be mentally affected by that. And when we've seen great bodybuilders, ignore it. I don't think Jay Cutler cared what anyone said about him. That's for sure. Yeah. I know Jackson didn't care. I mean, when when Derek won, a lot of people didn't think you won. And when Hottie won, well, the first time, I mean, anytime you win, regardless, there's going to be fans that don't think you should have won. It goes back to they go with their favorite bodybuilder. Sure. When Ronnie used to win, Jay had his fans that were always pissed off, you know, that the Jay didn't win. Yeah. Well, the fans the fans can maintain their vote at the people's choice, right? That's what people's choice is for. Yeah. But the point is that, you know, people That's the video that Derek was speaking about, but uh you know, he got a lot of hate for it, but you have to be mentally tough as Mr. Olympia. When I think about the Mr. Olympians that were the most successful over a long period of time. Dorian Yates, Lee Haney. Lee Haney really didn't have to deal with with with the media that much, but still Haney's in there. Um Dorian, Ronnie, I don't think anything bothers Ronnie. It's impossible. Dave they they those no matter what you say, they were not bodybuilders in the social media age. And I don't I don't I don't I don't believe I don't believe for a second. Listen, 2001, you could go, you don't know how Dorian would have reacted. I don't He's not that mentally. I don't think Dorian would have even been on social media. I think he would have had a couple people taking pictures and putting him up for him. He would not have been on his phone. There's no way Dorian would have been on that phone. You're not entirely correct there because you can imagine that he would not be have to be on social media, but by definition, he would have to do something with social media because if Dorian was Mr. Olympia right now. He'd have a contract that would require that he be interactive to some degree on social media. His wife his wife would have been posting for him. I guarantee it. Dory would not have got into that. We you know that's a good question to ask him. Bernie Coleman got into it after 2001 Olympia. He heard the the the negative feedback that he should and you know it affected him. He would have knew it affected him. He came in the next he came in the next year like a shattered the way he looked. Yeah. So he decided, you know what? I will double up on everything to shut down negativity and just whittleled himself down to 245 pounds. It's true, right? Was he that light to that show? He was a figment of the way he looked in in 2000. He almost lost a lot of room. Yeah. 2002. 2002 when Jay wasn't in the show yet. Yeah. So, the idea that people are so mentally tough that they're not immune to uh social media criticism and fan criticism, nobody's 10,000% uniquely except um but you know, it's part of the game now. So, it's it's it's um I'm sure Samson, you know, when he got third had all his fans tell him he got ripped off. And when he won, he probably had all types of people telling him he got a gift. Yeah. No, he was upset. I know he was a little out of it, too, after that. Uh, hey, by definition, don't forget Trump is the president, half of the people hate him. Yeah. Not didn't vote for him. No, probably hate him. When Obama was the president, half the people hated him. Yeah. So when you win the Olympia, you win the Arnold, you lose the Pittsburgh, you win the Pittsburgh, half the people are going to, you know, rah you and the other half are going to poo poo you. That's just the way human nature is, right? It's only when you get a mega slam dunk, which we I think the last mega slam dunk we had was what, Hottie at that Arnold. Yeah. Yeah. He was unbelievable that shot. What do you think about what what what Lee Haney said? I mean, because if it was up to Lee Haney, probably he would just pick the guys that he liked structurally, you know, and he would wouldn't reward any guys that weren't structurally gifted. Well, what I didn't watch what he said, so just fill me in and I'll act. Well, he said that bodybuilding is going the wrong direction, which I I totally don't I totally don't endorse at all. I think he's delusional to say that. I think that um if you by any metric of measurement where bodybuilding is going or the sport is going and by bodybuilding I mean men's open classic men's physique wellness bikini fit model all of it total number of competitions a year prize money I think it all points to that it's gone straight up in the last in the last four years in particular it's just exploded Um, so I think that negates the idea that it's getting ready to fall off a cliff. I mean, if if if I wanted to have a show tomorrow, Dave, or you know, with you and we called it the RX Muscle amateur, whatever, and we held it in New York, Florida, North Carolina, Virginia, would probably end up selling the place out with tons of competitors because the the, you know, participation rate is through the roof, right? Yeah, you're right. You're right. I um there's it's it's it's I don't know if it's disingenuous or nostalgic to think that things were better in the past. You know, I think it's both. I think it's but it's definitely nostalgic. Listen, when I'm in the car and I'm listening to some 80s music, it takes you back to the 80s, right? So, I mean, it's you could relate to it. I understand now why my father would watch old movies like from his childhood and stuff like that and watch, you know, listen to music from that he listened to when he was younger because it brings you back to that that time period. And I think that when Haney really isn't involved necessarily in current modern bodybuilding, he's not really critiquing the bodies, you know, he's not like we're still in it, you know what I mean? So, we can respect and we really appreciate the physiques we see. whereas he's thinking, man, it was better back in my day because that's, you know, the physiques were prettier and, you know, they didn't worry about, you know, the guys weren't taking as many drugs and all this stuff. And so, I think, you know, we all want to resist. At some point, we hit an age where we resist change. And I don't know why people do that. It just seems to happen as we get older. Uh maybe because you want to kind of slow down progress because you feel like you're it's slipping away from you. Is that is that a possibility? Yeah. I mean, I I think that's a very legitimate perspective to to view the the difference between like now and then or to it it's a a reason why people reflect between uh bodybuilders today and like the golden age. You know, I know there was a quote golden age period and I know there was like a 90s and 2000 period. Um, but we're at where we're at. And I always think it's just, you know, it's unfair to compare like, uh, you know, how would a boxer do the heavyweight champ of the world now versus, you know, Mike Tyson versus Muhammad Ali versus, you know, Jack Dempsey. We're in the times that we're in, and you should only compare the champion really in any sport to who he's competing against now. That's all you can do. Otherwise, it's just conjecture. But it gets into this idea that oh we were better back then. Um you know and I think everything progresses you know if we didn't have times in the 100 meters Dave to wait to to be able to time people you know in subjective sports you can say what we're better then you know and there's no measurement to say like oh music was better in the 80s than it is now. How do you measure that? In track you measure it by numbers. In weightlifting, you measure it by numbers. In swimming, at the Olympics, you measure it by numbers. In bodybuilding, you can't because there's intangibles. But obviously, all these sports are quote progressing and not falling off a cliff because people are shattering records every two or three years, meaning they're getting better. And in bodybuilding, we don't have that metric to measure. So we just it's easier to devolve down to like uh you know uh descriptions of grandiosity of how the physiques looked in you know the 70s and 80s and 90s versus the top five guys now. I mean you could you could take any of the top five guys now and put them in certain Olympia lineups and I mean tell me how they place. I mean, you you you think you think Hottie, Derek, or Samson, who have each won the Olympia the last like three years would not give a lot of great bodybuilders hell. I do. Yeah, I think so, too. you know and then the other thing is you know in terms of progress one of the exciting things about bodybuilding right now is yes the Olympia title I feel many people can win it this year but by definition you had Samson win it you had Derek win it you had hottie win it three There's three different athletes. So, goes back to the the show that you just reviewed from Toronto. The judges are just judging what's in front of them. There's no slam dunk for anyone. Yeah. They're judging what's in front of them. I I And you know, I always say, Chris, I tell people this all the time. We're one genetic freak away from another golden age, right? I mean, if if one more Ronnie Coleman popped up or one more Lee Haney or Cedric McMillan or someone came out of the woodwork with a crazy crazy physique because they're out there. They just haven't arrived yet. Yeah, I agree. And and and then we would be saying, "Holy mackerel, we what a lineup we got. We got this guy who's knocking out Andrew. He's knocking out Samson. He's beating Hottie and Derek. And this guy is unbeatable. He's going to win 10 years." We've been talking about him. It's just it's around the corner. We always think there's no new guy on the block, but we didn't see Bumpstead coming, right? And he came and Wait, Dave, sorry. You did because you sat next to me and Dave said, and I didn't see it. Dave said, you sat right next to me. I was helping Arash Rabbar. That's right. And Arash was second the year before who I was coaching. And then the next year, he got fourth. And Chris Bumstead came out Dave and you turned to me and you said this guy could win for 10 years. Yeah. He didn't even win that show. No. No. He didn't win that Olympia and I'm like really? And you're like oh yeah look at that structure. I'm like really just perfectly. It was one of your one of your great many great calls. Yeah. He just had a lot of wow. He he had the it factor that a lot of guys, but there's guys out there that will will come along and and I'm convinced of, especially now with the prize money the way it is, you're going to see a lot of guys entering the sport that hadn't entered before. And I mean, did you see this? Did you see this young kid that um it was on Instagram? I know Larry Wheels did a video with him. Pull it up. Yeah. This this with this little 18-year-old Coleman. Yeah. Or he looks like a little Kai Green is what he looks like, actually. I used to compete against Kyle when he was 19. His his arms and back are very Kai greenish, right? He's very greenish. That's how Kai looked when Kai was 18. Remember? I know. I competed with him. And I believe he's 100% natural, too. It was You got to get a hold of this kid, Chris. Unbelievable. 18, right? Crazy. you know, now I don't know what he's going to do if he's going to end up ever making them. But I'm saying there's guys like this kid out there that that, you know, you don't even know are out there because they're only 18, 19, 20 years old, you know, and at some point they're going to really, you know, look double bicep. He's got his hand his thumbs in his hand. Dave, just just to add one more thing about the progress of the Julian Fitzgerald, that's his name. So reme remember that name. Just to add one thing about the progress of the sport, but we'll cover the the show, but um uh the the classic winner, I mean the 212 winner this up in Courage. Yeah. What's the kid's name? He's very very Yeah. What's his name? Courage. Courage. Courage. Yeah. Courage. Courage. Courage came from classic. Matt Grego came from Men's Physique. Yeah. Derek and Hottie 212. So just like if we didn't have 212 divisions, we wouldn't probably have those. thought, you know, those were important feeders as was a men's physique for those people graduating to a whole another another division and winning big shows. And the same thing is for um so the the point is is is as opposed to the sport falling off a cliff, not only are the divisions expanding, but you have people moving over or up from other divisions and qualifying for Olympias, which you would probably think would be unfathomable, which is what we predicted that in the beginning. The important point, Dave, is it gives them the opportunity to be competitive and to train and to grow into a men's open physique or in this case a 212 physique or a classic physique where they were competing in divisions before where they they clearly weren't carrying the amount of muscle that they're carrying now. No, it's it's I we said it in the beginning. I think a lot of people didn't believe it because I I think they thought that people were going to stay in specific divisions that they were in. But the truth is that a lot of these divisions are are feeding if look, if you could be a great men's physique pro, you probably could be a great classic guy because that means you have good lines, right? If you're if you're in men's physique, assuming you have legs and if you could be a good classic guy, if you can put on enough size, you can be a good open guy. So, it it totally makes sense to see these divisions feeding the the the the open division because as especially young guys that have good success. If you're 22 and you turn pro in men's physique or classic physique, I mean, by the time you're 28, you'll probably be in the open division if you keep growing. I mean, and that's what you want to do. So, I I think it's a great idea. We said it from the beginning. We're seeing it now finally. It took probably 10 years, but we're seeing these guys. Look at Logan Franklin. He was a men's physique guy, too. and he's a and he's a a legitimate legitimate guy now in the in the classic division. So I I uh and I suspect he can go to open if he wanted to, right? Yeah, I think so. I mean, it's it's, you know, after seeing courage, it's it's in the cards for a lot of people, you know. I always thought like, wow, this this this this guy looks like a, you know, not a body, not a open bodybuilder, but I always thought he had a bodybuilder's physique and he was in the classic division and he did. Lee Hayes should be should be encouraging the open the classic guys to go into the open since that's what he's, you know, the physiques that he likes. Well, um I mean, I would agree with that. it just or celebrate the classic division all by itself because you know it's unique just like the men's open just like the men's physique they're all very unique divisions with very unique bodies you know different and that is the litmus test for growth you know is the sport growing the sport in its entirety is still on a very straight up trajectory in terms of everything the way you know competitors shows participation pro shows I mean how many look at all the pro shows that we have well they have or who has there's there's everywhere I think a a metric of whether an industry is growing is how much money is coming into the business into the industry if we just judged it by the prize money in the in the men's open we I mean look at the Olympia look at the uh look at the Arnold I mean New New York. Yeah. I mean I mean we're going to hit I mean Dubai. Yeah. Like you said we're going to hit you know millions of dollars prize money that's going to be given away to the men's open and that's that that's a sign the sports growing. How about let's look at the subsidiary. Are the promoters making more money? These guys are doing it full-time. You mentioned it to me right before. You said these guys actually have full-time jobs. They're filing taxes because they're that's their job. Promoter. What about the coaches? Are the coaches you said this also 100 grand. Most coaches, a good coach makes over $100,000 a year. That that means there's more money coming into the industry. That means the industry is growing and flourishing. And that's a good indicator. You know, the supplement companies are doing well, too. So, everyone is feeding each other even though the industry itself has changed. And I think that's where some of the older guys have a problem. They're not Blackman had this problem with that muscular. He didn't understand social media. He didn't understand online. He didn't. He only understood magazines. And when you when you come from a magazine year, Lee Haney comes from a magazine year. I love the guy. He's a great guy. But that that's what he understands. He doesn't understand this whole social media marketing yourself thing. You know, Weer gave him a contract. He signed on the D line. He did the photo shoots. He made did the guest posings for Weer and he collected his money. It was that was easy for him. But in today's industry, not everyone can be Mr. Olympia. But yet, you can still make a very good living. And that was always my goal in and I'm sure yours too in my I wanted to be able to make a living from it. I didn't care if I was a pro or if I had one Mr. Olympia. I wanted to be able to make a very good living for myself doing what I liked. And well Dave, you were you were the sassari of the amateurs. But today what I did back then was was an anomaly because most people need didn't do what I did to make money as not being a pro. Today anyone can do it. You know, if you're a good coach, if you're a good social media guy, if you're if you if you like to chronicle your life and you're good in front of a camera, you can make a money, a lot of money from I look see this guys on Instagram that they don't even do anything. They just collect data from other people's Instagrams and websites and they put it on their Instagram account and they have, you know, a million followers. So, the industry is flourishing. There's a lot of money in it. Bodybuilding has more participation than it ever has. There's very good talent on the stage. Okay. Is there a We don't currently have a Ronnie Coleman, you know, Mr. Olympia in there, but we could in a year or two or three. We don't know that. So, that's the exciting part to see who the next messiah of bodybuilding will be, right? Yeah. I mean, it's just it's just it's exciting to some degree to have somebody who's a multi-year dominant bodybuilder, but at the same time, you know, we it's exciting to have people who look, I mean, the the Olympia is only 17, 18 weeks away, and if I had to bet my money on it, I would not make a bet because anything can happen. Of course, you know, there's five, there's six that there's no show in for anyone, period. I don't believe that at all. So, that's exciting. And and in terms of promoting the show, that's more exciting than having Coleman. He won it two years in a row. Guess who's going to win this year? Coleman. You know, look at how many former Mr. Olympians have qualified. Now, we probably won't see Big Ramy, but we have four Mr. Olympia is going to be in this in this show. That's crazy. I I if Dexter was five years younger, he would definitely make a comeback. He do every show. Dexter's got to be like I did 50 50 shows in three years. I do now with prize money. 750 grand. Dexter would have [\h__\h] done anything to win that show, believe me. Oh gosh. Yeah. Be on his he'd be on his agame. He's just He must be like, "Man, 750 grand." It peeled it peeled the skin off the KFC started six weeks out rather than three. Do you think that the Arnold lineup in 26 because of that 750 grand prize? You think we'll see the whole Olympia lineup there? Yes, 100%. I think we will. I was I think we might see the whole lineup there. Yeah, the entire lineup is going top five. Then they're all going to go to the Olympia as well. I think we're going to see guys doing two shows a year now. I think you know very very regularly. I don't think there'll be any Dave. The answer to that is a slam dunk. Yes. And just as I said or we've said or many people have said, you know, there's a lot of people who can win the Olympia. What's interesting is, you know, about the Olympia or the Arnold about it's there two shows in one already, right? because it's a two-day show and just because the judges have you first in prejudging does not necessarily mean if it's close you're going to get first in the finals. So, it's like two shows in one and then you have the two shows in one year that probably most likely most if not all the guys are going to, you know, head from Vegas, turn it around and head to Ohio because how do you pass up the opportunity for that type of money? And that means just because you won the Olympia, it's no slam dunk for the Arnold as was proven with Samson, you know, and Derek this year. Well, we we've had an exchange of titles for what, three years in a row now? Four years in a row. We had Hottie, Derek, Samson. And who won before Hottie? Ramy. I don't even know. I can't even remember. Ramy. Yeah. So, I mean I mean that's that's crazy. I mean to have I mean never in the history of of the Olympia have we had that happen ever. You you had Ramy was dethroned and then by Hottie. Hottie was dethroned by Derek. Derek by Samson by Samson and anything goes this year. We don't No excitement Dave. No excitement. See, speaking of excitement, since we're showing off teen young young talent because the young talent is going to be the future of our sport. Point is, what do we always say at these shows too? Like at least with two of the guys in the top five, we always will say he was better at prejudging or this guy was better at finals. That's the closeness of the competition, right? Yeah. Yeah. And this is since Roden, Roden 18, Curry 19, Ramy in 2021, then Hottie, Derek, and Sam. But yeah, I mean, Ramy won two years in a row, so I kind of broke up that single change of the title obviously. And I we've said this before, I hate to say it because he's no longer with us, but I I think Rhoden would have won. He might still be Mr. Olympia if he if he didn't get hurt, you know. He he could have won for another five, six years for sure. Even at that older age of in his late 40s, I think he still would have been waiting because see, I don't think any of those guys were better than him. I really don't. So, yeah, but you know, we'll never know that 25 and this guy says Andrew Jack in 25. You You never know. You never know. That would be a That would be a real shocker if he did that. That would be great. Let me uh pull I want to pull up this one kid uh since we're giving we're giving props to young young kids today. This 17 year old Chris, you see this kid? He benched No, it's not official, but he benched 945 pounds. 945. Yeah. 17 years old. This kid is Let me Yeah, let me see. Got to see this, Dave. It's crazy. The fact he's even holding that much weight over his chest is is incredible. Is that unbelievable? What's his He had He had a He had a shirt on and I think they said he had a slingshot and wraps. I don't give a [\h__\h] Anyone who gets under almost a thousand pounds, you you you you already you already you already convinced me. How's he even hold it without the shoulders going blasting off the Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, I I love watching becoms. People are like trying to make excuses. I I challenge I challenge you guys out there who who are saying fooing it. Go put a slingshot, tape your arms together, a bench shirt. You can put on steel [\h__\h] breazier if you want and you get under that weight. You will get annihilated. You will be decapitated by that weight. This kid is 17 years old and he's lived in that kind of way. That's unbelievable. Dave, you have him for that. You know, you have to interview this guy. Yeah, we got to get him on the show. That's the craziest thing ever right there. Yeah, that's that's pretty sad to say. He's got some pair of balls. That's like Jimmy the Bull balls to get under that [\h__\h] weight and do that, man. Thought of as Jimmy the Bull when you showed me that picture. I hope the kid doesn't get hurt. Jimmy Jimmy Jimmy said that Persians can peak many many times and white only peak once. And I I said it sounds racist or something. He said he looked it up as a scientific fact. If Jimmy said it must be it must be a scientific. So is Sass shutting it down now for the until the Olympia? Sass is going to Spain for the show. He is. Yeah. Oh my god. He's too much. Six shows. That'll be It's It's It's insane. You know, he had a 30 He had a 30-hour flight to get to Toronto. Did he really? He went back home. He went wherever he went from he went from he went from New York, right? On a Monday redeye to England. Two days later, he flew from England to California for the CalPro. Flew back to England after the CalPro. Got a flight I think on Wednesday that was going to be 20 hours. It turned out to be 30 with delays. Got in Thursday in Toronto. Um and uh the show was Saturday. Flew back yesterday, Sunday. Um today, Monday, flies back Monday. I think he's home two days and flies this thing. Is my microphone bad, guys? Do I sound bad? These guys are in the comments are saying about microphones. I'm using a new camera, so I don't know. I need feedback. Is Is the microphone not picking up with the camera? Maybe I need to get it use a different microphone. I thought it was working. Looks like it's working. Oh. All right. So, it's not working. All right. I I I got I got some other microphones I bought. I didn't hook it up because I thought this the microphone we always use is working fine. I have a wireless son. All right. Sorry guys about the microphone with the situation, but it'll be remedying for next week. All right, what else did I want to talk about? The classic division of the 212s of the 212s of the Toronto and the and the Yeah, make the announcement who won. Dave, don't know. It's okay. Cover it next week. Nobody's cover said you helped him, right? Yeah, that's why that's why I mentioned it. I wanted to get my accolades, Dave. Yeah. So, I first of all, how did you start working with him? Um, I I have a picture he sent me. I met him in 2018. He came to my room after I think it was 18 after he won the after he got fifth at the Olympia. He was fifth in the Olympia one year. And then uh he was my interpreter in in 2019 when I was there and we talked about working together then and then he contacted me this year only six weeks out from the show. You know, you know when you're six weeks out, Dave, and you you're not lean and you're not you're not big and you're not small. It's like the worst position to be in. I call it the fat and flat stage. Yeah. Yeah. Where you can go either way. You can either just not get down, but also eat if you eat a bowl of pasta, you look better, but you're really not lean still. Yeah. So, I mean, he's a great champion before I met him, so he was But I just wanted to give him his props. Yeah, he's going to the Olympia now. How do you think, huh? How do you think he'll do with the Olympia? Um, I think he'll because of his structure, he'll get a decent look. Uh, it just it's like, you know, I mean, these shows are so competitive. The answer is I don't know. I mean, there's a long time to improve his physique. He needs to back thickness as you can see there. Yeah. He posted that because he's so excited about the glutes and hams and back. He's never had of course. Yeah. Which is why I mean, not of course, but that's why he posted it because it was always a very weak pose apparently for him. Well, he's definitely a work in progress. And he's from uh he's from China or Japan. China. Jimmy Jimmy the Bull says Japan, but I say China. He's from China. China. Okay. Are you gonna get an invitation now to to to tour the uh Shanghai? He already gave me one to come in two weeks. There's a 212 show there. Go take the family. Dude, I I don't even have time to leave my office. Honest to good, that's a fact. My office is in my house, which saves me like infantismal amount of time. Go to China. China. China. Yeah. Bring back some uh bring back some goods. Yeah. Just pack your suitcase. Did you remember when people used to come here? My father used to tell me a story about how people would come people would take jeans and they'd go to Europe and they'd sell the jeans in Europe because they couldn't get Levis's. Yeah. Europe back in like the 50s and 60s, you know. talking like Lee Haney now, Dave. You're going way back. Those are the good days. The good old days. Pull up uh Courage Opara um if you can. I want to talk about 212. We mentioned him earlier. C I know you you you were a big high on Courage Par's physique when he was winning classic physique shows and he looked like he was he was all natural. It look like he'd been training for two weeks and he the structure was so good, but he was small. Now he's a legitimate 212 open, you know, well, not open, but he's a he's a bodybuilder. He's not a classic guy anymore. Uh, wins this first 212 show. I mean, how far could this guy go, do you think? Um, he is going to do pretty well this year. Um, but he's going to do very well going forward. I think he's going to do pretty darn well this year. You know, his only the only knock against him right now is the back double. Uh, and that's the only knock really. All the other poses he looks great in great chest, great. I watched the show in detail yesterday. Um, and what you know, very good structure. He just was really dominant on the side chest and side dry. um most muscular just the flow is there that makes him look a lot bigger than he probably is. Isn't that funny how you say makes him look a lot bigger than he is? I guess it doesn't even matter look big in the most. He doesn't have the thickness of these other two 12 guys, but he's structurally so good, you know, that that he he can beat guys that are bigger. Who's the best guy on stage? I'm going to look at the scorecards after because um I thought all the divisions were spot on in terms of like for a secondary um but he just you know there was there was it was somewhat close I think between first and second but not really at the end of the day when you weigh in with like he had the structure with the condition. Reagan had the structure of the condition. Yeah. You see what I mean? He's got a rodent physique, you know, right? So like if he was out muscled, which he might have been in some shots, it really didn't matter, you know, because your eyes will go back to him. And for me, as I always say, is when I'm watching a show, the person I end up looking at more is usually my gut choice for who's winning the show. Otherwise, looking at them. Yeah, I agree with you. And that and I was talking, you know, with someone today and we were saying that it's exactly it's exactly that. It's what is, you know, the worst thing you can do for bodybuilding is try to quantify it and say, "Okay, we're going to score each pose with one point. You win this pose, we give you more. We're going to score the symmetry around this point. We're going to score this posing." That's the worst way. I'll tell you why it's not right. Because you never a lot of times you don't get the right winner because it's it's a feeling. When you're judging and you understand how to judge a bodybuilding show and you look at a lineup, you can just see the winner instantly. It it's it's it's like magical almost. You just see the flow. You see the conditioning. You see they just stick out if you're a good judge. Yeah. Watch guys like I mean Chris and I can do it. We can do this one day, but watch like Weinberger or or Jim Manion or or you know sit in that in that judging seat. They could they could line those guys up first, second, third, fourth, fifth in in seconds they can do it. And then you have to kind of like work these guys and kind of figure out all right who's a little better or maybe who's not as good or who's a little off. But you see it and it's not something you can score on a scorecard. You have to be a as a bodybuilding judge. It's got to be the total package presentation. You know, Paul Delet should have been Mr. Olympia a couple times, but the guy was had the worst presentation of all time and it screwed him up. I'll give I'll give you the example of that which I didn't comment on from the CalPro because I and I coached SAS. I added up the poses so I try to quantify it and I don't believe in that but just to play devil's advocate. I had SAS winning more poses for sure than Reagan and Cal. And guess what? I looked at Reagan I think a little bit more in that in the video. Then I looked at SAS, which I just told you the person I end up looking at mostly is the person who wins. So, did he lose more poses? Yes. Just because you lose more poses doesn't mean overall you're just better that day. That's a hard one pill for someone to swallow. Of course, you can win more poses and still win. And that's that's definitely definitely a big factor. um winning more poses, but the unquantifiable is it's the whole entire entire entire package. Everything counts. Um tie-ins count, which you can't very very hard to quantify. Um, so, uh, judging is is is essentially bait boils down to, I think, what you just said, which is picking the person who sticks out the most. And it's not necessarily the biggest, the most peeled, the best person's shape. It's it's a whole combination of those things. And a lot of times that does not come out on videos and it does not come out in pictures. It can, but not always. And in fact, someone I I text someone at the show in Cal and I text people who I know who are at Toronto and I just wanted to know their opinion because based what I'm seeing, you know, on video and pictures, I have one perspective or perception perception, which is different than perspective because they're right there, you know, they have a different perspective than what's my perception. They're kind of a little bit different. And um and both people nailed the show. Like I asked someone last week, you know, who's winning the show and he said, "I'm not sure. I think I got Reagan." And then the same person this week said, "Same exact person. I got SAS." Yeah. And they're right at the show. I remember you might be, you were at the show with me. It was one of the Tampa pros probably 10 12 years ago. And remember Latoya Watts? She was a great figure competitor. She won a few Olympias uh before she retired, but she she but this is right. She had just won the USA the year before. This is her first pro show. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She was clearly the winner. I mean, she was so I mean, you you couldn't miss it. And they put her fourth. And I was talking to one of the judges that we're friends with. I'm not going to mention his name. And I said, "How could this woman not win the show? I don't understand. It doesn't make sense to me." He's like, "No one knew what to do with her. We didn't know what to do with her." I'm like, "What do you mean you didn't know what to do?" Well, she didn't. She looked so different than everyone else. I said, "Yeah, she looked like the winner and everyone else looked like second, third, and fourth." I said, "How did she wind up in fourth place?" Now, after that show, she never ever I don't think she lost another regional show after that. She won every, you know, open pro show that she did and she won the Olympia a couple times and the Arnold a few times and she had a great career. But that's sometime I mean that's an example of someone that's so clear-cut the winner that that you know you have to be nuts to not depict them but sometimes people when they see someone like that they don't know what to do with them you know and they made a mistake the first time but then they you know obviously they corrected that mistake and it never was done again but but that's that's what judging you see it it's just it's so obvious that that it's there there's no doubt sometimes when you see the winner and you can't quantify it necessarily ly like you said with points because tie-ins are so important taper vtaper you like you know that's your your thing you know cap delts you know the way that the waist flows into the quads and and you can't put that into a scorecard and that's why that's why bodybuilding will never be in the Olympics I'm sorry Bener may you rest in peace it's not going to be in the Olympics might be in the enhanced games though maybe maybe we can fold one of the sports into the Olympia weekend I don't take one of the Olympic sports and put it at the Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. One more thing I wanted to bring up. Um something I've been saying for years, Chris, and um let me see if I got it queued up right. Hold on. It's not qued up. Hold on. When I go to the gym, I've always said for years, people always ask me, "How much rest should you take between sets?" And I like I always felt that three to four minutes for heavy movements was ideal. And people say, "Oh, it's too I see run guys in the gym, they're they're running around. They take 30 seconds rest between exercises." New study came out. I don't know how how how official this is. It's supposedly came out in the Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research. Uh, and they looked at, you know, the best amount of rest to take to get the most hypertrophy in a muscle. And it seems like 3 minutes rest between sets uh can build up to 93% more muscle than resting only one minute or less. And that does not surprise me one bit. Does this surprise you? I will add to that. Okay. Just because you feel like the the workout is working doesn't mean it is working. Put that in the Christo book of lists. And just Dave Dave, just because the workout feels like you're burning a lot of calories does not mean it's burning a lot of calories. I always felt when I lifted in the gym, you are right Dave. If I took more rest, like up to three minutes, usually three minutes was ideal. Three, three and a half minutes. I was able to lift so much more weight than if I only took a minute rest. bench presses was was and squats were like the complete for me that was like the experiment that proved it all. The longer I rested with to a certain degree obviously because you don't want to cool down either the the better the stronger I was at the set I was doing. So if you're if you're bench pressing 405, okay, for reps, you got to rest before you know from 3:15 between 3:15 and 405, you got to rest or you're you're not going to recover enough to be able to lift that weight. And if you can't lift the weight, and let's say I get the weight six times, but if I only rest a minute and a half, I can only get it two times. I'm not going to grow as much. And that's just logic. But you know what? I'm glad they quantified it in research because I tell a lot of guys out there your weight training should not be cardio. You can't combine the two. You can't turn weight training into cardio and expect to build muscle or retain muscle while you're dieting. Rest weights should be done in interval type training. You fast explosive movement. Take your rest time and then do the next exercise. Don't The weight you use trumps time on detention every time. Yeah. As long as you're doing full range of motion. Yeah. Well, you're not doing one10enth partials, but the weight you use, write it down, trumps time under detention every single time. I don't care what someone says on the internet. That is a fact. At least it's a fact in my room. every big every bodybuilder we've ever known. I mean, aside from some of the like genetic freaks like Paul Delet and Vince Stella, put putting them aside. Even the Levonis that were genetic freaks, they all lifted heavy weights. They took a lot of rest between sets and they did full range of motion. And you know, from the Nick Walkers to the Dorian to the, you know, to the um Ronnie Coleman's, everyone rests. You got to rest if you want if you're going to be lifting maximum weights. There's just no way. There's no way around it. You have to and the most intuitive bodybuilders that that have the best results will tell you this. They don't need a study to tell you this. But it's nice when you see a study that confirms what you already know. Yeah. So, anyone out there watching this, maybe you're running around the gym a little too fast. You know, you want to get in and out quickly. If you want to get in and out faster, do less sets. Don't do Don't rush your sets. Okay? I always tell people you can do four sets of bench press and probably grow just as well as doing 15 sets of of chest 100 miles an hour running around the gym not taking any rest. Make those reps make those sets count. And the only way they're going to count is if you're lifting heavy weights with full range of motion. And and the only way to do that is you got to rest between sets. So David, you tell me you can't pull it out. It's an inside joke between me and Dave. I don't want to offend anyone, but I wanted to make you laugh. Dave, look, I've seen a lot of guys and look, we've all tried it at one point or another, right? We want to try to like maybe get our waist a little more taper. We we kind of stop squatting or we stop lifting as heavy and yeah, your waist comes down, but so does the rest of your body as well. So, you got to your gifts are your gifts. I always say look at flex wheel. I The guy squatted, he lifted super heavy weights and the guy had the smallest waist in and bodybuilding. Same thing with Roden. Roden was very strong in the gym, right? He had a tiny waist. Yep. Ramy's waist was small and he and he was super strong in the gym. Yeah. Waist size is genetic. That's all there is to it. We're Everything's genetic. Yeah. Isn't But people tell me, "Why do you only work with elite level athletes?" I said, "If I could take like somebody from who was dead last in the Florida State Bodybuilding Championships to the Olympia, I would. But no one can." Why do you fish in the areas where there's lots of fish? Well, George Farah took Dexter from first to first, right? Well, Bumstead went from first to first. Yeah, that's true. All right, let me let me give a little bit of love to our men's physique guy. Hold on. Drew Cullen wins the men's physique pro going to the Olympia. Congratulations. Looking really good. So, best tattoos in the show. I thought I think Toronto was great. I still don't I still can't figure out. I have to I have to talk to Ron H who runs that show. Why does Why do the Canadians love to do the bodybuilding show on Sunday? I never understood. I Sunday's the day you should be resting and getting ready for Monday work. Why do Why do they do it? They do that in Europe too sometimes. The Sunday shows. What's with the Sunday shows? I don't know. Maybe it's the French influence on the eastern half of the country. I don't know why they do. They love the French shows. I for I mean they love the Sunday shows. They've always done it over there. I know they do the amateurs on Saturday, but I I like it. It ruins my entire weekend when I have someone in the in I know you got to go back Monday and it's like, you know, your whole you lose a half of you lose your week because Monday's so busy. But congratulations. The Toronto Super Show is one of the few shows, Chris, that pretty much has every division in it, including aers, amateur. I mean, that's that's a that really is a super show and it takes a tremendous amount of work to put that on. I'm sure it costs a tremendous amount of money and I don't know if many promoters would want to do that. I mean, Arnold doesn't do that. The only guy who does that is Jake Wood, right? Yeah. The Olympia. Well, he's That's a really, really tough show to hold. I can't hear you. He's the Jake of Canada. Yeah. Right. Let's see how many how many I'm looking at the results from the Toronto show. You know, it was only a onepoint decision between SAS and Rean. Oh, I'm sure. I didn't realize that. I thought it was unanimous. It wasn't. It was a one onepoint decision. No, that's why that's why I gave my soliloquy on one point because I I know one point my point was that Reagan won unanimously and I would say that show if I was judging it was a very slim ones. The scorecards tell you a lot but they don't tell you uh bottom line I'm not surprised SAS won by a point. Yeah. Where's that on the NPC news? Uh the ifbbro.com. You can check out the all the scorecards. And wow, this they had so many divisions here. I can't even believe it. Yeah, I'm I'm not going to announce every name because it's because you can go on the ifbpro.com to check the results for the Toronto Pro show. Oh, Sid's got it. Thank you, Sid, for pulling that up for us. And there it is. one point. Sasser, I'm surprised that we didn't have a a tougher lineup. There was actually a better 212 lineup. There were more guys in the 212 division than there was in the open division. If you look at that, look at how deep that lineup was. Dave, how how much how much did um did Branch win the classic by? Oh, you're uh Keep going, Sid. Down to the classic. Probably a point. You think it was that close? Yeah, it depends on the skill. Well, okay. No, he got unanimous first, Chris. Okay. All right. It's so weird. I thought I thought he would win by unanimous at one point. I'll give you the reason why prejudging the guy second looked denser and harder muscle to me. Um especially the back double. Yeah. But I thought I weighed in everything meaning classic lines and I thought okay classic division it should be comfortable win but then thinking like I wonder if judges are going to weigh how much see this goes into the nuances of judging how much they're going to weigh in like density and quote muscularity meaning density in that in that placing. Um, so I was conflicted on Yeah, Dw was in it was in the the class and I bet Okay, I I bet I mean I I know Branch was definitely better at night. Um, and I thought he definitely won at night, but I thought it was closer in in prejudging. And that is another scorecard where you that doesn't reflect probably how close it actually was, even though it showanimous. I'm sure there was some with some judges some, you know, struggle with to figure out prejudging. Okay, who's the better guy here? Just to unconfuse people, Chen Kang, who won the classic. His nickname is Branch. That's what That's what Chris keeps saying. Branch. Can't say Chen Hang. It's too hard for me to say. Do you know why his nickname is Branch? Probably Branch Warren's his favorite because he's got the Branch Warren legs, you think? Maybe. I don't know. He's got the me legs all the all day long. All right. Well, great show. Good job, Ron, for putting that on and uh for continuing to do that every single year. A lot of great Olympia qualifications. Sass Herat finally punching his ticket and he will be competing again. I can't believe it. In Spain, in Alakanti, Spain. So, uh, that's that's great for SAS. We would try to get him on the show today, but I think he was busy. Maybe we'll get him on next week. Uh, now get on the show. He's, uh, he's articulate. Yeah. Yeah, he's very good. He's very We should uh, let's wrap this up now. I think we've gone long enough. Thanks, guys, for joining us live as always. And as we say every week with Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. See you next week. Don't worry. Don't worry. Don't worry.