What is up, guys? This is Aman with RX Muscle and Species Nutrition. Um, here bringing you the playbyplay for the Arnold Classic prejudging. Right now, they're starting up with the fitness routine. Um, they're doing the uh mandatories right now. Um, I'm really here to cover the classic physique. The main thing that we want to go over for the classic physique right now is Mike the badass did not make weight. He was seven pound I believe seven pounds over the weight limit. Um he thought he was going to be able to be rehighed here and he he wasn't. So he was uh the same height as he was at the Olympia. So it marked him at seven pounds over. So he's actually going to be in the open now. Uh which is pretty interesting. And then Gabriel Zachinelli unfortunately tore his adductor muscle and he won't be in the classic physique uh or any competition for this weekend. I hope he makes a speedy recovery. I know he tore his adductor um uh this this week and last week last year rather he tore his pectoral muscle right before the Arnold as well. So hopefully he can get over all his injuries. Um, again, right now they're doing the fitness mandatories. I got a message saying Mike is not doing the open. So, I guess he's not doing the open from what last I heard is that he was doing the open. I don't know if he's doing the open or if he's out of the competition altogether. I have been hearing very various um various reports. So, some people are saying he's out of the competition and some people are saying that he's doing the open, but I'll get confirmation for you guys right now actually. And then again, like I mentioned, >> like I mentioned, Gabriel Zachinelli is >> um is injured as well and he's not doing the show. Who are your guys top five picks for tonight? I personally have Hottie winning. Um I'm going to have Andrew in second. I'm gonna have I think Nick's going to be in third. I think Nick's going to really uh take over and and come back and be rep uh almost reminiscent of what he was in Pittsburgh. I think the Olympia was a little bit of a fluke for him. I think he just kind of mistimed a lot of things. I think he's going to peak well because he has self coaching this year and I think he's gonna do well. Yeah. Yeah. So again, Zachelli was under Hottie. We got Javi, Andrew, Nick, Martin, Brandon Curry. That's actually my top five as well. I think Brandon Curry can catch some people if they're if they are off. Uh there is a you know, a lot of people are saying Mofuda might be in the top five who's joining the playback. It's just going to be me today, guys, during the afternoon. But tonight, we're going to have King Kamali, Arman DB, and uh they're going to bring a couple couple uh people on as well for the Friday night prejudging and the Saturday night finals as well. So, right now, it's just me, guys. Curry is my dark horse. Yeah, man. Brandon Brandon Curry, he's still improving after 40. I mean, he's he won the Olympia in 2019 and he's actually has gotten better since, especially, which is weird considering his age and how far removed he is from winning the Olympia and he's still competing with these top guys. Still making a lot of money and uh he can make some noise here and catch some guys slipping. I I arguably had him higher at the Olympia. Martin wins. I don't know. I don't think so. Martin is really good. Um, who do you have in the classic? Come on. I guess Wesley is the favorite. I guess Wesley is the favorite because Wesley, uh, I actually had Wesley anyways before this whole situation with Mike. >> I really like Wesley's physique. The only thing I see with Wesley is his squat sweeps aren't the best. So, it kind of makes his legs a little bit narrow, especially because he's so tall. Uh, I just got confirmation, guys. So, Mike the baddest is out of the show completely. So, he's not doing the open or anything. So, he he's uh he's not around. The time doesn't start. Uh the prejudging for the Open is set to start I at uh 7 o'clock tonight, I believe. Really excited about Mike. That would have been a great battle. Yeah. I mean, Mike's a really good bodybuilder. I don't know what what's next for Mike because he obviously has such a problem making weight now um that I don't think this is something he can continue and he's he's truthfully just holding himself back. I think he needs to just commit, go to the open. I understand he really wants to win the Olympia and um and do that. Thoughts where Nick can play safe if he's 100%. So assuming everybody's 100%. I think Nick I still would have Nick at at third. I mean I think Nick is going to be 100%. I just think Hottie is too much. None of these guys who are in this lineup have beaten Hottie with the exception of Brandon when he won the Mr. Olympia. But in recent times, no one has in the last two or three years, none of these guys have beaten Hottie. That is why Hottie is my favorite. Hottie has been a cons model of consistency. I know Andrew is really talked about and really hyped, but and I know he's brought it the last couple shows, but he hasn't uh he hasn't brought he hasn't brought that consistent level of conditioning show after show after show. So, verdict's out on him. Mike should do open at this point. I I agree. Do you think he's going to move up later this year or next year? I don't know. I mean, he got second at the Olympia. I think he might make crack crack at it again for the Olympia to make weight. But again, it's you can't just keep running your body up and down like that. It's eventually just not going to respond. And who knows what kind of look that brings when he has to cut all that weight. You know, the reality is no will ever have every competitor 100%. That that's true, but all we can do is assume that everybody is going to be at 100%. And assuming everyone's going to be at 100%, I I I think I still have Hottie winning. I really do. I think Hottie just has too much width, too much muscle. He's too dominant from the front. Andrew, of course, has the best structure, >> but I don't know what I'm getting with Andrew still. Um, every time, you know, you I I don't think we can count on him to to bring it um every time. Sam Sulick in the first call out. I don't know. I I think he looks awesome. I don't think there's only nine there's only like eight guys in the show I think now because of Zach and Nelly dropping out from the injury and Mike not being there. So there's only eight guys. So I still don't think he's going to be in the first call out. I think Sam looks really good. He's in really good condition. But to me his structure fits much more of bodybuilding than classic physique. Uh I think he can I think he actually can be pretty good. He's young. He's committed obviously. Um, but I I don't seem the first call out at this show. Oh god, for those who don't know me, I'm I'm Aman. I I run Species Nutrition. So for any of you guys who ever emailing customer service or calling in, you're talking to me. Martin definitely has the least amount of weaknesses, but needs more size. Curious what he will bring. Martin's really good, man. I think Martin just needs to keep doing what he's doing, and he will be he'll still continue to progress. I mean, the guy was just fifth in the world and fourth in the world in 2024. I And he just beat Samson. So, I think he just needs to keep doing what he's doing, and in time, he's going to be possibly fighting for Mr. Olympia at some point. Two big questions. Will Nick nail his peak? And does personal situation affect his look? I think Nick will nail his peak just because he's confident in all the decisions being made because he's making them. He's self coaching. So, I do think he will. And does Hottie's personal situation affect his look? I'm sure he has some stress. Um, but I I don't think it's going to be as big a deal as everyone thinks it is. Um, what about Sam Sulic? I think Sam is I think Sam is going to do well. I think he's going to look really good in terms of placing. I don't know. I mean, this is a high caliber show. So, I I seem probably towards the bottom of the pack to be honest. The show starts at 12:30, the pre-judging for the classic physique. And then tonight for the men's open and the classic physique finals, it's going to start at 7 o'clock. Where do you think Greg do doing a great job be uh announc be announcing seeing you in the documentary as well. Thank uh yeah I think you guys are con [laughter] I wasn't in the documentary. I think you guys are confusing me with Sid. So but thank you. >> Who do you guys have in the top five for for the open? I'm curious again. I have I think I have Andrew. I'm sorry. Excuse me. I have Hottie, I have Andrew, then I have Nick, Martin, and then Brandon. How do you guys think Mofuda Mofuda places? Uh, a lot of people have been hyping this guy up. I think he looks really good, but to me, he has a smaller structure. Don't you think that Mike Somerfeld might just be stubborn enough at this point to qualify and try to be rehyd? He's already qualified uh because he took second at the Olympia. So, he's already qualified. He didn't even have to do the Arnold. I think he just wanted to do it obviously for the prestige and and winning the Arnold. But I think he might run it back one more time to make try to get that Olympia title. >> Hottie Nick Andrew Martin. >> Yeah, I just don't I just don't know if I see Nick beating Andrew if Andrews at 100%. But most six toppable possible top five people slip up. Yeah, that's true. How would a how would a prime Jason Ganova and Big Lenny place in this lineup? Probably at the bottom of the pack. Top five open, Andrew, Nick, Hottie, Curry, Moren. I I can't see Hottie out of the top two. I really can't see that. Curry is underrated right now. Yeah, Curry is definitely this year, this version of Dexter Jackson. I think someone made a point that Curry should keep going to be Dexter Jackson's win total. I don't know where he's at. um because he seems to just do the major shows like the Arnold and the Olympia now. So, I'm not he's not really doing a lot of smaller shows. But yeah, he should definitely keep going. Let's assume everyone is also Nick Walker fan. He's gonna have a great day. I'm a huge Nick Walker fan. I mean, I think he does the best with what he has. He's an absolute freak. Uh and he has from the side and from the back he has really good shots. It's just from the front um where he structurally gets exposed by a lot of guys. Nick can be the dark. Yeah, Nick can be the dark horse. We just got to see which Nick we're getting this time. >> All right, our judges are putting together. >> What time is judge prejudging for classic physique? I'm not sure the order that they're going in. I'm not sure if classic is next. Uh but I'm not sure. What do you think about Martin blocking Fouad and claiming all bodybuilding media is trash? I mean, listen guys, for when you get close to a show, you're kind of can be, you know, a little bit overly sensitive and maybe he just wants to block out people who he feels might be negative towards him. Um, and that's his prerogative. Whether it's I that's not something I would do personally, but I mean, whatever helps him focus and >> brings his best, that's that's fine. So, they're currently lining up the fitness competitors for the the >> U comparisons. To be honest, guys, I'm not I'm not too familiar with the fitness competitors. The fitness competitors I was most familiar with were Ariel Kadir. I don't even know she competes anymore. And then uh Missy Triscott who doesn't even do fitness anymore. >> I think I don't know if wellness is going to be next or if classic physique is going to be next but classic will be part of this group of are prejudging. >> There we go. quarter turn to the right. >> Where do you guys think Ake Williams is going to place? Um I'm really curious where how does I think Aake can do fairly well as well. He I don't know. I don't really see him cracking the top five just because he's lacking in the back and that seems to be his issue for his whole career. But he brings a ton of muscle everywhere else. His side shots are pretty nuts. He's really good from the front. Ton of muscle. uh recently he's been bringing in the condition. So, we'll see. Sam will be a pre-judging now or what? Sam is going to be at the pre-judging. Yeah, Sam's competing. It's uh Mike who's not competing. Mike the badass is out of the show entirely and um Gabriel Zakanelli is out of the show as well from injury. Her Nick is crazy peel. Yeah, Nick Nick usually brings the condition. I think >> the Olympia was a oneoff for him. Um but yeah, unfortunately I think Aake is eight to 10 in this lineup. I agree. >> I see him towards the bottom as well. Um I have, you know, I mentioned my top five and then I I just don't know where where he's going to uh come after that. Hakee just has an unfortunate genetic back. If his oats weren't I think he meant say if his laps weren't so high, he would place so much higher. I agree. I mean, if he had a back if he had a a better back, he could be he pretty dominant shows. I mean, he wins a lot of the second tier shows, but he just doesn't these these shows when he's going against the elite guys, he can't overcome certain guys because of, you know, some genetic mishaps, which happens to all of us. What happened to Mike? Uh Mike did not make weight. So, I think Mike thought he So, this the story that I've heard is M at the Olympia in 2025, competitors were told that their height at the Olympia would be their height listed going forward. And I guess he thought he was going to get rehighed at the Arnold for whatever reason, and he's been doing some kind of tricks with a chiropractor or inversion table and thought he was going to come in a little taller and be at a higher weight and that just didn't happen. So he ultimately missed weight and he's not competing. >> Where do you watch it this first time watching? >> Oh, okay. If you guys are looking to get the live stream, go on the Arnold Classic website and you can register. It's free. You just have to register with your email and uh you can get all the live stream access over there. >> Andrew will be hard to beat. Andrew is hard to beat, man. Andrew is probably the if I could look like anybody, look like Andrew. Andrew looks like a superhero. Uh, he has crazy proportions. He's crazy big structure, ton of muscle, no really missing parts. It's just conditioning with him, I think. >> Can you watch on mobile? Yeah, I'm actually watching it on my phone as I'm doing the live stream with you guys. Yes, you can watch it on mobile. >> Who do you guys have for classic? I I think Wesley Visers. It's his show to lose now. That guy Menagante is pretty good, but I just don't see anyone beating Wesley. I think Wesley I think Wesley's going to look really really really good. I was really looking forward to seeing him >> go against Mike. It's unfortunate we're not going to get that, >> but I think um I think Wesley is really gonna do well today. >> They're still running through the uh prejudging for these fitness competitors. Where will you stream the stream? No, I can't do that, guys. Was classic prejudging already. No, no, it hasn't happened yet, guys. The prejudging for the afternoon just start or started 12:30. Uh they're starting with women's fitness. I think they're going to do wellness next followed by the classic physique. So, it hasn't started yet. It'll start uh pretty soon. The good thing about the Arnold as compared to the Olympias, there's not so many competitors where like the Olympia there's like I believe there was like almost 70 classic physique guys last uh uh last year where at the uh at the Arnold there's only eight guys. So it's a much it's since it's an invitational show there's a smaller amount of competitors. Put in the chat guys. I want to see who your top who you guys have for the classic physique who you guys have winning today. I'll put your top five for the open. I'm really curious to see how how you guys think the open's going to do. >> 12. >> Let's see your list of top five. How does Sam Sulic look? >> In the pictures he's been posting or the videos he's been posting, he looks pretty damn good, man. He looks pretty conditioned. I definitely don't have Sam Sulic winning. Uh, but he is in crazy shape. Keep in mind, guys, this is Sam Sulick's first pro show. He's a rookie, so and he's young. I think he's only like 24 years old, so let's, you know, I know he's very popular, but let's be realistic for him. >> Hottie, Jacked, Nick, Martin, Brandon. Yeah, that's my top five, too. Uh the other guys who are competing in the open tour are going to be Hassan Ake Williams, Anthony Williams, and um Mofuda. I think that's I think that rounds up the lineup. >> Free streaming on the Arnold Sports where you can actually watch what's going on. Yep, there's free streaming on the Arnold website. >> All right, thank you very much ladies. That is going to >> Let's see what's next. So they just concluded the fitness >> uh free um Sam Sulic will be eight unless political. I don't know. I think Sam I don't I don't see Sam in last. Um >> I just assume the first >> call out. >> All right. Wellness is next guys. So then classic will will be after that. >> Let's see who's coming up first. >> I'm not sure how many girls are going to be in the class in the wellness. I'm assuming somewhere between 10 to 20, but we'll see. Sam Sulick will be eight. Top five for Classic. Wesley, Matias, Andrea, Kim, Angel, Mike [clears throat] being out, and Aceto's Brazilian guy getting injured kind of made classic not as interesting. I agree. Unfortunately, um, wellness aka butt division. Yeah, I mean, it's the lower body division, right? It's it's all that's mattered there. So, I mean, some of these wellness girls look freaking crazy with the huge legs. All right, let's see. I do think they have a lot of female divisions, but I mean, it is what it is. That's where the sport is now. Turn to the right. >> Okay, these are looking good. How do you guys think um >> I still want to see your guys predictions for the open? I'm seeing a lot of the classic. I'm just curious to see how you guys think the Open's going to go tonight. Anyone here have Nick Walker winning tonight? I'm curious. I would love to see Nick Walker win. I just don't think it's gonna happen. Andrew one, Hottie two, Martin three, Walker, Walker fourth, and Curry in fifth. Yeah, I mean, this show's hard to predict, man. I mean, it's uh the open is super competitive. Um, all these guys can beat each other, but yeah, it's it's going to be tough, man. I still I do have one. Nick could win. Yeah, I mean, Nick could win for sure. I think the only way Nick wins if if the only way I see Nick winning the big shows like the Arnold or the I don't think he's gonna win the Olympia, but the only way I see Nick winning really big shows like the Arnold or the Olympia is other guys being off. Yeah, m Nick winning would be crazy epic. I hope that happens. I am a huge Nick fan. I just don't see anyone beating Hottie. Hottie is my favorite here. these these glutes were super I have a hard time seeing Nick win with his structure. I agree, man. I mean, I think, you know, obviously I worked for Dave. Dave um you know, when he was competing at nationals, the thing that held him back most was his structure. He bought crazy conditioning, crazy muscularity, but his structure is it is what it is. So, what's the time difference between prejudging and finals? Uh, well, for the men's open, the prejudging is tonight and then the finals is tomorrow night. So, 24 hours. 20 21 Nick could win. He ruined his waist too big. Now, I mean, listen, I think Nick was better in Pittsburgh than he was when he won the Arnold. Um, if he could bring that look tonight, I think he's gonna really kick some ass. Compare hand compared to Andrew Dad. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Andrew and Hottie have the two craziest midsections almost in recent memory. They're both their midsections are insane. So that doesn't help Nick. Each of the open guys are built so different and freaky. Guess it comes down to what the judges are looking for. I wouldn't want to judge this one. Yeah, it's going to be hard. If Nick's is all-time best condition, he could take it. He's al He was an Arnold champ. Yeah, but that lineup didn't have as good a guys as this lineup does. I mean, he's he's going against a former Mr. He's going against Hottie. Eddie is going against Andrew. Uh, when he won the when he won the Arnold last, I mean, thinking be Ian and Steve Klo. It wasn't as difficult as a lineup. Is surgery allowed for the waste in the rules or no? I mean, guys, in in pro bodybuilding, there are no rules. Classic is on after this, so like Yeah, classic is next. So, I'm assuming it'll probably take 10 to 15 more minutes. Yeah. All right, that is going to >> Oh, about to start, I guess. So, here we go. Not even that long. >> And at this time, we are going to bring all of our ladies out. >> Never mind. They're doing some more comparisons. >> She is from >> Yeah, about 10 to 15 minutes. That sounds about right. >> Alcantara. >> First girls coming out, guys. Alisa Alcantara. All these girls have crazy quads. >> They don't train up her body, I don't think. Most of them though. And it's it's it's interesting because these wellness girls do three or four leg days a week. So I'm I don't know really know how they recover from that. I just want to see Martin win to be honest, but up to the judge. I don't see Martin winning tonight. I just don't uh I think he can I just don't think he's better than these guy. I don't think he's better than Hottie. I don't think he's better than Andrew. Him and Nick have gone back and forth. Granted, he only beat Nick once and that was when Nick was off. And I know he beat Samson, but Samson was way off as well. I don't know. Martin just I think he can he can definitely get third in this lineup. I just don't see him going higher than that, which is still really good. So Martin's a really great bodybuilder, but I just don't think it's his time yet. But his time is coming, I'm sure. >> And coming up next from Harford, Michigan, please welcome the stage Marissa Andrew. So, running through the world. I want to see um Yeah, guys, classic is going to be coming up shortly. This one girl's kind of posing weird, but okay. Wellness girls heart hurt heart hurt heart hurt heart hurt heart hurt heart hurt heart hurt heart hurt where to buy the live stream guys if you go to arnoldclassic.com um you'll be able to go there and it's not even uh you don't even have to buy it it's free. If you go to arnoldclassic.com, you can register to get the live stream for everything like all the interviews, all the the the line the everything and and you can get the lineup there. >> Needs a lineup. >> Yeah, I do need a lineup, man. I've been trying to go I haven't had time to go to the barber this week. >> Does Dave pred? >> I definitely need a lineup. Thank you. going tomorrow. >> Whoever is selling silicone to these ladies must be ah here's the thing, man. A lot of people have these accusations of the PMA and and silicone and yada yada yada. um uh and all that stuff, but please and or synthol or whatever it is, but in bodybuilding, there are no rules. Um whether you're morally for these things or you're morally against these things, it doesn't really matter. There's no rules in bodybuilding, which is also what's appealing about bodybuilding. I I know that physique competitor always complains about Natalia with the PMA and all that stuff, but none of that stuff matters. There's no rules. There's no there's no guidelines. This isn't a natural organization. It's it's there's no rules. So, if you want to put silicone in everything on Heavy Muscles Radio, Dave said you trained with Aceto's son. Yeah, I used to live in Vermont. I used to run a Crunch Fitness up there and then me and Fared, who I'm so pretty good friends with, >> he actually goes to University of Vermont, so we trained up there together. Yeah. >> I'm a lot older than he is. He's he's still a young guy. He's I think he's only 21 right now and I'm 35. So, but he was AI love training with him. What do you think about Samson Smith section? Guys, for those if you're someone who's actually really pushed food to get big in the offseason, you're not going to have a flat stomach. I'm sorry. It's just not happening. So, if you're actually pushing to gain size, you're not going to have a flat stomach. All that matters is he brings it in the day of the show. And I think Samson looks pretty damn good. He still has crazy taper, crazy structure. Of course, his belly is going to be dispended. I I don't think this generation grew up watching guys like Ronnie in the offseason or Jay in the offseason or Dorian in the offseason. If you look at their bellies, trust me, they weren't flat. They were distended for sure. And then when Showday came up, they they uh >> find out. I'm talking about on stage, usually the middle is weird to me. I think Samson has a pretty good net section. I don't remember it ever being distended on stage. The only the only guy I can really think of that has distension issues in that top group that comes to mind is Nick. And that's because Nick has more of that squatty structure and uh small I'm sorry not smaller frame, but he's smaller torso and everything compared to like an anger or Samson. Um but yeah, I don't think Samson I don't remember Samson's midsection being out of control at all or even remotely. Being taller also helps because you just have a longer torso. So, I don't think you're pushing um I don't think you're going to be pushing out the midsection too much. But again, in this show, we have Andrew and Hottie have who have two insane midsections. Hottie has that crazy blocky abs, and then Andrew has crazy taper in the midsection. So, those there those abs are crazy on both those guys. But again, I'm leaning towards Hottie. And coming up next from Canada, she is your 2023. >> And if you haven't watched already, guys, Hottie uh did an interview with Dave. Uh it's live on RX. >> Yeah, Iranian Jay Leno was crazy. He was deep offseason. Yeah, that was a funny picture. Transition is not Jud. Samson midsection out of control and transition does not matter. Uh I disagree. I think um I think it always matters. I think the judges are always looking at you when you're on stage. So, it's really important to uh control. I can't put up the live stream, guys. That's illegal. Uh that would be pirating the live stream. Uh the guys are coming up right after these girls, guys. They'll be next. Thinking about Keon midsection separation in the middle, something like that. But I guess it's just an genetic. [clears throat and cough] I mean, yeah, Keon definitely had some distension this this year. I'm not sure what it's from. I don't know if it's from pushing food. I don't know if he had a hernia, but he definitely has a little bit of distension. Classic is starting after uh wellness, guys. I believe >> I don't think there's another division going on this afternoon besides uh wellness that's coming before Classic. So, Desktop has it up. Yeah, guys, we're not uh we can't do that. I'm sorry. Where do you think Nick is sitting? Do you mean what I think he weighs? Uh, I think he weighs probably probably low 250s. That would be my guess. You guys, Arnoldclass uh.com, you can get that. Did you happen to see the Arnold overall winner? And if so, how do they look? I didn't see the I don't know if he won, but I saw the guy who's from Germany who's 21 and 284 pounds, and he was an absolute freak. I'm not sure if Fee was the winner. The ab separation thing is from growth hormone at least a little. It might be. I'm not sure. I don't know if he has a hernia. I I I'm not sure. I think midsection control in the transition actually matters a lot. Like me. Yeah, I agree. I think midsection controls matters anytime you're on stage. Whether you're transitioning, whether you're posing, whether you're just standing off to the side. I think midsection control is always super important. And coming up NEXT FROM BRAZIL, PLEASE WELCOME TO THE STAGE, Jelle Machado. >> Damn, all these freaking wellness girls are freaking all Brazilian for God's sake. >> Are we going to actually see the stage live in this channel or just a dude talking? No, you're just going to be seeing me talking and analyzing, guys. I'm sorry. We can't we can't put up the show here. I would suggest if you guys want to follow along though, go to arnoldclassic.com and you can um you can uh follow you can watch the show there as well. They're probably going to do some final comparisons for for um wellness. If you had to put a 100 grand on it, who do you have winning the Open? I have Hottie winning. Hottie has been a model of consistency. Hottie's never been off. I can't I can't see Hottie losing. What's your top three in the open? Hottie Andrew Nick. That's my top three in that order. So, Hottie, Andrew, Nick, and then again, I have Martin, Brandon, and then I probably have um to round out the top six. I think that guy Anthony Williams, that new guy is is good. They should just stream it on YouTube. Yeah, unfortunately, that's up to the Arnold. I think they want people to go to their website. Stress might get Tahadi this time. Yeah, I mean, it might, but or it might. So, for some people, they they use the stress to overcome things, too. So, I don't know. I think Hottie's gonna I think Hottie's going to bring something even better than what he's ever brought. And I think he's really gonna mess some people up. I don't I just don't know who's bringing in Hottie. I don't know if Han's going to still coaching him or what his situation is with that. Uh that's a real uh question mark. Bro, you should be on After Hours. You should be good. No, man. too young. There's a there's a age criteria, but thank you. After hours is too I got to have about 20 more years of life experience before I can be on after hours. This girls out here right now is crazy quads, too. I mean, these wellness girls have insane legs. I mean, they crazy quads from like all angles. Say what you want about the division, but you know they look really good. Diabetes after hours. [laughter] I think that's just Greg. I don't think anyone else has diabetes. >> Please welcome. >> But guys, make sure you know you tune in to RX all weekend. We are doing all the coverage. Uh whether you follow us on Instagram, on YouTube, uh we'll have a you know, we're doing the playbyplay tonight. King, Kamal, and Arman will be on and um Dave will be doing a wrap-up live at the show and you know, tomorrow as well. There'll be coverage. So guys, make sure you keep following for RX u RX uh Instagram, YouTube, all of us on social media. I think Hani is still coaching him, but he doesn't want to say I agree. I think Hani's coaching him as well, but he has to keep some level of separation due to everything that's going on in Iran. By the way, guys, before the classic goes on, I want to mention on species.com, we have a sale going on. Um, uh, for the Arnold Classic, the code is Arnold 30. 30% off the entire store. All orders $50 or more will be uh will get a free test and free shipping on every order $100 or more. When is the classic physique show, guys? It's going to be after the wellness. So, as soon as they're done with the comparisons, they'll be putting on the classic. When is the prejudging starting? It'll be on momentarily. >> Wellness looks like an SNL skin. I don't know about that. the stage tonight. >> They're probably gonna these girls are doing their individuals and then they'll do the final comparisons and then I believe classic will be will be going on after that. >> Yeah, I mean wellness is definitely I think wellness is a good division. And I I mean I think I think most of these uh women's divisions are are good um that are out. When is bikini prejudging eyes? I have no idea who competes in Bikini. I I truthfully don't know. How many more minutes until Classic? Really hard to convert the German time zone. I'm not I wish I knew. I'm going to assume within the next it's it's 1:10 Eastern time. So I would say within I I wouldn't say it be more than 20 minutes. I mean, I don't think there's any that many more girls going. They're going to do final comparisons and then it'll be the men. So, very soon, I'd say anywhere between 10 to 20 minutes. >> Final girls doing her comparison uh doing her mandatories right now and then they'll do the final comparisons. Are they in great shape? Yes. Do they look ridiculous how they walk around on that stage? Yes. I mean, listen, man. Bodybuilding is weird. I mean, posing is it's not it's it's it's unusual if they're outside of the sport. The real question is who's going to win wellness? I see a lot of robust glutes, but the guns are lacking. They're not really judged on upper body, guys. I think it's just it's it's like we're the equivalent of men's physique where upper body is not really factored in. Obviously, you can't have no upper body, but it's not of importance as it is the lower body. Easy win for Wesley, by the way. I agree. I think Wesley's going to dominate. just to be annoying. How many more minutes until Classic Physique starts? Just kidding, guys. I wish I I I I wish I knew. It's probably going to be very shortly, though. >> All right. Thank you very much. That is going to conclude our individual presentations. >> All right. So, they're going to do the comparisons now, guys, for wellness. All 12 of our ladies back out on stage for our judging round. >> Here we go. >> So, there's 12 girls. Shouldn't be too long for the comparisons. This a great thing about the Arnold. Um, again, it's an invitational show, not a ton of competitors, so you're just seeing the best people. I hate Andrew physique. Looks like [\h__\h] Load of oil everywhere. I totally disagree. I don't think Andrew I don't see any oil in Andrew physique at all. So, where can I watch the live stream, guys? Arnoldclassic.com. >> You can uh subscribe and you can get the the um >> live stream. Yes, Classic is on right after this, so it'll be soon. Yes. >> Hottie will have too much for everyone else. I think as good as the others seem to be looking. I agree. I think hottie's going to be too much. I agree. I think it's hottie show to lose. How are breasts implants considered health and wellness? I mean, this isn't a health and wellness show. It's a It's a physique contest, so it's a aesthetic look. Wesley needs this win. I'm rooting for him. I like Wesley a lot, too. I think I wanted I thought Wesley was going to win regardless if Mike was there or not. They need implants to balance out the lower body. That's probably true. >> Turn it to the right. Quarter turn to the right. All right. Walk four steps. >> Personally, I think the pink bikini takes it second from the right. No. See, face walk back. All right, guys. They look like they're all about to drop a [laughter] >> I don't think so. >> Who do you have placing behind Wesley? I think uh Menagante might get second. He looks pretty crazy. >> Where do you watch it? I can't. Guys, arnoldclassic.com. We'll have the live stream available for free. You just have to register with your email, but it's it's a relatively easy process. Live stream link. Let me see if I can put it in for you. Give me one second. >> Everybody face to try to pull up the link for you guys. Turn to the right. >> Quarter turn to the right. >> All right, guys. I'm going to put in the link for you >> and switch right next to each other. >> All right, guys. I just put in the link for anyone who's trying to watch the live feed. Um, that's the link. You just have there's going to be uh you have to just register with your email, but it's totally free. Wesley's legs should be an issue. I personally don't think it's a landslide one. >> I think if he was going against Mike, he would get much more exposed, but I would still have him beating Mike. Did you tie up Greg in the closet? No, I did not tie up Greg in the closet. No, [laughter] he's in New York. And by the way, I'm in Florida, so no. win for him. I agree. Uh but I think in this lineup, he still has a lot. Uh his structurally is just so big. He's a tall guy. Uh I think that can carry him pretty damn far. So that's why I have Western Aman is the man. What up, bro? What's up, brother? I don't know if we know each other, but thank you. I appreciate it. >> Thank you, ladies. >> Oh, it's Jesse. What's up, Jesse? >> Two, Marissa, three, six, Cassandra, 12 is Mara. >> All right, this is the next call out. Look, I guess this is the second call out. This is the second half of girls to the right. >> And after this, I believe the classic [clears throat] prejudging will begin, guys. turn to the right. >> Really subjective, but I think Wesley has always been too blocky. >> Yeah. I mean, his waist isn't he doesn't have a excuse me, he doesn't have a Terrence Ruffin waist or crazy tapered waist. I agree. Uh but I think he is pretty broad up top and that kind of creates that illusion of taper. So, I understand what you're saying, but I I think he he's overcome it with his width uh in his upper body. >> Let's see. They're about to conclude the women's wellness. >> Let's see what's going on. to the right. I >> was hoping that they were going to start with classic physique. His torso is straight rectangle instead of a Vshape. He will get exposed. I wouldn't call it I wouldn't call it a uh rectangle. I mean, I think his shoulders are pretty wide to where it again creates the illusion of taper. Does he have a narrow waist? No, he doesn't. And another thing that kind of hurts him is his he doesn't have a lot of sweep to his quads. >> Um If he had one of those two things, he would be a lot more dangerous. But I I think Wesley is still very good and he brings an insane level of conditioning most of the time. So, I know guys taking a while, but it's it it'll be on after this front and walk back. Uh there's no playback on the stream yet. Yeah. >> No. Yeah, it just started. >> All right. Looks like they're doing the final call outs here. Be honest. Was Raone really off when Wesley beat him? I mean, from what I remember, that was two years ago and Wesley or excuse me, Raone did a shotgun type of prep where I think he prepped in like six weeks or something like that and he really rushed it. So, yeah, was Raone off? He probably wasn't at his best. I don't think that would have mattered at that time because Wesley was so on at that show. I think he would have beaten Raone no matter what. I think the only guy who would have beat him at that point was Seabbum, you know. So, Wesley was really on. Unfortunately, he didn't bring it to the Olympia that year um for whatever reason. It's hard to peak throughout the year. Um so, but yeah, I I don't I think Raone was probably off, but I don't think it would have mattered. >> So, that's where I'm at. And listen, Ramon's I I don't know if Wesley's going to make it back to the Olympia, man. I really don't know what his situation's going to be with this weight thing. I think he cuts like 60 pounds for a show, and just to go up and down like that is just it's too much on the body. And he doesn't get fat. He He's still in shape. So >> pushing yourself down. Can anyone tell me in what amount of time the Probably in the next few minutes, buddy? It's It's very soon. They're just finishing these final call outs. >> It's the next division and they're on the final call out. So it'll be any mo any minute. The next probably five minutes. girls both got crazy quads. >> Great job, ladies. Thank you. [sighs and gasps] >> If Wesley had good legs and lower lat and lower lats, he'd be unbeatable. That's a big F. I mean, yeah, if he had I don't think the latch are that bad. I think if he had more >> I think if he had more quad sweep, he looked pretty crazy. >> Grand Theaterals Wellness International >> Wesley be on being on Raone. >> We got one more division left this afternoon. We got some classic physique. >> Classic physique, guys. It's starting finally. Here we go. I know it's day one of the expo, but there's a whole lot of energy. >> So, let's see who you guys before they before they come out. Who's your pick to win? Mine's Wesley. So, >> give me your picks. >> All right, we have 10 of the best. We're going to bring our gentlemen out once again. >> Just trained legs today and I'm drained as [\h__\h] Yeah, I'm training legs after this. I'll probably be pretty drained as well. >> Wesley. Yeah, I think Wesley's the consensus. This is our classic physique division. >> Here we go. >> Can you convince Dave to No. Here we go, guys. I don't I think they're going to bring them all out in a all out together first and then they'll do their individuals. >> Yep. They're bringing them all out first. >> This is the first group of guys. These guys are all These guys all look on right now. >> These guys are all on. >> Gentlemen, front double bicep. >> It's 11:53 in India. I have to gym four in the morning just to see Sam. Yeah, same will be on in a minute, man. Huh? We got someone a little nervous going the wrong way. Here we go. Yeah, that's right. >> These guys are all in great shape. Everyone's got shredded glutes. >> These guys all look really good. Turn right. >> Who do you guys have in this call out? >> Thank you, gentlemen. >> All right, here we go. Sam's probably going to be in this next group, guys. and Wesley. >> Yeah, they all look really good. Everybody's in shape. Everyone brought it. So, we actually have Wesley standing next to Sam Sulick, which is interesting. Sam is right. Yeah, Sam and Wesley are right ne next to uh Sam and Wesley right next to each other. Wesley's color doesn't look that great for some reason to me. Um but he's looks in great condition, >> but he his color looks off to me. Right. >> Sam's posing, guys, is not the best. >> He needs help with that. >> Sam is in good shape, but he's just he needs to he needs time. He's getting exposure a little bit, especially next to Wesley. >> Yeah, Wesley's tan is is definitely off. He's not dark enough. And I think it's it's making his condition look a little bit worse than what it probably is. [clears throat] >> Thank you. >> Thank you very much, gentlemen. >> Sam is actually a lot bigger than I thought he would be. I didn't realize his structure was that big. These guys are back out for our individual presentations. >> At this time, we'd like to welcome to the stage our first competitor from Iran. Please welcome B. Bad. He This guy was in the Olympia. He brings pretty crazy conditioning. So, let's see. What's the chances of Dave having a buy one get one free on the website? We don't have a buy one get one free, but we are offering 30% off the store, free test for all orders over $50, free shipping all over orders over $100. So, vehe good conditioning. Side shot looks nuts. Glutes are in. See what the back shot looks like. Glutes, hands, everything in. Great back double bicep. Sam is flat. I don't think Sam is flat. I just don't think he I think he lacks some muscle. I think Sam could probably a little harder. Guys, Instagram is not reality. Please remember that. Um, it's not reality, >> but he looked great. >> Kim Angel. >> Kim Angel. He looks really good as well. Crazy quads. He looks a little I don't know if he's flat through the upper body, but he he his upper body and lower body there seems to be a little bit of a uh uh dissension by seo I don't I don't know what that means. Came angel looking really good though overall. Great looking glutes, hams, everything is popping. Sam is not getting third place, guys. Sam is close to the bottom. Yeah, first two guys are absolutely peeled. These guys brought the conditioning, bro. You look I am Indian. Yeah. Kim looks really good, guys. >> Question is, do t tattoos matter at all? >> It can be depending on how you get them. Another guy, really great condition. Little bit of a blockier waist in comparison to Kim and Vahed, but he looks really good as well. Yeah, they're all peeled. Everyone brought it so far. I'm from Kashmir. Oh, nice, man. Kim Angel. Yeah, right now Kim Kim Angel is the best who's come out so far in their individuals. I I agree. What happened to Dave at the meet and greet? I heard he got uh he'll explain that small arms on this guy. I agree. He does have a little bit of small arms. He structurally isn't the best, but he's brought really good conditioning. Quads are really good on this guy. Crazy conditioning from this guy. Dave had a hard time checking in his hotel. Yeah, he did. >> And coming up next from Mexico, please welcome to the stage Herrera. >> That's how Jorge looks. Another guy. Great condition already. You can see as he walks out. Wow. Crazy hamstrings, glutes on this guy. Great back. I'm not sure what the situation was with Mike. Oh, yeah. Or's looking really insane. Anyone know who the head judge is? I think it's I think it's Tyler. I'm not sure if Mike got asked away the second time. I don't think he was going to make it, but we'll see. He's not in the show, so this guy Orhe is looking pretty crazy right now. Um, I see him in the first call out for sure. So far, Kim and Orhe are my top guys right now. This guy is absolutely peeled. Yes, classic is on right now, guys. Wesley kills. Let's see. I mean, let's see in the His color is terrible. Wesley's color is so bad. I don't know if it's hurt him. >> I think it's Steve. I don't know if Steve's the head judge. I was hearing Tyler's voice. Paul Canu. Let's see. Crazy structure on this guy. It looks like he's lacking a little bit in the conditioning in comparison to the guys who just came out. But where do you think Sam will place last? Probably seventh or eighth. He was He didn't seem like he had the same harness as the other guys. His structurally wasn't that great. I I think Sam will probably get towards the end. This guy Paul looks good. Great structure. He just he's just not hard enough, I don't think, for this for in comparison to these guys, but he looks really good. Needs more legs. I don't know. I think he looks pretty balanced to me. Um I think his legs are pretty good. He just doesn't look as separated as the other guys. I don't know if it's as truthfully because of his skin texture, color that's causing that, but he just does not look as separated. Structurally very good though. If you don't have a good structure, guys, you're not going to go far in classic physique. It's just not going to happen. ANDREA. >> Andrea Mamole. Let's see how this guy looks. So, how does Wesley look? Not judging on the tan. It's I It's hard to say. I mean, because he looks peeled to me. He looks like he's in great condition, but tan is part of it, guys. Presentation is is it's all part of it. Nile. We'll see. We'll see him about Nile. Nile or Neil? Neil is not doing the show. This guy's looking really crazy as well. >> Andrea's getting dwarfed by the others. >> Yeah, I mean, but he's doing the best with his his physiques. I don't know. It all matters how you stay next to each other, right? So, everyone looks great by themselves. >> When does open go on? Opens tonight. 7 o'clock. >> Are you are covering the open? I will not be on the open simo cast. King Kamali and Armanade. >> Menagate. This is a guy who I think can really possibly upset the show. >> Menagate is looking really crazy as well. Great conditioning. Everyone has crazy conditioning so far. To me so far, I think Kangs has been the best. Who do you guys think been the best so far? It's >> Menagate. It reminds me of Bumpstead a little bit with the mustache. I would never be able to judge this. I don't think Menagant is pushing Wesley. Yeah, I mean Menagate looks good. >> Yeah, we I I see everybody see how they look next to each other and then we'll see. But managate looks really good here. Mustache looks great. Yeah, it's very bumpstead. What do they judge for in general? Cuz they all peeled. So, it's everything. It's presentation, it's conditioning, it's structure, it's muscularity, it's all those things. Please welcome Phil New >> Phil new uh definitely probably one of the smaller structures probably here. This guy has insane quads. I just don't see this guy winning just because structurally he is really small. This guy looks great. Great conditioning, muscularity, and everything. I just don't see [clears throat] him placing too high here. Phil getting beat by Sam. Uh, possibly. I pro. I don't think so, though. I don't think this guy's getting beat by Sam. I I don't think Sam has that level of conditioning. >> Gosh, is that Amanda? No, I'm not Amanda, guys. >> And coming up next from Sunbury, Ohio, please welcome to the stage. >> It's going to be Sam. >> Samul. >> Um, I'm gonna be honest, guys. I'm Sam looks good. >> I'm not hyper impressed with Sam. >> He's a little soft in the glutes and hams. He's shredded. He's He's lean, but in comparison to what we just saw, he looks a little soft through the lower back, glutes, and hamstring in comparison. Um, if he was doing a small second tier show, I'd be like, "Hey, he looks really good." But in this lineup, he just looks like he's just lacking muscle maturity. I think it just it's he has a different look. But he looks good. >> He needs to work on his presentation big time. >> Let's see what Wesley looks like now. I hope he got another coat on >> the Wesley. Wesley looking like a modernday Arnold right now. I think his legs actually look really improved here. Huge arms. Crazy. He does have a little bit of a blocky waist. Great arms. I think Wesley looks much more balanced than he typically does. Quad imbalance. I have to see when he comes to the front. I didn't really notice that. I feel like Wesley is missing the least right now out of all the guys. He structurally is the biggest. He has insane conditioning, crazy back right now. I think the other guys are m are so are also in great condition but it's taken away from other body parts. I think Wesley I Wesley is the winner right now there there are a few guys more conditioned there are oh god this guy's here there are a few guys who are more conditioned but I think overall Wesley has the balance of everything. All right. Thank you very much, Wesley. At this time, we are going to bring our 10 gentlemen back. >> Wesley still needs more legs, but I do think he's more balanced. [snorts] >> Wesley symmetry is crazy to me. >> Guys, keep in mind Wesley's like five, six inches taller than a lot of these guys, so that does count for something. And he probably has the biggest upper body in this Uh oh. Oops. The feed just went out on me for a second. Did the feed cut off for anybody else? Thank you. I appreciate that. Yeah, the feed cut off. Yeah. Yeah. Let's see if we can get it back online. I'm going to try to log back on, guys. Let's see what's what's happening. I'm going to try reloading it. We can blame it on China. I'm glad it's just not me. Let's see. back out and go back in. And it works. All right, I'll try that. Yeah, you're right. Thank you for that. That worked. And we're see All right, guys. I got back on I think that now it stopped after uh no need to log out. Just go back on page and go back on not it's not paused on this part. So I don't know if there's something wrong with the website. Is it working for you guys? Is the feed going on? >> Is the feed working for you guys? >> Columbus, Ohio. How's it? >> Yeah, it's not working. Yeah, I keep I keep get Well, I it bring me back to the beginning of wellness, too. And then when I try forwarding to live, it's it's not working. Yeah, I got the same thing. It's just a video for me, too. Let's try it one more time. Somebody there ended a feed. >> How's everybody doing this afternoon? >> Yeah, you guys are thinking I'm sorry, guys. It looks like they ended the feed. So unfortunately, so let's see. I'm going to try one more time. IHG express. Let's see what's going on, guys. I'm going to see if I can get it. Of course, it goes down right when comparisons start. I know. It's always like the worst timing. >> Don't copy pasteing over and over in the chat. >> It's over. That was prejuding. Preing is over. Ronnie Coleman, Jay Cutler. Yeah. >> Can anyone confirm that? not working. Yeah, still not working. >> Yeah, >> Sam is in the top 10, someone said, which is great news. News, but I'd love to be able to see it. [clears throat] >> This is the stream from just moments ago. >> So, we'll see what's going on, guys. I don't know why they they cut it out, but they did. Have a random Wi-Fi and data. Looks like it's not working at the moment. Uh negative still down. I mean, we can't complain too much. It is a live uh it is a free stream, but obviously [snorts] not great timing. Uh yeah, >> this is a little bit of a bummer. I'm sorry, guys. Just a moment. I will go to the J seminar thing because it might restart streaming in that. We'll refresh this one. >> So, I'm I'm gonna try something. I wonder if I go to the interview with Ronnie and Jay if it'll come up in that. Let's try. No. Nope. No, it looks like they cut it out, guys, at 12:30. I'm sorry. Yeah. Yeah, the whole live stream is just not working. So hopefully it's fixed, guys. I'm sorry. Uh we're gonna cut this live short. Uh I was hoping to go through the whole prejudging, but unfortunately it doesn't seem to work. Wouldn't be a bodybuilder with a stream. Yeah, I can't complain too much because, you know, it is a free live stream, but it is kind of a pain in the ass that this happened. I'm going to see if it it works soon, though. I'm going to hang around, see if it works. I'm gonna hold out hope that it works and we'll see what happens. So, let's see what happens. There's no streams issue prejudging. It's over. It's not over. Um, they were they literally cut out as soon as >> production. Oh, it seems to be >> on his own. Looks like >> I think it might work now actually. Let me try it again. >> Please welcome come in loose. At this time we are going to bring our 10 gentlemen back out on stage for our judging round. Let's see. >> He's going to win the show. But when he's in a lineup, >> still crazy. Still, you know, maybe the best guy here. Italian guy is very good. >> Is a free is a stream working for anyone yet or no? Based off individuals, who do you have top three? have Wesley, Kim, Angel, >> and Menagate probably. Those are my top three >> I'm gonna try one more thing. I don't want to give up hope. I want to see if this works here to be absolutely packed for Ronnie and Jay's seminar. Now, we got a couple seats in the front that have reserve signs. Please observe those. But everybody else, this seminar is not a VIP ticket to the event. So all y'all waiting on the outside, I that you please do this. >> It looks like it's back up, >> but we'll welcome everybody in. >> I think it'll work for the open >> Ronnie and Jay's seminar. So again, please observe the reserve signs. >> All right, guys. So let's see. I'm going to see if I can go back and if they played the prejudging for those guys. I'm going to see if this works. What if it's not? Pose down did not happen during prejudging. It's over. I know there's not a pose on, guys, but they do do the comparisons. Let's go. Ronnie Coleman, Julla. Let's see if this works. All right, guys. Not sure who won. I apologize, but it looks like it's over. We'll find out. Uh, RX Muscle will do a um will do a wrap-up. So, just stay tuned for that. Hopefully, there's not an issue with the live stream tonight. All right, guys. Have a great one. Keep 7 o'clock. We will be live for the live stream. See you then.