 Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti Ti I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Alright, I'm here with our men's classic physique champion, two times, Wesley Vissers. You predicted it, you delivered, you won. Yes, we won again. It's just an incredible feeling to be myself again after a kind of hiccup year. And now we repeated 2024. And man, it's just so amazing to once again be congratulated by Arnold himself. It's really surreal for me. What did you win out there? I didn't even see what the prize money was. 100k. Wow! Nice job! That's a nice paycheck. I can't even believe it. For me, it's just an unbelievable experience. I never thought you'd see that much money in classic physique, I gotta tell you. But that's what the Arnold Classic does. They bring a number to this event that you're like, whoa, now it's actually getting to a serious height. 100k, that's a couple of years ago. That was the Open Men's Prize. That was Jay Cutler's prize. Yeah, so that's incredible, right? Yeah, yeah. The stars aligned themselves for you today. A couple guys didn't make it to the stage. Yeah. You capitalized on that. You won. Now you've got to be going into the Olympia this year with a lot of momentum. Last year, you took off the whole year because you wanted to let your body kind of recover. You wanted to put the size on. You did it. Do you know how much you actually added? Yes, because I woke up at 250 pounds on the day of the weigh-in. And I was like 243 in 2024. Wow! That's at least 7 pounds. Yes. But I still have 5 more pounds to go before I hit my... 6 pounds to go, actually. How officially tall are you now? 6'3". Above 6'3". That's good, though. Yeah, yeah. That's not my official height, so that's what I'm going to obviously go for. Because if I go below that, I can't even weigh what I weighed. Right. And now you see it fits. If I would weigh less, then it would not be Wesley Visser's, then it would be not the winner. Right, right. Yeah. Did you change your training? I feel like Arnold, no. Did you change your training at all to put that size on? Less volume, maybe? Or did you just eat more? Mostly the food was heightened, but not to extremes. But I just kept it around the leg workouts. Normally I just eat less on a rest day and more on all training days. But now it was only the leg workouts. And I changed throughout my splits so that after a leg workout I have a rest day. Normally leg workouts would be my first day of the week and then everything else comes. So now I eat the most on a leg day and then have a rest day, recover, and then go with this bit again. I didn't notice a difference in your legs and your upper body. You had very good balance, something that I think that you lacked last year, which was a problem. Last year was a very big discrepancy. Especially when I look back now because when you're in the moment, you're always like, oh, I look like classic bodybuilder, you know. But when I look back and some people have already made the comparison, you can see the huge difference. But that's what bodybuilding is. The judges want to see the progress from show to show. Well, you delivered here. Were you concerned at all? I knew you had it, but did you think you had it after prejudging? Yeah. I was 80% sure because I did never underestimate my fellow competition. And Medigate was better than ever. I think this was... Yeah, he really made a lot of improvements. So I knew if he was going to look like the Olympia, I would beat him, but he looked better. And the live stream cut out at the first college, so I couldn't watch it back. Well, he had the Bumstead mustache, too, which I thought he was trying to, like, you know... Yeah, but I used to stay myself. I'm glad. Don't do the mustache thing. I don't like it. Never, never. Congratulations on the big win. Appreciate that. Wesley Vissers, our two-time Arnold Classic champion, going home with $100,000. $100,000. $100,000.