I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations dosed for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution for the 2025 Dubai Pro Champion. back-to back years. Beerus Tabani winning and winning in grand fashion. Beeruse, what kind of a statement do you think you sent with this win tonight? Uh okay. I am so happy uh because I am as champion for second time in Duro. Uh and this stage uh uh is a mini Mr. Olympia. Yeah. And many Mr. Olympia and very hard and many Olympia qualified. You defeat William Bonak Moto Olympia last year, Nathan Dasha, the list goes on. And Antonio Burton who's Olympia qualified. Again, we talk about your physique and what you can do at the Olympia, assuming you get the visa this year. What do you think you proved tonight with your physique in this look? for you know because of exist situation that unfortunately we have in Iran his emotional situation was not so good he was in a stress he couldn't come out from the country with very difficulties so hardship but he promised that If he could get the visa for us, for sure he will come with the best physique, best ever situation and he will improve as much as possible. I wanted to ask you because everything happening in Iran right now when your name was called, you showed very clear emotion. Do you feel as if this moment could help uplift the Iranian people in everything that they're going through right now? Sure. Of course. Does that make you happy representing Iran and everything that Iran is going through right now and to be able to deliver this kind of a win? He says that not only Iranian, not only his Iranian fans also the all worldwide his fans. He thinks that he will be so happy and of course he will continue his career and he can make much more better job. Well, fans around the world watch your performance here tonight and they're very impressed with the package that you delivered. So now the question is this. Should you get that visa and you're going to go to the Olympia, what kind of a message do you feel as if this victory, this physique sent to the top class of a Samson Da Chupon, of a Derek Lunford, and now what you proved you can do here tonight that you can do in October. Okay. He says that he wish to compete in Mr. Olympia with top three for sure Hadi, Dre and Samson. But as a friendly, he says that it will be big danger for everybody on the stage. For sure. I love it. And I love the fact that your English has been leaps and bounds better now is a big commanded language. And I and I know this that fans around the world, they appreciate the effort that you've been making to better your English to be able to communicate with a global audience. He will be much better. Here's my last question and this is a very important question. Very important question. You just went to Dubai Pro. What's the first thing you're eating tonight? Again, sorry. What's the first thing? What's the first cheat meal you're going to enjoy tonight? Chef has very Please tell me something Persian food. What on the menu from from the Persian menu? Iranian food. It's Iranian. We have we have very traditional delicious Iranian food and always it's in the top 10 menu all drostanolone. I have to know your favorite Persian kebab dish. No, it's gourmet sabzi. Oh, gourmet sabzi. Promise my friend. Promise my friend for me. I love it. I love it. twotime Dubai Pro champion and inshallah we will see him on the Olympia stage in October. I hope I hope to thank you.