 do you guys want to see my pick for this year's 2025 Mr. Olympia? Stay tuned. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. All right, televisionRxMuscle.com, Olympia Week is upon us. This is Iron Debate, the Olympia preview episode of Iron Debate. I'm your host, Steve Furukis. So glad you can join us. In a week's time, we will be in Vegas. Dave, myself, Chris, the rest of our crew, we will be there to provide wall-to-wall coverage of the 2025 Olympia. As we bring in our panel. The man you saw first, the 2023 Mr. USA. You saw him on stage this past season at the Tampa Pro and taking an impressive runner-up finish at the Texas Pro, Joe Palacios. Joe, how are you, my friend? Very good, guys. Happy to be here. What's up, Joe? What's up, David? What's up? Of course, we got, for this kind of a preview show, we had to bring him back. We haven't had him on in quite some time. New York originally, now in Florida, Factory Moorack. Factory, how's it going, my friend? Thank you, guys. Happy to be here. And of course, Armand, who was kind enough this past, right, this upcoming weekend, Olympia weekend, Armand is going to be hosting our live reaction shows. So this is something that we started to do a couple of years ago. So during pre-judging, during finals, we are going to have live reactions in addition to the wrap-ups that we're going to have after pre-judging and finals. But Armand is going to be hosting all that. It's going to be full wall-to-wall coverage. And of course, the man of the final word on all topics, Dave Plumb. But Dave, we haven't done the show in quite some time. I know. I know. We're going to have a couple of weeks to go. But why is it that we always wait until right before the Olympia? Why don't we do this more often? Because we, you and I, don't stop moving. We have done a single second of extra time on our hands. And that goes for everyone. Armand's got the same schedule. I know, factories non-stop. Joe, enjoy your free time now because once you stop competing and you get into business, you're never going to have a free moment to yourself. That's all right. That's all right. But let's get right into it, guys. This is the eve of the 2025 Olympia. And truly, when you think about it, you look at this lineup, maybe the deepest line of it. And I feel like we say that every year, but I truly mean that this time. And of course, it just got deeper with the news yesterday that Beirut's Tabani, who for four consecutive years was Olympia qualified and finally getting his visa issued to him yesterday. So he is en route to the U.S. He should be arriving in evening on the West Coast time. And all of a sudden now that changes the complexion of that upper third of the Olympia lineup. Joe Palacios. How does this news change the complexion of that maybe top six or top four in your opinion with Beirut's now in the lineup? I mean, I already have my lineup of guys that I think will take each placing. However, I think he's going to take on that fifth place spot, which is going to move somebody out. I truly believe you'll be in the top five this year. Factory, when you look at what Beirut's Tabani has brought over the last few years, we talk about wins with Flex Pro, back to back wins at the Dubai Pro against quality competition. In your opinion, what makes him so dangerous? I mean, he has it all. He has shapes, some symmetry. He has that graininess. He has, you know, the lines when he goes deep insertions, when he gets really peeled. So he has what it takes to, you know, to catch the judge's eye with that wall factor. Armand, you being a fellow Iranian, now all of a sudden you have the likes of Beirut. You have Hadi, obviously, and Macy, it's Hasan Haradi. Talk to us about the Iranian bodybuilder and really the resurgence of Iranian bodybuilders that we see now featuring on the Olympia stage and what you figure to see out of Beirut's next weekend. Well, first of all, I'm glad he made it here. I'm sure, you know, he was in tears when he found out like he could actually come here. I mean, that's a dream come true. That's like what fourth year has been, third or fourth year has been trying to come. Persian bodybuilders, they get that grainy conditioning. You know, you just, they just get in shape a lot faster and they have that thin skin and I'm really, you know, excited to see what it brings to stage. I mean, the last show I did, I think he wasn't at his best. He was probably like, I think 85, 90%. So I think we can see, which was amazing. 100% Beirut is very dangerous. I think he can crack that top five. Dave, who does Beirut's pose the biggest danger to in terms of knocking them out out of that top four, top five? Well, to answer the question about why Persian bodybuilders or Iranian bodybuilders are so good, it's those abs. They got the best abs in the world. Really. I mean, think about all the Middle Eastern bodybuilders over the last couple decades. They all have amazing abs. Look, abs are, you know, they win shows. I mean, look at the, look at Hadi. I mean, the guy is unbelievable with abs. Shrink wrapped. And I think Beirut has that same thing going for him, especially when he brings that shrink wrapped look. I don't know who he displaces. I wanted, when Joe said that he could be fifth, I wanted to see in his mind who he was kicking out of the top five because I don't know. I don't know. You know, a lot of people can say, well, maybe Nick Walker would be kicked out of the top five, but I think Nick is just overwhelmingly huge. And I don't know if, I don't know if Beirut can beat him, to be honest with you, because Nick just brings like a crazy amount of size and conditioning to the stage. Beirut has kind of got more of an aesthetic physique. And I think that when guys are out of shape or a little off, he comes in with that conditioning and his flow. He'll beat guys, but he's not going to overwhelm anyone on stage. He's not, he's not one of those physiques that's overwhelming, like a Samson Douda or an Andrew Jack or Nick Walker. He's more like, he's got, he's got a little of everything that you want to see in body building. So he can make people look bad on stage, but I don't think he's going to overwhelm the freaks on stage, assuming they come in at 100%. So I don't know if I'm putting him in top five. I might give him that sixth or seventh position. Joel, let's go back to you because again, when we talk about Beirut's, and I feel like what Dave just mentioned as far as someone like a Nick who seemingly never comes in on when we make these predictions, we always kind of make it under the assertion that everyone's going to come in on, which seemingly is never the case. Beirut's and Hadi do seem to be one of those that consistently nail their conditioning. But against the concern with Beirut's, and again, I want you to speak on this, is that the size factor that maybe he's going to get outsized by the likes of a Samson, by the likes of a Nick Walker, by the likes of an Andrew Jack. Where do you stand on that from what we've seen in the back to back wins in Dubai? Do you think he gives up anything in the size department? I think because of the balance of his physique, the size is almost like not too big of a factor. Could it such a pretty look? And he's not a small guy like stature wise. So I think he'll out condition easily. Someone like an Andrew Jack, which is going to make Andrew stand out as a week. Like it's a huge weak point already. So I think he can easily pass a banter as far as that goes, especially with the balance and just shape of his muscle and all that. Like you're talking about the insertions, the detail, that just that pretty looking set of abs and stuff. I think I don't know if you remember, but like Martin is in that top five. So I'm comparing him more so to Martin than anybody. I think that's the biggest threat and as high as he can go. Who's your top five Joe? In order or just name them all. Just just just give them just name them off. Yeah. So I mean, I have Nick, Hottie, Samson, Derek and originally Martin, but with Peru's, I think Peru's going to knock out Martin. You know, last year there was the talk of well, that. Oh, did you mention Hottie? He mentioned Hottie. Yeah, he mentioned Hottie. Not a bomb, but he brought a Martin and that last year when Martin finished fourth in his debut, Olympia. And some of the talking points was, well, if their rules had been in that line up, where would he have placed? And obviously that's a different topic for a different time. But you know, one of the things that we saw out of their rules. And again, we're talking about shape, size, symmetry. His legs seem to be a little downsized. This Dubai pro versus last Dubai pro, that was the one criticism, but his balance is so on point. Dave, who in terms of the conditioning that he brings, right? We talk about the balance that he brings. Forget Samson, forget Nick. How does he stack up against a like, say, of a Hottie or a Derek? I think Derek is overwhelming. I don't think if Derek comes in like I know he will. And I've seen some pictures of him, you know, from Chris. I don't see Bayou Rous touching Derek. I don't think I don't see Bayou Rous touching Hottie. I think those guys, unless Hottie comes in off, I haven't seen Hottie, you know. So I can't say, but if Hottie comes in the way we know Hottie is, there's no way that Bayou Rous is touching you one of those guys. And I don't think he beats Samson unless Samson is really messes up his conditioning, which I don't see happening. And like I said, I don't see him being Nick because I think Nick's too big for him, even though he's got way better shape than Nick. So I think those guys are solid top four, assuming they're not dramatically off. I agree with Joe. That fifth position with Martin and Andrew and, you know, the rest of the crew is what people fight for. Don't forget Brandon Curry, either. You know, Brandon Curry is no joke. So it, you know, you never know when these guys are going to fall. But I think that I think the top four is pretty locked in unless someone really screws up. So and I'm going to show this on the screen, but let's zoom out a little bit. Let's talk about who features right now in this lineup. Obviously, Samson, Hottie, Derek, right? Those are the ones that you figure if someone's going to disrupt, it's going to be in that group because they're figured to be in that top 30 profile. Good veto. That's another name that again, what we really missed. out on is seeing him. It's Pittsburgh. He pulled out because of an injury, but that would have been that pre-Olympia look into how he stacked up against a quasi-Olympia lineup. You have the likes of Tony O'Burton, Sasan Hirati making his debut, Nexila, Bruno Mascuero. Yeah, I'm glad you mentioned good veto because, you know what? I completely blocked him out and I saw pictures of him too. And he looks like Jay Cutler, a young Jay Cutler. That's how good he was. You have some other debutants, Jordan Hutchinson, Oris Kalisinski, obviously crossing over from the class because he's Regan Grimes returning. You know, and then look, there was a video, and I'll put this on the screen, of Andrew Jack training. He's training out in Tampa. I know Kamala Garni's helping him as well. And I don't think we've ever seen his face that sucked in before. Dave, I remember two years ago, we were so zoomed in on the conversation of the tall guy versus the short guy, right? You had Andrew and Samson, then you had Derek and Hadi. And what was the way forward for this open class division? And I feel like now, obviously, it's a much more convoluted conversation. So, Arma, let's go back to that. You know, what has changed about this open class in the last couple of years, in your opinion? It's just it's a lot more exciting to me. I mean, you got a lot of the like the top four, top five. I mean, let's say the top four, you couldn't flip flop those guys any way. And any of those guys could win, you know, if someone's off with Hadi's off of Derek's office of Samson, you know, Nick, any one of those guys can slip in there and win or get second. So we can see a big upset. You we can see, I mean, what did Ronnie have Samson like fourth or fifth? Like his prediction, which I mean, I don't think that would happen. Unless Samson just did something, something absolutely crazy. The thing with Samson, everybody always said, you know, he just he just can't get that kind of conditioning and, you know, his body just can't get there. Like, yeah, he could. He just wasn't pushing it hard enough. And now we see the death face, which, you know, which shows he's in condition. But is he going to a lot of people say, well, he's downsized some. I don't think he's downsized much at all. I think, you know, when we saw him guest pose, he was a little maybe depleted for that and got in shape for that. But I think he's going to bring a pretty sound package. But is it going to be enough to beat Derek? A lot of people have counted Derek out there. Like they don't have Derek. They're like, he's not a Mr. Olympia. He doesn't represent. Well, that's what I've heard from certain people. And I think Derek is still going to be hard to beat. You got Samson that I have Samson probably in, you know, second. But yeah, that that fifth spot, I think they lose is a better bodybuilder than Martin, just his stature, his symmetry and overall, Martin made that big jump that we saw and he looked really good. But after that, I don't know how much I don't know how much Martin can improve after that. In fact, let me go to you because let's talk a little bit more about the defending champion, Samson Dada. We saw the Mr. Olympia winning look last year. And then what we saw in Pittsburgh, we saw him in guest posing just a few weeks ago, and now we're seeing what we haven't seen out of him before. And that is truly that death face. What would you like to see out of Samson in his first title offense? Well, first and foremost, we don't have that, you know, Ronnie Coleman, Jay Cutler, only call out. We don't have that Phil Heath, Kai Green only call out, right? So to say that Samson is going to be dominant, we, Derek won the Olympia, Derek, Derek won the Arnold, right? I think if Samson brings everything that he needs to bring, especially conditioning, because he has a size, but if he brings the conditioning, yeah, he's going to be hard to be, but, you know, I, I agreed, you know, I agree with Dave and Armando also as well. I mean, you have, you have Samson, you have Hottie, you have, you know, you have Derek and you have Nick, you know, you have those four guys that if anything happens, they could, they could switch positions at any time. So I don't believe we have a dominant Olympia champion. And that's what makes the Olympia exciting this year and the last couple of years and the last few years because we've had three different Olympias. Joe Palacios, we had interviewed Samson when he was training Quintinaria for the Italy pro and asked him specifically what was different about this Olympia approach as opposed to previous and he looked, he said one word, torture, torture was going to be the plan going into this Olympia, extra cardio, doing what he needs to do to get that extra little baby fat off. Your opinion, what's the best look that you want to see out of Samson doubt in his first title defense? I think he has to get absolutely peeled to be able to hold his title. So the only issue would be like going to that place, never being there before, you may lose tissue on the way down. And I know like you're always going to lose it in the places that you don't want to lose it the most. So until you've been peeled like that, it may hurt your look a little bit the first time around. So I'm hoping it doesn't take away from his backshots, which worries me for him, but he has to come and feel like it's one of those things like, you know, they called Phil Heath out for his stomach issues and they were going to, they were going to punish him if he didn't fix it. The same thing is going to happen to Samson. They already made an example of it at the Arnold. Um, so it's, uh, it's very prevalent that that's the look he has to bring. He doesn't really have a choice. If he wants to hold onto the title, I just hope that pushing that level of conditioning doesn't hurt his look. Hey, Palombo, best look for Samson doubt. But I think we, I think the, the, what we're not acknowledging, and we probably forgot is that last year Derek was horrible, right? His legs were really downsized. He was not the Derek we had seen when the Olympia and hottie was, was really tough. I know people say, wow, he wasn't that bad. No, he was bad. His legs were down. His lower back was not shrink wrapped like it was at the Arnold when he won earlier in the year. So he, we had two guys that were not good. And that's why Samson won the Olympia. Let's face it, because if one of those guys would have been at their best, they would have won. Okay. Those are the two last Iranian Olympia champs. And I'm not taking anything away from Samson. I love this music, but he knows that if he doesn't bring the conditioning in, he's going to lose. So he's working his butt off, literally. The good thing about, about Samson is he's got that kind of busy that you could torture the crap out of him and he will not lose muscle. I don't think he loses muscle. He'll get really flat, but if he gets himself into shape at a week out and we, and he's ready to go, he can fill up and he's going to look amazing. So I think that he really, since he's the reigning Olympia champ, he holds his fate in his own hands. If he brings, if he delivers the goods, okay, if the Olympia, he wins because he's bigger than everyone and he's taller and he's more impressive. If he doesn't deliver the goods and he's a little off, that leaves the door open for Derek and Hottie or even Nick to come in there and win. So I think really, it sucks to have to handicap bodybuild this way. And I know factory's going to agree with me, but it's sometimes who's the best guy up there and who has the least faults. Cause you know, at least half the guys in that top group of, you know, the top 10 are going to be off in some capacity. And then we're going to be saying, oh, we thought that this person was going to win, but he sucks, you know, or he's off. He messed up. He screwed up somehow. He's now six or seventh and he should have been, you know, he could have possibly won. So there's going to be guys that are going to mess up. It's not everyone's going to be in shape. And I've never seen an Olympia where that was the case. Maybe 98 Olympia, you know, when Ronnie won, but, you know, it doesn't usually happen. So assuming we're trying to handicap the show, assuming who we like best. If everyone's in shape, I think it's, it's hotty versus Derek for the, for the win. I really do. I think they're the most complete bodybuilders in my life, but I do want to say that I think good video is going to be the dark horse and he's going to mess that top five up. Don't be surprised if he's in that top five and he's challenging for the win because this guy is, he's got no, he's got no weaknesses. If he bring delivers what I've seen in the, in his update pictures, I think it's going to be very dangerous. I was just going to ask you, I mean, again, not revealing too much, but what you have seen out of good video, I want to keep in mind, again, we were deprived that opportunity to see him at the pit, throw against, you know, this, this top end of the lineup minus Samson from what you have seen. What makes him so dangerous in this lineup? He's, he's round. He's shredded to the bone. He has no weaknesses. He's gotten better every single year we've seen him. He's, he's, he's really deadly. His, his only weakness in my mind is his height. He's not that tall. So, you know, he, but, but he's going up against Derek and Hoddy, who were about the same height. So the height thing is not going to be an issue, you know, unless Samson comes in and just decimates everyone. He, so he's got the advantage, his advantage is that he's not going against super tall guys, you know, everyone's kind of on the shorter side. So that's why I think he's going to match up really well with those guys. And like I said, if he delivers the goods and he doesn't get sick or injure himself or something unforeseen happened, like that happened, you know, before the Pittsburgh, I think we're going to see him vying in that top. Let's talk a little bit more about Derek Lunsberg 2023, Mr. Olympia. And then really in his own words, a disappointing, disappointing appearance at the 2024 and his first title defense and really a resounding comeback at the Arnold Classic. We're the one we saw out of him. The legs were up. The back is as dominant as ever. And we see him at Pittsburgh neck and neck with Nick Walker. Armand Adibi, what do you want to see? We talk about the back. We talk about the legs coming up at the Arnold and at the Pittsburgh pro. What do you want to see out of Derek here at the 2025 edition? I mean, the legs, like if he has his legs up, I think he's, I think he's going to, I think he's going to win. You know, I know he gets criticized all the time still for all this, not being you know, shredded up or whatever you want to call it, but you know, his back shot, every, every shot he's grading in that. And the weakness is if his legs don't come in, like if that, if his legs aren't there, he's going to drop a couple, like maybe one or two places. And like, like Dave said, him and Hottie, like if everybody's the condition, I see him and Hottie battling out for first place, going to Samson. Yeah. He's got to get, he's got to get super shredded. But we've never seen a shredded Samson ever. We've seen a big full Samson. We've never seen this. So we're, we're, I'm just, we're all trying to picture what is this going to look like on stage? Is he going to be able, like Dave said, he's not going to lose muscle, but he can be flat. And when you're flat, you look like you lose muscle from the back. Like Joe said, in his back shots, if he's not, if he's shredded to the bone, but not filled out enough, he don't have to be filled out like the other guys, but he just needs to be filled up enough. And then I think he could come in and potentially, you know, take that first place. Joe Palacios, Derek Lunsford, we talk about him and really over the course of this, this era, maybe the most dominant back in the open class. We've seen the different iterations of his legs over the last two, three shows. What do you want to see at a Derek? I want, I want to see kind of what Armin just said. I just want to see his legs just come in as full as possible with enough conditioning. Cause I think, like you said, he's pretty dominant. His shape, his lines and all that stuff, as long as his legs don't come down. Cause once his legs are down, it throws off his whole physique. And, um, but yeah, he has deep picture, perfect physique when his legs are good. So. Factory, let's finish it up with you. What do you want to see at a Derek? The combination of 21, the Olympia and this year's Arnold, right? I mean, guys have to remember Derek is very young. So in order for the legs to go down, and that means he's not training them or his upper body is growing faster than his lower body. And I don't think that's happening. Um, his legs were down, but as Dave said, you know, Hadi and Derek were both off last year. So when they put Samson in the middle and those two guys were off, it was over, right? Because you had Samson so tall, you know, in good condition, these conditions and, and Hadi and Derek were off. But if Derek brings the package that he should bring, because you shouldn't go backwards at that age, you should always move forward. You should only get better every single year. There's no such thing as going backwards. If you're going backwards, you're doing something completely wrong. Um, I can see Derek winning the Olympia. I mean, the legs are important. His back is incredible. You know, he has that insane V-shaper, you know, a mom talked about it. Like people complain about his upper body. It's not as shredded. It's hard. You know, it might have the fibers popping out, but he's good enough. And, and, and we all know he's good enough. He's won the Olympic. He's won the honor. Let's talk about the men that he faced at the Pittsburgh pro, Nick Walker. And really, when you think about the last three years that has been for Nick, first suffering the hamstring injury in 2023, withdrawing from the Olympia last year withdrawing because he and his coach agreed they didn't like the look. They didn't like where he was at. They withdrew. This is going to be the first Olympia in three years. We hope that everything goes all right. He's going to be on that stage. You have to imagine, and again, this is the aura that he brings to that Olympia stage really anybody building stage is going to bring. He's going to get the loudest ovation. He's going to get the crowd in an absolute frenzy. But we talk about Nick Walker from the perspective of this is someone that generally speaking, you're never going to see off. Now you could bring up last year's New York pro. He was not a hundred percent. He wasn't at his best, but it was good enough to win. Joe Palacios, Nick Walker, what do you expect to see next week at the Olympia out of the mutant? So I've said this on multiple platforms, but I actually have Nick winning the whole thing. Um, I think the level of muscularity he's bringing the, uh, he's always going to come in conditioned. Um, I think his legs came up drastically. I'm sure he's worked diligently on some of his shots, um, posing wise, as far as like making them look better. Um, I still to this day think he won Pittsburgh myself. And, uh, I think with that said, just a better version of that look to me is going to take it all. So what is the, what is the best look for Nick? Is it going to be biggest or more shredded? I think the best look for Nick was will be the conditioning that he brought going against Samson, where he lost with better legs. And I think he's going to do that. Dave, 2023 Olympia. I still remember before we went on air, the conversation was what if Nick was in this lineup where a number of guys were off? What do you want to see out of Nick next weekend? The bigger and the harder and the freer he looks, the better he does. I think you realize that. I think you try to play this like aesthetics game for like for a year or two. And it just wasn't working for him. And I think he went back to the basics and what we saw in Pittsburgh and it seems like he's only gotten better from Pittsburgh. Uh, he, I had Derek winning in Pittsburgh, but by a small margin, I think he's bigger now. He's maybe harder from at least the update pictures we're seeing, right? Yeah. So if he brings that to the stage and he doesn't worry about how small my waist is or anything like that, he's going to be a fan favorite. But he's also, I put him in the category of like a Marcus rule. The fans will love this guy to the end of time. He's a freak. I love the freaks. I mean, I know Joe loves the freaks. He's a freak. We want to see big freaky guys on stage with crazy conditioning. However, having said that, historically speaking, the bigger guys with the better structure usually win the Olympia. I mean, so for Nick to win the Olympia, okay, these other guys are going to have to be off a little bit. The guys we're talking about, the Derrick's and the Hottie's and the, um, and the Samson's, uh, because they got to leave the door open a little bit. And then, and then Nick slips in there and you're like, you know what? Yeah, who cares about his waist or who cares if his torso is a little longer than his legs? It doesn't matter. The guy just beats everyone because when you see him up there, he's the champ. But I think that if Derrick's polished and looks at Terrick, uh, El Guti, you know, called me the other day and I know he doesn't just call out of nowhere and he's like, I was down in Tampa and I said, and I said, Derek, and I got to tell you, I've never seen Derrick's legs so big before. He was super impressed and he's not going to just call me and tell me that unless it's the truth. So, and he saw him in person. So I think Derek did what he had to, you know, last year he was working with a different coach and, you know, obviously they were over, they were overdoing it. He was overdiving. He was overdoing cardio. I think since he hooked up with Chris to see now, you know, they kind of showed that he knows what he, they got the right formula now. They won the Arnold, they won the Pittsburgh. I was worried that maybe Derek would be over trained and he wouldn't be able to peak for this show, but it seems like he's looking amazing. So once again, I think that a peaked out Derek once for it is going to be very hard to beat on that stage. And, um, you know, I don't, I don't think Nick could take him out when he's at his best, but I, I love the fact that we're going to get to see it up close because I don't, you know, I like Derek as a guy, you know, I'm kind of rooting for him just because I like him, but I always like to see great competition up there. And you know what? I'll be the first person to praise whoever deserves the win. Arm on a DB, Nick Walker will win the Olympia if. If the other guys are off, like everybody said, if the other guys are off, Nick, like we've all said, like Dave said, like he's, we'd love to see that must like the Marcus Roloc. He's a freak. We all love freaks. That's what we love open, but that's what I fell love and open bodybuilding. I saw all the freaks and what we love to see that, but is he good enough to win the Olympia? Like Dave said, the structure and everything. I don't think he is to win the Olympia, but anything can happen. If the other guys are off, which it can happen. All those, all those, all those guys can come off or not on point and Derek could easily slip in there. I mean, Nick can slip there and win. Do I see it happening? I don't, I don't see it happening, but it's up, it's up to Nick. How he comes in and, you know, like Dave said, he is a fan favorite and I'm excited to see him up there after not being there the past two years, but I just don't think he can, can win the show. Factory final. ! Let's bring up two guys that in many respects may actually be a little overlooked coming into this Olympia. One is the guy who finished fourth last year in his debut Olympia, Martin Fitzwater. Joe Palacios, we last saw him at Pittsburgh and I feel like bodybuilding analysis is very fickle. Literally what you saw two seconds ago is going to frame your opinion for the next few weeks, next few months. Why do you feel as if Martin Fitzwater is overlooked perhaps heading into this Olympia? I think inconsistencies make you look less than what you are at times. He nailed it for the Olympia. It's not that he's been terrible, but he hasn't matched that look or bettered it. When everyone's progressing or whatnot, it makes him seem like they're falling behind. It's better to be consistent than nail it and then be off again and not show your best at least a few times. I think inconsistencies is what's kind of like putting a bad mark on him and making him seem like he's going to slip up. Which is why I even have him potentially losing to someone like Barus because it's hard to bet on someone that's not as consistent. Do I think he's not going to nail it? No, I'd like to think that he's going to, that he figured it out and is only going to get better, but if he continues to miss the mark, he's going to hurt him. Dave, what did you see out of Martin, say in New York Pro last year at the Olympia? Let's put aside this Pittsburgh because two in his own admission, he was off. He was trying to chase something that was just not going to be a flattering look to his physique. What impressed you most about Martin? Again, brings what he brought last year, where could he factor in this top five, top six? I loved him in Pittsburgh because he had detail. I think it was because he was pissed off that he had won the Detroit show. People were saying he didn't really deserve it and good veto should have been him. He didn't really have to compete again. He could have just gone right to the Olympia. He was qualified. But he said, you know what? I want to prove to people and to myself that I can be better. And he came in so detailed. I remember when he turned around and hit that back double by supposing the lower back and everything. You're talking about New York, right Dave? New York, New York. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He had a good bottom five. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He was incredibly, he wasn't as big as Nick, but I thought, and that wasn't a great Nick Walker. I thought he won that show. And then he came to the Olympia and he, you know, obviously, when he plays fourth, right? Yeah. So, I mean, and he wasn't as good at the Olympia as he was in Pittsburgh, but he was pretty close to that. And you know what? Sometimes when guys get bigger, they don't get better. And I think this past, the last, since the Olympia, I don't think he's been better. It looks like he's like doesn't have that crazy detail. I think he's worried about coming in bigger and having enough size to compete with these guys. And I think he had banned that I'm going to kill myself. So I looked like a freak conditioning wise. Because you know what? You could be, I used to be at 280 pounds. I have striated glutes and I was probably harder than everyone else. Okay. But it wasn't the same level of conditioning I had when I was 265 or 268. I was like shrink wrapped ridiculously. Same thing, Hottie Chupin. Hottie Chupin, when he won the Arnold, was the most crazy shredded guy I've ever seen. He didn't look like that at the Olympia. So Martin has got to go back to what makes him special, which is his ability to get into a crazy conditioning and show the detail that he has. Don't worry about how big you are. Worry about the detail you show. And I think if he goes back to that, he's going to do better. If he doesn't, I think he's going to be one of those guys that, well, he looked good, but he could have been something just looked like it was missing. And I think people are having trouble defining what's missing, but it's that level of detail. Even though he's still got glutes and he's got this and that, he doesn't have that level of detail he had in Pittsburgh and at last year's Olympia. And we need to see that from him where he's not going to do well. Factory, we talked about Martin last year and he was having a conversation with Dave and Chris after that second place finish at the New York pro. And he talked about, look, I might not be the biggest guy on stage, but I want to be the closest thing to what we saw out of, and again, fail-heath comparisons. I don't want to make it a one-on-one comparison, but the round, the 3D look, and he does want to bring something different. Can he potentially replicate what he did last year in terms of placing or somewhere in that range, not being the biggest guy on stage, really in a lineup of really big guys. The problem is, and I did the same thing, right? I was going for my conditioning short of this. And then when I try to come up a few more pounds, 20, 25 more pounds, my lines kind of blurred. So for a taller guy, you could be bigger and less conditioned and win. For a shorter guy, you need to be more conditioned in order to be a better bodybuilder. To me, conditioning is everything. So when you put that size game at a certain height, your lines might get blurred. Do I think that he could replicate last year's fourth place? I have my line up in front of me right now. It's going to be hard with Barus. Martin just has to get better. He's also a young guy, and let time evolve, let his body evolve with time. Don't push the size game. The size will come in as long as the body catches up. You know what I'm saying? Just stay conditioned and just put on a few pounds a year. But if you're shorter, you cannot have less conditioning. It can't work that way, especially at that level. Arvon, in your opinion, is the best Martin, someone who can potentially nail that conditioning with a bigger look, or someone that needs to double down on that conditioned look? I think he needs to double down on his conditioning. I don't think he's going to be one of these guys. The other guys are just bigger guys. He needs to focus on coming in. He's balanced. He doesn't have any weak body parts. That's the good thing about Martin. So he's very balanced, but he needs to worry about coming there and being the nastiest condition he can possibly get. Whatever they try to do, whether we're saying this coach or both of them try to come in bigger, that did not work for him at all. He looked really bad. That last show he did, I forgot the show, but he looked really bad at that show. Compared to his previous look, whatever they did, they don't need to try that again. Martin needs to come in as freaky, shredded, grainy as possible, and that's going to be the best Martin could be. Is it going to be a top five, or is Beirut going to move in there or what? I don't know. I just don't think Martin has the size and look unless he comes in there with insane freaky conditioning, maybe for that fifth spot. Before we go to our top five, top six predictions, whichever you guys want to do, I did want to bring up one more. Really maybe of this generation, quite possibly the biggest wild card of all wild cards, and that is Andrew Jack. Andrew Jack, who burst onto the scene, literally started as a competitive bodybuilder late into his 30s, early 40s, instantly became a factor not only in the top end of the Olympia, but even in the quasi-Olympia Arnold Classic finishing third and announcing himself truly as one of the top threats to the Mr. Olympia title. We haven't seen maybe the best Andrew. Perhaps we saw that the Arnold Classic in terms of being the most conditioned look, came out with a bandana, full personality on display. You talk about him walking into any room and you're looking at him and saying to yourself, oh my God, that must be Mr. Olympia right there. Why is Andrew Jack being overlooked, Joe Palacios, heading into this 2025 Olympia, in your opinion? Again, I mean, at that level, you can't go into the Olympia not conditioned enough. It's, he's so good that he places that high. It's just, but again, that conditioning factor, that's extremely important. That's what's going to separate you by that percentage point. And that's what it comes down to in that top five. And I don't know him personally. I just see him, but I think there's something to be said. To chase a certain level of conditioning, especially at that level of the sport, you have to truly have a passion for this. And like to suffer in that manner, obviously you're watching Samson do it, right? You've seen Nick do it, you see how do you do it? I don't know if Andrew has it to do that. And I think in knowing that, I don't really see him ever being above a top four spot. And that's because he's, I'm not saying he doesn't work hard, but there are people that will suffer harder because they just have that crazy passion for it. Like I said, like a Nick or a hottie or a Derek, you know, it's like, I just don't think he has that in him to get any higher than he's gotten based on his God given genetics and just loving training kind of thing. Arba, what makes Andrew Jack so dangerous? The last year we talked about maybe the best front double bicep in the upper echelon of the open class. What makes him such a threat? If you look at that top four, top five. Just his beautiful, his beautiful shape and like what you said, when you see him in person, like in the Texas pro, I saw him backstage just in his trunks and he's a free, I mean, it's amazing. He has an amazing physique. But when he gets on that stage, especially from the back, the glutes, the hands, when they're not dialed in, it's he's not going to get any, he's not going to make any progress. And like Joe said, from that fourth this spot, he's not going to get any higher than that. And I just don't see, like Joe said, I just don't see him making those dramatic changes from the back. Like we need to see that etched in detail, hamstrings, glutes, without maybe losing a little more, a little more size in the legs. I just don't see it happening. But he's an amazing bodybuilder, amazing physique, very pretty to see. So, you know, I just love seeing him on stage, even if he's not going to be, you know, contending for the top three. Fact, I'm sorry, were you done to Armando? Yeah, yeah, that's it. Yeah, yeah. What do you need to see out of Andrew Jack next weekend? I think as a bodybuilding fans and historians, right, we always speak about what if, what if, what if, what if, what if he does come in shredded, you know, can he break the top, can he break the top three, top four? I think the top four is already certified, to be honest, you know, everybody's conditioning. But when somebody stands by themselves and we see him by themselves on Instagram, we see him at the gym, we see him walking down the street, we see him in the supermarket, right? We're like, holy shit, you know, but when you get on stage, he gets the best, best, best, best, the world has, you know, that's where you see the differences of conditioning. And when you're that big, you know, you have to be conditioned to like, if we're talking about Samson, who's Mr. Olympia, if he's well, he could drop the third place, you know, so imagine if, if, if if Andrews drop off, we could drop the, you know, five, six, seven plates, you know, so yeah, it's conditioning, but this might sound a little weird to me to you guys or to many people. When I see Andrew, I see, I still see places that he needs to add muscle. Like he doesn't look as full as, as other bodybuilders do. He has a beautiful physique. He flows beautifully. You know, he had a great coach, you know, but I just, when I looked at him and I've always said the same thing, I see, I see places on his body that still need to grow a little bit more to push. I mean, you know, and I've said this before to somebody and I've said this before twice to people and they, they've laughed at me. I see Andrew as a really big classic physique guy. I know he's a bodybuilder. I know he's way over the limit of the classic physique, but that's the physique I see Andrew in. More of a classic physique, overall package, right? I just, I just think he needs to add more density. If it's not size, it's that real dense, hard muscle that makes you pop. That muscle that, that's when it's shredded and you don't have no, no water in there. The soap, you water is out and, and, and, and you're dry as hell. You're walking about a 3% that density that's really there. That's what he needs. But to me, he looks a little empty. It might just be because he's not conditioned enough and, and, and that density needs to be give a harder presence for the judges to play some higher. They pull up about two years ago when I asked you for your bull prediction of the 2023 Olympia, you said the title is going to come down to between Samson and Andrew. We're talking about two years later now. We just saw him on stage, the Arnold Classic, arguably his most conditioned look. In your opinion, Andrew Jack will crash the top three if. Yeah, I don't think he's going to do it. Not, not this one. I don't think he's improved enough, but I haven't seen him, you know, for, for, but I don't think he's, I don't, I think I agree with Joe made a very insightful observation without going, he should have gone a little further with it. Maybe he was trying to be nice. Andrew, and this is a compliment to Andrew, by the way, I don't think Andrew is willing to put his body on the line to the point of death. You know what I mean? He's not, he's not like willing to sacrifice himself to be the greatest bodybuilder of all time. He's not, not getting onto 800 pounds like Ronnie Coleman did and squatting that. You know, he's not going to push the limit with the drugs. He doesn't have to. And his mind, he started later too. So it's hard to, it's harder to grow, but the guy has put on so much size over the last couple years, and that's probably not even, probably if we looked at what he did to achieve that, we would probably laugh and almost not believe it. I think the guy has unlimited potential. He is six, five, and I think that's why we see gaps in his physique. His legs are not really big enough. You know, his upper body is great, but his legs could still be bigger. He's, will always be a top Olympian because he's the widest. He's got the, one of the best waistlines I've ever seen. He's tall and he's dominant. He's, he's bigger than, he's wider and bigger than Samson. And when you think about it, but he's not as complete as Samson. And, you know, if he doesn't come in shredded in this line, if he's going to have a problem, I think staying in that top five, if he comes in shredded, there's the potential that he might look a little too small. So, you know, I know that when Chris, as his coach, he has to kind of tow this line of we got to make sure he's full enough so he doesn't look, you know, too small. But yet if we bring him in twofold, then he won't be enough conditioning. So I think Fakri's observation that he needs to be bigger is 100% accurate in that sense. And I think that's why he hasn't achieved what we had predicted a couple years ago, which was this guy could potentially be Mr. Olympia. And I don't know if he ever will. It is that time now, time for the moment of truth, time to go on the record, time to perhaps break some hearts, give some ego boost, time to name your Olympia one through six. Which of you gentlemen want to go first on this one? I'll go. All right, here we go, Joe. Top six. Let's go six through one. So six first. Yes. Okay. That would be Martin. Fifth, Baruz. Fourth, Derrick. Third, Samson. Wow. Second, Hoddy. And first, Nick. All right. So Joe Palacios has Nick Walker as Mr. Olympia and the defending Mr. Olympia, Samson, Dauda, slipping down to third and Derrick Lutzford slipping down to fourth. All right. Armin, are you ready? Here we go. Yeah. I mean, if everybody's on, I got a Derrick out at first. Uh, Hoddy, second, Samson, third, Nick, fourth, Beirut, fifth. And who's sixth? Martin. All right. Factory Moorbrick. Let's go six through one. You're 20, 25, Mr. Olympia. Ah, this is so tough because we have some, we have friends in the sport. No, it's just a real quick story. When Derrick won, I saw him a couple of months later, he goes, did you pick me to win? Yeah, I did. He goes, yeah, I saw the podcast. This is where you can just say, Dylon, Dylon. Okay. First and foremost, I love everybody. Wait, wait, wait, wait. You also have to say they're all great people. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No great people. He's a great guy. Almost of them and no great people. Um, all right. Can I know one, two, six? Sure. Okay. Um, I have Holly first, third, second, Dancin third. Nick fourth. Nick, don't be mad at me, please. I just need to win. Uh, I think we're booze and I'm gonna pick the dark horse. Good Zito. Nice. Nice. All right. So so far we have some variation in the Mr. Olympia picks. We have one picking Derek, one picking, uh, what was it? Derek, Nick, Nick, Nick, you pick Nick, Joe, so we got Nick, Derek and Holly. So we got all three represented. Dave, you got tiebreaker on this. The final word, six through one at 20, 25. You know what? Yeah. In fact, we and I see the C bodybuilding very similarly. So I, you know, we're very, we're getting our predictions are very close. I know our minds very close to, you know, I've been, I was saying that I think that Hottie was going to win. I've made a couple of predictions earlier, but then I, then I, I, only because I thought maybe Derek would be burnt out from competing and winning the Arnold and the Pittsburgh and, but I, I really think that Derek has a better physique than Hottie's. So I'm really kind of like torn on that first and second. I want to sentimentally say Derek, uh, you know, for some reason, I feel like Hottie's going to just, he's been rested. He could potentially win it. So maybe just to be controversial, I'll say Hottie, but I, I, I really think that Derek is going to pull it off, but I'm going to say Hottie first, Derek second, Samson third, Nick fourth. I'm going to switch it up with what, what factory said. I'm going to go good veto in the fifth position with Bayreuz and sixth. I think good veto is going to be a shocker. I wouldn't, I wouldn't even say that Bayreuz, excuse me, the good veto might even be as high as third. If, if, if he delivers what I think he's potentially capable, but because it's his first Olympia, I'm going to, I'm going to put him into that fifth position. All right. I'm going to go around the Horn real quick. One name. Who is going to take the vacated classic physique Olympia title? Joe. Oh man. I, um, what's his name? Um, Mike Summerfield. Armin. I, I, if I was betting on, I'd have to say Mike. Bakery. Mike. Rio from Mike and. I think Mike's the, the, the, the, I don't think I'm going to touch him. I got a very one for you guys. Who's going to win physique, men's physique. Men's physique. Maybe the most competitive men's division in terms of guys who are fighting for the title, Joe Palacios. I think it's going to be a repeat of, uh, last year. Really? So Ryan and then Ali. Armand. I think Ryan's got it. Wow. We were going for a three-peat here. Bakery. I agree. I think Ryan got it, but Ali's going to be tough. I, I, I'm definitely going to go with Ali all day long. Wally. Best haircut in the lineup. I always say good hair could always be. And, uh, yeah. And he's got the best abs in the lineup. You know what? I got to, I got to give credit to him. Jeremy Boydian looks really good. Yeah. I mean, this guy is better watch out for him. I mean, he could win this thing. I mean, he's, he's, I was super impressed with the way he looked. I don't think I've seen a guy make a comeback after that many years off and look that good. I mean, I think he's better than when he won the Olympia. So. I think he looks better from the front. I think he looks better from the front, but not as good from the back. The back, maybe a little off, but the front, I think he looks better. Yeah. In this previous. And does anyone look, we, two, 12, maybe the lock of the entire Olympia. Uh, Keon. Anyone pushing him? Sean, the new kid, a knee hot out of Turkey. Watch out for Karath Bajo. Karath Bajo, of course. That's my guy. So. Uh, Zacharyella. I think Keon's in the league of his own at this point. I got a better question for you guys. How would Keon Pearson, your guys opinion doing the open class? Where would you place him? This year, if he announced it, literally I'm going to the opening. He said I'm doing the open this year. They gave him an invite. How would he do? I think he'd get fourth. Wow. You know what? I agree with him. I agree with him. Armand Keon, this year, open class. Fourth of fifth. Back. Well, I took a lot, a lot of heat through years ago when a hotty competed against Flex and everybody said, uh, how did it be flexed? Remember that show? That's a great comparison. The heat I took was that I said flex was the second best body I've ever seen. That flex was the second best body built in the world. We have so he's and everybody's like, he's two 12, two 12, two 12. Well, now we got two, two, two 12 champions. Um, hotty and, and there's Keon right now. Dave Keon right now, the open class where he's placed. I'm pulling up a palli of video. Hold on. I want you to, I got to put this up on the screen because this is from last year. This is last year after he won the, right after he won the Olympia photo shoot. Tell me, tell me, is there any flaws in that physique? Oh, no, no, that could be the, I mean, that's what Mr. Olympia should look like. Now he's obviously short. That's how you're sure, but that's Mr. Olympia. That's like the greatest physique of all time. You know, if you, if you really, I mean, he makes flex wheel. It looked like weak, but he's not, he's short. No, he's very short. I was going to say, like, what it is, like for me, why it's like, I have to see him next to the bigger structured guys. Cause he, when, when you see that size comparison in height, it, it's very like it stands out. And I think, you know, his insertions and stuff make you look incredible, but it's like, I want, I want to have him in like second, you know, but it's just because of that. I mean, you, if he was taller, there's no one that would beat this guy. No, this is not even close. It's number one all day. But that's going to bring us to the end of the show. Guys, I want to thank you big time. Joe, factory arm, and of course Dave next week is the Olympia. We're going to be in Vegas, providing wall to wall coverage in person. Uh, and then of course, if you're not going to be there, you're going to watch on YouTube during the actual show. We are going to have a reaction show. So Armin is going to be hosting it and we're going to have a cast with him. Just analyzing the show. It's going to be sort of like the manning cast, but for the Olympia and we're going to have that for both night shows. We're going to have that in the day. Right. All live for the two 12 for men's physique for classic physique. And then of course, after pre-judging and finals, we are going to have our star studded mega wrap ups as we do every year at the Olympia. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. And if you're not already following us on Instagram, that's where we're going to be posting live content during each pre-judging, during each finals official underscore RX muscle. We'll see you next time.