 I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species nutrition, I created Species nutrition, with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, dosed for maximum results, and the best for the best for the best for the best. sale, $24.99. Species Nutrition. SpeciesNutrition.com. Link below in the article description. Pre-judging, just letting out the final four. No surprise in the middle. It was Keon, it was Sean Clarita, and then we had a couple of new faces. We had the 22-year-old Mihat Kaya and Lucas Garcia. Very impressive. We saw one of the Texas Pro. What do you make of what we saw in that final four? Look, Keon is overwhelming. I mean, the guy was almost 15 pounds heavier than last year. I mean, he's going to the open class. I thought his conditioning could have been a little better from behind. It looks like the Instagram pictures, he was tighter. I don't know if he carved up a little too much. He's still the overwhelming winner as far as I'm concerned because the exercise he put on from last year just overwhelms Sean Clarita. Sean's actually leaner than he is. Sean's waistline still is not great, so I think on the thigh poses and some of the other side poses that Keon takes them out on those poses. So I'm giving Keon the win here, but Clarita's much better than last year. Sean Clarita, again, we talk about a back and forth between these two. Sean Clarita losing his title to Keon two years ago. What seemed obvious to me, much better control the midsection here today for Sean Clarita. Yeah, I thought this was a good look. I don't think Sean could have looked any better. He was big. He was hard. He was mostly controlling the midsection. As he got bigger, his midsection kind of got weird looking, and there's nothing he can do to fix it, but he controls it really well on stage. He's got a lot of good energy on stage. Keon is just, he's the master now of that 212 division. He can win that for the next 10 years, but I don't think we're going to see him. I think he's going to go up. Nehat, the young 21-year-old who kind of has taken everyone by storm. I was impressed, but I didn't think his conditioning level was, you know, next level. And I don't know if he tried to come in bigger here or what. His abs will kind of wash that a little bit. But, you know, he turns around, he's got glutes, he's got a fresh-looking physique, and he's definitely the future of 212. He certainly bounced. Another impressive outing for Lucas Garcia. We saw him win the Texas Pro six weeks ago. And coming into the show, we saw some of the progress pictures. A lot of pop packs, a lot of muscle on that frame. I thought both Nehat and Lucas Garcia got third and fourth because they have great glutes. The striations are there, the back was lean, the conditioning is good, and they have a lot of fresh muscle. Fresh muscle counts for something. Chris Cicino says that all the time. There's nothing like a nice fresh muscle where you don't have any skin hanging or anything like that. Personally, and I hate to say it because I helped him, but I thought that Kareth Baggio, who's probably going to finish fifth, I thought he could have been in that top four. He could have been third or fourth, and I don't think anyone would have complained. He had the best back on stage. His ab thigh pose was better than everyone's on stage, and he had a crazy muscle shot. So, you know, his glutes weren't as hard as Lucas' and Nehat's, and I think that's what hurt him, but it's not a glute contest sometimes. But I'm a conditioning buff, so I understand why the judges do that. I hope it gets re-judged tonight, and then maybe there's some shuffling, but I think Sean and Keon and Keon are clearly first and second. We'll see who wins. I got Keon. Well, finally, last night at the Meet the Olympians, you put Keon on the spot, so you wondered if you'd commit to going into the open class and staying in the open class. He was very non-committal last night, but with this look that he brought here in pre-judging, do you think it's an inevitability that this is going to be his final 2-12 show? I mean, given the size that he put on between last year and this year. He could win this division if he wants to forever, you know, but I really think that his goal ultimately is to be the best bodybuilder in the world, and he's young enough. Personally, if he can put on 10 more pounds, I don't even think he needs 10 more pounds. Well, he weighed in at 211.9, whereas last year he was 200 on the dot. Him at 220 on stage. He's going to win pro shows. You know, he's very short, though. You can see he's the shortest guy in 212. Even Sean Clarita is, I think, tall of him, right? Or maybe not Sean. Not Sean, but all the other guys. So, but I don't think it matters. I think he's that good. His waist is tiny. He's really good posing. I'd like to see him go to open. I know all the fans would, too. Well, we'll see what goes on as far as between now and next year, but what is certain is that Keon looks clearly ahead and looks like a good short bet for a three-peat in the 212 Olympia Finals tonight. A reminder, speciesnutrition.com, Olympia 30, 30% off, testalized, half price off at speciesnutrition.com. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadiq Faruqi. We'll see you tonight.