 I created species nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of species nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. I am here in a very secret location here in Columbus, Ohio. I am here with Mr. Olympia and Arnold Classic Champion, Hadi Shupin, and his translator, Habib. What's up, my friends? Good, good. How are you doing? Dave? I want to say, before we start the translation, just I want to say something that is really important for me, which is more than even the show. I want to honor the people who lost their life in Iran protests. And I want to send my condolence to their soul and their family, and I want to say we're going to be their voice here. Let me go to you, Hadi, because there's been a lot of controversy. You're usually the most quiet guy in the whole industry. We don't hear anything from you. You show up, you win shows, you collect your money, you go home. Now there's been a lot of backlash in the last month or two against you. What's going on? Can you give us your perspective? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. We can't vote for the vote- Getting Getting We can vote- We can vote- We can vote- We can vote- We can vote- We can vote- I've always been here for the people, and I've always been here for Iran. And at any time, in any way, they've never said that they were from such a government, such a country. I've always been here for Iran, for the people. And I'm here for now, as I'm here for a man, for the people, for the people. I'll try to remember all what he said. So he says, because I'm the first person from Iran I could attend the Miss Olympia and win the Olympia, probably there are some people from our federation and our industry, maybe they will feel jealous and try to just bring me down. But this does not represent the whole country, because I've always been represented and competed for my people. And when I win, when I received any success, they didn't call any government or any official on the stage. They called Iran, which is the people of Iran. And always I've been represented for the people of Iran, and I always competed for the people of Iran, and I'm going to be competing for them this year also. And I believe that wholeheartedly. But there are people who are suggesting that you were supporting the regime that's currently in place, and I personally felt, and you can give me your opinion, that maybe you were feeling pressure to support the government or not. Is that true or not? Many people say that you are supporting the government. What do you feel like in the sense that you are supporting the government? What do you feel like in the sense that you are supporting the government? These are the people who want to be against me or to make me against the government. I deny all of it. This is just a wrong opinion. Some people try to say that I belong to the government or have any relationship with them. I see you as a bodybuilder's bodybuilder. You love the sport. The sport is what you're about. You love to promote it. You love the fact that you are Iranian. You're proud of that. And that's the impression I got. And I don't... Why do you think it is that so many people unfollowed you and took a negative view of what was going on? Yes. Yes, but you expected the concept of body-building-ungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungenungen So most of the people, they're not Iranian people, and most of them are the bodybuilders, especially some of them that live out of the country. They don't know about what's going on inside the country. And I don't believe that them, they represent the whole people. And some people, maybe they get the wrong information and unfollow me, but some of them also could be the hater or the bodybuilders. So Instagram is just a platform and for me it's just a social media. Social media didn't make Hadi great or it cannot bring me down. I'm always trying to compete for the people and make them happy. Their happiness is the most important for me, not the social media numbers. Thank you. Some people, they accuse me that I get supported financially from the government, but they need to know that it's been eight, nine years I've been in the top Olympia and Arlo Classic. I want a lot of rewards and prizes, money. And if I really want to, it was supported from the government. I was staying in my home and just lay down and just get my support. I wouldn't do all this hard work to be here and compete in a show. Some people, they try to just release some wrong information and they don't know what they're talking about. Now a lot of people are saying that because of all the stress you're going through with all the negative publicity, that you're going to come in at less than your best. You're not going to be the Hati we're used to seeing. I tend to believe the opposite because I know your work ethic. And I said Hati will be better than he's ever been to prove to people that he is the best. What do you say to that? He said, I believe this all pressure, I had a lot of pressure for sure. And there was a lot of nights I couldn't sleep. I cried until morning because a lot of the negative comments I was receiving and a lot of negative judgment was about me, which was all wrong. But still, I'm a people soldier. I'm going to compete for the people. And by the time they will know, I'm on the people's side and I don't belong to any government. Will you be going back to Iran after the show or will you be staying in Dubai? Have you decided? Yeah, the Iran. He said, for sure, I'm going to back to home because I cannot stay more than one month out of the country. I'm going to back to my people, my family and my land. And this is going to be always my home. One final question. Who's got a better hairline? Kamali or Hadi? I think Hadi's got the better hair than Kamali. Yes. Yes, Yes Yes and other things. And the other thing that I know is that the the words of the words of the words of the words are not a good answer. It's not important. So I know Kamali as an athlete, but not as a person. And for him, it's also better to, if he wants to judge me, to get to know me first, because we never see each other even once. And he will forgive him for whatever he said, but just he needs to first at least have a vacation with me, trip with me, sit with me, then judge me, please, because... I like that. That's very, very diplomatic. That's very cool. Hadi Chopin is going for another Arnold Classic win. $750,000. Will he win it? We're going to find out Saturday night. Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. The powerful people, they don't make inside the social media. They're in real life. They get powerful and they self-made. And I'm the self-made person, not social media athlete. He's the people's champ for sure. Hadi Chopin.