There there have been improvements. We got to give props for that. You know, you actually did hit a crab finally. I'm like, dude, yeah. Why? Yeah. And I like why is this guy like, you know, every Mr. Olympia has to be able to hit a crab. Why are you not doing it? You do it. Let's practice. Hold on. Let's hit a crab. You know, you hit a crab. If he said this at the Olympia, if he said this in the Olympia last year, I'll probably kept balling my eyes out. But this is an Do your crab shot. Do your crab shot while we got Phil here. There it is. See? And then you know what's funny is like Now heat. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here at the IFB Pittsburgh Pro 2025. The finals have led out. I'm here with seventime Mr. Olympia Phil Heath and Chris the technician Aceto Derek Lunsford makes it two for two in 25 going for the three show win as he calls it the grand slam which will be the Olympia. After prejudging we said Derek was probably ahead. What clinched it for him? They said it was a tie tonight. They had to do a sudden death overtime. I never thought I'd ever see a so-called sudden death overtime in bodybuilding, but we had one here tonight in Pittsburgh. And uh I know the fans enjoyed it. I enjoyed it. But man, I know everyone was sweating. If I was Derek, I was sweating. If I was Nick, I was sweating. But uh what a great event. Do you think it was really for the fans or I I I personally didn't think it was that close. I mean, I I thought it was close, but I thought Derek really won in prejudging, which I heard. And I thought he did enough to win here tonight, I I was kind of a little confused by the sudden death, but it was great for the fans and the people watching on the live stream. Well, Phil used the term this morning, negation. And when I went to see the prejudge and I left and said, "Okay, it's not a blowout, but my eyes always came back to Derek, and that's why I thought he'd win." And then at the night show, I I still thought Derek had like just more detail, refinement, polish. I polish is a is a word that experienced people can see and it does win shows and that's why Phil won seven of them because he was the most polished. Uh and it gave him the appearance of being, you know, far bigger than the Roly Winklers or the Rams. Um, and at some part of the finals I thought I did sit up and think like I don't know if Derek's polish is negating the side chest on Nick the mo uh particularly that pose. While Derek looks better in the side. That's one pose though. Well, I know I the side shots were I mean I I agree. I think the side shots was it could be tossed up, right? Um, for me I always look at it's easy to look at the chest and stuff like that and Dererick's chest has improved right since you guys were working together. You saw it at the Arnold, we saw it here tonight. Um, you you start looking at the glutes and hamstrings and I think what our eyes did draw to regarding Nick is that we hadn't seen him stand next to anyone that formidable that has won a major title such as the Arnold and also the Olympia such as Derek Lunsford. So, when we saw that glute hamstring tie in and he did not fade as far as like the side, maybe in the front with the quads, I talked to a couple judges and they said from the front he start getting watery and stuff and I said, "Okay, that makes sense. What about from the side?" And they said, "No, he was crispers from the side. I can see how he could have got those two shots." Now, going uh the format, the format was quite different in my opinion. I never saw uh them go straight into confirmation. do routines. They'd usually do routines. And this is why because it was that close in their eyes. Um I was told by a couple guys that uh uh Derek wasn't winning after prejudging. I heard I heard he did win after Yeah. So it's like we always hear these things. Let me ask you a question. Let me ask both of you a question because were the fans and were the people watching the show and the people that we sit within the press very impressed with Nick because of how much better he was and because of the comeback? I almost felt like there was like everyone was rooting for Nick and he he delivered what we wanted to see but you still had to compare him to Derek which I didn't think he was he did enough to beat him. Yeah. I mean, the crowd was like very very Nick. Very Nick friendly, which is great and it's great for the sport. But look, there's been years where I competed where, you know, they cheer for Ramy, they would cheer for other guys. And you know, you know, when you're polished Yeah. Yeah. He got me on one. You always had another raceh horse in the race. That's right. terrible. But, you know, as the athlete, which which Derek is, right, Derek was able to hold himself composed and make sure that he did not fade, that he still improved on some areas. And I thought he was the most consistent. But, you know, here's something that I was and I'll share with you guys cuz we got to just talk real stuff here. I spoke to Nick and I said, "Look, there's times where you have to understand that you may feel that you were robbed. Yeah. You may feel that way because of the the outcome that it was undesirable, right? But you go there next week. You go to New York. You prove that you are mentally tough, that you're emotionally conscious of what you can bring, and you bring that in New York. You handle your business there. And if you want to get some real get back, you go to Vegas after you get that qualification and you run it back. You don't allow yourself to get down. You keep your chin up and you say, "Look, I if I'm Nick Walker, I would say, look, I pushed Derek to his limit, right? On paper, in front of the judges, in front of all the main judges that are going to be at the Olympia, I pushed him to the brink." And that's what you're supposed to do. You're supposed to apply the pressure. I'm my hat goes off to Nick because he did do that. Now, did he win? No. But look, I lost the Arnold Classic in 2010, right? I was up not really though. Yeah. But see that but this is what we're saying. We both say that's your best, right? So, we say that but like but my mentality was this. I was up by three after prejudging, lost by seven in night show and a one day show. 10-point swing. We could call it [\h__\h] all we want, but what you can't say is that you're going to hang your head. You keep your chin up and I told myself I'm never going to lose to that man again and you're going to go to work and you apply the pressure. That's what Nick has to do. Derek has to realize, hey, it was one point. There's a lot of work that I need to do because it was the Arnold and the Pittsburgh. It wasn't the Olympia. So now you got to everybody's got to do work. And as I said before, I'll say it again. There's not one dominant person in the world. Anyone can get beat on any given day. And look, this is bodybuilding, man. I mean, this was a great event. This was an awesome show. I The stage setup, everything was ran smooth. Um, but I'm just waiting to see and I'm hoping that Nick realizes that he's got so many fans on his side as a human being that he should just do these shows. Play that to his advantage. Yes, this is your time. Like, you can play the gter card if you want. You can do whatever you want with it. And with Derek, you guys are going to chat. You're going to celebrate. You're probably going to celebrate for one day cuz now you got real work to do. You're going to review it. You guys are going to do what you do. And the fans in New York, Chris, love Nick Walker. So, I'm sure Steve Weinberger loves Nick Walker's going there. I'm sure the fans going to love to see Nick Walker. We know Nick Walker is going to have his hands full with Riging Grimes. But if he goes near and wins, that's going to be a lot of momentum. Two shows in a row. He won 50 grand here. He'll win 30 grand in New York. I mean, he's got to be he can't be too disappointed if he wins next week. No. And I I'll just I just want to throw in last week on the radio you you talked about who's going to be the winner here and I said that was my brute honesty and I know Derek Harris stuff. I said there's no slam dunk at the Pittsburgh and all these shows. Good Vito was here. Who would have known who what would have happened? There's there's not slam dunks and you know people win shows, people lose shows. And I think, you know, where Phil's moving with that is when you lose shows, they're an opportunity to get better and, you know, a time to step back and evaluate, you know, where am I going with this? And just like when you win, just because Derek won these two big shows, me, I don't think he's a slam dunk for the Olympia at all. It's disrespectful to everyone else who's going to kill themselves physically to get ready for the show. That's right. Well, you're absolutely right with that and I appreciate you saying that. Even as his coach, you know, he's got everybody's got pressure and it's just how you handle it. And with Derek, he's got a great support system. He's just like we said before, he's just got to go back, re-evaluate, like you said, calm that nervous system, and then be excited over the fact that you're rolling into the Olympic with two two major wins. I cannot wait for the Olympia, man. This is going to be sick, dude. The person who is probably the most glad that Nick Walker won this show is Bob Chikorillo cuz Bob Bob predicted Bob predicted Nick Walker was going to be eighth at the Olympia. Well, it it was funny because now that you mentioned that if Nick would have won, it would have been the funniest mic drop ever. It would have been the awkward moment where Bob and Nick would have been on stage. It would have went viral probably. Nick would have probably grabbed the microphone out of his hand and just said something and said, "Who the f is Bob?" and slam it down and walk off. And it's going to handle the O the O. Yeah. Yeah. The OJ. But you know, but it's like what could have been. But hey, may have that opportunity in Vegas. But man, what a great show, man. Like this is what bodybuilding needed. You know, we need guys like Nick. I always said it. We need Nick Walker competing and he did. And again, he got second to a Arnold Classic champion, Mr. Olympia champion. There's nothing to be down about. He's right there. I told him, I said, "You're dude, you're if you if you don't press on the gas now, mentally, and I'm talking about mentally, you got to say, you know what? I got to find out who I am." Bodybuilding is not easy. It's no bodybuilding is about who you are, how you handle the stress, how you handle social media, how you handle the sponsors that want everything from you and pose and and post and all this other stuff. you got a lot of stress, but if you can just stay honed in on who you are as an a human being and just say, "Hey, I'm one rep, one set, one workout closer to my dream." And to me, the his dream should Okay, let's say he won this show, right? And he never went an Olympia. Yeah, that that so in his mind, he's got to think, what's my main goal? To win the Olympia. Okay, qualify for the Olympia, get get some get back. That's what makes the sport so special, you know? I I love the fact that Derek was honing in on his strengths and during the post down that's where I feel even like if there was anything that you could have checked off for Derek it was the pose down is that what one of I was going to say for me I was like you know what Nick wins tonight at the at the at the uh comparisons. What did Derek do an hour later to win? I don't know. I mean I I wish I could have been back here just to watch how they were receiving that information. I shout out to all the athletes to be honest because when you receive that type of information like hey it's a tie. Yeah, that's scary. That is scary. That's scary. As a champion coming in, you're you're thinking like, okay, why did they do that? I thought I was winning. You know, it it doesn't feel good. Why did they do it, Chris? Do you think that was for the crowd or you think it was or you think it was legit? I think. And what did you tell Derek to get his mindset in the right place? I I think when you go across the judging panel there are there's a some people who favor or appreciate the brutal mass which which is there of Nick and some people side with Derek's physique which is his physique. It's not the biggest onstage but there's there's to me look there's more bells and whistles to it. there's more refinement to it whether you know that's the bottom line in terms of the juxtaposing the two. So what did you say to to Derek? I I came back uh and I told Derek Derek said we have to go back out. It's a tie and I said well you have to fight for it and you're going to win or you're going to lose. So we still have time to try to do you know get a little bit better whether it be presentation. I ran him through his poses. Thank god I got a backstage pass. I gave him a little bit of food and and you know and instilled in him you know what he knows me there's no shame in losing and there's no arrogance in winning right so you have to you know I I wanted just him I wanted him to go out and fight like don't fake fight if you think you're the best guy present yourself as a winner and this is probably of any time he's ever been on stage this last pose down was the first time. I think we saw some like it fire in him. Yeah. Fire. Fire in the belly. The fire of the champion. Kind of like what we were talking about even after our wrap up in the morning. You know, we were talking about, you know, the identity of Derek Lunsford, making sure that like, yes, how bad do you want this? Like, are you really willing to let someone step into your space? And we saw that he was he was not going to allow that to happen. It looked a little to me, look, I I really loved how Nick looked. I thought he brought a great look to the stage. He he came in big. He came in full. He was hard. I thought he could have been a little tighter in the glutes, but he looked a little like almost like he was um out of it a little on stage. And I noticed he was chewing gum, too, which looked a little unprofessional. Did you notice that? I I saw the chewing gum, but I'm not Look, I don't even know in the rule book if that even matters. I judge from the neck. It just looks uh uncomfortable. Yeah. I mean, but maybe it made him feel comfortable because quite frankly, I mean, his physique did not fade. I was really impressed with how he showed up. But look, at the end of the day, you know, we had someone take the challenge, all the challengers, and he beat him. Here he is, the guy who beat him. Come over here, Derek. Stacking checks. The champ is here. Hey, we did it, man. This guy right here. I'm telling you, the real technician. What I want to know is when you came up, when you were back here after that first round of comparisons at the night show and you found out that it was that Nick beat you and it was a tie and you were going to have to go out there, what did you do? mindset to say to yourself, I'm going to win this show because that had to take a little air out of your sales. It's all about being resilient. I got to be honest, man. I mean, I I wasn't happy that we were going to go back out there. It was a tie. I wanted to come into the show and I wanted it to be a slam dunk. But I knew it wasn't going to be a walk in the park when I when I said I wanted to do the show. So, I never for a second, even when you interviewed me the other day, did I ever think that this was going to be a shoe win that I was going to win. I knew it was going to be a fight. Nick, Martin, Bonak, all them guys. But at finals, after finals, I had hoped that it was clear-cut. I won and that was it. When they said it was a tie, we're going back out there. I literally just had to think to myself like, we did not come this far to just Oh, another round of posing. Oh, okay. Let's freaking go. Let's go. Okay. Yeah. You look at you drank about 40 cups of coffee when you're out there. Well, I was locked in more than I'd ever been locked in. You can ask Chris. He was He can see it in my eyes. It's, you know, uh, Derek, Derek is a champion. Uh, physically, he's a champion mentally, and I think it was good that he was pushed to the limit because you can only improve your mental game when you're challenged. It's easy. He had the toughest mental game of anyone I know, Phil Heath. You have to stay competitive, and that's what Derek did. You know, at the end of the day, this is competition. This is bodybuilding competition. So when you do get pushed, you get pressed, you have to find it within yourself. This is what it's all about. You can't cry out a lot in the in the last hours of of a lot of Olympics. And it was because of what I did mentally and realizing that he's going to show up. He signed it. He actually signed the damn poster saying he was winning. But I had to realize that he's going to do him and I got to do me. And that's what Derek did. That's what Nick did. That's what all these guys did. But the person that won, he won, you know. And at the same time, you're going to learn things through wins and losses. But you learned a lot through this victory as we were sharing earlier. Um, you know, my thing is you won the show. Now you get to shut it down. You get to re-evaluate everything and you get to take what you learned. Look guys, what should you do now going into call it what it is? He's working with a new coach. It's not easy. People have to take that into accountability. Like it things are different. Like we are wired as athletes a certain way to our bio- rhythms are different. You look at any other sport that'd be like a quarterback, he's like winning all these Super Bowls and stuff and he gets a new coach. It they may not vibe right initially in preeason and then they do a couple, you know, week by week three. Now they're figuring it out. These guys seem to have figured it out pretty well. Well, talk about how to learn moving forward. How about we learn from the people that came before us? I learned from this guy right here, watching him go through all his battles, trials, triumphs, all that. Jay before him, Ronnie before him. So, I would always watch these guys and pay attention to more than just their physique. Who are they? I want to get to know who these guys are the best that I can. And thank God you put out a lot of social media content, but I would always, you know, try to see how they carry themselves through all like through the thick and thin, the highs, the lows, everything. And I seen him go through a lot of things. He has seven Olympia titles, one of the greatest of all time, one of the greatest physiques of all time, but he also had his challenges too all along the way. And I saw how he dealt with it like a true champion. And I'm like, listen, that's the kind of person I want to be. So hopefully I can do the same thing for more people. But it's not just me, it's not just him. There's a a lot of great people in this sport, in this industry, but also in other endeavors that we can look at and go, "Okay, they're champion-esque. I want to be like that." Chris, he's got an Olympia coming up in October. Obviously, he his body needs rest. What What do you do now with this guy? Um, I'm going to follow him follow him from here, you know, to the show. And, you know, with keeping in mind that he needs to improve still, um, what would you like to see him improve? I I would I would like to see better condition in the in the pecs. I'd like to see bigger pecs, which have they've improved. Uh I'd like to see uh more fullness to come train at my gym with me for those bigger pecs. If I want to get bigger pecs, I need him to come to my gym at Tampa. By the way, your ad pose was was very good today. It was good. No, it was really good. And and uh there there have been improvements. We got to get props for that. You know, you actually did hit a crab finally. I'm like, dude, why is this guy like, you know, every Mr. Olympia has to be able to hit a crab? Why are you not doing it? You do it. Let's practice. Hold on. Let's hit a crab. You hit a crab. If he said this at the Olympia, if he said this in the Olympia last year, I would probably kept balling my eyes out. But this is Do your crab shot. Do your crab shot while we got Phil here. There it is. See? And then you know what's funny is like we get to see this [\h__\h] after, right? But that's the cool part about the sport is that you get to learn. And Derek being the humble champion that he is, he's actually paying homage to the previous guys that came before him. learning, analyzing, asking questions. He travels. He travels just as much as we do. So, we see each other in passing. He's always my He already knows like he can hit my line. All these guys can hit my line because I just want the sport to continually grow and I want guys to be at their best cuz they're putting their When you talk about bodybuilding, man, like you're putting your body through so much stress that other sports don't, right? So, you need to get the most bang for your buck in this sport, you need to know that like, hey, there is a time where I'm going to win. There may be a time that I lose, but what a better story. You know, your story is going to be remembered because of the fact that you had peaks and valleys, you had different coaches, you had different sponsors. Those are things that tell the great story. And being 5 years removed from the sport, I can tell you on this side, you remember those moments. You get to speak about those moments. You get to help other people with those moments because you realize ultimately we are not alone. So, you're never alone. You always got people that support you. And look, some of the some of the same people will support Nick, but because we just want everybody to When you get to this level though, it seems to be a more of a mental game. And I think that's what you're really good at, the mental game. Well, the mental game, I mean, I knew who I was dealing with, you know, like I knew I knew I knew the type of personality and I also played different sports, so I understood like this is not boxing. Like I understand, but that's where they're at. The physiques are peaked at this point. It's a mental game. You know, Derek's still young, so like he has opportunity to still grow. like he's working with a new coach. So he So they're going to try things different. They're going to play around with things. And the cool thing is that they were able to when I say play around, they're able to change things up, but they're still winning. So you almost have to think as a as a champion that like for me when you're able to win and you can say I wasn't really at my all-time best. That's good. Yeah. Like that's how it works. Like Ronnie won at at 90%. Jay won at 90%. Yeah. No, [\h__\h] that. I whooped the ass. But but um but no, but seriously, I just knew how to make it happen on a two-day show. But for a one-day show format, I don't think we've seen a a Mr. Olympia champion recover recover then do a two-day show, the Arnold, win that, and then do a one-day show. The body is different. So when people will say online, oh well, you speak for prejudging, you think, well, yeah, your body is static. It's not dynamic, you know, like it, you know, actually it's more dynamic than static. It's not like a straight line. It's more dynamic. Excuse me, I haven't had anything to drink. I need food. Well, you get all dehydrated for this interview, you know, at this probably. But overall, I'm just trying to tell you, man, you did great. Thank you. You're loved. You're appreciated. You get to roll in. You got your beautiful wife over there. you going to be able to, you know, you got some extra pocket money, you know, and you know that the champ is always the the it's never the they love the underdog. So even if you hear the audience rooting for Nick Walker because you're the you're the guy in the driver's seat right now, he knows they booed for you for years, you know? I mean, look, like they sell tickets. Yeah. I show up, I do my job, I collect the check, and then I bounce. But that's bodybuilding. You cannot walk out there assuming that everyone's going to love you. You can assume that they're going to respect you because of what you put out there. And people know, I used to boo Phil Heath and then post career, they're like, I'm a huge freaking fan because they know what you brought. They know your energy. They know your comp your your passion. It was like with with Ronnie and Jay. I mean, they people wanted Ronnie to lose so bad, right? And they would they Jay fans were crazy in the audience. Well, just I think you summed it up. People love the the underdog. You know, when Phil came on, people like love Phil and then once he's, you know, winning too many times. Yeah. Wins too many times. Everyone wants to see him fail. It's the way it is, you know, but it's a good place to be. You're a champion. You proved it again tonight. You went under a very formidable force with Nick Walker. I know he's going to win and get some get back. You guys going to run that back? I cannot wait to get to Vegas, man. I cannot wait to get Question for the champ here. Everybody's talking about Phil Heath coming back after seeing all Hold on. Hold on. Hold up. Hold up. After seeing all them rounds, you want to come back and do them rounds like that? That would be easy. That's the easy part. No, I mean serious. Like if if my mind was there because I know what I sign up for. I know how Steve is. He was doing that stuff to me back in the '08 Iron Man. Because when you make it easy, the level of difficulty has to increase. No different than the level of difficulty in a video game. You wanted to see who had the who had the balls to stand. He really didn't answer that question. I mean, if I want to do a master Olympia, they would have to make that prize money crazy. Crazy. That's insane, you know. But, you know, I the money is really good now. Yeah. The money is good all around. And I'm glad that these guys were able to make some life-changing money with it, you know, and I'm glad that they were able to This guy just earned $600,000 in the last two shows, dude. It's insane, man. Like, more than you made in two years. Oh, you made 400 toward the end. You know, I was like, let me count real quick. He goes, "Let me count real quick." Hey, the good part is is that for me, I'm on the other side. I get to watch. I get to critique. I get to commentate. I get to do all this other stuff. I get to be a a big bro or mentor friend. And I'm in a great spot like for me to actually want to put on tanning and posing trunks again. That's not ever going to happen. I wasn't kidding to train with me though because that'd be I think that'd be sick. Oh man. It'd be great for me, but I think the fans would love it too, bro. Like if I was throwing it out there. You going to go visit? You going to go train? If I'm doing that, there ain't no cameras. Like that's how we roll. Like you know what I mean? Like that's how we roll. We're just there to get better. All right. Phil Heath might be going out to Derek's new gym. Do a few training sessions. Chris, um Martin Fitzswwater finishes third, Bonak fourth. I could have flipped it either way. Yeah, I had Bonak in the prejudge and Fitz Water at night. So that's how you know they judge. You know, they changed things around, right? Uh Williams, he's still got it. He's still got it. Nothing to hang his hat on. You know, like William William is holding off a lot of good bodybuilders. Really good bodybuilders. Um the resilience of that guy. How old is he now? What? 42. 40 42. He's still He still looks great, man. You know, I retired at 40. I mean, I that's my last show at 40. So, you know, God bless him, man. I mean, he's still out there. He's putting on the show. He's still able to his his mobility with that type of mass during his routine and he loves it and that's what's really good, you know. Aaron Banks wins men's physique. Congratulations. And uh Rough Diesel pulls out a very close victory. I I wasn't so uh convinced of that victory. What did you think about that? You know, he it was somebody it was one point like this and it's two different physiques. He's I've always loved loved loved his physique. He knows how to present what he's got more than anyone in the IFBB. Um, he was up against somebody who's young with fresher muscle, Jose Manuel peeled out of his mind. When I saw the guy, I I said, you know, sometimes you forget what really peeled is and I I He was harder than the guys in the open. Yes, he was. And I put it in my head to think like that is the goal for people who I know. Not that's dangerous stuff right there. Like especially when he turned to the side like he he he would turn around and he would show like I'm a glutes, hamstrings, corded type of dude. Like I love to see that cuz we know that that is a killer shot. He uh his back double. Oh man, thick detailed. It was nasty. But you know, Rough Diesel, man, he came up with the victory, man. And and that's again, I hope there's a rematch next week in New York. Hey, it's one point. So it may go the other way. Yeah. A lot can happen in a week. Well, I had a great time. I want to thank Jim Manion, Tyler Manion, JM Manion, all the Manions for putting on a phenomenal first year uh Pittsburgh Pro with the expo. This is going to be a a yearly thing now, and I'm looking forward to coming back every year. Thank you for inviting us, rolling out the red carpet, VIP treatment. Thank you, Phil, for joining us in all the wrap-ups. And of course, Chris, my brother from another mother, uh and Sid behind the camera. We had a great group of guys here. RX Muscle killed it this weekend. And we'll be back again next week with Chris and Sid in New York. Uh Nick Walker, will he win? Will he beat Regan Grimes? We won't know till next week. For now, I'm Dave Palumbo with Phil Heath and Chris Aceto. We'll see you next time.