We talked about the possibility about him getting arrested. Well, it happened. The uh police department showed up at the Four Seasons Hotel where he's been staying ostensively to confront Joe Rogan. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition Products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here with an RX Muscle news update. We talked about the liver king yesterday and how insanely crazy he's been acting lately. We talked about the possibility about him getting arrested. Well, it happened. the uh police department showed up at the Four Seasons Hotel where he's been staying ostensively to confront Joe Rogan and they arrested him for threat terroristic threats. Uh I don't know if he's a terrorist and I I it seems a little trumped up these charges. I'm sure Joe Rogan must have made a phone call to the police department and said, "Hey, this guy's a nut and I'm a little nervous about the fact that he's come to Austin where I live and he's threatening, you know, that he wants to fight me." But I don't see personally despite how crazy he's acting and and it seems like he's definitely on some drugs. Uh, obviously the Liver King's real name being Brian Johnson. He showed up with his family and his kids, you know, his wife and kids. I don't think he was showing up to do anything menacing or anything very dangerous to Joe Rogan. Not with his family there. I think that he legitimately felt that Rogan would get in the ring with him and that they would they would have a fight. They would get into the octagon fight. He was fully ready to to be tapped out. He even said it. He goes, "I I I fully expect you're going to tap me out, choke me out, and I will not tap out. I will go unconscious, and it's fine." And I and he was actually talking about the fact that he's actually looking forward to it, like it was going to be something like cool that he's going to get to do. I mean, you're a black belt, but you you you never come across something like this. Willing to die, hoping that you'll choke me out. I pray to God because that's a dream come true. It feels good. And then the limbs I fight for my family limb limb limb limb. Go ahead. And you know that he's a little wacky. And I didn't really see like anything that would indicate that he's going to do anything dangerous to Joe Rogan at all. So I kind of think that the cops arresting him was really not justified in that sense. I kind of felt bad for him. But you know what? He was acting like such a cuckoo bird when they came there and he's trying to st he sounded like my like nine-year-old, you know, son, like trying to stall because he doesn't want to go to sleep at night. He's like, "Can you give me 12 more minutes? Can you give me five more minutes? Can you give me two more minutes?" Before they took him, you know, and he I got to take a [\h__\h] I got to do this. I got to I got to do that. I got to eat a meal. And you know, he was acting like really crazy. Whenever I needed to. And I'm going to also do everything that I can with a amount of time. And I'll try and explain the little least amount that I quoted to you. We we agreed on 12. Correct. 12 minutes. That's correct. There's 12 ancestral tenants. You know that? I do. Yeah. They're actually principles. Principles. And I asked another man how much time how much time I have. He said n zero. Obviously, uh the liver king has plenty of money. He's staying at a really fancy hotel. And you know, I think he felt this was a good publicity stunt probably to promote his channel and everything that he does. Unfortunately, I don't know if he's on drugs or not, but he's acting very erratic and irrational and and saying some like he's kind of talking like a drunken person. So, I don't know what's going on in his brain or what he's on, but if he had been doing it in a coherent, you know, very sarcastic manner, I don't think that he would have gotten arrested. or if he would have it, I think it it would have been a lot more sincere that, hey, I'm being victimized just because I'm calling out this guy on social media. Everyone calls everyone out. No one else gets arrested. Why am I getting arrested? But he was acting like such a weirdo about it that I really think the cops were like, I think we should take this guy in. This guy is, you know, this guy is is he needs psychiatric evaluations, you know, here going on because he's not he's speaking like gibberish, a lot of it. And you know, he's meanwhile he's yelling at all the guys that work for him, make sure you don't stop filming this, keep filming, keep filming. So, obviously, he knew that there was some sort of a marketability aspect to what was going on, but in my viewpoint, it was not a positive marketability for him. It kind of made him look like a crazy person. And, you know, eating raw bull testicles and bone marrow is kooky, but it's kind of fun cookooky, right? I mean, because eating berries off a bush in his in his backyard is kind of fun. You know, it shows he's a little crazy, but but it's kind of like a fun video. You don't think of the guy as like, you know, being like, you know, needing a psychiatric, you know, evaluation. He's just doing something for the camera. He's performing and he's living this like quote ancestral lifestyle. But when he starts like talking in circles and and and talking about, you know, the universe and weird, you know, things going on and, you know, what's talking cryptically about Joe Rogan and what he's got coming to him and it gets a little scary, you know, and and he he has a big following. I'm sure if he was just some cuckoo guy that no one followed, no one would give a crap. But I don't know if if Rogan called the cops or Rogan told the cops that, you know, he felt threatened by this guy purposely just to kind of make a spectacle of him and get back at him because Rogan knows he can't fight this guy because it's not going to happen. You know, someone's going to sue someone. And Rogan just, you know, he's a comedian. He's he's cracking jokes at this guy's expense. And now this guy is like losing his mind that he wants to fight Rogan. Rogan's probably like, "I wish I never even brought this guy up." Probably because he doesn't need Liver King publicity. He's got Donald Trump coming on his show. You know, he's got big names coming on there that that are give him a lot more publicity in in a much more normal sense. He does not need some lunatic who's eating, you know, bull testicles, you know, who who wants to beat him up, you know, and and and for some sort of fame and fortune. What might have been funny is he should have just asked the Liver King to come on his show and they could have had security there and they could have just aired out the whole thing. I mean, that would have been really funny. But I'm sure that's what the Li King wanted cuz he wanted that publicity from Rogan. But I think it would have been at this point because it escalated to such the degree that it did. I think that that would have been a better option. And that's obviously why Brian showed up. He wanted to get on on on Rogan's show. Rogan should have said, "You know what? Calm down. Fine. I would have had extra security there if I was Rogan. They could have had a metal detect to make sure no weapons were being brought in there and he could have had this lunatic on the set and he could have exposed him for being on drugs or or or or out of his mind right then and there. It would have been over with and that would have been the end of it. And it probably would have been the end of the Liver King. The Liver King probably would have lost all credibility with his viewers because he's just not acting rationally. Now, if he was rational and he was he was sober and he went in there, it might have been a good conversation. So, I don't think Rogan could have lost on this one. Uh I just think that Rogan didn't want to give him the uh pulpit to be able to, you know, talk his gibberish on his show. He felt it wasn't worth it and he opted to have him arrested. There's no way they're going to be able to keep this guy. Yes. What did he say? They listen, just take this with a grain of salt, but they assured me he's going to be in. Yeah, it's like you got to process you bail out, but we're talking probably 24 hours. 24 hours. Maybe first thing tomorrow he sees the judge. I don't know. Oh, this is not an hour. I don't know. He is no threat to anyone. He hasn't done anything. He hasn't threatened him other than to say, "I want to fight you." Uh, you know, in in in a a ring. He's not going to the guy's house. Although I think he was planning to drive by the guy's house with his car or something like that. I don't know what what what his his, you know, his plans were, but he was certainly no threat to Joe Rogan. He wasn't going to blow up his house, not with bringing his wife and kids to Austin. He was trying to make a spectacle of the whole thing. And Joe Rogan knew that and he overreacted. Uh I don't know why, but you know, that was his option he took. I'm sure the liver king will probably be released in a day or so. Maybe they baker acted him. I don't know. Maybe he is on substances. I don't know, maybe they drug tested him. We don't know any more than what's been reported at this point. For now, the Liver King has been arrested. Stay tuned for further updates on the Liver King as they come in. Dave Palumbo with an RX Muscle news update.