Nick Walker has confirmed he's headed to the New York Pro. I created species nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we are back live for another edition of Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palumbo, joined by the technician Chris Aceto. We are back from Pittsburgh for the first annual Pittsburgh Power Pro uh expo and men's open bodybuilding show where $100,000 was won by Derek Lungsford and that's two for two this year. Wins the Arnold, wins the second leg of what they're calling the Triple Crown and he's going to be heading to the Olympia in October. Chris, great job as his coach. Uh, you know, I have all these guys texting me all day long and they all they're saying to me is everyone thinks Nick got ripped off. I said, "Yeah, everyone except the judges and the guys sitting in the front row in the second row where we sat at the show who actually got to see what was going on." So, um, it was obviously a nailbiter. It was a tie going into the uh, actually it was a tie and they actually had like a sudden death pose down and it came out in Derek's favor. So, give me we heard, you know, your your opinion, my opinion, but now that you've had some time to digest it all, give me the analysis. Well, I I'm hearing rumors that when they gave the uh the piece of paper that had uh Nick's name on it as the winner, that Bob Chick announced it as Derek. So, you're funny. to save face. There's going to be an investigation into that. I forgot the question, Dave. That's how tired I am. What's your analysis of of the weekend? In other words, people want to know why uh Derek won. And I'm I'll give you my opinion in a minute, but I want to hear your opinion first. Well, I mean, we can go pose by pose with the last call out. And I I think that to really draw the distinction, they needed the last call out, which, you know, if it was it was tied. Um, I mean, I have my opinion, uh, you know, which is obviously biased. Uh, but I tried to take a neutral opinion. I mean, Nick looked incredible. Um, I I think that there was an expectation that it wouldn't be close, and obviously it was more than close. was tied and the judges put him through the ringer, I mean the ringer at the end. And I think that Nick was better at night and I think that Derek was um definitely better at night. And I mean that's obviously one shot you got up on the screen. That's it's just one shot, but Derek was fantastic at night in the back shots. You know, his Christmas tree was better. He's probably the only guy in the show with a Christmas tree, which could be better. Could be still better. His Christmas I think Mart Martin came in at the at night. It wasn't there in the prejudging. Yeah. Yeah. It wasn't there at the prejudging and um you know I I think you have to analyze really to treat the show fairly, which the judges did obviously. you know, you got to go pose by pose because there's there's poses that I think that Nick won and there's poses that Derek won from my vantage point, you know, sitting in the fifth row. Yeah, I think that this there's a um and you know I'm a Nick Walker fan. Like I like I really like his physique a lot and um I think a lot of fans do because we like freaky muscle. We like you know conditioning and there's a there's an underdog aspect to Nick because he he he missed you know the last two Olympias. He wasn't his best at New York Pro last year and you want to see the guy come back and and reclaim his, you know, grandiosity that he had prior to that. And I think that it was close enough that the the Nick Walker fans wanted to see Nick win. But, you know, being, you know, I had no horse in the race. You did, but I had no horse in the race. And I sat there and, you know, I'm a guy who likes Nick's physique. I like Derrick's physique, too. But I had to sit there and say, who's who sticks out in my mind. I didn't think there was I didn't think it was not close. I thought it was very close, but I also thought that there was no doubt in my mind that Derek was the winner. And I don't know why, but my eyes just went to Derek. More dynamic. He had more wow factor. Uh Nick was dramatically improved. I'm sure Bob Chick was was shaking in his boots at how good Nick improved and how much better his physique is, but it wasn't better than Derek's in my estimation and the judge's estimation on that night. And and that's the that's just the way it is. Um we were sitting there. If I wasn't in the second row, I wouldn't have such a strong opinion. But sitting in the second row, you were a little behind me. I felt that it wasn't close. You kept asking me, I said, "I don't think it's close. I think Nick I think Derek's got it." And I said, "Um, you know, he's the winner." I said, "Is this a great look for Nick?" Yes. Will he do New York Pro next week and probably win? Yes. Um, and he did announce, by the way, Chris, that he will be doing New York Pro um next week. He wasn't sure at first. I'm sure he just was pissed off that he lost, but he is um you know, one thing I noticed about Nick, he wasn't as um uh it seemed like Derek had more energy on stage than Nick did. And that's usually it's usually the opposite, right? Yeah. I mean, I I saw that point, too. But I I mean I People are going to say that you're biased because um you know, you're friends with me, but I that's the way I saw it with you. I was frankly, you know, I didn't think by I said last week it's not going to be a slam dunk. And I meant that. I almost And I didn't think it was a slam dunk, but I thought that um you know, I kept on I asked you because I heard that it was really close and and I thought that Derek was winning and I was trying to make an argument for Nick in my mind. Um and I couldn't. But then you know you you you can you know you're you you you can if you've you someone can obviously the judges can you know let's go pose by post here front double um I think that for me was like Derek that's Derek to me doubt um that's not the yeah without a doubt I mean he he just looks incredibly vapored in real he opens up and at certain times that's not the best picture of when he's opened up, but when he's he's not fully into the pose with the arms back, but when he's really opened up, it's a super vapor. Yeah. Um he's got that big big those big lats that pop out of the sides really make a big difference. paper and it just it's hard regardless of how big like Nick's arms are to to win that shot against Derek at that show. Yeah, I got front lat spread Derek because of the the V tape. He's got like AI think Nick should hold his hands lower, don't you think? On around his waistline a little bit more. It's a kind of an awkward pose for him. Well, I I think it would it may elongate his torso a bit, you know, so maybe that's why the hand positioning, but I don't I don't think regardless of where he would hold the hands that he win this pose. So, in my mind, you're watching the show, it's like, okay, you know, there's two poses. I'd like to see Derek vacuum that pose, too, like he does for the um front double. Yeah, I think he would look even better in that pose. His waist would be tinier. side chest. Now, this is where a lot of people think Nick won this pose. I I probably would give it to him. What do you think? Yeah, Nick won this pose. And you know what? What one of the things Derek does wrong in this pose is his foot his that's facing the audience is a little too far forward and I think he's not getting the uh the hang on the hamstring because he's not push squeezing his thighs together enough on this one. Yeah, I think you may be right there. Yeah, but yeah, it's a good shot for Nick. Back double. Uh Derek. Derek. I mean, you could just see glutes and hamstrings. I mean, it's just that's his shot. I mean, the lower lat, you know, insertions. He's really thick down there. Oh, it's like the hunchback of Notre Dame on the back double, you know. Exactly. There's a lot of beef there that there's not only a lot of thickness, but the the width and then um I I think Nick's more developed in the hamstrings, but when you you know, Derek is tighter in the glutes and hams. Yeah. I mean, I think he took that shot as well. Last spread. Same thing. I thought Nick brought up that last spread, but um uh I thought that Derek is wider in the back and he's got trap thickness thrown on top. You know what I mean? He's got like he's thick in the back glass, but not only wide, but like, you know, comes he's got traps. So you can see the traps right on the back last spread, right? Yeah, he's got a lot of density in his back. Side tricep. Side tricep. Um I thought about a lot. I like, you know, Derek was tighter in the lower body for sure. Um Nick's got a bigger arm and bigger side leg, too. Yeah. And so I I thought I liked the way like the shape of Derek. So, initially I would say shape and then I'd say Nick's size. And so, since I couldn't like make the argument for for Derek here, I wasn't quite sure. I'd give that one I can see that one going to Nick, too. Even though I think in real life, for me, in real life, Derek looked more conditioned in it than I don't know about you. It's a little he had a lot more wow in that pose, but I but Nick had a little bit more, you know, pop in some of the po some of the things. The the one thing I I was worried, not worried, but I was like a little like weirded out by Nick didn't seem like he was smiling the entire time he was up there. He he seemed very stoic almost and I I don't know if that what the reason was behind that because usually he's like, you know, beaming up there. I wasn't getting the energy and I wasn't connecting with Nick as like I normally am like when he won the New York Pro like that last time and you know not last even last year he he he connect he wasn't his best and he was still connecting with the audience and everything like that. He seemed very like um I don't know maybe unsure of himself or maybe just very stoic. I don't know. He I think he has to really allow his personality to flow out like he normally does. Uh, I think that's important for him because it really it does it is very he is very charismatic normally and pulls the judges and I think Derek was way more charismatic at this show. Well, here here's what we got so far. I gave the front two shots to Derek, shots to Nick and then the back two shots to Derek. So, you're four four to two right now. Yeah. Okay, let's go to the next shot. Apathy. I gave it to Nick. Okay. So, now you're at 43. Yeah. And I think the first pose was Hold on. The first pose was the most muscular. That's not really good. That's They're both really not in in pose here. So, I gave it to Nick. Oh, but then you're tied according to your You got 44 then. Yeah. So, then what wins it for Derek in your mind? Well, I because he's there were shots that he in my mind that he he's the shots that he won he stood out more on. If that makes sense. Front double like front double, front lat, back shots. I thought like, okay, those are they're not slam dunks, but they're they're definitely strong wins. And then side tricep in real life. I think you could make the the I was gonna say I gave the side tricep to Derek in my in my I know a lot of I I know people I asked I don't want to say their names, you know, because just people beat up on them. Like I said, you know, what do you think? And they said, "No, I gave him the side tricep, too." Yeah. Yeah. That one I was not a thousand% sure on. So even though they said side tricep, so that one I gave to Nick and the side chest I definitely gave to Nick. So, um, but like the back shots and the front shots, I think he beat him more than, let's say, Nick beat him on the side, chest, side tricep. I think most muscular, um, though, uh, I think Nick is very dominant on. Yeah. Well, Derek usually wins it for me on the back shots. This shot in my This is what won it for me. You know, that front double was just very, very deadly. And I thought that that when I saw that shot, I'm like, this guy's the winner. Yeah. Well, when he when he when when he was able there, he's like opened up more. When he was really opened up, it looks really really big on stage. Like really big. And I don't know if you know it's captured in pictures or videos, but um I um I think you know some some shots and I hate to say this because it's true and it worked against me too. Some shots count more than others. And and let me explain what I mean by that. I mean that when the judges look at certain poses, they just give it more credibility and it and it it really influences their decision as to who wins. And I and I hated this because these were not my best shots. Front double bicep, standing relaxed. Those two poses are huge. You got to remember when the judges are thinking about things and evaluating the guys are standing relaxed there when the first pose you hit and probably the last pose they hit is front double, right? So, it it's it's just a quintessential bodybuilding pose. Derek won those two poses in my mind very convincingly. And I think at the end of the day, when the judges had to make a decision, Nick or Derek, that's what won it for Derek. And and and and I know it sounds ridiculous, but that shot has more value in in in value because remember, there's no point system. You're not judging on like gymnastics or ice skating where you're where you're actually picking certain skills and giving it value. It's a it's an overall impression as a judge that you have to make as when you make a decision. And I think that that those two poses one for Derek. Yeah. I I I I judge it in my mind, Dave, always by like the with with with me if like I have someone in the show like the worry factor. The minute I start worrying like then I then I then I know it's a loss. And so that sounds terrible or arrogant, but like I never worried because I was like weighing all those things like stand and relax front you I mean those the front double front last back shots were pretty strong wins for Derek you but of course um you you can't you can't discount Nick's side chest by the way. It's it's monumental which is a a phenomenal shot for him. you know, the those shots what you mentioned, stand and relax front double. Um, I did get a little the little worry factor came in, you know, when they hit the most muscular because Nicks is like chock busting, you know. Um, and I thought like gosh, you know, that could have a a a a big finishing role because it's the last pose and it's the one in which Nick looks like just gnarly hard and gnarly big. It's like if you could come up with the best most muscular right now in the sport, it's like Nicks and Samsons. Yeah. Yeah. and and you know, so those are poses that you don't want to, you know, compete against because they're hard for anyone to beat. Yeah. Yeah. But, you know, but like I said, I keep seeing over and over again, you know, the people who watch the show online really felt that Nick won and and convincingly. And like I said, I didn't watch it online, so I don't know. I watched it in person and I'm giving you my honest opinion. Let me ask you this, Dave. Yeah. Whose condition was better? I think that I think that Derek from behind was better. So, I mean I you can't but from the front, you know, Derek always has the ab problem where the abs are not deeply etched. So, it looks like he's not necessarily in condition from the front, but he but that's just his his abs. But when you see that back double bicep, I mean, that tells you who's in shape. I mean, I I So, I I you know, I can give them even I I'll say they're they're both conditioned evenly. Let's let's put it that way. I thought that Nick can still be tighter and I think Derek can still be tighter in certain areas, but um I agree with you on both of those. I don't think either one of them were their absolute best. And maybe if if if Derek looked at like he did at the Arnold, people would say, "All right, yeah, he convincingly won." But he was good enough to win. It's it's you know, you don't have to always be your best to win a show. You know, he was still really good. And uh I think that a lot of the people online, once again, they have a certain they got a certain perspective watching the live stream that that we didn't get down there in person. And it was that close. So, everyone's going to have their own opinion. If you like Nick's physique better, then you're going to pick Nick. If you like Derrick's physique, you're going to pick Derek. And and that that's just the way it is. And it was so close that the judges couldn't really decide. They flipped the coin. Let's let's let's look at it from this perspective for a second. Derek is qualified for the Olympia already. You mean he as Mr. Olympia, as winning the Arnold, he didn't need this was the show he was doing and he was done. Nick Walker, on the other hand, has to qualify. Okay, Nick Walker wins Pittsburgh. He probably shuts it down till the Olympia. Guess what? Now Nick Walker has to do New York, which he just he actually confirmed he's going to be doing. I'll pull up there. Confirms he's in New York. He's coming for the win. He's gonna try to be the only guy to ever win the New York Pro three times, get three rings. That's going to be awesome. I I I have no doubt that he has a very good shot of doing it. I know Regan Grimes is going to be in the show. We'll talk about that a little bit later. But this is good for business, too. You know, number one, not only just good for the promoters business, Steve Weinberg, but it's good for Nick Walker's business, too. So, this this sometimes in the loss, you actually get a benefit from it. You know, it used to help me when I would get, you know, second places all the time and it would be the magazines would cover me more because of that and I got a lot of publicity and I got a lot of guest posing from it. So, this is going to make Nick Walker more popular, not less popular. And he shouldn't look at it as a negative. He should try to see the positive in this because if he comes into New York next week and he wins in front of that New York crowd, which is his hometown crowd, you know, he's from Jersey, it's going to be huge, you know, and people will be talking about Nick. People will forget about what Derek did. They'll say Nick won three New York Pros. He just won $30,000, which almost brings him up to the same amount of money that he would have won had he won just Pittsburgh. So, I don't think this is actually a negative for Nick. I think this is only a positive. He showed that he he was able to come back at his best. He pushed Derek Lunsford, who's Mr. Olympian, the Arnold champion, right to the brim brink, which says I'm up there with these guys. I'm top three at the Olympia come, you know, October. And now he's going to get to do New York Pro because he's got an excuse to do New York Pro. Whereas if he wins Pittsburgh and then goes to New York, people say he's he's trophy hunting or he's he's prize check hunting. This way he gets to do the show and he gets two two bangs out of it. Uh it's really no extra steam off his head. You know what I mean? It's not like a big deal. It's not going to deplete him any more than if he would have just done one show. So I think this is actually a good thing for Nick Walker. Well, I mean you you got to make you know lemons lemonade out of lemons, whatever that saying is. But I'm sure, you know, it's it's it's a it's always a tough it's a tough loss no matter what simply because you're at your all-time best and uh you know, if Derek had lost. I mean, not what's worse than losing a tied show, you know? Yeah. No, of course the guy who loses is gonna hate is gonna suck. It's like it's like losing in uh tennis when you have a you're tied at the end and you got to sucks. It sucks when it's like that close or you know it's tied because if it was Derek who lost or if it was um you know if it was Derek who lost or if it was Nick who lost. If it was Derek, I'd say like, you know what, I wonder if he was tighter on Thursday or it should have been, you know, maybe he should have been fuller or maybe he should have been this or that or maybe, you know, all the may no matter who you are, start to enter your mind in terms of what you probably should have done retroactively to, you know, get that extra point. I mean, point or whatever. I don't know what the final I don't know how they decided it, you know, at the end end if they they tallied up all the scores of game. They tallied up. Yeah, they they everyone voted. Yeah, that's how they You know, the interesting thing is I was kidding with Derek that the Olympia, right, it's a two-day show. And I always say the Olympia is like two shows in one, right? This was three shows in one. It was the pre, was the finals, right? And it was the third show, which is the tiebreaker, right? It was a tough It was a long day for these guys. It, you know, I see people writing like, "Oh, Martin was better than Derek." I'm like, these people clearly don't know what they're looking at. I mean, that is that is Dave, that's the problem. Yeah. And frankly, that is the problem with commenting with authority when you're not even at the show. Right. Right. Because Martin was nowhere near um his best. Right. And to say that based on any video or any photo, I mean, you you probably could find photos where if you're not at the show, you say this guy should have placed higher, but the placings were the placings. And in fact, the placings I didn't really check the scorecards, but I I had at the night show um Martin third, but I had him like solid solid solid fourth after prejudging like Yeah, I had I had Bonak beating him too. Yeah, sure. Bonak was better in prejudging like marketkedly. So, I was surprised when uh they showed up at night and there came, you know, Martin dramatically better. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you know, that's that's the problem when you have a when you have an internet, you know, audience, you know, voting or deciding who's going to win, who's not. You guys, listen to me. I I promise you if you were there in person, it was different. And there look, there were plenty of people there in person who thought the Nick should have won, too. But the bottom line is that, you know, it was not a blowout on either part. Even if you think that Nick should have won, it would have been by a hair. Okay? So, both people won by hair. We're not saying that Derek decimated Nick. It wasn't. It was that close. It was I wonder I wonder too. I mean, I I don't really care because Derek won, frankly. But I do wonder, you know, just for the idea of wondering, you know, you have in prejudging, Nick won, in the finals, Derek won. And I wonder if that was just if the judge who had Nick, you know, who's who flipped it in their head? I mean, I don't know, but I wonder if it was two, you know, because it could have been only one judge who had Nick ahead in prejudge and switched at night, right? That one judge determined the show. Or it could have been like two judges who said like, you know what, I have Derek in second in the prejudge and now those two judges switched and another judge who had Derek in first switched to to you know and had him in second at night. Right. The to just to illustrate the raise of thinness of the judge judging cards. Right. Right. I you know like I said I don't think anyone I wouldn't had a problem if they if they would have flipped the switch. I mean obviously you would have because you helped Derek but um I I I in my really deep down in my gut I I had Derek winning. And you know what it was just an impression that when you're there sitting that close Derek looked like the winner to me over Nick. And I don't know if it was because Nick wasn't smiling or Nick wasn't as engaging as he normally is. Um, I just my eyes were constantly going to Derek's physique and that's the best way I could explain it. I mean, when I when I asked you about who was in better condition, my gut was that overall it was Derek because when we did the wrap-up with Phil who's a conditioning guy. Yeah. You know, he used the word polish and I think he got a lot of criticism like like what's that mean? You know, what's that mean? And I think polish you can is something that you can only see not you can only but you can mostly see in real life. And polish falls into the realm of conditioning more than anything else. Yeah. Not saying by any means that Nick Walker was not rock hard, but there's like there's like a polish to there's the intangible of like like Derek's like Derek's glutes and hamstrings were ridiculous. Let's let let's put it that that's what even Phil said it. Phil Phil's like I'm a glute hamstring guy and Derek's got the glute hamstrings from hell. Well, the the you know that's what beat hottie chopening at the Olympia when he won it. Dave the the the side tricep for example where I was stuttering on where I would give it you know to Derek or Nick. Nick and Nick's legs like an elephant from the side but Derek's legs are like he's got like three lines that I don't think show up really in pictures and video. I think it does in video though. uh where you see like just stuff really pulling if that makes sense. You know, like the skin's like pulling while the while the quad like the the legs are pushing, right? Um look, Derek being a former Mr. Olympia, winning the Arnold Classic doesn't hurt either. It gives you a little bit more momentum and a little bit more graitas in the judge's mind, too, as this is the guy to beat here. Did Nick beat him? Not really. It's a tie. So, it's a tie. You give it to the champion. Not that that he there was a champion of of the of the Pittsburgh before because this is the first time they held it, but there was he was the the guy who was the reigning, you know, not reigning Mr. Olympia, he's the reigning Arnold Classic champ and he's the former Mr. Olympia. I think that gave him a little bit more gravitas and they figured, you know what, Nick's still coming back. He can do New York next week. Uh let's let's get the best bang for our buck. And I think that's what happened. They they picked Derek when it was all said and done. And Nick will be in New York next week and it'll be another great great show. So, you know, I I think the fans actually benefit because if Nick had won, he probably wouldn't have done New York and you wouldn't get to see him again. So, we all get the the benefit of seeing Nick two weeks in a row. Chris and Sid will be there in New York. Obviously, I won't be able to have my kids that weekend, but um it's going to be another great show. And I know that there I I believe Reagan Grimes is doing the show and everyone's telling me how great that Reagan looks. So, in summary, Dave, I I honestly my my gut was like I left like prejudging or watching the show, I thought um that Derek was winning. and watching the show. So impressed with Nick. Um, you know, just s sup s super condition, super improved, phenomenal side chest, phenomenal most muscular. I knew I knew I knew I knew that Derek was ahead and I knew that he would not that that for sure Nick would have first place votes. I just didn't think it was tied. So, the idea that who did I have winning was Derek, but at no time did I think like this is like a slam dunk or I just thought like I just didn't think it was tied. I thought it'd be like whatever like four to two, you know, like Nick a couple first place votes and and u Derek, you know, ahead four, you know, I thought it'd be split. I just didn't think it would be tied. So, um, just to give, you know, uh, context to like the way I saw the show, it was certainly no blowout whatsoever. I know people say, "Of course it wasn't a blowout." That killed them. But I mean just the way I saw the show and I and I you know I I told I said relationships between me and bodybuilders who I coach have been ended when I've told them you got lucky or I didn't have you winning. I've told people who won that you should not have won and that was the end of my coaching experience with them. Yeah. It's translated as you know. So that's my 1,000% as objective as I can be the way I saw the show. Well, coming, you know, the the the one thing we really didn't discuss is the fact that Good Veto, another guy you helped, had to pull out of the show because of a lat tear a week out from the show that that started getting worse and worse. Obviously, blood. You're gonna post You can post those pics because I feel really bad for him. Oh, yeah. I mean, he's in that could have changed the whole trajectory of of this show because I think he would have been a factor in that top three and who knows how it would have turned out because he would have stolen maybe stolen a couple first place votes. I don't I don't know. Uh how do you think that re that good veto would have done in this lineup? I think you post the pictures then I'll do the commentary. I'm pull you talk while I'm I'm pulling trying to pull the I think he could have won two poses and I don't know who would have been second and third in those poses. Um those are not the pics I sent you. I wanted you I wanted you to post for the Yeah, you know I'm That's Sid putting that up. I'm I'm pull I'm pulling the pictures right now. Yeah. So what what happened with GVito was Saturday, by the way. He had he he told me Saturday he had an injury training back and of course I said well I'll be there Tuesday and don't worry about a thing and then Sunday he he said it's like incredibly painful and he started taking like lots of ibuprof you know ibuprofen a lot and the the pain went away and then uh I get the two you know Monday said I'm I'm pulling out of the show I said no you know I'll I'll help you decide on Tuesday. And Tuesday he had under his lat like a like a little bruise but like a like a bag of water. So when you hit your front double he's got like deep seratus on both sides obviously and one was like covered. And are these your pictures Dave or Nick? I'm I'm I'm pulling still pulling pictures searching for the pictures. Sid's putting up stuff right now. So hold on. So, and then Tuesday morning, I saw him crazy early and he couldn't he couldn't hit a side chest inside tricep because you know when you grab when you're cooking let's say eggs and you use a different pan that like the whole entire handle heats up as hot as the pan and you touch the pan and you drop the pan immediately. That's how he was on the side chest side up. So, he couldn't hit it at all. He'd like this was the shot you sent me. Yeah, Chris, he couldn't get into the side chest or side tricep at all without like immediately pulling his, you know, like his reflexes to like when you touch a hot stove. And then at like 11, he said, "I'm pulling out for sure." And I I I was like, "You're not." and he sent me a picture of it just suddenly all black and blue um in like five hours between like 5:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. And so we got in an Uber and went out to uh Tyler because I mean what's worse to like say like oh I got a little injury and you know I wanted the promoter you know Tyler to see it and when he tried to like I mean just Tyler knew immediately you know hit a front double and it was like a water basket below the armpit. Um, so Good Vidito didn't want to, you know, Good Vidito was goal was to his in his head he was like anything outside top three would be a loss. And why do I want to present You got the front double, Dave? I'm trying to think what I don't know why. I'm trying to You sent me so many pictures of them. I'm trying to pull the right one. Well, I sent you the video, too, of the front double. You can put that up. You want me to put that up? Okay, hold on. Yeah. You know, why would I want to come in looking like that and walk away? So, you want me to put those those three videos you sent me? That's what you want me. You can put you can put the front double up from the hotel room. That's what I'm saying. It's a front double like video. Is that the one you want? Yeah. Yeah, you can put that up. He's in Russia now. He won't see that. So, it was like it was just a it was just, you know, thank goodness that he was qualified for the Olympia, you know, and he's already qualified because there was no doing the New York next week because he could not he can't do the the I mean, if you saw him Dave and hit the side chest, you'd see him immediately when you can't even get into it like you just jump at the Dave you you diagnose it as a nerve. nerve impinchment or something or something. Yeah. A lot of times when you get a lot of swelling in that lat area, it pushes on that nerve in there. And if anyone's ever taken a bad shot in that area and you hit that nerve or even come close to it, it's so traumatizing. It it it like you actually feel like you have hot acid going from the lat down your shoulder through your arm into your fingertips and you want to smash your hand against the table because the the the burning is so crazy. And it's all from that causing that nerve to fire. So, I'm sure he was in a lot of pain. You can't find that video. I got I got it. It's It's coming. It's coming. It's coming. You know, I have to email stuff, Dave. That mix strength and power have to lift off. Oh my god. Yeah. You know, it it's a shame. I I hate seeing guys missing uh you know, contest, especially the last I mean, that happened to Nick Walker. I think Nick actually contacted Good Vito about that and to, you know, to give him some, you know, some pep talk. Yeah. Because who the heck wants to have to miss a contest, you know, a week out. You think you're so close. You do your last workout, your last back workout, and and you tear something and it it doesn't even feel that bad at first, and then it gets worse and worse and worse. It's like a nightmare scenario. David, you know, on like lat pull downs, he can do the stack like for 15 like on any machine. I know. And he felt it on the warm-up of like the like 80 pounds. It's It's the craziest thing. You know, that's it's always a freak accident. that's most guys there are guys that do get hurt doing some super crazy heavy stuff in the gym but a lot of the the um a lot of the times that people get injured it's doing something silly reaching for something you know or a warm-up set and they you know or slipping on the ice like Branch Warren or Evans the I mean it's some it's the silly slipping on staircase like me it's the silliest things sometimes cause the most major damage and Dave I'm going to the New York pro and planned this for seven months. I'm going to the New York Pro to support null Adami and I've said on this show two weeks in a row there's no slam dunks. This show for him was a slam dunk New York Pro. Yeah. And he tore a quad walking. Oh my god. Really? Like a micro tear. A micro tear in the like the middle of the quad and he was just walking and that was it. He felt something like, "Wow." Give and so the freakiest things, right? So what happened? His leg blew up and everything like that. Yeah. He can't even move it. Oh [\h__\h] So he had he had to pull out of the show. That sucks. That really sucks. And I just talk about freak, you know? So whether you're doing a walking or you're 260 lbs, 5'7 and you're doing pull downs starting with 80 and you feel something in your lat. It goes back to what Steve told me long time ago about competing. He told someone a pro I was in his office like you know the pro is like oh wait till the last qualification of the year and he's like what if you get injured you know and he's like well I have no injuries and cuz Steve was trying to encourage him to get the qualification over with you know and you know get a win and and and he said uh well what if you I mean how many people have eaten something bad three week I mean three days out here's here's your video hold That's not it either, Dave. That's the front double you said in the hotel room. Oh, that's Take that one down. I'll I'll resend it to you, Dave, if you can't find it. You want to you that's not it. Just don't send it to you if you want to pause it. Just don't want to put up something that that's like that's not it. All right, I got it. Send me the send me the one you want. But all right. But look, you know, from Henderson, Nevada. I What are you putting up, Sid? What's that from? That must be from the Brazil show. He would have Look, he would have been a factor. I don't know how he would have done, but it would have been It would have been interesting to see him in this lineup, that's for sure. Um, he's going to obviously shut it down till the Olympia. He's already qualified because of his win at the um Here's Nick. Sid, what are you putting this up for? We're not even talking about Nick right now. All right, there we go. Going into New York next week. Nick Walker confirmed now. Chris, you'll be there. Rean Grimes confirmed. I don't Sid, do we have an official lineup yet? I tried to look online. I didn't see an official list of all the guys doing it. I know Kriso's doing it. You want to talk about Kriso? Let's talk about Kriso. What? Let's talk about third and fourth before. All right. All right. Yeah, you're right. Brazo didn't beat those guys. So, no. Let's go back to the show here for a second. Let's pull up some Bone. But I thought Bone was really very impressive here and I think you would agree, you know, on that. I think him and Martin had some real good uh very close. I I think Martin was Oh, the lineup's not really said. Okay. I think Martin was a disappointment in the show for me because I thought Martin was, you know, I was sitting next to Stanal and he thought that uh what's his name was going to win. Martin the whole show. He was almost willing to bet me. I should have bet him. There's um Martin versus Bonak. Yeah, Martin made a great turnaround between prejudging and finals because of prejudging. I didn't have him anywhere. I just had him solid, not third. Like I don't act solid third. Um and then Martin was marketkedly better. Uh, I think this is the night show. Yeah. It's amazing how much he changed between like like I like Derek got better, Nick got better, but like Martin got like like like a two days better. Yeah. looked like he he looked like he sat in the sauna for like two hours while he was and while ate a thousand carbs or something because he just so much better at night. I think that Martin over cararbed to be honest with you and he because he looked very big and full when he walked out at prejudging but it was it was not a good look for him and as prejudging went on because it was really long if you notice he started sweating at the end and he actually started get that's when he started to start looking better when all that water came out of him. So when you when you force or try to force too much glycogen into the muscle and you overfill the muscle up you can get like a blurred look to your body and I think that's what happened. He lost all that detail. Phil said it in the wrap-up we did at the prejudging. You know, you you can't give up your gifts. His gift is conditioning that he brings that the de that fine detail in his lower back, you know, in the Christmas tree area. He doesn't have he's probably one of the only competitors that doesn't have any skin on his lower back, you know, when he hits the back double. And he gave that that that gift up. He he to come in a little bit bigger to say I was eight pounds bigger than, you know, the Olympia. And I don't think it worked for him. I think that it was a mistake. He's not gonna make it again. That's for sure. I wonder You think he'll do New York? I mean, he isn't. Right. I mean, that might not be a bad idea for him to go to New York. I think it's a bad idea not to go to New York, right? I Yeah, I think you got to get some a little bit of um because you know what, Dave? Even though he's qualified, I think I would still go if I were him at at at the end of the day, everyone I mean, everyone can have a different look a week later. Some of it not great, you know? I mean, it's Nick Walker, so it's Nick Walker. I expect him to look probably even better, you know, or at least the same. But, you know, who knows what could go wrong in a week. I mean, one guy's one guy's doing pull downs and tears a lot lat. Another guy like, I can't believe I ate the same stuff the last two days, right? And I'm not even as full or as tight or I was last week. So, last year at the New York Pro, you think it happened in a week? Yeah. Last year at the New York Pro, Derek, I mean, um, Nick came in a little too full and not hard enough. And Martin came in peeled to the bone. even though he was small than he is here, it was a better look. And a lot of us thought that Martin should have won New York last year over Nick. And then this year it's like he turns it's like turned around like Nick comes in tighter better and Martin comes in too big and uh you know wasn't even close, you know, because Nick has so much more size than him. So you Martin cannot play the size game because he's not the biggest guy up there. his his his thing is that he can bring size with conditioning and detail. Same thing with Derek. If Derek tries to come in too big and he gives up all that detail that he brings, he loses. I mean, it happened uh you know the last year. So, I think that Martin has to go back to the drawing board and say, you know what, I can't worry about how how big I am. I can't worry about come being the fullest guy on stage. I got to just come in slice to the bone because that's what wins me shows and that's what these guys want to see from me and that's what pushes my physique over some of the bigger guys because I have more detail than they do. And uh I think that if he did New York, if he decides to do New York next week, I think it it will be good for him because it'll get his head into the right space. I wouldn't shut it down at this point because I think it was I think for him this was a disappointment. Not the fact that he took third place, but the fact that he wasn't at his best. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I'm sure he wanted to win and but, you know, there's, you know, at the end of the day, that's the goal is to to beat your previous best or to be close to your best at a minimum, you know, because and that's, you know, when you're judging a show, you're judging what's in front of you, but also you have you're uh judging what you previously look like, not judging that but the impression is for example when Nick came out right take you three two one yeah he's at his best you know so it's you when you're judging a show you you sit at the edge of your seat and you say wow this guy's you know contended to win it for sure because we have high expectations and he's already beaten it hasn't a shot yet Bonak to me is is is is unbelievable he's so impressive now He keeps getting better. We're gonna see him at the probably at the New York Pro. I think he's or he decided he's gonna do that. And he's he's pulling Amos. He's doing all the shows. And you know what? Good for him. He's 42 years old. He still looks great. I think that he he did this is from prejudging, I believe, but he even looked better at the night show. And he pushed Martin. Fourth place in this lineup is a is a victory for William. Uh, no one has a better arm than he does, right? That side arm. He's He's got the Yeah. Crazy. He's got a bicep on top of a bicep. It sounds looks like bicep. He's he's he's he's I can't finish your sentence because he's he's impressive. Period. Yeah. Yeah. I think he was he was bigger in Detroit, I think, than he is here. Yeah, he might be because in Detroit he was crazy round. He still I think he was maybe a little sharper here, but So there you go. same bodybuild can have two different effective looks. I think he's as good as he's ever been to be honest with you, you know. Um, so I I mean I think the guys he's competing against today are better than they were when he was, you know, winning shows, you know, two years a or five years ago, but you know, he's he's as good as ever. Great. He's he's I mean, he just won a show, so he's winning shows. Yeah. Yeah. I'm saying I'm talking about when he was winning like Arnolds or Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. back at the Olympia. So, and you know, people are calling Kriso the the the new Paul Dlette, but I I I don't think it's really an apt an apt comparison because Paul Delet was the crazy legs, you know, the crazy craziest most muscular Yeah. in the IFPB. I would take his most muscular probably anyone's. It just gets when he hits it, he just triples in size. It's so gnarly. The shoulders, the arms, the pecs, they're so deep, strided, full. He just, you know, he doesn't have the problem is you put him on a side chest next to um Martin or u you know who's you who did we just talk about before that? Uh Bonak, you know, whose hamstrings like drop down to their ankles. That's where he loses a lot of ground. That that shot is is is impressive. But you know what? When I I Sid, you took my other pose. I was trying to show I was trying to show his um his lat spread. Um I think his back double's nuts, too, you know. But this what I wanted to show, let me let me just put up what I want to show. So you see that most muscular is so freaky. And then you see this front lat spread, and you can see his legs are kind of weak in the adductor compartment. He's got great quads, but he's kind of shallow in there. He's got a very long torso, and he only looks good when he's crouched over. You know, his crouched over shots look good. And I think that uh you know, like you said, he's got a good back double. But I I I think that the problem is that, you know, he he he's his Instagram pictures are so insane because he's got the most amazing arms and and chest and, you know, he's got a pretty small waist, but you see you can see the legs are just they're just not up to snuff with that upper body. And you know, even his back is not that, you know, there's not that much. Wow. He's got very small glutes. Even though his glutes are strided, they're small. That's Ali. Ali Balowi. Call him while we're doing the show. Should you should you get him on the show, Dave? Oh, yeah. You want to get him on? You want to text him and I don't know how to text him and tell him to call in for the link. I'm sure he'll come on. Ali Ali Balal is is is the most entertaining person to sit next to at when you're at a show because he's got like a non neverending commentary on everyone and everything and I I I it's can't stop laughing. He's he's he's one of the the greatest characters. He should definitely be on one of our TV shows for sure. He should be on the Wack show, I think, because uh Do I have I'm trying to see if I have his number. I must have his number. Let me see if I can Let me see if I can send him the link here. I'll I'll I'll I'll tell him that Dave's gonna Hold on, Dave. He's dying for you to come on and give his opinion. I don't know if I have his number. Sid, do you have Ali's number? I thought I had it. I don't have it. Can you send it to him? Can you send him the link, Chris? Sent him. I said Dave wants you to come on. Okay. Sent you sent him the link. Good. Send him the link I sent to you. All right. Let's talk New York Pro. Oh, you know, I wanted to bring up one other thing, Chris, before before that. I wanted to bring up the uh the classic physique division because Rough Diesel won the classic physique in in Pittsburgh and there was one thing that I didn't like. I I I really really liked I I know you're a Rough Diesel fan and the guy is an absolute freak, you know, but you know this Josema or Jose Manuel guy is unbelievable. I I I thought I I I thought that was a bad decision. I thought that was the only bad decision of the night. What do you think? Let's pull up some pictures of Jose Manuel. Dave, I didn't watch the show, but I watched You did watch the show. You were there. I did. I didn't I did did not watch the the classic, but you made me stay for the classic. No, I I stayed for the not the comparisons. And my impression was this. This is my impression watching um Jose and and uh and Rough Diesel come out to do their own like individuals. Jose I like rubbed my eyes and I thought, "Huh? Oh, good. Thank you, Jose. Now I know what conditioning is because it was insane, right? Better than anyone else in the show for sure. Miles and Rough Diesel when he came out I thought by comparative right that he looked he was going to look soft and when I was watching Rough Diesel I thought this I Dave I thought this in right immediately I said this is going to come down to personal preference one point and I thought that Ruff would win based on this because I've seen him in comparison persons where he maximizes his shape in the poses to look quote more classic than anyone else in the lineup. And I thought if it's close, it's going to be one point and that's how he's going to win. But the flip side of me said, but how do you deny that condition? So I didn't see the comparisons for the prejudging. I wish I had. Um I just showed them to you. Yeah, that's all I get to see. Let me see. Let me let me see the back or anything. I can't tell from that. Adam, there's your back post. You know, it's these pictures don't even do Yeah. No, justice because he was so impressive in person because his conditioning is so wacky it can't even capture it. Dave, this is this is this is the exact, you know, people going to say, and of course I can't I could care two cents, but to put it in perspective only to give you context. People are going to say that's because Chris is lobbying for Derek. You have to be there sometimes to pictures and video do not show what you see five rows back because this kid looks conditioned like out of his mind in this picture. But in real life, I'm serious. It was conditioned where you go like, "Whoa." No. Where you say, as somebody who preps people, I wonder what he did to look like that. You know, you start saying, "Geez, I wonder if he did like three hours of cardio or I wonder if he did no carbs or I wonder if he did like maybe he did like no carbs, lots of fat of cardio, right?" You know, you can't grasp how he ended up looking like that because it was like when you say skinless, it was skinless and waterless. So, for that reason, I didn't know like, you know, you you know, judges are going to just say it's just too much. The condition is too much first place, but and he's going up against somebody who's bigger than he's been in the past. And, you know, I've always said on this show, Ruff Diesel's incredibly dangerous. Yeah. I I would have been more upset if I were this guy losing to Rough Diesel than Nick was losing to Derek. Believe Oh, the the reason being is because anyone who is there, anyone and everyone judges are going to like all they can say after this show like what do I get to do to improve every single judge who didn't have him first is going to say which is you know split they're going to say nothing you looked nuts right so it that that loss is probably the a hard loss to take besides being one point Um, which is different than a tie. Uh, you know what I mean? That one. But it the condition was just astounding. Yeah. Said, "Will we see him in New York? Did he commit? If that if if that if that condition Oh my gosh. That condition is astounding. Full stop. Yeah. It's just and and honestly, I would I would love to know what he did because it's it's so impressive. Sid's going to DM him. If he doesn't go to New York, he's out of his mind because um Oh god. He's got to go to New York and win that and and qualify. I mean, totally. He I got news for you. He's going to be a dangerous guy on the Olympia stage big time. I don't think that Ruff Diesel will touch him on the Olympia stage and and I'm a huge I I love Bruff Diesel's physique, but you know what? This guy is in in another orbit. You know, if you can get a little more maybe a little more full I don't even know if he needs more fullness, but even a little more fullness might, you know, he's probably having trouble making weight, I'm sure. And you can't say, right, if you can get more fullness, you can't. There's nothing else to criticize. Yeah. No, you know what the funny thing is? I understand what you mean because he can't improve on the condition. So, you say, "Well, but he wasn't flat." No, I know he wasn't. That That's why I I I thought I actually didn't even really pay attention because I didn't think it was even close. And then when I heard that Rough Diesel was announced in first place, I'm like, "What? What? What?" I thought maybe he dropped out of the show. I I I was very surprised at that decision. Um but yeah, it is what it is. You know, like I said, I mean, you you can't say Rough Diesel didn't look good. He looked good, but it, you know, it's apples and oranges. I just thought it wasn't close. This guy's taller. He's he's got better conditioning. He's his coloring was good. His posing was great. Um, you know, the only thing I don't really like about what he does on stage, uh, is that he kind of like hits a lot of his shots from the side. And I think that's a mistake a lot of guys make. He's got a small waist. If you got a small waist, hit those shots straight on because it makes you look like narrow, you know, when you do that. And I I don't know why people think that that looks better. It doesn't look better. You can't, as Arnold would say, you can't hide your physique. You got to kind of show it, you know, and so the only thing I could give him criticize, you know, critical criticism would be the pecs. Look at the leg. I know. It's just nuts. He really for classic, he really had no weaknesses. Like I said, other than other than the fact I I would have liked to see him hit some of his poses a little bit more conventionally, I think that he was the clear-cut winner in my mind. If people complained about this guy, I would be 100% behind you because I was sitting right there. I'm like, this guy's and like Chris said, this guy's conditioning was next level. It was like Dorian Yates conditioning. So, congratulations to him at at peaking there. I hope we see him in New York and then we'll see him on the Olympia stage. I'll get a deal week. Dave, I train with him and he does diet like something like must have done three hours of cardio, tons of fats, six weeks. Speaking of um classic physique, I was surprised to see Raone Dino was there. We got to take a picture with him. Yeah, he guest posed with with uh Yeah, that's great. I I loved seeing him there. That was awesome. The whole gang guest posed. Yeah, you that people got to see the Keon versus Yeah, the Keon versus uh Yeah, pull that pull those pictures up. They got to see Somerfeld next to, you know, all the other, you know, Ramon and Grego and Yeah, pull those guest posing pictures up. So, those those that's fun. You know, I thought that maybe Manion wouldn't do the the the guest posing because he was doing the big open show, but he he had both, which was great. That's not what we're looking Oh, that's the same guest posing. Yeah, he looked good up there. It's funny because I didn't recognize him because he didn't have any tan on when we took pictures of him and then he must have put a tan on backstage going out there. Actually, that Jose Manuel guy kind of has a very Ramon type physique. Yes, he does. They remind me of each other. They have similar similar like structures. Yeah. Yeah. Ramon's in good shape for guest posing. That's for sure. See if you can pull up the um the Samson Sand Da and the uh Keon Pearson posing. Ke we saw Keon at the the You weren't in the lobby. I don't think at this point when Keon came over to Cormier and I I was sitting in the lobby with him and he was in sweats. He looks like a a Sherman tank this guy. He's so big. Um you know because he's short in clothing. He looks like literally like And you know who also looks like a little tank? Uh Sean Clarita. I took a picture with him. This guy is is so w he he might be wider than me as tall. Chris I don't and I say that not jokingly. I took a picture. I put my arm. This guy is literally as wide as he is tall. Seanita Keon Keon walking around looks like Kai. No, he does. He's like a short Kai. Yeah. Yeah. you know, just like you say, wow, that's a lot of muscle. Yeah, I'm super, you know, look, it was it was a superstar weekend. Everyone was there. It was great. I just uh I mean, Keon and and Samson are like in Samson's in incredible shape for like being a month away having competed. Yeah, he's I I don't think I've ever seen him out of shape, you know what I mean? He he gets a little offseasonish, but he never gets like sloppy. He he has that metabolism which is weird and we talk about this with like a guys like Hakee um Samson even Andrew offseason they're never really that out of shape. They don't get fat but to get these guys in shape it's like you got to torture the [\h__\h] out of them to get them in shape. It's like their bodies don't want to change. Their metabolism is so insane that if they try to if you try to make them get leaner their body resists. If you try to, you know, if you try to get them bigger, their body resists. They'll grow, but they won't get fat. It's It's like a It's like a thermostat. They got They got a thermostat. You You They got those programmable thermostats that don't go any higher than like 80 and lower than no matter what you Exactly. Exactly. I did a very funny video with um uh Hakee Williams and that NDO guy. I don't know if you know who that NDO guy is. Hysterical. I did a video at the booth. Sid will put it up this week. I'm sure it's it's this guy NDO is so crazy, but in a good way. You know, he's he's got over like he's got millions of followers on Instagram. He does the nuttiest videos of all time where he he walks around like, you know, like he's because the videos, Dave, the videos the videos are fun. The videos are like something that someone else would do. they couldn't pull it off. You'd say, "How stupid." Right. Right. Right. You want to watch one of those videos and say stupid. There he is. There he is. And he finds he's got a This is him walking to Pittsburgh from uh from New York. He finds the the the craziest characters, too. He's got this one fat guy that he always does all these videos with. I don't know if you've ever seen his ch I I watch his Instagram because he's so funny. And uh He makes fun of this this the guy must be a comedian that he works with because the guy is like he looks like he's 400 pounds and uh so I said listen we got we we I was supposed to get him on the TV show and we never it never happened so I said listen we got to do a video at the booth so I went to his went to the MHP booth there and Dave one other thing I mean there's a lot of other things about the show you know you were there I was there nobody bitched and moaned about the lighting the lighting was fine well they did not only was the lighting great. Um, the backdrop is great as well. They had a dark black drap backdrop with still having, you know, the sponsors on there, but they had a black based backdrop and it looked really good when you took pictures against it. Uh, JM was I forget who JM told me did the stage thing, but the the guy is amazing. Did a great job. That show, first of all, let me just tell you something about that show because I talked to JM for a long time about this Pittsburgh show and I talked to Jim about it, too. The amount of planning and the amount of effort that went into this show was monumental. Believe me, Jim Manion did not want to do this show because he knew what was going to it was going to take to do this show. You know, between unions and this and that and you know, it's it's a lot of work. It's it's it's a and even Tyler said it on stage. It's like you have to have a whole year's you have to have a staff dedicated to just that show and it's a once a year show. It's a lot of work. And you know what? I I take my hat off to them for doing it because you know what? They didn't have to do it, but they did it because they, you know, they did it because of the fans. And I'm sure they lost money the first year. You don't make money on a first year show. So, you know, I applaud the manions for doing that because it was really a labor of love. And what I really love seeing, I love seeing um what's his name? Um who used to work for the Arnold people? Um Matt Lores. Matt Lores was was intricately related uh in doing that show. He was I know Robin Chang was the one who orchestrated everything and Robin did a great job, but Matt Lurs was there. He brought in a lot of the uh the strongman stuff and he helped with the expo. So, they really brought in like a super team of people to do that to put that show together. Uh there it was packed. I wasn't there on Sunday, but it was packed on Saturday. They did a lot of local advertising, which is very expensive. You know what it costs to put up a like a a billboard, Chris? It's like it's like 10 grand for a billboard and they had like a lot of them all over the city, you know, so the people would know the show was there. They even had them in the airport when you got off the plane. So, they did it they did it right. I believe next year it'll probably be double the size. And I bet by the third year you'll see it be triple the size. And you know what? I hope they keep raising the prize money because 100 grand first place, second place to Nick, what was 50,000. That that's a nice nice paycheck for these guys to take home uh for their efforts. Yeah. No, no, nothing's better than to, you know what, when it comes to like a contest, I you know, there's so much work obviously that goes on that people don't see behind the scenes and uh so it's great when you get a great turnout. you know, ticket sales strong, sponsorships are strong, but it's it's great when the prize money is there, too, because the behind the scenes to get to a show, you know, as a professional. Uh, I mean, I've been in the sport. You've been in the sport forever. And I mean, even at the amateur level, the sacrifices that bodybuilders make, you know, just you sacrifice so much to become a pro bodybuilder, to become a elite pro bodybuilder, whether it be, you know, I mean, you don't Do you really get to see your family? I mean, it's the most selfish sport that's 247. So, it's great to see prize money all year long increasing and then just the the number of shows of course. Yeah. And you know, um if it weren't for that new tech equipment company, which I by the way, I love their equipment. I was I was using it while I was there. They had a whole big setup there. New tech equipment company and and Seth Feros's company, Ax and Sledge. They put up most of that prize money for that for the men's open. So without those two companies, that show doesn't happen and that's a lot of money that was put up. You know, that's 150 grand just for the first two places right there. So those guys really really went above and beyond. Yeah, there's the video of me trying out there. I always I always judge a company, Chris, by their their hamstring curl machine. You got a good hamstring curl machine? I know you're a good company because a lot of people think a hamstring curl is just like a flat bench with a with a with a little thing you you p pull up. But the angle, you see how they have that nice little angle on there? Yeah. Where you could put your elbows and rest it. That's a comfortable bench. It locks your hamstrings into the absolutely perfect position to feel the maximum in your upper hamstrings and those where it ties into your glutes. I love this machine and that's how I know this this company knows what they're doing because like I said, most companies that just the machines are just it's a flat bench you're laying on which is super uncomfortable and you have no place to put your elbows and uh it's like you're just holding on to the side of the bench. So, good job, New Tech. Um, I I told him I was talking to the guy who was the the head sales guy there, and I said, "Listen, if I ever," because everyone's always telling me, "You should open a gym." I said, "If I ever opened the gym, I would I would open a gym, and I would outfit it with mostly new tech equipment, I think, because that's that's how good the equipment is." So, I'm very happy that they were able to do that. I'm also very happy that Steve Weinberger told me that, you know, and I know he announced it on his Instagram, too, but they're giving away $30,000. That's the highest prize ever for New York Pro. Steve doesn't have the level of sponsorship that this expo had. So to give 30 grand away for first place in New York is awesome. And I have no doubt that at some point in the future Steve will get that show up to 100 grand, too. So I wish I was going next week. I can't obviously because I got my kids, but you guys uh will be there covering it. It's going to be an awesome show. I know Regan Grimes is in it. I know Bonak's in it. Kriszo's in it. Obviously Nick Walker's in it. We don't have an official lineup yet, but I have a feeling it's going to be another one for the ages. You guys will do a great job, I'm sure, covering that. And um uh like I said, I'll be missed. Are you going in early for that one, Chris? Yeah, I'm gonna I'm gonna go uh I'm gonna I plan to go Thursday, but I I may go down uh Wednesday night. Yeah. Okay. Now, who are you helping in that one? Uh in the open. Sassy. Okay. Oh, that's right. Sass is in that show, too. I forgot that. Yeah, he's he's he looks incredible. What What day is today? Monday. Yeah. Yeah, he could be on stage by tonight if he What do you suspect we'll see from Rean Grimes? He looks very big from the pictures I've seen, but I haven't really seen any like posing footage or anything like that. Um I don't know because I haven't really seen his picture. I I can't even recall. When's the last time he competed? Two Olympias ago? I don't even know. Yeah. You know, when the last times uh Rean was on stage, a long break, he obviously took some time off the grow. Obviously, he has a kid now, so I I sure he wanted to spend more time with with the uh the baby, but he's ready supposedly. And what's his name? Stanal told me he looks great. He must have seen some pictures of him. Well, Stanal made the prediction for um Martin. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I said I said, "You sure you want to want to take that that uh prediction back right before they got make a prediction because you know what? Anything can happen." And I saw Martin's physique at night and I'm like, "Wow, I in prejudging I thought like, huh?" Like he just looked so off to me. And at the night show, I think, gosh, that's impressive. Better but not still not better than Nick or or Eric. Yeah. I think the point is timing. It's it's obviously that he's right there. I mean, a week is a lot a long time for him to improve. Yeah. I I guess what I was trying to make the point is anything can happen. I mean, you could be great on Thursday. That's why predictions are hard, right? I mean, I'm sure when Stan made that, he wasn't talking bull crap, right? You know, him. So if he had seen him on a Thursday, things people can go downhill in two days and people can improve a lot in two days. And I I've been I've seen people two days out and thinking, you know, someone I'm coaching, you know, I'm coaching Dave Palumbo and you know, John Smith I see on a Thursday and I want to talk about John Smith and I said, I just saw him in the gym. He looks terrible. You know, then sure enough, you know, I'm coaching you Dave and we take the loss because let's let's announce it officially, Chris. I will be doing the Olympia this year. Getting a special invite. Chris will be Chris will be coaching me. And uh so I I want I didn't I didn't want to announce it now, but we'll we might as well announce it. I I'll be at the Olympia in the men's open s Masters. You know, it's funny. Phil said he would do the Masters Olympia. If you noticed when we had Phil Heath doing the wrap-up of this, he said, "I would do the Masters Olympia, but they're gonna have to put up a lot more money for prize for first place for me to go do that show." And you know what? Kai essentially said the same thing. Although Kai wants to be paid before he even goes to the show. He wants an appearance fee. Phil's willing to win the money at the Olympia, but they want more money. I mean, so I mean, I don't know what it would have take to get Phil Heath there, but if you can get Phil and Kai on that stage, I mean, that that that alone for nostalgia purposes alone would be even if they both don't look that great would be amazing, right? I mean, what what would think about how popular that show would be if I'm that promoter. I would find some freaking crazy sponsor to give them, you know, to put up some crazy money for that show and make that happen because Phil Heath versus Kai Green. Oh my god, that would be insane. The buildup for the show, the the stuff that we would have to talk about. You know, it's funny because uh when Trump won the election, this last presidential election, you know, all the all the uh you know, the liberal media were all complaining and you know, it's I don't remember who said I think I don't know who said it, but I think Patrick David might have said it. said this is the greatest thing that happened to the liberal media in in in all the last five years because of the last 10 years because now they have stuff to talk about again, you know. So, same thing with this. It would give us so much stuff to talk about if Phil and and Kai were going to go up against each other. Like I said, even if they didn't look their best on stage, it wouldn't even matter. Just the fact that they would be coming back, you know, and and Kai would be trying to get revenge on Phil after all these years, it would be phenomenal. So, guys, make it happen. All right, let's uh let's wrap this thing up. Chris, uh it was great seeing you, great seeing Sid, the whole team this past weekend. All the all the fans and all the people came up to me. I had a great time. It was uh Jim Manion's still looking great at 81 years old. He's uh he gave a great speech. His grandson gave a great speech as well up on that stage and it was nice to see The Rock made a video, you know, basically telling Jim how much he loves him and how much he supports him and uh how much he supports the show. So, that was a great weekend. Uh, very enjoyable. It was short but sweet. And you guys will be in New York next week. But for now, we are out of time. And as we say every week here at Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. We'll see you next time.