Brazilian booties. Have you ever wondered how they got so plump? I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're back for another installment of the Palumbo podcast. I'm Dave Palumbo joined by John Romano. And John, they just today was the official release of my documentary Jumbo Palumbo. Yes, I was counting down on the calendar. It's on the RX Muscle YouTube channel. We're giving it away for free. No one's charging for anything. It's We give everything. We give it it. We're like, what is that? The Was that commercial? It's It's so good. We're practically giving away crazy. We do like Andy Purcell. We give everything away. That's right. That's right. So, uh, you guys can check it out. We premiered it around one or two o'clock and now it's available to watch anytime you want. I'm sure John, you'll enjoy it. Oh, yeah. I've already been receiving, you know, uh, you know, great emails and texts from people saying they want part two. They want a part two. you want more in-depth information about, you know, my early days and and uh my routines, my training routines, all this. So, you never know. We might I I was thinking that Alexi, who's from the UK, maybe we could bring him to the Olympia. Yeah. Vegas. And um have because I I think the thing that it was the one thing that was missing was interviews with like guys like you. Yeah. How could you have a documentary on you without me? This it was this was more of a a glorified day in the life of Oh, okay. because there really was no interviews with other people. My sister needs to be involved in this. He needs to get people about from my past um interviewed. So, I think that that that if he wants to do it, maybe uh Alexi, I'm sure you're watching this, but let's talk. Maybe we I could fly you out there, put you up in a hotel and you can just follow me and the crew around the whole Olympia weekend and then you could interview these guys and this, you know, maybe make it it could actually be centered around the Olympia like how we cover a show type of thing, you know, and then we should all we should also do one of those walks down the strip. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Like this like Oceans 11 type of thing. No, I I I did it by actually I did it with I started doing it with Amin, but we didn't have enough time. But I the last time I was there with but the time before the Olympia, I was there with my wife. She had a convention and I had Friday all to myself. So I went to the dispensary. I bought it pre-rolled and blew it up and I walked from MGM to the stratosphere and back. You know what I saw? I I saw everything. Everything. Everything that you could see I saw it was it was No, but if you had all of us walking together. Yeah. Can you imagine that in Alabama? I thought of that the whole time though. You're walking down the strip. There's guys on sport bikes doing wheelies. There's Ferraris flying down. There's uh um Naples temple drummers, you know, on the side of the road. Yeah. There's the dudes from the like the Chip Andale show, you know, out there hustling pictures with the girls. There's the show girls hustling pictures with the guys. You know, there's unending uninterrupted action the entire time and it's like throngs of people on both sides of the street. You know how you can't cross a street, you got to climb, you got to go up and then it crosses. Yeah. Up on the bridges is guys playing drums, reciting poetry and acting scenes from McBTH. I mean, it's unbelievable. Well, that's just the Vegas lifestyle, but I'm saying if we had a documentary about, you know, it's like a it's like you do it like as a flashback. So, you go there. We're we're going to the Olympia to cover the Mr. Olympia, right? So, we got like Sid, you me, whoever we can get to go, you know, whatever. But then we do flashbacks. So, like of like how we got to the point we're at and there'll be interviews with you and all the people who in the industry who have seen us over the last 20 years covering the sport. I think that would be a very interesting like how to cover a show. It would be like almost like, you know, well, it's it's like the bodybuilders that made it being bodybuilders and then there's a whole cottage industry behind the scenes that sprung up that sprung up to support. We can even talk about the old days about the Titus parties and we maybe we even go and look at some of the old clubs that we went to and see see what they're doing like just just for posterity purposes of course you know only posterity. Yeah. We'll go during the day. During the day, right? Well during the day is when Dre is open anyway, right? We'd have to take Chris Cormier with us to give us a tour of Dre, right? To get the flavor of Dre's. Dre is like a It's like a tomb. It's like a It's It opens at like It's like an after after hours. It like opens like six in the morning and it's like it's like a Day of the Dead type of people. Everyone's like zombified out. Everybody's on their third club by the time they're there. They're I don't know how people keep going. I It was I went there once and I It lasted about 20 minutes and I'm like I got to get out of here. This is Well, these copious amounts of cocaine and ecstasy, I I guess, but it's like enough is enough, you know, after a while you make it. But yeah, so speaking of Titus, yeah, got right here. What do you got? I got all of my interview tapes from back in the day. So, right here I have Craig Titus after the 96 USA. Wow. I got uh Bill Pearl at in 1997. Holy [\h__\h] that's old. Uh yeah, I got this one's so old there's not even any writing on it. I don't know what this one is. These are almost 30 years old, John, these days. I know. Do you know what any Does anybody know what these are called? You know, you know, I almost I you know what it's funny that you showed me that cassette because I was cleaning out my computer room and I found I had a double cassette player like radio, you know, thing and I was going to throw it out, but it's in perfect condition. I'm like, you know what? If I find like some cassette tapes, how the hell am I going to play them, you know, just to see what's even on them? So, I kept it, you know? I got Wayne Wayne Demeilia. I have you. Oh, really? That's probably second interview. Columbbo. Yeah, that's whatever that is. I don't know. I got Jose Conco. Oh, wow. Wayne Deilia. More Wayne Deilia. I got uh Don Ross. Some I guess some of these I'm gonna have to listen. This is Dr. Cart. Remember CCH? Yeah. Uh Flex Wheeler. Another Flex Wheeler in '05. And this one is I don't know. Probably good though. Yeah, man. So, what do you think we could do with these? I don't know. It's good. That's good. That's a good question. I mean, this is good stuff. This is vintage. Real vintage. You'd have to You'd actually have to listen to it. They'd have to listen to I what I would probably do is see if I could feed it into Grock and and get a get a transcript. Gro, how's Grock gonna transcribe that? I'll play it. I'm looking I see they're selling a cable here. Uh video capture card. It's a looks like you can plug it into your VCR and it will plug right into your computer. Oh, cool. It's kind I have I have a s What is this? Super eight tapes. Oh, those are those are not cassette. Those look like Those are not cassette tapes. This No, the rest of them are cassette tapes. This is a video tape. It looks small though. It's tiny. I think it was a Super Eight or You'll never find a player for that. Is ancient, man. Ancient. You'll never find a player for that. No. My You know what? My father had I don't even know if I even saved them. My father had some cassette tapes that of of him telling me stories like, you know, you know, bedtime stories. Oh, really? When you were little. and my grandfather too. I don't even I I have to look. They got to be somewhere because I remember him telling me before like we was, you know, he said, "Don't lose these." So, they're cassette tapes of my like grandfather telling me like bedtime stories and everything like that. He recorded them. If I could find those [\h__\h] things, man, that would be something. That'd be cool. But, I mean, this is germaine to our industry. I mean, Bill Pearl, I mean, he was telling me about using steroids and Oh, he was. Oh, yeah. You know what? I I was digging in deep. So, you know, I don't know, man. There some vintage vintage stuff there. At some point, you know, we're going to be like really old. And, you know, maybe this stuff will have some relevance. I don't know. In terms of historical value, you know, you know, this the the the one video that I would love to get of myself that I haven't been able to find. I I pretty much, you know, because like John Baick sent me a lot of slides that he had on file. Blackman will never send me his slide. I have a lot of the best. He's too busy jerking off to your glutes. Yeah. I he'll just do that. But I don't you feel dirty thinking about that? God knows what what's some of the magazine stuff. He there and the only reason I remember so vividly was because of how much he salivated over the pit was it was uncomfortable. He was definitely a glute connoisseur. Yeah. We were do going through the photos of you and there was a photo of you doing lying uh hamstring curls and your freaking glutes look like two basketball halves like stick and he's like look at that. You don't see that kid. And he's like and he's go he is like it was like showing a starving lion a [\h__\h] rare hamburger. I'm tell it was unbel he was just just smitten. It was it was done and I'm thinking to myself, I got to go have lunch with Dave. Yeah. Well, yeah, he has. So, anyways, I got all these stuff and there was one video and I've talked about this before, so I'm not repeating I'm not a Valentine repeat. I know that I'm repeating the story, but a lot of people haven't heard it. Mitsurro Okabi shot this. It was supposed to be called Battle of the Super Heavyweights. He actually released a trailer for it, but I never they never he never edited it and put it all together. It was from like the 99 or something like that, USA or 98 USA. And I came back and they shot it at World Gym, the one that was on um Washington Boulevard. Okay. The my That's when I was with my exwife Barbara. Joe Gold was hitting on her in his wheelchair while I was shooting the Hit on everybody's wife. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was fun. She was She liked it. She he loved her. And so I'm I'm shooting this video and I'm actually talking to the camera and and he's shooting me doing legs and I know I was in great shape. I was I had filled out from the show. I was a little depleted from the show, but I was filled out and I was and I like I said, I've seen the trailer for that I was in it and and I can't get in touch with Mitsuro. I know he lives in Japan or something like that now. You move back to Japan. I you know he's got the you know he's got the video or someone's got the video of this stuff. I don't know why no one's released it. I would, you know, I would love to see this video, even if it's uncut and it's raw of because it's like it's, you know, because we don't, it's not like when you competed in the 90s, in the early 2000s, no one shot a lot of video and stuff like that. It's not like today where everyone has a phone that shoots this stuff. So, right, these video, this video is something that I've never seen of myself and no one else has seen it. And it would be great. I'm just knowing it exists and I haven't seen it, it's it's annoying me a little bit. So yeah, Mi Mitsuru has, you know, this is Mitsuru is one of those guys who was the proverbial fly on the wall. Yeah. He was there for almost everything important, you know, and or or Pivotal. And and I remember going through some I was doing this thing for that that feature on Titus and you know, Mitsuru was working for MD at the time and Blackman told me to go, "Yeah, but Mitsuru's got all this video of of Titus. Go look at it." And you know it it stuck with me because it was such a sad commentary on the direction his life went. Mitsuru's tape of him was Craig was driving a jeep down Pacific Boulevard in Venice with the o, you know, going towards Washington. The ocean's on the right, you know, Venice is on the left, right? Cassing right probably where the original uh Gold's gym was and the roof is off. It's a beautiful LA day, sunshiny day. Craig's got hair. He's young. He's goodlooking, you know, and he's just and he just looks at Mitsuru and he goes, "How about this, Mits? What a great day." And then the sun's shining and and it was that was Titus's peak. He was at the top of all the magazine covers on him. He's living this California bodybuilder all American lifestyle. And then, man, where is he now? Blake, holy [\h__\h] The you talk about two complete opposite ends of the spectrum. That was it. Yeah. He uh it's a shame, right? Yeah. I mean, it was just to see that to see that kind of past of him, you know, in his prime goodlook. Yeah. like that, you know, sun's out, he's built, he's got good looking, he's, you know, he's at the top of his game, and any guy would look at him and just would give his eye teeth to trade places with him, right? And now now, now look at him. Yeah. He's in he's in jail. He's uh he's gonna he's gonna unfortunately be another OJ, you know, Simpson statistic or something. You know what the funny thing is? He'll probably live till he's like a hundred in jail. He'll probably get out. He He'll probably get out. Yeah, he might out knowing him. He's so stubborn. He probably will. He'll be 90, but he'll get out. Yeah. And with with a with a get him back list, you know, get him back. He'll be like 89, you know, and he'll be on with a cane and he'll be like looking for, you know, he'll probably get a role in a movie in a movie, too. You know what I mean? Like, yeah. Like Stallone is in in that that series Tulsa Kings. Have you seen this? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. and you know gets out of jail for 25 years and he goes to Tulsa to take and he starts like acting you know he's running the mafia there essentially and that'll be like I'm a criminal already I'm I'm go right back into my old ways right someone will do it yeah well you know it's too bad what happened to him really is he'll get the old gang back together all the gold followers that he outlived actually by going to jail you know you know you go to jail it actually in one sense It's a it's it is a healthier lifestyle even though they the food they feed you is terrible. The medical the medical services are terrible but if you're not really sick then sometimes you live a long time in there. You know if you if you have good constitution you know well it's it's a very low stress environment. You you don't have to worry about anything you know unless you're an idiot and you got a roof over your head. You got me you got continuing education. you have, you know, all kinds of, you know, brain stimulation, exercise, you know, if you're in a camp, you got fresh air walking around. The food's decent at the camp, you know. I don't think he's he's in no camp, John. He's in. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But but I mean I'm saying in g I mean if you get to be in a low if you are in a low level security prison either either you know um you know one or two you know a camp or just below you're you're living a pretty you know easy life for a couple of years and it it it does I mean it's versus the rat race where you're constantly stressed and you got the weight of the world on your shoulders and trying to you know ek out a living and it's like You know, one of the one of these days we're we're gonna get a text message from him. He's gonna get a cell phone if he gets a lot of times they once you go they'll put you down into like a lower level security prison, right? And uh step down type of thing. And so he'll get a phone. Well, I we'll get a text message from you. There's no doubt on my mind. I hate text. I want to segue for a second. Yeah, this is important. dehydration. I think one of the the most difficult things for us as bodybuilders to do is drink enough water. Especially in the summertime when it's hot and you're sweating a lot to get that gallon gallon and a half in a day. It's I don't know about you, it's difficult for me. I just I don't I don't measure water. Well, you Well, I mean, I try to get I try to get at least four four to six liters in a day. I just fill the bottle up, right? My wife bought me this thing. I have no idea the brand name. I don't care. It's unimportant. But this thing has saved my uh hydration props. Why is that? Because it's insulated and it keeps the it keeps the water at exactly perfectly the right temperature that I love all the time. 24 hours. What's the right temperature that you love? It's it's like it comes out of the refrigerator cold and maybe like two degrees warmer than that. It's like not so cold that you're drinking and you get an ice cream headache and it's not so warm that it doesn't not refreshing. You know what I mean? And I put a quarter I put a quarter of a scoop of your um amino the amino amino evolved in there. And I tell you what, in the middle of the night when you wake up with that [\h__\h] zoo dust mouth and and and you come back from taking a piss and you just guzzle like a mouthful of that. Yeah. It's like it's like God tickling your uvula. You know, it's just feels so good. You know, it's funny you said it. Number one, I I don't like to overdrink. I I think it's a lot of guys, they water down their electrolytes too much because they're overdrinking. But that has electrolytes in it, the amino evolve. So, I think that's good. I don't also like cold water. Now, I I did read an article somewhere that actually room temperature water is the best uh to drink because you assimilate it more easily. I thought cold water gastric emptied faster. No, but because because it's Think about the room temperature water is kind of closer to your, you know, your body temperature. So, yeah, it acclimates or absorbs it more quickly. I don't know. I just don't like to because I like to just swing it down. And if it's too cold, like you said, you get that like brain freeze thing going on the back of your throat like sees and if it's too warm, it's like I don't want to drink. Yeah. Yeah. With with the with the Amino Evolve that little because I I don't like it so flavored. I just like a little hint of, you know, and and with and it's the right temperature. It's just a little colder than room temp. It's perfect. And I can guzzle about eight of these a day rather than try to fight to get, you know, four or five of them in. So that to me, you know, this whole thing that we do, you got to find your workound. You got to find your thing that makes you do like the old saying, supplements only work if you take them, you know. So hydration is only valid if you drink water. Yeah. But I think what Yeah. I think what the one thing that you're missing is a lot of and like I said, I see a lot of people drinking too much water, but the reason they're drinking so much water is because they're either cramping or they think they're not getting a pump. You cannot hold on to fluid in the muscle if you don't eat enough sodium. And I think that's an important thing, especially when it gets hot. Like here, it's like 90 degrees in Florida now. You you you got to salt your foods or put soy sauce or do something on. If you don't, I mean, yeah, the amino evolved has electrolytes in it, but still salt your food. Some people body bills think that salt is like no good for you. Where did that come from? Because it came from these this I'll tell you exactly where it came from. So these cardiac these cardiologists they get these overweight you know bloated bags of like no exercising human beings coming into them. They have super high blood pressure. They can't control the blood pressure. So what do they do? They put them on every blood pressure medication they known to man and a diuretic usually lasix or dioide. Now the only way those things work because they pump sodium out of the water out of the body which then makes water follow them is if you eat sodium with those things it neutralizes what their effect somewhat. So they tell it don't eat sodium because you have high blood pressure but the sodium is not causing the high blood pressure. The fact that they can't regulate electrolytes is what's causing the the the high blood pressure. So if you don't never eat sodium, you become so sodium sensitive that every time you go out to eat and have a meal that's salty, you retain 8,000, you know, liters of water with it. So the key is if you eat sodium on a regular basis, a lot of salt, you become desensitized to it. Your eldoststerone levels drop to zero and you can't you don't hold water, especially bodybuilders pre-contest. The worst thing you guys can do is restrict sodium in your diet. The worst thing I'm not talking about the last day and I don't even restrict the last day, but the last day is fine because you're trying to get rid of water. You don't do it a week out. Oh, I gotta get all year dry enough. Well, yeah, you're not dry enough. You're not really lean enough. That's the problem. It has nothing to do with water. Yeah, I know. I see these people at the gym. It's It's almost like they fit It's almost like they're the models that that Planet Fitness used to put on the wall with the circle with the line through it, right? They got the gallon jug, the tank top, the bag full of food, and and no salt. No salt on anything. No sodium. You They're eating like plain rice and plain pasta and plain chicken. They go, "When's your contest?" November in three years, you know, and it's it's it's it's why are you doing that? You know, but they just do and they think they have to. It's the weirdest thing in the entire world that people do [\h__\h] just because they think they have to. They don't really entertain why. They don't know the science of it at all. They don't know. None. Like that kid in Mexico and it was on dianabol for four years. And I said, "What? He started taking it when he was 16." I go, "Why?" He goes, "I thought you were supposed to." John sent me what my well there's two things in my that I've seen in my my life that is that has made me lose my appetite. One was when Lee Priest sent me a picture of his penis when he had to have it drained. Remember at the hospital because he took too much cavjack. That was probably the grossest thing I've seen. The second gross thing was John sent me this picture. I won't even show it. It was a video of like this woman getting like but lift and this guy has got this needle. It's like a harpoon and he's like ramming it in her her ass and her ass has got to be this big and it's and it's like and he's got all the drawings on and he's got all the the the blue pen, you know, where he's got I'll show I'll show a much a nicer version of of what he was doing. Well, let let me back it up with what it is. It's called the Brazilian buttlft. And the premise behind the Brazilian buttlft is that you get fat and then they suck the fat out and then they stick the fat in your ass. And that was that whole thing. Remember Derek Anthony was going berserk over Kim Kardashian, right? And there was the whole conspiracy over what she had in her butt. She said there's nothing in my ass and everybody said there's silicone implants in there. And it went all the way to the point where she had an MRI done to prove it. And Derek was like putting money on it, you know. And it turned out there was nothing in there. There was [\h__\h] in there. Her own fat was in there that they sucked out from, you know, eight inches above her ass. And then like we're you know drawing right now. Yeah. So the the Brazilian but it is what Kim Kardashian and all her disciples do. They they chub up a little bit. The doctors harvest that fat that they just put on their body. They spin it down. They get it. They turn it into like that liquid and then they it they literally looks like [\h__\h] guns. These big canulas and they're like ramming it in there. It's it's it's so ex it's so horrible that I can't even believe it. And they and the women overdo it. They go [\h__\h] crazy with this [\h__\h] They look like a moler after like a tooth, you know, after a while. They they just have this bizarre physique from getting their ass pumped up. Gigantic. The skinny little waist, the giant tits. They look like a cartoon. That that picture I can't even believe that video is on is on Facebook. I I don't want I don't want to show it because I have I know us. They love to demonetize our videos, so I don't wouldn't want to even show it. But it it is actually it's like pornographic almost with this show. You know, he's got like this little strip of material that's covering her like her butthole and her, you know, her little, you know, coochie down there. And then it's just this jiggly like massive like butt. And you know, I'm sure it looks great in spandex, but it doesn't look that great out of spandex. I got new and it's all bruised and written on red sticking 40 John those needles you know probably for a body if you guys have injected anything or drawn up like oils use 18 maybe if you if you ever seen the might the the smallest I should say the biggest caliber syringe I've ever seen is a 16 gauge needle you know they can draw out like Dr. back and draw out, you know, blood from your gynecomastia surgery with that thing. This canula they were using had to be 12 a 12. It was It was 18 inches long. Yeah. It was like this long and it was like you would think it was like the size of a harpoon you you'd you know harpoon a great white shark with. And a matter of fact, she looked like a great white shark. This girl I I forgot whether it was Blau or or um what's his name? the one who killed himself, Nadler. Oh, Nadler said that when he does that that fat thing with the with with the canula, he said he gets exhausted, like worn out. Yeah, because it's hard to it's hard to stick that thing through the skin. People think skin pierces easily. It doesn't. There's a lot of resistance in there. Let me see if I can find this thing. Hold on. But ladies or gentlemen, if you're wondering if the girl's ass is real or not, you have a you have a you have two separate avenues to follow. You can say the the one is that there they use implants and fillers. That's over here. That's a definite fake ass. And then the Brazilian buttlft which uses their own body fat. The only problem with the Brazilian buttlft is it's not permanent. You got to keep redoing it. So, wow. It's because the body absorbs the fat. You know, you can You're basically You're basically force marbling the steak is what you're hold. I'm gonna try to see if I can pull this thing up here. It's worth seeing for a quick second here. Hold on. Yeah, it is. It kind of is. Don't you have like a limit? You can put it on for like four seconds and you I don't think I don't know if there's I mean, it's on Facebook. I I don't know why. Yeah. If I got it off of social media, I can kind of put it back on social media. Right. Right. Yeah. We we we we're like held to a higher standard. They they they you know, we're like the uh it's because of Lee Priest. Eli, are you out there? This is your fault. There it is. They look like tits almost over there. It's crazy. I don't know why anyone would want their butt to look like that. I mean, I understand like a little bit of a round booty is kind of cool and everything like that. I'm I'm a you know, I'm a butt guy, but this is ridiculous. But that's not a butt anymore. Look at that thing he's sticking in there. Look at that harpoon he's putting in there. But the thing is, this is where I have the where I don't understand how they don't have a moral dilemma. What he's doing to that girl is a travesty. Like a [\h__\h] freak. Okay. Dr. BL would never do that. He would refuse. No, there's doctors who will say, "I will not do that." Valerie went to a doctor to get her lips done and she's I won't do it. You got your lips are fine. I can't there's nothing I'm going to do with that that's going to make them look better. She wouldn't refuse to do it. I don't Yeah. Because they because they're as you know they have a reputation. They don't want to be get the reputation of having the you know the ridiculous you know things that some of these people do to themselves. Duck face. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that woman that's on the table there is getting is getting jammed full of her own fat. And that big undulating statapigious um ass is is that ass John is as as ridiculous as Greg's arms were. Yes. Yeah. Because what could you wear if nothing you wear with that ass? Well, whatever you wear, you know, it's going to be tight. Okay. If you want to dress up to go to a a nice dinner or something like that, what do you wear? Yeah. What are you going to do? You're gonna you're you you are going to be a circus element wherever you go. If you look, if you get your ass and your tits plumped up like that, there is nowhere you can go that you're not going to be an oddity. Nowhere. Not even the circus wherever you go. So, you're going to have to be dressed up in [\h__\h] spandex and stripes and glitter and flashing lights and [\h__\h] because you got no other choice. You You are not going to put on a white linen tailor made and go to No, it's out of the question. And you know, I you know, it's it's one thing, you know, look, we're bodybuilders, right? So we we we appreciate freak freaks, right? But at the same time, you know, you know, it's it it looks good to like just kind of admire it and say, "Oh, this is crazy." But it's another thing, you wouldn't want to be dating that person, you know what I mean? Because it's it's an embarrassment. And and I don't I don't see why these people don't see it as an embarrassment, you know, to themselves. O also when they do that to that extreme, they're advertising the fact that they are a [\h__\h] doll. And then and and then they're gonna and then they're going to set out to have a relationship with some guy who they want to be this prince charming dude who, you know, is going to take care of her and flower her and treat her with read poetry to her that he wrote himself and all. And they're gonna look for this imaginary prince charming while they present themselves as a [\h__\h] [\h__\h] Can you imagine bringing that home to your mother? What you got to imag That's a whole other freaking nightmare. But what you're going to contend with the entire time you're with this girl is every dude is going to look at you and they're going to look at her and they're going to say, "Imagine the [\h__\h] demons that guy's got. Her past her past must be so [\h__\h] lurid." And it's it's probably like marrying a porn star like that. The one on what's the one um Riley Reed. She's some I just saw it on Ro. You're the one that did A Thousand Guys or something like that. I however many I don't know. No, not in a row. But she's I mean she's a porn star. I mean fullblown does everything all three holes the whole thing, right? And she marries some dude and now she's been doing this for probably a decade. So she's probably got 4,000 films out there, right? She marries this dude, some guy who does parkour. I don't know if he wanted her to get do it or if it was her idea. I think parkour might be crazier than the porn actually to be honest. Together that must be a [\h__\h] time bomb. But all of a sudden now she says, "Oh, I've I've real I've come into my, you know, womanhood and I've realized, you know, I've grown as a person and I want all of the videos of me having sex with 15 black guys taken off." So, she's actually petitioning to get her videos removed. She's going to release when What is she gonna This is the stupidest thing in the world. You pursue a porn career, you better believe that those porn videos are never dying ever. They're going to follow your grandchildren around. Right. Right. So you if you think that you're going to participate in a sport like that and then one day decide that you're going to get erased from the internet because you want it that way, let me tell you something, kid, you should never have barked up that tree to begin with because now you're [\h__\h] Literally, especially in today's day and age with the internet, you know, it was different before when they were VHS tapes, you know, it was a little easy to get rid of them then, you know. Exactly. Because because right now it's all out in the cloud. It's everywhere. You know, you're never getting rid of that. Not to mention guys have [\h__\h] you know, video, you know, copied them, taped them. This whole club's pornh this guy in Mexico was a one of my members. He tried to get me to join. He thought I was into it. It's like a porn It's like a porn sharing club. It's It's like a literally like a club. So, I get a video of some hot girl using dildos in the shower, right? And I'm gonna send it to all of these guys. It was my contribution for the day. I'm sending this to here. Let me brighten your day. Here's a here's a girl. So, you don't think they have videos of her stashed away? How can you possibly pursue a career like that for a decade or more and then expect one day that you're going to get erased? It's funny. This girl wants to get erased. I can't find one freaking video from Muro Kabi. I just want one video. I can't [\h__\h] find it anywhere. This girl can't get erased from me. Now, if you if you done a wank video with him, it would probably be all over the place. Yeah. It's like with Nick Tradilly's videos, his jerkoff videos, or the one where the guy is blowing them or something like that. Yeah. I'm sure he would have wished those things would go away. Yeah. You know, exactly. But yeah, it's it's to me it's you know, it's it's like tattoos. All right. These guys that are in their these girls, too. They're in their 20 early teens. I can't believe the tattoos. I know. They get covered with them. I know. There's not I have tattoos. You have tattoos. We like tattoos. There's nothing wrong with tattoos, but you cover your body like more dense than Lee Priest at 19 years old. What are you going to look like when you're 57? Not even that. You don't even know what you're going to do with your life then. At least if if you know, I saw this woman at the at the veterary place. She's probably like 70 and she's got these sleeves she's bu she's building on both arms. And I'm like thinking, well, she's 70. She works at the vet. She's not changing career. It's not like she's going to get a career as a as the Ivory Snow girl at at at 70 years old. She could do whatever she wants, but like you said, at 19, you never know where you're going to go. Like that could dramatically inhibit your ability to get a job or to be a model or to I don't know, whatever you want to do with yourself, you know. Did you know the Ivory Snow girl was a porn star? She was. Yeah. One of them was. What was Who was I think it was the Ivory She's dead. She died. No, I know. What was her name again? Yeah. Um, Debbie Does Dallas girl. What was it? I don't know her name. Uh, she did the movie Debbie Does Dallas. Remember that? Tip of my tongue. Yeah. It was a whole big scandal that she was like, you know, she porn started. She did the Ivory Snow commercial. Um, you're gonna say the name and I'm Oh, yeah. Her. I'm gonna pull up the picture. this girl. Um, I don't Yeah, I don't know her name, but that's her. I think that's her. Oh, that's her. What's her name? I'm trying to find it. They got so many different ones. They got Debbie does Dallas 4. Debbie does Dallas 5. How many guys are in Dallas? I don't even know if it's I I think I'm wrong. Yeah, I think that's Bobby Woods, but but Hold on, let me If you told me her name, I would get It's almost like Marilyn Chambers. Marilyn Chambers. That's right. Yeah, right. You're right. I knew it was on the tip of my tongue. That wasn't Marilyn Chambers. That's that's the Dallas girl. Yeah, Marilyn Chambers was the Ivory Snow girl. The What a dichotomy that is. Like cancer or something like that. I think I don't know what she died of, but she definitely died. It was Yeah, it was it was a tragic death, I think. So, while you're looking for that, yeah, the latest thing to grind my gear is is this thing called one of the most trending topics now is the micro workouts. Have you heard of those? I sent them to you today. Yeah, I never heard this. There. That's her. Yeah. All right. Go back to the micro workouts. So, they're designed to do like in in your office. The the premise is two to three workouts of 5 to 10 minutes each. So, you do chair push-ups, chair dips, pull-ups in the doorway, you know, at the bar. You know, like it's us mostly calisthenic body weight type stuff because you got to do it in your office or at home or you can't go to the gym three times a day for five minutes, right? And this is but why rather than do five minutes three times a day, why can't you do like 15 minutes in a row? Well, or why can't you just go for an hour like you're supposed to, you know? It's it it because Dave, everybody is looking for the workaround. everybody. And it's more more prevalent now than I've ever seen it. It's it's like Ronnie Coleman would always say, "Everybody wants to be your bodybuilder, but nobody wants to lift no heavy ass weights." You know what I do? That is so true. You know what I do now? I Because I I've I've progressed to obsession and compulsion. Um I don't do it on the on the days I have my kids, but I go to the gym sometimes in the morning. I'll do, you know, 45 minute weights. I'll do like maybe 20 minutes of cardio, just pedaling a bike. go home. Um, I just got my bike, my trek bike, got it all souped up again. It was I hadn't ridden it for years and now I'm I'll go out and do a ride there. Later at night, like sometimes 11 o'clock at night, I'm so stressed I jump in the pool, I swim. So, I'm I'm doing I'm doing macro workouts multiple times. I'm like doing triathlons. Yeah, but I I know what you're saying. The point is, listen, if you have 15 minutes here and 15 minutes there, okay, to do a workout, why not just a lot, you know, an hour to go to the gym and and get it out of the way. You know what it is? Because when people think they have to go to the gym, they think they have to be there for a long time. And I don't know why that mentality exists because gyms today are so cheap. I mean, you get a $10 a month work, you know, you know, membership at a lot of gyms. Uh, Crunch is really cheap. I mean, most of these, even I, look, I don't I would never go into Planet Fitness, but they're also like 10, 15 bucks a month. You don't have to go for two hours. You go, you do one body part, 20, 30 minutes, and you're out of there. I don't understand why people can't just do that. They spend more time at Starbucks getting a [\h__\h] latte. They spend more time in their car scanning their Instagram on their phone. They could have got a workout at it and got home. You You can't go to Starbucks, go park the car, go in, order a coffee, sit there, drink it, and leave in less than half an hour. No. Same thing at the gym. Exactly. Find a Starbucks next to a gym. How about that? You can knock out two things in one shot. How about stop with the [\h__\h] Starbucks? You don't even need that. What? What? That's is another one of those examples of I won't I won't buy Starbucks anymore. I go to Dunkin Donuts. I don't go to Starbucks. I won't spend a cup of coffee. No. It's like it's like the classic. How can you go wrong selling something that people are addicted to? And then you glorify it. You make all these cool names to go with everything. The problem is I don't put any I I drink black coffee with Splender. So to me, Starbucks is is irrelevant. I don't need I don't use the milk and all the other [\h__\h] and sugar they put in there. So the coffee tastes burnt anyway. It Yeah. Why is I I I'm glad you said that. I was I was almost afraid to say it because people are so up on Starbucks. It has a burnt taste to me. It's the overroasted beans. They think that's like the cool thing. But I mean there's definitely a, you know, a balancing point to overro dark roast and over roast. Remember Joonies and Marina del Rey? Oh, the best coffee in in the world. They remember the thing they roasted it right there. I mean right there in front had this big smelled it. It was amaz. And that there was no better coffee on earth. And they were all pourovers. Remember you used to get them to order in the line. I would I would get the ice coffee there too was amazing. Yes. Iceed coffee in the summertime. What I do is I brew the pie for a show. It tasted like you were eating an ice cream sundae, you know, with a couple Splenders. I think black coffee with a Splenda in it is cold. Ice cold coffee. That's what I do. That's my [\h__\h] Squirt a little lemon in there, believe it or not. Yeah. Lemon. I'm telling you, a little bit. Yeah. A little bit of lemon and it just it it adds a little dimension. It just makes it almost refreshing. It's really Well, you know what I put in my I I make it you I didn't drink decaf coffee because I I the caffeine I don't want to raise my blood pressure but I'll get like the dark roast sometimes Pete's dark roast or I'll get the medium roast you know whatever from Dunkin Donuts and the little carrot things and I put like three splendor in there and I have a my friend Matt Garrett who makes his who grows his own mushrooms and grinds them up like turkey tail and Oh yeah cool lion's mane and he g it's a big thing of powder and I scoop and I put the powder into the coffee. So, it's like a a mushroom coffee splendor mix. And I'm telling you, it it I'm I'm so alert when I'm done after that with no caffeine. It's just from the just from the mushrooms. And it mushrooms have a coffeeish taste to them. So, it blends perfectly with the coffee. Now, do you put the mushrooms in the with the coffee grounds through the filter or do you put them No, I add I add it like I was me adding Splender. Like I just mix it in. It doesn't dissolve. How do you how do you It does dissolve because what I do is I put it in the cup with the splender and then I I make I then I do the carrot thing and and as it's spitting the coffee into the cup it it it so hot the coffee that you can mix it with the mushrooms will because usually I just get a mouthful of wet powder. No, no, it'll dissolve. They dissolve. They dissolve. It's phenomenal. It's called my uh that's my like substitution for real coffee, you know. for that. But you know, the mushrooms have, you know, they're supposed to help with, you know, growing new neurons in the brain. We and we at our age, we need as many neurons need all the help I can get. We destroyed a lot of them earlier in our lives. And I haven't stopped. I'm always worried. I'm like, I think I'm running out of hard drive space. I said I said, I got, can I defrag or something like that? got some kind of substance out there that can defrag your brain and get rid of all the old files that you don't need. You know, some sometimes I have these conversations with my wife and then I I walk away thinking I'm getting [\h__\h] stupid. I feel so dumb right now. Anyway, well, it was a good show. Uh, Brazilian buttlfts, micro workouts. I don't know what's this world this world. Everyone wants a shortcut to success. And you know what? At the end of the day, if you want to be successful and you want to be unique and you want to, you know, impress a lot of people, do it the hard way. I'm telling you, when you learn the hard way, you can then educate people as to how you did it as well. A lot of people are successful despite themselves. They don't even know why they're successful or they're just lucky and then they what happens is they get a setback and then they can't duplicate what they did because they don't really know what they did. or they try to teach other people how to be successful. Well, no, but my my point is, you know, there's always setbacks in life. So, if you have a setback, but you never really earned where you got to to begin with, you can't get back to that place again. But if you've done it the hard way and done the work, you know, along the way to get to that successful place. If you do have a setback, you can get back to there because you did. Right. Right. So, don't get any Brazil Brazilian buttlfts. Don't do your micro workouts. Go to the gym the oldfashioned way. Get under a squat bar. Squat. You'll have a butt, you'll have muscle, and you'll know how you did it. And on that note, we're gonna wrap up today's Palumbo podcast. I'm Dave Palumbo with John Romano. We'll see you next week. See you.