got the new 1970s shirt on and I'm we're ready to talk about the newest anabolic that athletes are using. Where do you get a load of this? I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. I haven't seen the sun in a week and a half. They just came out. Look at that. I love that fight. And we're back for another exciting episode of After Hours with the Wack Pack. I'm Dave Palumbo joined by the pack and we're missing John Romano again who's still on vacation in Portugal looking for the lost treasures of the Anunnaki. But uh he'll be back next week to tell us about that. What's up, guys? Must be nice to be on, huh? What's it couple weeks now? A long vacation. I know. wherever he's at. It's beautiful. I see the pictures on Facebook. He's eating some good food. He's enjoying his life. You know, I've been watching these um he's under witness protection somewhere, I think. I don't know. Yeah, may he might be. I've been getting a lot of complaints about Greg's microphone. So, if anyone wants to donate a microphone to Greg, you know, and send it to him. Well, he guys who are complaining right [\h__\h] here. You cry babies. Anyway, welcome. I'm tired of cry babies, man. I've been watching these. You know how Jimmy the Bull sends us these flat earth like uh Instagram posts? I don't know if you get it. He send them to me all the time. Like trying to prove flat earth. I've been watching these ones where they talk about these Anunnaki. You know who the Anunnaki were. Yeah. Th those from heaven to earth that that came those. Yeah. Supposedly the Anunnaki were aliens who came here and they they were humanoid. They look like us. humanoid but like but they and what they did was they wanted to mine all the the uh like gold and silver on the earth they needed and so they created yeah they created a race of of us basically they took the apes that were there or the humanoid like creatures and they put their own DNA into it and they made an intelligent version of of what was here already and we were the workforce to mine them and they they became the gods basically like the Egyptian gods, the Roman gods. It's kind of the same pantheon depending on what culture you're from. So this is what's translated from all the tablets and all the, you know, the Egyptian hier on the wall. This is what this says, right? Like they're trying to say the Egyptians weren't really the the Egyptians. In other words, the Anunnaki built all the the pyramids and everything. The Egyptians just kind of moved into the the empty houses when they left. They imitated them. Yeah. So which and and so so basically all the religions that on this country were built on the you know the idea that these they were gods you know whether if you depending on what religion you believe in but they according to like these historians they would say it was really these Anunnaki that were the gods and that if there is a real god that that's there's a real god that created even the anunnakis but in other words but we think on this we worship the the anunnaki that that's at least a theory I I I'm not saying whether right or not because I don't know but what do you think that that they themselves were saying that they were going to be held accountable for what they did to us so that's the story that's the story says it right right so they there would be a god above them obviously there's a god above them correct what do you guys think about that theory sounds like you know they did that documentary again you know they've done it so many times throughout like Lacy Peterson you know I watched that again yesterday. It's It's so depressing, you know, just watching that whole thing o over and I watched like it's a three-part series. I watched it like all yesterday pretty much. And I, you know, you forget like kind of what happened and how cold and how cold that was. You know, I guess you know him. You guys remember that trial? I Oh, you you you ch you drastically changed the subject. We're talking about the Yeah. Yeah. We were talking about shows. They just put it up on Netflix. It's a new one again. They've done it so many times because that would happen in 2002. And uh you know, it's like when when he murdered his um wife and I guess the theory was you know, he smothered her and then took her out to the uh the lake and then dumped her body and then the baby was like I guess eight she was eight months pregnant and you know it's it's like funny. talking he's talking to prison like yeah he's doing well because he got the death penalty I guess they're like appealing it keep appealing it how that works and then um he's like yeah he's doing well he lost over 100 pounds on a vegan diet I'm like wherever he's at they c I didn't know how they do that they cater to your your nutrition is what no I'll tell you what I being I was in prison and what they they they give it they always have a vegan alternative there and it's mostly because of some people it's religious, you know, like the like some people are Muslim, they don't eat certain meats and you know, they only eat kosher stuff. So, there was always a vegan alternative. So, in other words, at every meal, you can get like textured soy. It was basically it looked it tasted like um you know the stuffing you get at at at on Thanksgiving, the the the pieces of like, you know, bread crumbs that are in there. Where he's at, like state versus federal, that's different, right? Like the food. I don't know. I I know they always al offer a vegetarian full of [\h__\h] that night. I'll tell you something about the vegetarian alternative though and I'm sorry but the the the the lawn guys are in the background but um if you eat that textured I they don't give a lot of protein in prison. So I'm thinking you know what I'll eat the textured soy. It's better than the the crap they're giving us. But that stuff will give you the worst gas you've ever You think beans or broccoli cause gas? textured soy protein. Well, your ass, you could almost lift yourself off the ground from the gas you get from that stuff. Well, that from trying to plow that ass, right? They make that ice cream, that vegan. My My wife got a bunch of that vegan oat ice cream. It's gross. It's like more anything. I'm like, just get the regular ice cream because since last week I've I put on 20 pounds. I just been eating like burgers. I'm gonna show you good ice cream. Hold on. Hold on. Hog and Daw is good ice cream. Yeah, great ice cream. I'd rather eat than any of that weird like Peterson is full of [\h__\h] That halo crap is bad. Dave better not be pulling out that halo. We're gonna bust on him if he is. What? The halo? Horrible, man. It's got Yeah, that that fake sugar in it that that [\h__\h] your gut up. Yeah, whatever. Yeah, man. Sent to me. This was sent to me. I'm gonna zoom in. Hold on. It's It's called Wool Mama Protein Gelato. And it's, you know, you wouldn't do this while you're dieting because it does have some sugar in it, but it has a lot of protein in it. It has uh Is that a raw on the front? It's a uh I don't know what it is. It's just some sunglasses or sunglasses. I can't tell. Sunglasses. It looks like sunglasses. Water. I just eat like hogenos or like, you know, omega-3s in it. It's got Jerry's 51 grams of protein. tastes. It really tastes good. You know what we do, Dave? We get we get A2 cream and my son makes his own ice cream. Well, you could you could get the Ninja Creamy that great. You could put the pro my prote and with like even some like almond milk or something like that. I don't Everyone has their own recipes, but it makes that protoolyze into the greatest ice cream. People tell me they like that protein. Does it taste different from your last protein? Because I haven't tried the new one. The last pudding you used to make years ago. Yeah. Well, I have the new pudding. It's It's the same. It's It's the same. It's just reformulated with probiotics. You put the proteoly in there. I think I sent you some, Arma, didn't I? No. No, I didn't get I didn't get it. You sent me some. I think it's great. It's amazing. Flavor, too. It's even better. Way better. I think I sent you the ice because you were dieting. That's why I sent Yeah, I got the uh fiberiz the macadamia oil, arth the protoolized because it's thicker. You put that in the Ninja Creamy and it makes ice cream out of it and it's people Hey, Dave, let me let me say something real quick. I don't I don't promote products, but I want people to know this. Dave's MAC oil is really really better than any other Mac Oil. I've tried every MAC oil out there. Some of them are light. They don't got a flavor. This is buttery and it's great to cook in. So, don't cook in olive oil or stuff that's good that's that's bad for you. If you're going to cook and stuff, you need to use something like coconut oil. Well, Dave was at my house. Like, we got this from the grocery store and it's like it came in a plastic black one. It actually smells like perfume and tastes like perfume. I guess the I don't know. I think I let Dave smell it. It was It was You know what? People don't realize is you should never buy oils in plastic because is is fat soluble. And if you have fats in the plastic, it actually leeches the plastics into the into the oil. If you That's why you could put water in plastic because water and plastic don't really mix, you know, but you can't put oil in plastic, you know, and so that's a mistake. So we, you know, we use water is bad if it's heated. You don't want hot like hot water bottles. That's right. But I'm just saying you you believe me, it would be way cheaper for me to put the knack oil into a plastic bottle. It's lighter. Number one, they don't break. But it's the it's it's like a disaster, you know, for your health to do that. And I have a bad habit with the water bottles. I'll look I'll leave in the car and then go to the gym. I do the same. I do the same. I mean, you know what the truth is? We got to do you have to like figure out how you're going to live your life like because the new thing is now sushi has parasites. I like sushi. the mercury the I like it. You know what I mean? I don't eat I I can't eliminate everything from my I'm not going to walk around and eat nothing because that's really what the there's nothing sushi and you will be walking around eating nothing because your feet I tell you why that's why I'm so lean. I don't absorb any, you know, I was eating to see me on my on when I dieted, you know, for the three weeks and uh this place on the street and it tasted really good. But I went to this girl I used to see uh this past week, she does colonics. I haven't seen her in years and she was like trying to say, you know, you could kind of see in the tube. I don't know if you guys have done any colonics. Um but she's like, "Oh, you know, she'll stay in there and check you." Oh, you know, you saw a parasite go through. And she's like, "Oh, yeah." you know, I told her I was eating sushima. She's like, "Yeah." I was like, I didn't see it, but you know how they say it. But, you know, I had a lot of stomach issues. Um, you know, but I went from, you know, eating like three times a day, you know, eating those crunch bars, which I still can't find, Dave, the those crunch bars, the protein ones here that we had in Mexico. Yeah. I can't find the protein ones here. There's a there's a company called Power Crunch and they you can see their bars are all over the place, but the they taste like a like the old wafer cookies and they're they're 10 grams they're 10 grams of of carbs only, but they're 15 grams of protein, but they have a high protein one, which is hard to find. It's like they're I think they call it protein enhanced or something like that. It's also the same 10 grams of carbs, but they're they're like 20 grams of protein per bar and they're really good. I mean, where do you get yours at? We said Walmart or I think if you go to Target online, you can get the high protein ones or either that or Walmart online. It's a lot of times they don't have them, but you can e it's easier to find them online. You know, it's either Target or Walmart. I can't remember which one because it's I go back and forth, but I can buy Quest cookies at one place and I buy the the the um the Power Crunch bars. But I'm telling you, if you I mean, I wouldn't eat them when I'm dieting, but if you're not dieting and and you know, you don't have time to eat, they're delicious. The only problem is that they they're messy. So, I keep them in the freezer, believe it or not. And when they're frozen, they taste way better. Imagine putting a like a wafer cookie in the in the freezer. It's almost like an ice cream sandwich, you know. Um because otherwise, they melt. They'll melt and they'll get like really gooey almost. Yeah. Because it's a wafer. It it to me it's the best tasting protein bar on the market right now. And it's it got good macros, you know? It doesn't have like a ton of sugar or carbs in it. Do you remember those bars the um I think John Meadows it was he was involved with them whatever they had like the the thick ones you had to refrigerate them. Those are really really good. They had like the nuts and the Oh, you know there's a couple people uh companies out there who produce certain bars that they're layered bars. I think that might be what you're talking about where they have like five layers to them. I think Redcon has one. And I there's a few different companies that use the same manufacturer because I know I went and investigated and they taste really good the first couple bites and they have a nice mouth feel but it's there's a lot of like artificial or you know weird like you know sugar alcohol stuff in there and it didn't have that while you had to refrigerate it and eat it within like the first like couple weeks or it start to like kind of mildew or whatever. Yeah. I don't know if I I don't know if that's the same bar, but the these bars are they preserve better. But there's a lot of bars that just they get they get a little obnoxiously sweet, if you know what I'm talking about. I don't like like super crazy sweet bars that that have like an artificially sweet taste to them, if that makes sense. You guys tried the Legendary Pastries? Sorry. The Legendary Pastries are really good. Yeah, because I'm friends with Ron who owns that company. And if you freeze them, they're even better. Yeah. You know what? Or you put them in the microwave. They're really good, too. Either way. You ever heat them up? Have you heated them up? I like them cold. Yeah, that'd be something if you make your ice cream with your protein powder and then you put that on the on that. That'd be a really nice protein pack dessert. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't even think about that. That's good. That's pretty That's a good idea. Yeah. I heard Frank Zeppi got a good bar, too. I I haven't tried his bars yet, but I heard that they're good. Remember American bodybuilder steel bar? That [\h__\h] thing was too good to be true. It was [\h__\h] huge, too. That was heavy. Yeah, that's one of the bars I'm talking about. Like you eat the first half of it, it's delicious, and then it gets a little nauseating after a while. It's like too much almost. It was like too much in it, you know? But that's you real was real candy. I don't even think there was any Yeah. Yeah. I think you're right. I think there were really like a lot of sugar in there. Have you noticed though recently, you remember in the 90s um weight gainers were a big deal? Yes. Like they would keep they started out 500 500 lab calories then they went to a th00and calories and went 2,000 calories. What you notice there's no weight gainers on the market. No one buys weight gainers anymore. There's a there's muscle milk gainer one I was using like a couple years ago. It had like 110 grams of carbs like a bunch of fat like protein. I was those for a while and I mean I would get so distended on them and it it made me so bloated and puffy but It's a lot of crappy macros in there. That's why fuel gainers fuel. Twin lab gainers fuel. I love that [\h__\h] That helped me get big when I was a teenager. I use Perfect. Remember Perfect 1100? They had also that product. I don't know who made that. Champion made a good one. Uh Champion Ultimate Weight Gainer. I think it was the 1200 one. Yeah. Big scoop. You put like two huge scoops in. I would mix that Mega 2000. Yeah. And we came out with the one in in the dog bag. Remember it was a dog food bag. It was It was a cement. It was It was a spackle bucket. I think was a whole It was a whole cup scoop in it. Remember you get a video with and the [\h__\h] scoop was like what your mother used to use to scoop out the [\h__\h] the detergent when you you know Yes. You know, the scoop was an actual measuring cup. Yeah, it was like a full measuring. You know, I you know, I got the Botox like before the show or whatever. Like I get it usually every six months. I'll get I'll get shot my jaw for my TMJ and then my eye where my eye like was droopy a little bit and it's still like that. I messaged the office a few times and there's a script out there of eye drops that can like open the eye for like six hours during the day, but they don't have it anywhere. And like they're like, "Okay, well we called in here. They can't get they call them here, they can't get it. I'm like, "Okay, there's a script and there's a a medication for it, but um because it's it's never happened to me, but I think because I got it while I was doing that like extreme 3-week prep diet and um you know, something with my metabolism or whatever and it caused that like like little droop and my my eyes like will double vision from it." But um it's just probably going to take a couple months just to wear off kind of like I don't know. I know Dave, you do Botox, right? I know John does, but um I don't do it regularly, but I did I did it like like a couple months back and and and I never had gotten it around my eyes and you know what? I got a little droop, too. And I noticed that I almost had my bag got worse on this, but but my metabolism ate that [\h__\h] up so fast that after about a month and a half, it was gone. So I got it again on mine because I know John like his like a lot of times if you lift up you'll get that like you know arch right there eyebrow too. It happened to me too. Yeah. Yeah. But I don't like that. But my suggestion is just keep it in the forehead area and don't go around the eyes. I usually get it and it's never a problem. Like I like like my metabolism was sped up and I got it and then a week after I started notic it a little bit. I was like, "Okay." You don't even have wrinkles on your eyes, though. No, cuz I started I when I was 30, he was like, "You should start doing preventative Botox." Like, you know, my forehead there's no wrinkles. And forehead is fine, but you don't want to do your eyes. I'm telling you, don't touch your eyes. I I It was a big mistake doing my eyes. Greg, let me see your eyes. Take off your glasses. Uh oh. Oh, it's Fester. It's Uncle Fester. You Greg, you really don't have a lot of wrinkles at all for your age. You're you're very not there's no Botox. This is 100% natural. No, I know it is. That's what I'm saying. You have good good skin. And this is 64 [\h__\h] I know. I know. Did you get that SMP2, Greg? Uh, what's that? What's that SMP2? I don't know. It's got micropigmentation. No, I don't even know what that is. They like tattoo the little hair, you know, little He doesn't have he has he doesn't even have a a phone that that that that can connect to the internet. You think he has micro? So, can you grow your hair out, Greg? Yes, but it's it's gets like f like a cotton. It's a it's whisker. I did the micro a while, but I was doing it. I shame I had the first time to do it and then after I did I had to do it like 10 times total and it was so Yeah, mine mine has didn't say. I have a friend that had that done and he and he said he would never do it again because it's too obvious. I you know uh well he did mine a little too much in a couple spots. It's a little But I'm I'm still going to Turkey in November to do the that free hair transplant. They're flying me and you know my wife out there for free and Yeah. Well, back it up. You're getting a free hair transplant from where? Yeah. Yeah. I just have to post on Instagram. Um it was funny because it was the three of the five companies. I have to look up which one it is that uh I wanted to use because I know the one Chris Bumstead used and the other one they kind of do the hairline a little odd. It's kind of a little strange because they want what they usually want to raise your forehead which I can't do now till the Botox wears off and then you know kind of where your hairline they can bring it down like a little bit. Um but what do they want to do? What do they want to do to your hairline? Just bring it down like a notch like uh Yeah. Yeah. And then why can't you do that? Show me what they could do. They'll Why can't you do that with the Botox? Well, they like they want you to raise your forehead like up like your eyebrows and see like kind of where the line stops. And plastic surgeons here that I had consults with like over the past 10 years like, "Oh, you're not a good candidate. You're not a good candidate." But then everybody I known that's win a turkey, they do a great job. and and it's only like at the best places it's anywhere from like 2,000 to 4,000 for the transplant. That usually includes the hotel and then you just have to buy the plane ticket which they're flying me out like you know coach to Turkey but I think I think I might can talk them into doing first class Turkey. You're not you're not doing it in Mexico. I thought some of the pe places from Turkey went to Mexico now. Turkey still the best still. Yeah. You still want to go to Turkey? No, no, what you're saying is that Turkey opened up some clinics in Mexico. The Turkish people. Yeah. Johnny Lat used to got the uh what do you call that [\h__\h] The the flap surgery where they cut all this [\h__\h] out and then they pulled it together. Who did that? Johnny Latz. He's dead now. Yeah, that was what they did years ago. Yeah. Back in the 90s. No, when he was doing a facelift. No, they actually like they cut out the ball spot basically. Yeah. Yeah. And then they cut around it like this and then they pull it together. They cut like this. All this baldness. They cut it out and peel it together. And he looked good when it was done. I I ri What's that? What's that, Dave? It's like getting a facelift. Yeah. Pulling your face up. They would inject [\h__\h] in his head and then make it into like I mean you can't go out in public or you'd have to wear a hat because it would they would raise your scalp up like this high but I don't know if it's like oil or silicone or some [\h__\h] and then they take it out so the skin is loose so that you know because they have to stretch the skin and then they cut and then they pulled it together. I remember sitting in a diner with him and he had a crew cut. His hair was short like white. See, I got like whiskers and then he's like I'm like holy [\h__\h] because before that he was like skin bald. You know what I mean? He looked good. My friends that went to Turkey it looks it looks crazy. It looks amazing. I mean they they can they'll take a little bit from I'm doing like about 4,000 graphs. They can take some from your beard. So under here like I don't need this hair under here. Like they they take some from back here Arman. No they they they just do like Imagine though the beard the beard hair would be good on your head. It seems like it would be a little too bristly. Don't you think? No, it doesn't grow the beard hair out. It just stimulates the follicle and then a regular hair will will eventually grow there. Oh, is that what is that what's happening? Yeah. Yeah. But they said they can take it from the beard just probably about 500 graphs from there. And so it'll fill pretty much like in most of the front and then if you want to like then the back and the crown it'll be a little bit. My crown's okay though because that's scalp micropigmentation. But um the crown you can go back like in another year and kind of see how much more graphs you can do to fill in that. But I think just doing the front will be like you know like a pretty dramatic change. And I just have to post I think five stories on my Instagram about it. You know if even like two people go out there and pay that covers you know what I would do. And you know, they reached out to me because I think I was talking about it on TikTok or something and they they they emailed me and they said, "Hey, you know, we heard about I don't know how they they find it or whatever, but we heard, you know, talking about, you know, people want to turkey and we have this to offer." I was like, "Yeah, that sounds great." And then I planned to go earlier, but then I was like, "Okay, I'll go in November. The summer's too hot. Um, I'll probably they um they asked me to go there about a year ago and and you know what? I just don't have enough. I had gotten the hair grafts done in the 2000. Yeah. And I used up a lot of my donor hair. So, I just don't have enough donor hair, you know. But because you did the cut where they just cut fine, though. I mean, well, yeah, but you want to make sure that, you know, you don't lose. You don't have any% anywhere. What do you What's wrong with you? Put your head down. Let me see. I have a little bit back here. It's thin. Oh, yeah. Maybe they could fill in the back a little bit. Yeah. My barber went out there from Turkey. He went to Turkey and uh the whole trip cost him only $2,000 and he was and now he has a full head of hair and it looks good actually. The food's cheap but reasonable. It's good and it's it's not expensive, right? It's it's good. He said he said that everything was super cheap. Like the whole trip at hotel, massage therapists, everything. Was he in Estanbul? I I think so. Yeah, I would love to go. And uh he even said like he had like a Russian uh two girl massage thing going on. Wow. Like in a fivestar hotel with amazing food. They'll have like limo pick you up. Take It's a beautiful area, too. Most people will stay only like three or four days. But if I'm going to Turkey, I'm going to stay at least a week. I'll the first few days I'll stay, you know, hang out, look around. You have to stay on after they do the implant. It's really sore for several days. Yeah, they want you to stay I think three days. You have to have some treatments after that. Yeah, they want you to stay three days afterwards because they they'll like lightly massage it for you because you're going to be bleeding a lot. And you said your hair head is all completely swollen up for like Yeah. Your head won't get like Yeah. like all swollen. I'll tell you a story about I'll give you a bit of advice. So, when I got my hair transplant and they this is when I was in the midst of bodybuilding, right? I was my biggest, right? So, I go to the guy, you know, they they cut a strip of hair out of the back of your head. They they see it's like they see the lawn, whatever they do, they he's like, "All right." He gave me a couple prescriptions, you know, one was for pain, which I didn't need. The other one was for was a was a was a pack of um what is it called? Predinisone pack for a week. Yeah. I said, you know, you know me with the predinisone. I'm like [\h__\h] catabolic. Can't take it. It's going to ruin my body. Right. Crazy. I didn't take it. And after about 4 days, my face was this big. I look like the the the elephant man. Okay. And I it was my it was so uncomfortable. I I and I and I called him up and I told him he's like, "Did you take the prennazone pack?" I said, "No, I didn't want to lose any muscle." He goes, "That's why I prescribed it so that your face do that." So when I went for your ligaments and joints too, prennazone for everything. Yeah. But what are you supposed to do, Dave? Was that was that for a week? It would have been the end of the world. When I did the second treatment, you know, when I went back again a year later, um I did the Predispack, I got no swelling in my face. What? So, you were in your 30s when you did it, right? Yeah. I was Yeah, probably about 33. Yeah. Yeah. When I went for consult here, they all they were all honest and told me like I would not do it in your 30s because you you'll want you'll eventually want to do it in your 40s and you won't have enough donor hair. So, the Yeah, you know what it was? I had lost enough hair by then in the front. It was getting really thin. So, I wanted to like thicken it up a little bit. The guys watching this must be like you [\h__\h] guys. Botox while we're on that hair. Guys, while we're on the topic, what do you think about finestroide? Well, you could pull out you could pull it off, Greg. Some people I look weird with a shaved head. I don't look good at all. Yeah, I do, too. I look very weird. Yeah, he wants a shout out. What's going on? I hope I said his name. What do you guys think about Fast? Did you guys know I was a Jew? I'm a Jew. Did you know that Dave's a Jew? I don't like it. Who gives a [\h__\h] What is wrong with people? I for years and Yeah. Go say that. Go say that now outside Chicago. They freaking chase you. All right, I I want to bring up this uh this story here that was in the news. There's this tennis player. Pull it up. John, while we look for that, can we uh about Eugene? My boy Eugene. God bless you. Talk about him in a minute. We'll talk about Eugene a minute. Let me talk about this case because um top rank test player John Center tested positive twice for analog steroids in March. He will not be suspended after the International Tennis Integrity Agency on Tuesday determined that the banned substance entered his system unintentionally through a massage from his physiootherapist. Oh my god. He tested posit positive for Claustra ball. Do you know what that is guys? Turnal and Dabball kind of mix or whatever. Yeah. Well, they used Claabol to make tyrannol, but yeah, they um the claustable ball is like it's it doesn't have a lot of anabolic properties supposedly. It doesn't aromatize. It doesn't convert to DHT, this stuff. And um there he is right there. There we go. And it's a cream. It it I guess it can be administered. Yeah. Sub subma on the skin, but shut down. I you know what? He doesn't look like he's on several. He looks like he's uh it's like how much advantage is it really given them to whatever they take and chance it like that you know like what do you think about like Ryan Garcia like the Austrian thing like that Austrian doesn't do anything at all like let's look at it from let's do it from this perspective first of all he used claustable probably be they're claiming that the massage that he had a wound on him and that they sprayed some some healing spray on it that had claustro ball in it. I don't believe it. Okay. I think they're full of [\h__\h] But yeah, they obviously use claust ball because it's like a weird esoteric steroid that no one's heard of. So they probably think it ah no one no one will catch it, right? I'm sure that's why they did it. Okay, because you never test positive for the common stuff, right? Like anavar or anything like that because these guys know that they that's a common steroid, right? So someone probably told him some idiot that in his camp probably said, "Oh, this is undetectable. I don't see any metabolites in any of the drug tests." And so they used it. All right. Then they have to once they get caught, they got to make up an excuse now, right? Because it couldn't be that he intentionally did it, right? It has to has I look I would do the same thing. You know, this guy had a lot of money on it to me, You know what's funny? I I you know, all the [\h__\h] you could give girls all you want. It's not going to change. Did you guys see Gabby Garcia? Did do you know what I'm talking about? The the jiu-jitsu champion. She's she's [\h__\h] huge and she's on all kinds of [\h__\h] You can see she's got [\h__\h] she looks like Andre the Giant. You know what I mean? You know, seriously, go look at her face. She's [\h__\h] got the other day she was standing like face to face with Nate Diaz and he started laughing. He's like, I can't. You know what I mean? But that she just uh you know, she's a great jiu-jitsu champion, undefeated. She fought a guy the other day and she lost, you know, and and and she was Did you fight a guy? She fought uh Paul. I think it's Why is she fighting guys? Just because she wants to. It was a thing. They did a thing and just to see. And this the guy actually uh Yeah, that's that's Wait, she looks good there. Reminds me of Jim Carrey when he did. You know, I hate to tell you that's 6'2. She would kick all her asses that I wouldn't. Yeah. exact. But the thing is, she fought, you know, she's a Brazilian jiu-jitsu champion, right? They had a guy, look for the one with the That's the guy that she fought. Now, that's and she that guy beat her. What I'm just saying is she's a real girl. She's a real girl, though. Yeah. Genetic woman. But what I'm saying is all these people saying the man takes, you know, if a man takes estrogen, it still doesn't change anything hormonally. Oh no, it's the skeleton. It doesn't. It's the whole bone structure, the bone density, the structure. If you if you took the hottest [\h__\h] on a [\h__\h] planet. I mean, you would never know. And you [\h__\h] buried her body and some archaeologist came up a thousand years from now and dug that bottom up. They say we found a skeleton of a man because you can't change that. You can't change the bone density, the structure of the skeleton. And that's also what helps men, the narrower hips, the whole bit, you know. Realize But here's a girl who was gigando and is a badass, undefeated, tough [\h__\h] Again, Nate Diaz walked away from her the other day. He was like, you lost to that guy who's up to her [\h__\h] breasts. You know what I mean? That's how So, I'm just making a statement. All these people with this [\h__\h] you know, you keep Greg, you sure this is not you? Hold on. Look at this picture I just found of this guy and the girl. Hold on. is now. Jesus. Let me see. That's the guy he kissed. No, she got mad. Watch the video. There's a video of that. She got mad. She chased him after that and then she hit the camera. She got mad. That was awful. They were acting, but that that's funny, you know. Well, they're friends, but she got really pissed off. Go watch the video. That's a great video. It's funny because he kissed her and he ran away and she chased him and she's like I mean, yeah. It was like Lurch when you saw her chasing him gave her a titty twister and I saw that chick running at me. I'm gonna get you. You know, I'd be like I think that's a silver cross and [\h__\h] Yeah. Did y'all watch the UFC Izzy fight? No, I didn't. But that that girl's a monster in jiu-jitsu. She's undefeated. No girl can beat her. She's She's, you know, she does she fight UFC too, open like stuff like regular UFC fights. What about it? Does she do regular UF? Yeah, she does full MMA. She'll not, you know, she she kicks and punches, but they did a jiu-jitsu match because that's her thing. Did she tap out? Uh, I think she I think she tapped out. I'm not sure, but I just know that he beat her. That's that guy right there that kissed her. But he's so small. He's so small. She towers over him. I might be able to catch you in a video right now. Well, imagine imagine fighting Nicole Bass. Remember Nicole Bass back in the day? Nicole Bass put me in a headlock and lifted me off the ground. She's 6'2 and she was strong as hell, too. You know, strong and she she had Oh, yeah, man. She had [\h__\h] crazy strength. Nicole Bass. Oh my god, dude. She had me in a headlock. I was like, "Holy [\h__\h] she she was powerful." I saw her pick Troy Moore up over her head, like press him over her head. I thought he was gonna die if she threw I thought I said, "Troy, if she throws you on the floor, you're dead." I said, "You know what? She liked us little guy. She liked to [\h__\h] Yeah. Yeah. Let's talk about uh let's talk about Eugene Mission because uh obviously terrible terrible what happened to him. obviously passed away over the weekend. 48 years old, good friend to the show, good friend to all of us, most of us at least who knew him. Uh I knew Eugene since he came to this country and start first started dating Lena. I did a very nice tribute to him on RX Muscle. If you guys haven't seen it, check it out. And uh you know, we don't know what the cause of death was, but you know, his dad died at 50 from a an embolism. And from what I understand, you know, he was in the house with Lena at the time that he passed and he was like choking and he was like gasping for air and so and then he just passed very quickly. So I'm wondering if it was an embolism too that he had that heart attack I think it was. Right. It was a heart attack. He had had two three stances put in about a year ago because he had a blockage in in the coronary artery. But supposedly his heart was fine. So, I you know, it it could have been a clot that dislodged itself or something like that and and went to his lungs and and killed him. You know, we don't know. There's been I don't know if there's going to be an autopsy, but the cause of death has not been determined yet. It's just very God forbid, God forbid they find a schedule one drug in his system, but blame it on that. He had blame that. He had gotten clean. He wasn't doing [\h__\h] I was just talking to It looked like he was putting size back on him uh again though the last few months, right? I saw a couple pictures. It looked like he was getting bigger again. Yeah, he got a little bigger. Yeah, he's You can see him here. He's definitely bigger. He got that Humvey. You see that? H That's like the original military Humvey. He bought one. He was redoing it the whole thing. He was his mother and [\h__\h] He's such a good guy. His mother was so proud of him and everything. Uh I know for the longest time he was trying to get his sister over here. You know, he he's he's such a you most people that don't know Eugene, just New York guys. He was so good, man. You have no idea. That's you know, that's sad about like the industry like, you know, people pass away so much and then people, you know, make all these nasty videos attacking other people and you know, you know, it's like it it used to be different. Everybody used to be a camaraderie. Used to be like more, you know, especially in the magazine days, everybody was more a lot closer and then now everybody's attacking everybody. It's like Mun and Momo Benaziza. Muhammad Benaziza, right? Those two guys were the big ones in the '9s that were in a prime. Momo died. Muhammad died uh winning a show. I mean, he won the show and was sitting in a garbage bag just barfing. You know what though? Those guys were used to really do a lot of diuretics back then. And it wasn't just those two guys, but people overdid the diuretics in the 90s. I will definitely say that. Yeah. And that got curtailed because people saw what happened when you overdo them and people got scared after that and then you don't see that anymore which is good isolated cases where people overdoing it but by and far I think guys realize less is better with diuretics. A lot of we learn from history you know ones that died from taking too much cytoine. I heard cytoine. Yeah. Yeah. I I I think these guys were over dehydrated had no cortisone in his body. I think that's what I Well, I mean, it probably didn't help. Yeah, it didn't help. But you know what? When you're also super super dehydrated, your body can't like heal itself. It just just doesn't work right. Alacone 30 days out then then dide in LA. It's just like what is the reason for that? That's crazy. Because they're not ready and they're trying to overcompensate. I know. These guys were actually ready. Some of these guys in the the Monza guys, they just wanted to get so paper thin that it's amazing they kept their fullness with all the diuretics they would take these guys, you know, because they actually did have fullness, too. I don't know how they did it, but well, because they didn't have antirogenically probably. Yeah. Who knows? But, uh, they were doing a lot of crazy stuff and they didn't have estrogen. So they took a lot of tests and everything and so leading into the show they were holding 20 pounds of water. Right. Right. Yeah. The diuretics flushed 20 pounds of water off of them and then they were peeled. Dude, who I don't know. Nowadays nowadays people are already peeled, you know, two weeks out and then they're trying to throw diarr on top of it. You know, when I I did a show once at the last minute, like I decided the night before to do it. I w up winning the show, but I dropped 25 pounds of water overnight. And when I started eating the next that night after the show was over, we went out and celebrated. I my legs went dead. I couldn't feel my legs. Um and I couldn't I couldn't literally I couldn't move. I couldn't get up and I was got scared. I'm like, "What the freak did I do to myself?" I whacked my electrolytes so severely by taking out that much water out of my body. even though I it looked good um that when I put the salt and water back it was it just didn't it took like an hour of me sitting there till it equilibrated itself. So I think when you take massive amounts of fluid or electrolytes out very quickly that's when you can have problems. I think if you just take a little bit out or you do it gradually I don't think the the issue is as bad. But I think when you do it ma very very drastically like that and when you have the only solution is an IV bag. You need to at that point you got to have You're right. You're right. You're right. In his past, though. He That was heavy diuretics, wasn't it? The 26-y old Brazilian guy. I Yeah, I don't know what he was taking. I I really don't. We We do know this. There's certain prep coaches that have been around for a long time and they're still using the same damn protocols from 30 years ago. Yeah, they're not changing. right. Jimmy, we're we're wrapping the show up in five minutes. Give us Give us your story. What happened? I You're You're at the end of the show. I got I got to go someplace. We got to wrap up. And I I know you have a great story. Jesus Christ. You got to be kidding me. There it is. Tell us. Well, I I called you the other day. I had to go to the hospital. I went over to a friend of mine's house. He says, "Come over." I had to help him with something in the in his apartment. So, I said, "All right, I'll be over there in about 20 minutes." I [\h__\h] go over the guy's house. I open up the gate. I'm gonna go to the second pair of gates where he lives. All of a sudden, this dog comes running down the stairs off the deck. A pitbull. I didn't know he had I didn't know he had a pull. I had a dog, but I know it was a pit bull. So, the thing come running down the stairs and he's barking, right? So, I say, "Oh, all right. You all dogs bark, right?" So, I go to pet my hair, boy. But I said, "Holy [\h__\h] it almost bit my fuck." Now, he's [\h__\h] attacking me. The son of a [\h__\h] right? He's coming after my legs. I'm I'm kicking him with my foot. I'm trying to get the son of a [\h__\h] away from me. I back up to the gate. I I open up the sick again. I'm kicking him. Kick. Now I'm hitting him with the [\h__\h] gate cuz he's the dog's trying to tear me apart. And I'm whacking him with the gate. I got to get this dog. He want to I kicked him five times. He didn't want to stop. Finally lunges. Yeah. He lunges into the gate and he grabs my above my knee with his mouth and he's trying to rig my, you know, I'm going like this with my leg. So I rip my leg out of his mouth, you know, and I started whacking him with the gate again. He finally backed up and I go down to my friend's apartment. I go, "Yo, I said tell me this dog is over here." He goes, "Oh, I didn't was out." He was out. Look at my leg was bleeding and [\h__\h] I I pulled my pants down was blood all over the place. I said, "I got to go to the I got to go to the doctor over here." I says, "Is the dog is he still out there?" He goes, "I don't know. Good luck." Good luck. That's what you tell me. I know you since kindergarten. Good luck. That's I said, "I'm out of here, man." I went out there. I decided to see the dog. I went to the emergency room. The guy looks at my leg. He goes, "Yeah, you're going to need a tetanus shot." I says, "Oh, shit." I says, "I I go, when's the last time you had one?" This this is like last week. My leg's still killing me. He go I said, "I don't know 35 years ago." He goes, "No, you need a tender shot and antibiotics, too." I said, "Antibiotics, too." He goes, "Yeah." He goes, "You don't know that you're bleeding." He goes, "You got a wound." I says, "I know that the dog bit me." He goes, "I know." He goes, "What's the guy's name and his address?" I says, "So, you got I got to give his name and address, too." He goes, "Yeah." He goes, "The dog bit you. We got to we got to know who owned the dog, where it is." I said, "You going to go get the son of a bitch?" That's not up to me. He goes, "We got to we got to report it." I said, Hold on. You got bit by a dog like like a couple years ago when you were delivering oil. Yeah, Earl. Earl. It was another Yeah, I was dealing with Earl and I got another another pit bull. Yeah, he got me. That guy That guy attacked me and I fell backwards cuz he he lunged at me. This son of a [\h__\h] I I caught him in the chest. He He landed on I thought he was going to rip my face off this that dog. So, I put my arm up cuz I was blocking my faith cuz he was coming at me. And they got my arm and he's and he's dragging my arm with his with his mouth and I got I'm I'm in the I'm in the I'm in the bushes on the ground, you know what I mean? I'm yelling. The guy comes out and he yells, "Caesar." That was the dog. I remember I never forget the name. You know, Caesar, Caesar, get on. I'm like, "Yeah, get this [\h__\h] Caesar off. Get him off." Thank God I had a jacket, four sweaters on, you know what I mean? So, the son of a [\h__\h] didn't get to my skin, but he ripped the [\h__\h] out of my jacket. And it just happened. And I just and I went on the show right after that. I had [\h__\h] leaves in my hair. [\h__\h] that jacket. Go get the jacket. Show us the jacket. I don't I don't have the jacket. I tossed it. It was destroyed. It destroyed it. You know what I mean? So now here it is years later. Another dog attacks me. This time he ripped my leg open, man. He almost Let me tell you, man. He almost took my kneecap off. Let me Let me see the leg. Show us the leg. Well, it's healing now. I got to pull my pants down. I'm not gonna put my pants. Let's see. Show us the leg. I'm not going to pull my pants down now. I'll show you later. I'll I'll I'll FaceTime you, you know. [\h__\h] unbelievable. Anyway, that's that's it. And then my arm swelled up from the tetanus shot. So I called I said, "Yo," I said, "Does your arm swell up from a tennis shot?" I said, "I got to just loop up over here." It hurts. It'll hurt for a few days. A few days. It hurt for a week. Over a week, it hurt though. I couldn't even move my arm and [\h__\h] It was like it was killing me. You should have said, "Can you put some testinade in there while you're at it? You might as well like Yeah. Yeah. Hey Dave, I got a tetanis shot when I had so much [\h__\h] in me and I didn't even feel the [\h__\h] stuff. Cuz it was probably it's probably still in your arm. That's why. Cuz it's with the oil that was in there. All the stuff. You know, you know, Greg, when the guy was going to give me the shot, he goes, "Oh," he goes, "You got tattoos." He goes, "I guess you're not faded needles." I said, "I wanted to tell him, you have no idea, buddy." I said, "But the head." I said, "Whatever you got to do, you know." So, he he he gives the shot in the arm. I didn't even know he did it. I he pulled it out. He was like hitting me with the alcohol. I said, That was it. You did the shot. He goes, "Yeah, I did." I goes, "I didn't feel shit." He goes, "Don't worry, you're going to" He goes, "The more muscle you got." He goes, "The more it's going to hurt." I said, "Really?" I said, "I didn't feel any, bro." Two days later, man, I couldn't even arm swell. I'm in the shower looking at my arm. I'm like, "What the [\h__\h] is that lump?" It was a [\h__\h] huge lump sticking out the side of my arm. You know what I mean? All I know is when these when these these medical people give you a shot, you ever notice when they give you a shot? You can give yourself a shot. It doesn't hurt. They like it's like they're into you want you to lay down for like minutes afterwards too. Like you know what kills me the most? When they squeeze your skin like I don't understand like when I used to do testosterone back in the day I just would you know put it in the cheek whatever these guys they they pinch the they pinch the skin out like for some reason and then they shoot the needle right in where they squeezing the skin out. What the [\h__\h] is that? They have to the needle's sharp. Why do they need the force for it? You I don't understand it. You know, when I used to get get testosterone at my uh my uh doctors over there, the nurse used to grab my cheek and squeeze the skin so it would like be sticking out like that, you know, and then she didn't. Yeah. Yeah. But what the hell is the purpose? I don't understand. It's going to go in no matter what. What do you got to fat people? That's why. Yeah. Fat. I don't fend a no fat army. They got most of the population is fat. So they try to squeeze it up so they get the the the shot into the muscle, you know. Yeah. But this was this is intramuscular testosterone, right? So, you know, they try to get they try to squeeze the thing so they can get between the fat and and get it into the muscle. I guess that's only a big deal. Let me tell you something. That hurts like a son of a [\h__\h] when they squeeze your skin tight like that and then they harpoon it like that. What a who who the hell taught them how to give injections. Those people next time I went there says, "Give me the dot. I'll do it myself. Give me the give me the freaking thing. I'll do it myself. You know, you ain't giving me a shot anymore. That's it. I'm done." They did the same thing to me in Mexico. Arman saw it. The woman couldn't give me a shot, right? Yeah. It's like you like this is going to happen. And she's like, "Oh, no. I'm a doctor. It's okay. You do your job." She gave me a he the biggest hematoma of my life. She gave me Yeah. And it hurt too when she put it in. Right. You're like, "Oh, yeah. Yeah. It hurt." Yeah. Because I knew she hit something. Does she she pinch Did she pinch the skin up and then half? No, she didn't pinch the skin, but she just didn't listen to where I told her to put it and she I knew, but the last time I went for a testosterone shot, the lady, you know, I pull my pants down and she's and she grabs my cheek. I'm like, "Oh, no, man. Maybe she was uh actually she might have been following you a little bit." You know, she like that ass, Jimmy. She's like, "Drop your pants." I said, "Yeah, I gotta drop your pants." What are you going to check into the jeans? Of course, I got to drop my pants. He loves going there when they when they tell him that, you know. He likes Yeah, that was like the That was the same office where the other chick came in when I was getting the when I get my prostate checked and the same was the same office. The girl I bent over. I'm bent over to the table and the and the and the doctor sticks his finger up there. I'm like, "Oh man." You know, all of a sudden I get another one, right? I'm like, "Oh my god." Turn like, "Give me give me that number. I want to go there and get checked out too by there." You know, and then I turn around the young girl. I said, "You stuck your finger up my ass." She says, "Yeah." He goes, "Don't worry. She's all right. She's part of the team, right? So, she ain't part of my team. All right, buddy. She is now. Yes. Yes, she is now. Yeah. Hey, I got to wrap up, guys. Jimmy, I appreciate you coming in for the last five minutes. Uh wish you would have come earlier. We got a lot more, but I got to wrap this up. I got to go do some chores today. Guys, I want to thank you all for joining us live and uh chiming in once again. Prayers, love out to Eugene Missions family. friends, loved ones, we miss you, buddy. And uh Lena, God bless Lena. Yeah. Yeah. I talk to Lena every day the last couple days. She's a amazing woman. So Oh, I love Lena. Tell her I give her my love, Dave. Tell Lena that my love. I will. You should text her and tell her that. I'm sure she'd like to hear from you. So yeah. Yeah. I I like Lena. All right. All right, guys. Thanks for joining us. We'll be back again next week. John Romano should be back from his uh his wherever he is his pilgrimage to the to the pyramids. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. I'm kidding. That's John. All right. We'll be back. Like I said, Tuesday, Wednesday, I go to North Americans. I'll be there for almost a week. So, that's going to be a big uh big deal. I haven't been to Pittsburgh in quite a while. We'll talk about that next week. For now, we're out of time. Talk to you next week. is reality.