Sam Sulac seems to be the most complicated guy in bodybuilding today. Everybody seems to want to trash him. Guess who's doing it now? I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Heat. Heat. And we're back for another installment of the Palumbo podcast. I'm Dave Palumbo joined by my co-host John Romano. And John, more Sam Sulac controversy out there. Tim Wilin, good guy, great MC, good analyst, was on the uh the Olympia TV show with Tara Kunty and Chris Cormier. And I guess they must have asked him about the what he felt about Sam Sulk, who is the latest sensation in our industry and who just uh just got his pro card, right? Yeah. In classic physique. And Tim said uh quote, "He's garbage in my mind." and he thinks, you know, maybe we should play the clip and then we can I'll play the clip quote. We don't get sued. Yeah. Here we go. All right. Garbage is an influencer. And I think the Jay Cutlers and the Phil Heis of the world need to take you aside and say, "You got a great future ahead. If you want to see 30, there's some things that need to change. You have six to 10 million young people following you. You're eating like you know what you show it on your skin. You're taking things that are way beyond your skill level. Build to your max first. And I'm gonna I'm going to direct this to Sam and I'm going to say it from the coach. I coach kids who ask me about you all the time. I had my millennial son ask me about you the other time. I do not think you're good for the sport. I think you're garbage for the sport. And there it is. Garbage for the sport. Big statement. How do you respond to that, Don? Well, there probably was a time in my career when I would have said more or less the same thing. Um, I've learned since then, but you know, garbage is kind of a big bad uh reference that I don't think is applicable here. I can feel the passion in Tim's voice and what he's saying. Um, you know, you got to temper all of that with the fact that Sam Sulak is an IFBB pro. So, um, you know, whatever he did seemed to work. Um, if you want to credit that to the chocolate milk and the zits, I mean, that's probably, you know, not applicable, but he did something right. Can't deny that. So to say that he's garbage for the sport because six million people, six million kids look up to him, um I I I think I I don't think that's the hill to die on. I think you got way bigger problems than Sam Sulak. I think you got, you know, guys out there, take the Trend Twins for example. I mean, they named themselves after the one of the most complicated drugs in the that we know of. I mean, so I mean, if you're going to go after somebody, go after them. you know, they only have, you know, 1.6 million followers, but I mean, it's a start. But I'm not specifically that I'm saying that they're bad. What I'm saying is there's bigger fish to fry if you're in the market for frying fish. So, to to to call Sam Sulak garbage for the sport in light of the other trash that's out there, I think is a stretch. I I I you know, like I said, I really respect Tim Wilin and I like the is a good guy. But I dis I totally disagree with him on this in this regard. Number one, Sam Sulak never went out there as as an educator or as an advocator. He basically was a kid who who loved to train. He went on his his Instagram and YouTube and started just posting what he did. He didn't say, "Hey, follow me. Do exactly what I do and you'll get huge." He didn't do that. He didn't sell any products to anyone. He said, "This is what I do. I you know, I remember when I was bulking up, I used to do hogenas ice cream at night. I don't know. I thought it was that's you know that was I needed the calories you know for whatever reason right you know do you think I don't believe that Sam Sulc has acne on his face because he was drinking chocolate milk you know I think he's just prone to acne probably has a very high natural testosterone in his body he probably is a big DHT converter and he just probably has a genetic predisposition for acne and he might lose his hair later in life who knows because he you know the DHT starts acting I didn't lose a hair on my head till I was 30 but then it started going I'm sure same thing with you so yeah I don't think Sam is is is garbage. I think he's actually good for the sport because these kids looked up to him as a guy as a regular guy who didn't have particularly, you know, advanced genetics. He had good genetics and when he ate and trained hard, he put muscle on. And you know what? And he actually backed it up by getting on stage. He didn't have to get on stage, John. We talked about this on our show. This guy could have never competed like he could have pulled a Victor Richards. He could have pulled, you know, any of these guys that that don't compete and just are like social media, you know, stars and he could have made a really good living. But he he he loved bodybuilding so much he actually went out there, said, "Hey, look, not only do I I train and put up all my what everything I do. I'm gonna get on stage." And he got on stage, he won his first show, and then he turned pro in his He turned pro in his second show. I mean, that's tremendous. That's not garbage. That's the American dream, isn't that? Yeah. Well, yeah. And I mean, you know, I I I He didn't inject He wasn't on on YouTube injecting, you know, trembolone into his chest, you know what I mean? Like like he didn't even talk about drugs really. So barely at all. And I when I first stumbled across him with the chocolate milk, I thought to myself that the it was a parody on, you know, the bodybuilder that's got to walk around with their gallon jug of water and six meals packed away in their six-pack cooler and they're already eating chick steamed chicken breast and steamed rice and a steamed, you know, potato and a spoonful of peanut butter and that's it. And they don't, it's the only thing they do. And they carry it all with them and they're like obsessed with that. And then, you know, they don't turn, you know, they don't even turn pro. Now, here you got a guy, what? You don't have to do all that. I'm just gonna eat like this and I'm gonna drink chocolate milk. I'm gonna get the calories. I'm gonna train hard. See what happens. You know, and like you said, he wasn't selling anything. He wasn't out there as a teacher or an authority on anything. He was just saying, "This is what I'm doing. Follow me through my journey, and if you think you like it, pay attention." And that's basically it. And I think that was probably the allure to him is that this is this is a regular guy doing something that a lot of guys dream of doing and he's chronicling his attempt at doing it. And you know what the planets lined up and the kid [\h__\h] turned pro in his second show. So you you you can blame judging, politics, you want to do anything you want. Fact of the matter is next to his name it says IFBB Pro. So there you go. And he's I mean he's doing good stuff. I looked at his channel. I mean he's got training stuff on there. Yeah. He does some unconventional eating, but he has he has the ability to do that and not gain weight. He's not telling everyone else, "Hey, if you want to get huge, this is how you got to do, right?" People might copy him, but that's that's okay. I mean, and and and like why get upset with the guy because he's got a good physique and then say, "Oh, he's promoting drug use." Well, he's really not. I mean, anyone who competes nowadays is promoting drug use. I mean, right. Yeah. That statement Yes. And and that's this guy supposed to be natural just to to appease, you know, the public because he's got six million followers. I'm like you and I'll defend anybody's right to say anything they want for for the freedom of being able to do so. But um like the statement that Wilkins made about him about how do you phrase it? So Sulle doing something outside of his skill level or you know taking stuff he's taking too many drugs. Yeah. Right. I mean, how does he know exactly? So, like I said, I'm not I'm not disparaging Wilkins. He had every he has every right to be as passionate about this topic as he wants to be. I'm just saying that you got to be careful with the accusations that you make without knowledge of fact. And and like you said, Dave, and and I want to keep reiterating it. Sulac never put it out there that I'm the guy to copy. Yeah. So whether six million kids are copying him or not, we don't know that. We don't. Right. And people are say you're comparing right here to the Boston Lloyd. But you know what? Boston was different. I'll tell you why Boston is different. Because Boston said, "I'm taking 6,000 milligrams of test a week. I'm taking, you know, 500 Trend. I'm taking 800 Wential, you know, a thousand Vast." He he went out there and put dosages out there. He was the first person to ever really do that. And so Sam's not certainly not doing that. So there's no level of irresponsibility, right? As far as I can see in what he's doing. Uh you might not like Sam. You might be you might be jealous of the fact that he has a lot of followers. I'm not saying anyone specific. I'm saying in general. Um uh I'm not saying Tim is. I'm just saying but you can't accuse the guy of of of saying taking out the gun and saying this is what everyone does. This is what I'm doing. Right. He's just saying this is what I do. You know, and and I think that there's nothing wrong with that. I think that, you know, to try to assassinate his character for that, you know, I'm against that. Like, once again, I believe that anyone could put out anything they want. If if six million people want to watch Sam Sulak, he must be doing something that's that people are are can relate to, right? And what I think is the relatable thing, and you can tell me if I'm wrong, is the fact that he looks like a regular guy. He's not a Michael Hearn good-looking guy. He's a regular dude from the gym who started out just like all of us. Probably didn't look like much of anything and just grew and figured out he had a fast metabolism. He can eat whatever he wanted and it didn't matter. He wouldn't get fat and he put on a lot of muscle and he and he built a good physique and then he he actually challenged himself to get on stage and it all worked out for him. So I mean that's the success story. I mean, what I mean, what really the message that I get from that is that anyone can do that. That's what he basically put out there. You don't have to be, you know, uh, Kevin Levrone or or Flex Wheeler. You could just be a regular gym bro guy. You like we used to do the Bros versus Bro challenge. You could be a regular Jim Bro guy that just dedicates himself 100% and actually can make a living from doing what he's doing before he even did step on stage because he had a YouTube following, an Instagram following that he was actually getting paid for. Right. To me, that really is the American dream. if you want to know the truth. I I I think there seems to be a inherent human characteristic that makes us tend to dislike a certain genre of person that pops up in pop culture. And I you Sulac to me was a lot like Dana Lin Bailey, you know? I was like she Dana Lynn Bailey was kind of like the regular girl next door, you know, and and and she just put it out there that that's kind of like just who she was. And what happened? Girls drew to her like a magnet. They even cut her hair like hers. I remember st standing in line at at at a at the an event bodybuilding contest where she was giving out a trophy and there were literally four girls in line that had their hair cut like Dana Lin Bailey, you know. So there there's Sulak was the same way with the hat on backwards with the with the frog curls sticking out the back, you know, and he was just kind of like a regular dude. drank chocolate milk and ate donuts, you know, and and you you get you get kind of like endeared to that kind of person and and there's a contingent of people who instantly dislike that kind of person. It would instantly dislike Dana Lin Bailey because she is an attractable icon that people emulate. And I think the same thing happened with him. It happens rarely. It doesn't happen very often at all. I mean, you could count on one hand. I can't even count more than two actually of, you know, personalities that came along that people actually started dressing like and cutting their hair like, you know. So, um I I I think that's a phenomenon you can't deny. And I I do think that there are people I do think there are people that inherently dislike people that are able to pull that off. Have you seen the latest analy she's riding a bull? Yeah, she's doing everything. Bless her heart, man. She's But that's why that she was a badass. I mean, is this I would consider this irresponsible if she was telling everyone else to go ride a bull, right? You probably, you know, that is such a perfect point. She has how many million followers? Two million. Two million. That's one of the most deadly sports in the world right there. Look at that. Okay. Now, is is are you gonna start is she garbage for the sport now because she's exemplifying this this hazardous behavior? You know, you that just is terrible commentary. I'm sorry. Yeah, she had a great physique. You know, people don't realize this is the first Miss uh figure Olympia not women's physique physique Olympia, excuse me, women's physique. Yeah. Yeah. She was the first pro crown and then she's the first Olympia champ. And so she handed my she handed Valerie her trophy when Valerie turned pro at this is where it all came. I mean, this is what it started like. It should have stayed like that in my estimation. Oh man. Should have now you have figure looks like that. Well, yeah, figure is I think Figure is even bigger than that. Probably Figure is even bigger now. And you know what the funny thing was? She was told in Figure that she was too big and that's why she stopped competing and then they created women's physique and then she went into women's physique and she was the the ideal. Now if she went and competed in figure, they'd tell her she's too small probably. You know, you hit the nail on the head with these two. Rob, too. I mean, they they live an exciting life. They'd have Porsches and motorcycles and snowmobiles. There was a video Rob posted of them out in the desert and they, you know, Rob flies a helicopter and they had two helicopters and all these four-wheeler things, you know, driving across the desert. It looked like the scene from Apocalypse Now. It was incredible. And all you needed was guns and that would have been a [\h__\h] movie scene right there. Now, obviously, is that is that not aberant behavior? Is that that is that not appealing toward their millions of followers that they should now get in a helicopter and strafe the sand in the desert with four-wheelers and you know possibly guns, you know? I mean, you you're completely right to to to label someone garbage because they they ex exemplify risky behavior is is just ridiculous. It's that's just wrong. You can't do that. Yeah. I I don't I don't you know I mean is he trying is he trying to you know get something out of that like I'm a coach. I'm a coach. He's being really bad so you know you should seek my coaching because I wouldn't be I wouldn't be doing I think he's he's what he's trying to say is and I guess like I said Tim's a good guy. I don't think he's Yeah. I'm not disparaging Tim at all. I just think his commentary is a little strong. Well, I think I think the commentary was put out there because he wanted to be You know what happens? You have to see these these movies, these these celebrities, they get almost too comfortable in the position they're in and then they wind up saying something completely out of control and they get cancelled because of it. Yeah, Tim's like that. I think Tim fell into that trap. In other words, he got on he's on TK with with TK and Cormier. He's on there a lot and you know and he got he got too comfortable and they must have and he he he just let it go because he figured, you know what, it's controversial. I know TK likes controversy on his show. it's going to get more views, right? And he let it rip and he I don't think he thought about what he was going to say. Uh he just kind of put it out there. But you know, if you don't really know what Sam Sulak's about, you can you can get that wrong impression by listening to what other people say. There is people in the commentary that say this is irresponsible. Those are the people that are jealous of Sam Sulak because they know he's just like them, but they don't have the work ethic of this guy. They don't have the the the the balls to go to the gym and suffer like he does. So instead, they because he's successful, they they they knock him down a few runs. They try to say, "Well, he's giving bad advice. Oh, it's this is irresponsible. He should be cancelled." No, no, you guys should be cancelled because you guys are losers because you're not willing to go and do what he does. So don't don't judge other people. Now, I always said it. I was very good friends with Boston Lloyd. At the end, we were had a rift because he didn't want to hear the truth about, you know, his his condition. But um I was, you know, I was always a mentor to him and I would always tell him, I said, "Boston, what you're doing is irresponsible. Number one, I know you don't advocate that other people take a lot of drugs, but by putting out there what you're doing, you're getting these young impressionable kids to copy you." I said, "It's very," and I used to tell him all the time, we used to have this discussion all the time. Um, in that respect, Boston was irresponsible because because he didn't realize that people would actually copy anything he said, right? Sam's not doing that. So, I don't see one I don't I don't see the I don't see the connection between the two other than they're both young guys who are, you know, rising stars on social media, you know, and and I can appreciate Wilkins passion for, you know, for for what he's, you know, speaking of. It's definitely, you know, an issue, but I think his issue is more with is with a is with a cultural movement, not just specifically Sam Sulak. I mean, like I said, that's if if you're going to be in if you're going to be in this war, this is not the hill to die on. There's far bigger fish to fry out out there for guys who are promoting reckless drug use. And I I mean I mentioned the Trend Twins before, but they're they're not alone and they're not the worst. And there's tons of them out there. And it's a huge contrast, Dave, to when you and I were coming up through all of this. We didn't have that. Almost nobody talked about drugs. No. And you know, it was one of those topics that you just like didn't talk about, you know, and now you got pe kid literally glorifying this the stuff that we used to keep, you know, close to our vest. So I I think this part of our part of our reaction to that can be, you know, considered sort of like, wow, I can't believe these guys are making such light of this stuff that we took so seriously, you know, and yeah, this could be potentially be dangerous. That said, there's still nobody dying from steroids. Yeah. So, you know, there there's it's just not happening. So you want well I mean I'm sure there are some deaths from steroids but but you know from steroids specifically from the ancillary drugs from diuretics from the lifestyle painkillers absolutely but from abs from from taking deca you're not dying ever no matter how much of it you take so um that's just ridiculous. So there there, but you know, you have these guys that are absolutely pushing the drugs and what happens is it deteriorates or takes away from the essence of what we loved about bodybuilding and probably the catalyst to the passion that Tim is talking about is the work ethic, the suffering, the sacrifice, the the lifestyle that we had to live to be a bodybuilder, right? They're just kind of supplanting it. Well, just take a lot of drugs and you don't have to do any of that [\h__\h] Well, yeah, but I don't think Sam is was is passing on that message. His message. That's why I said this is not the hill to die on. If you want to, you know, if you want to go after the the drug culture that's popularizing the, you know, a dilitterious lifestyle for these kids that you're so worried about, you are barking up the wrong tree with Sam Sulac. Yeah. Well, Boston, speaking of Boston Lloyd, this I would I believe this would have been his birthday in two days from today. I think it's the 29th of the month was his birthday if I remember what his mom told me. Let me check just check that. So, I want to wish him a happy birthday in heaven because uh I miss him. I do miss the guy. You know, it's it's he left a hole in our world, man. More bigger than I thought he would to be honest with you. Well, you know what it was? It's he was such a a lovable guy. I mean, yes, he was was he delusional with the drug use and everything like that? 100%. He he would be the first person to even admit it, you know? Right. But yeah, I mean it's it's it's very sad that you know that that um that we lost him so young, you know, it's uh let me see what she wrote. Yeah, I think she wrote I think it's I think it's the 29th was his birthday or was going to be his birthday. Yeah, it's Yeah, I I have mixed feelings about that. You know, once again, it was so avoidable. You know, it it if you really want to have an a comparison, Sam Sulak doesn't fit this category at all. Boston Lloyd and Derek Anthony were two P's in a pod essentially. I was just gonna bring Derek up, too. Yeah. Derek, they both died almost the same age. Derek was 31, Boston was 29. Uh both of them did way too many drugs, steroids for too long and Derek probably had you know I'm sure both of them had very high blood pressure for for you know eight or nine years which obviously we know destroys the kidneys. Both of them had kidney you know failure and uh Boston's obviously cause of death was was the aortic aneurysm but you know Derek's was basically organ failure because Derek had some liver issues as well. Didn't he have liver cancer they discovered? Yeah, I think I think he had those like little those cysts on his liver and stuff like he he had a lot of That's why they put him on the chemo and the chemo is what killed him more than likely. Yeah. It was I mean what happens is when you when you shut when you put so much strain on your body, you know, and then your kidneys not functioning, your liver is not functioning. It's like then you add chemo, you're screwed. You're screwed at that point. You're done, unfortunately. But that's a that's a very apt comparison. those two guys and if if you know and if you want to learn anything from their story and it's extremes use of anything is not good and I know as bodybuilders and as athletes and as people in general we tend to be extremists right we think the more you do the better um I was that way with running because runners are like the more you run the better never take days off with bodybuilding it's controlled fury it's like you got to train really hard but then you got to take your days off so you can recover, you got to eat enough. Um, but you know, some guys get caught up in the drugs. And I know you want the original topic, which we can segue into. You wanted to talk about tremble because uh you wanted you have a story that I think is apt and is actually very relatable to what we're talking about here. Yeah. Yeah. this this kid in the gym um comes up to me and says, "Hey man, how how long can I take trend for?" And I'm like, "Dude," and I'm looking at this kid. He's got like just a skinny kid, you know, with probably maybe 20 years old, maybe 19, 20, 21, somewhere in there. Young, you know, late teen, you know, wideeyed. I want to be a bodybuilder kind of dude, you know, and um how for how long can I tra take trend? And I said, are you just taking trend by itself? And he said, yeah, I'm just doing trend. That's the one to take because it because I I I read online that trend's the best. I said, you you you read online that trend is the best. Oh, wow. I wonder I want you wish you would cite that article. So, um, I said, "Well, you know, most guys take it to, you know, for a few weeks stacked on top of something else like test and maybe another steroid, and they'll take it for, you know, eight, maybe 10, 15 weeks, and then they come off it at the at the high end." And I said, "Well, how long have you been on it?" He goes, "This today was my second anniversary." Oh my god. And I'm like, "What? your second anniversary of taking two cc's. I don't know what the qu what the potency was. He didn't seem to know either. Two cc's of tren a week every third day. So every three days he would take a cc of what he was calling trend. I probably doubt it was even tren. It doesn't sound it doesn't sound like a lot. It's it sound like he was on it a long time but it sounds like he was taking about 200 milligrams probably. You know probably but for two years his second anniversary. Did he have high blood pressure because of it? I I have no I didn't examine him. How did he die? No, he didn't die. No, he just he asked me and he had came up to the gym and he asked me for how long can I take Tren? Yeah. And do you know why do you know why Tren is so is so bad for you? Aside from the fact that it [\h__\h] up your mental state. Your mental state is the big one for me. It's not that's but yeah, that's not going to kill you. It's it raises blood pressure really high, John. A lot of people think the trenalone is metabolized by the kidneys. The kidneys don't metabolize anything. The liver metabolizes all anabolic steroids, but the kidneys are affected by high blood pressure. And for some reason, trembolone cranks blood pressure up really high in everyone pretty much. So, I mean, you gota you got to monitor your blood pressure because you don't it's called the silent killer because you don't even know you have it, right? You know. Yeah. I People don't understand what a kid a kidney is like a filter and like the filter papers are like these thin sheets of tissue and they can only handle so much pressure. When you crank the pressure up the tissue gives way and then you know you get no filtering and then the kidneys don't work. Right? You have millions and millions of these alvei, excuse me, alioli, excuse me, that filter filtering apparatus. But if you start killing them off, it's like killing off the alvei in your lungs when you smoke or the brain cells in your brain from, you know, doing alcohol. So over time, the the organ stops working, you know, Yeah. But the thing about what bothers me about shred is that it's it's it's got a cult following now. and the cult following. I'm gonna give a little bit of validity to Wilkins, you know, about operating outside of your however he mentioned that skill level. Trend is one of those trend [\h__\h] with your brain. Okay? And I don't care who you are and you want to deny it. It [\h__\h] with your brain. It will make you think things that do not exist and it will make you react to them like they do. It made Greg gay, right? Greg is blaming homo on shred. You know, I would manufacture these concocted stories about my wife that were just I got it's like the the two angels on your shoulder, you know. I got the devil over here saying and then I got the other angel going and there was and I'm in the middle. My head's going like this, you know, and and I couldn't control it. I mean I mean I could control it because I was listening to the angel more than the devil. But the the fact of the matter is it [\h__\h] with your brain. And if you're not if you don't have a strong mind, it it will cause you to have problems. You'll get arrested for fighting for packing people pulling people out of the car window and beating the [\h__\h] out of them. I mean, you know, if you don't handle alcohol well, you won't handle tren well because it enhances your natural personality. So, if you're hottheaded and you have a short fuse, tremble is not really the right drug for you. Look, I I'm the most like passive laid-back person till you push my buttons. But right, even I I used to get irritable as hell on tremblone. So, you know, you you definitely don't you got to be careful with and I didn't even take a lot back then. I was using 50 milligrams, you know, every other day or something like that. But I hear guys using a thousand milligrams of Tren now they sleep, you know, on that dose. I would do a shot of susten on it with with a CC of Tren in it every other day. That was that was that was Yeah, that that's a that's a you know, that's a typical dose. So you So this is this is the day I knew I had to stop taking it. Okay. In a pickup truck, the back window that slides open. Okay. It slides open on both sides. The back window. The opening is about this wide. My brother is driving a truck, a Toyota Tacoma. My brother's driving a truck. The window in the back is open. Some guy cuts us off. I'm like 220 at this point in my life. This guy cuts cuts us off in front and then kind of pulls my brother maneuvered around and then got him back behind us. And I literally started climbing out of that window the window that's that I knew I could not fit through a hole through there and I'm going trying to climb out of there and like rip myself through this [\h__\h] hole that I didn't fit in to get to kill this guy. And I'm like I got to stop. Yeah, that's good. Apart from the [\h__\h] weird [\h__\h] I'm thinking about my wife being able to think to think I'm going to crawl out and pull somebody out of their car and kill them. Not good. Yeah. Not good. Not good. It's time to stop doing that. Just to address this question we got um about fiberiz. But high my suggestion with high blood pressure if you have let's say you're on tremblone. Let's say you're doing a cycle and your blood pressure does go up. My suggestion is to have always have like a blood pressure medication you know available to you. The ACE inhibitors are the are the safest, least side effects, most effective ones. I use Ramipril. Um, you can use Leinipril. Five milligrams of Ramipril twice a day while you're on a trembolone cycle is probably something that we, you know, how we all take like an estrogen blocker. You probably should just go right on it. You know, assuming your blood pressure is a little elevated, just go right on to like like a Ramapril while you're on tremblone and that and that will protect your kidneys. Also, if you use the product that I sell at daypommo.com, it's called kidney stuff, also really good at keeping inflam inflammation around those kidney tubules very low because it's the inflammatory process that causes the kidney tubules to get damaged. Now, having said that, you know, to lower, you know, fasting blood sugars, if you A1 A1c is basically your three months of average blood sugars, you know, over the course of three months, that's the average. If you're running high, which is over 5.5, you know, your the A1c, then you know, you're probably running high fasting blood sugars. Now, now fiber will help lower blood sugars because what it does is when the gut bacteria ferment it, they send signals back these short and mediumchain uh fatty acids back to the liver and it suppresses the liver from releasing glucose. So a good quality high fiber uh high soluble fiber product will suppress blood sugar levels that are coming out of the liver. So it definitely helps blood sugar control. Uh that's assuming that you know that you don't you only have a moderately high you know blood sugar. If you're running high blood sugars you're waking up in the morning at 100 110 which is way too high you might need a long acting insulin. That's a different story altogether. But the the a good fiber definitely has improved a lot of people's I know it helped Greg's fasting blood sugars as well. So yeah, just throwing it in. Anyway, but getting back to the point about tremble, it's it's really once again it's controlled fury. Is it something that you can use? Yes. Is it something you should use for long periods of time? No. My recommendation is 8 to 10 weeks on it. You know, either offseason or pre-contest. A lot of times what I'll do, John, is offseason I'll switch guys anabolics. So I have to do test in in equipoise for six weeks. Then I'll have to do test in EQ test in excuse me in trembolone acetate or or anthate for for six weeks. Then I'll do test in deca. And so I'm always switching. So they're never on trembolone for long periods of time. And you're kind of, you know, tricking up the the and the androgen receptor so it doesn't know what to expect. Pre-contest 8 to 10 weeks. The last 8 to 10 weeks before the show is probably adequate to do the tremolo. You don't need to do it the whole 16 18 weeks. I think that's too long. Yeah. I think it starts losing its impact after a while. And the another thing side effect that bothered me a lot is my lung capacity. I was like, "Yeah, you get the trend cough." Well, the trenough while I was shooting it, but actually like to do any kind of cardio. Yeah. Was impossible. A lot of fighters say the same thing that on tremblone that they gas real quickly. Yeah, you know, you would think you'd want to take tremolone because it makes you aggressive, but they say it it hurts their their cardiovascular. I don't which I you know, some of the I talked to George Tulatis, Dr. George about this. I I his some of his theory about it was that it causes vasoc constriction in the lungs. And when you get that vaso constriction, obviously you're not going to be able to exchange oxygen across the capillary beds as well, which can cause the lo lack of oxygen and the the deoxxygenation and the gasing, you know, real real easy. It could also be what's causing the the coughing in the lungs because yeah, it's like you almost can't get a a breath in or something. Well, we were promoting CrossFit at the time in my gym in Mexico and I was taking my trend that I made myself so I knew it was right and good. And we were doing this exhibition once and I was beating on the tire with a sledgehammer and I was like I couldn't breathe and it was like I don't know what was wrong with me, right? and and I realized that [\h__\h] it's a trend and I I literally could not breathe. Speaking of trend, the last someone's asking you know what's is there any real trend around I'm sure there is power coming in from China but uh not anymore not maybe not anymore tariffs on it but no I the last trenbolone I the last legitimate trenalone I think I ever really saw was um in the early I guess it was actually probably early 90s really and I remember they had stopped making it but I was in I went to Barcelona and we had gone to and Pandora and if those you don't know and Pandora was like a little principality between France and Spain so this tunnel and but you can get French steroids there and I went into the pharmacy there and I'm like do you guys have any paramole I went in with like a wad of like cash because there was no there was no there was no real stuff there there was a lot of problems with with supply back in in the 90s right early 90s especially actually and they're like, "Uh, we don't have it here, but we can order it for you." So, I had a So, I stayed overnight in Andor, which is really a very It's very very cute if you ever have a chance to big banking country. Yes. But it's it's I loved it. They have all the like they have it's set up like a like a kingdom almost. There's people with like they look like uh you go to England, but they have the red coats and they have all the the soldiers. I have I have a friend who lives there, so he says it's really cool. Oh, yeah. It's It was And it was And I don't think there's any tax there, right? It's tax. That's why all the banks are there. Yeah. Yeah. So I got So I come back the next day and she has like 200 vi 200 vials of tremblone of the parabolone and it comes as it's one and a half mls. It's 76 milligrams in each little amp. Right. We were using two of them back in the day a week. Probably guys today would take five of them. But but one is good 10 is better. And I remember it because I had just come from Barcelona where, you know, one vial of Primobone was a$150, you know, right? This was $12. They wanted a vial and they knew it because there was a limited supply of it. They had stopped making it. This was the leftover stuff that was left. And I took them, you know, for 12 bucks. It was still pretty cheap because they were selling for like 30 bucks a piece on on on the, you know, back home on the black market. So we bought them all, my friend and I. We put 200. We went back to our hotel. We took them all out of the boxes and we we put like a you know strips of tape and we put all the little glass vials on tape. We taped them. We put them inside of like a like a magazine or something like that and we shipped them. We've mild them back to ourselves and that that that's I had parabolone for about five years after four years. Awesome. Because I only I would only use it like right when um before contests because you couldn't get it and there was no acetate back then if you remember. Anyway, I wrap this up because I got I got my meeting. Yeah. No, I know you got that coming up in a second, but um what is this? Do you guys remember an underground lab called New Farm in the early 2000s? It was from Canada. I believe the Hell's Angels might have made it. Great stuff. Did you ever see that stuff? Never heard of it. I didn't I never But that doesn't mean anything. There are so many UGLs in the 2000s. So, no. Was there though in the early 2000? Oh my god. H It was an unlimited supply of RAWs from China flowing in. I mean it was easy that early that early on. Yeah, I think even maybe even earlier because Duchain's whole thing was he wanted to have a a lab right near the border in Mexico where you get the raws from China and then you smuggle it across. So So Duchaine knew about the whole um China raw and and making underground stuff. What? Because most people weren't talking about that. John, I didn't know that Duchain was that advanced in his thinking back then. He his goal was to have a steroid lab right on the border right on the border where he could you know import the raws and you know make the product and then you know add it to the Mexican steroid market that gets smuggled across. Oh I see. You know and what stopped him from doing that? Getting arrested the second time. Um probably that he died. Um Oh he was still planning on doing that even though Yeah. Yeah. We were talk still talking about it. Oh my god, that was he would have been a three-time loser. That would have been Forget about it. Well, he would have done it in Mexico. So, I don't think he although they probably would have operation gear grindered him and got they would have pulled the Larry what they did with Larry. Yeah, they would have pulled Larry really realized Dan Duchain's dream, right? Larry, I did too. To a slight to a smaller Well, no, my my lab was not on the border. Mine was in Guadalajara. But you were smart. You were smart because the the the it was so far enough away from the US government that they didn't care. Well, my intent was never to bring it to America. My smartest by the the Latin American market. Right. You were you were very smart though, D. You learned your lesson from Dan. Yes. You go to prison once, that's enough. That's right. Well, ultimately, what do you guys think? Uh did Tim Wilin insult Sam Sulak unnecessarily, or was it a responsible response to uh to what Sam was putting out there? You heard John and my opinion. I'd love to hear yours. Put it in the comments below. We are out of time. Until next week, I'm Dave Palumbo and John Romano. We'll see you next time. Bye, guys.