 Bayroos tabbadi was given a visa, he will be at the 2025 Mr. Olympia contest. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here with an RX Muscle. One of the best in the U.S. update, one of the U.S. update, one of the best updates I've heard in recent memory. Bayroos Tabbadi was given a visa. He will be at the 2025 Mr. Olympia contest. Hallelujah. The guy is, I think, been trying for three years to get into this country. He's been basically banging his head against the wall. He's missed Olympias that he's qualified for. We all know that he's legitimately a top six Mr. Olympia competitor. He's won shows. We've praised him. We've seen this guy, you know, dominate lineups filled with great competitors. And now he's going to get a chance to see how he stacks up against the best in the world at the Mr. Olympia next week in Las Vegas, Nevada. I believe it's his first time in the United States, if I'm not mistaken. I know the process was very, very difficult to get him here. There was a woman who was working on his visa for quite some time, several years now, who I don't know if she wants to be credited, so I'm not going to say any names, but she worked super hard. So I want to thank her for doing all that great work. And obviously Bayroos probably was interviewed 6,000 times, I'm sure. I'm going to ask him why he wants to come here, which is pretty apparent at this point. He's been trying for three years to get here to compete at the Super Bowl of bodybuilding. I don't know. I bet if it was a football game or a baseball game that he was trying to get here to compete in, they would have let him in here. But no one understands bodybuilding. They think it's some kind of like, you know, cult, you know, sideshow. So they don't realize that the Mr. Olympia is the Super Bowl of bodybuilding. So thank God that the Bayroos will be here. I'm so happy for the guy because the guy is truly a dedicated bodybuilder. He lives the bodybuilding lifestyle. He loves the sport. You know, there's nothing worse than proving yourself time and time again as one of the top bodybuilders in the world and then not being able to consummate the marriage, so to speak, by coming to the Mr. Olympia competition and competing for the biggest title in the world. And you know what? Now that he's got a visa to come to the United States, we might see him at the Arnold Classic. I don't doubt that now that Bayroos has the door opened, that he will take advantage, full advantage of the fact that, listen, the Arnold Classic gives away a lot of prize money next year. You know, $750,000 is no joke. And I'm sure he has a very good chance of winning it. So I wouldn't be surprised if we see him at the Olympia and then we see him come back and do the Arnold, assuming that the visa enables him to do that, go back and forth. I would hope at this point, you know, once he proves that, you know, he legitimately is here for athletic reasons and that he is one of the best in the world, that that'll make it a lot easier for him. I mean, that seems to be the case with Hadi Chopin. Hadi came here, did the Olympia, got that visa. Once he did, then he was able to do the Arnold that year, two years ago. He comes every year for the Olympia. I think, you know, once you get in once, I think it should be easier and easier, you know, moving forward, coming back because you can say, hey, I was here last time. This is what I competed in. This is how I did. You know, no problems. And I think that the government is much more likely to allow him to come back to compete again. So this is great news. Great news for the bodybuilding world. It's going to make the Mr. Olympia lineup that much more competitive. I am sure his competitors are not happy that Behrouz Tabani is going to be there. I certainly wouldn't be because he is one dangerous guy. The guy's got tons of mass on his body. He's got a small waist. He flows well. He is conditioning. I've never seen the guy out of shape. Dangerous competitor. Guys that are consistent like that are super dangerous. You know, guys like Nick Walker are dangerous because they have so much muscle and that they're so lean. But Behrouz has got size, conditioning, and symmetry, which is a very dangerous combination on a bodybuilder because, you know, usually guys have two of the three at the top level. They don't have all three. He does have all three, and that makes him very dangerous. I mean, like, look at Samson. Samson's got symmetry. He's got oodles of muscle. He sometimes has problems with the conditioning, right? That's his Achilles heel. But you get a guy like Behrouz who all three boxes, as Milos would say, get checked off. He's dangerous on that stage, and he could go as high as first, you know, and I think he can be as low as, you know, out of the top six. But I think that if I was a betting man, which I'm not because I don't like to bet, I don't like to lose, I would put Behrouz Tabani as a top six finisher at this year's Mr. Olympia. Will it happen? We'll have to wait and see. But at least we get to see this year in Las Vegas. I'll see you guys next week. Dave Palumbo with an RX Muscle news update. We'll be right back.