 And you are, so I want it to be the undisputed champion, best in the world. And you are, but would you ever do it? again? Bro, I just, bro, I just, bro, I just did it. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulation, dose for maximum results, dose for maximum results, dose for maximum results, and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Oh, look who we got behind us here. Hold on. I think we have Derek. I think we have, the champ is here. The champ is here. The champ is here. The champ is here. There he is. This is going to be three times I'm going to get this one. Three times I'm going to get to interview this guy in one year. That's pretty amazing because very rarely do we see anyone win three major titles like this, back-to-back-to-back. They said it couldn't be done, and they said it was impossible to peak three times in one year for three major shows. Derek proved everyone wrong. I mean, we've seen guys win three shows consecutively, like weeks apart, but spread out. Yeah. Let's see if we can get Derek over here. Where is he? Come here, champ. Come here, champ. My third interview of the year with you. You said in Pittsburgh you're going for the Triple Crown. We did it, baby. Okay. Chris wants to know how much is he winning of that. What's the percentage? Man, I literally just walked out the door. Come on, man. My wife ran off with it. He asked me about the Arnold. I said he'll probably ask me about the Arnold. You know, I have big hands. I can't even get my hand over this guy's shoulder. You were bigger and rounded than we'd ever seen you. Yeah, man. Just been working all year, man. I knew last year I was downsized. I came in flat, and I didn't like my look, and I was not happy with it. So I rolled right into the Arnold, and I said all year I'm going to stay laser focused and just go from one show to the next, do the three biggest shows of the year, and I want to improve on each one. So you're kind of making it seem like these other guys when they say, oh, you can't peak three times. Oh, I can only do one show. It's hard. It's hard. It's not easy, man. Was it physically harder or mentally harder? I don't know. Both. Both. I mean, you tell me. You were a bodybuilder. You competed a lot. I know, but I'm not at the level you were at. It's both, man. You've got a lot of pressure, too, because people are doubting you, too. And it's not just me. I've got my wife and my daughter, too. They're sacrificing with me. My family, friends, my loved ones, they're all sacrificing with me. So it's not just me. And so coming down to the end, I wasn't feeling too good. You know, like even tonight, I was just not feeling I was feeling super exhausted. I'm thinking I got to go out there and I got to pose my heart out because I didn't give up those times with my wife and my daughter to just lay down and let somebody else have the title. Like I'm going to fight to the end. So that's what I think about whenever I'm doing those extra posing rounds that Steve puts us through. He killed you guys out there last night and tonight. Well, that was the hardest probably posing I've ever done in my life. I never saw the smile come off your face. Did it not? I don't know. No, you were smiling the whole time. And you know what? A lot of guys look like they were hurting out there. I was hurting, too. But maybe I just didn't have a smile. You hit it. You hit it well. I guess. I don't know. Was there ever a moment that you were concerned about the fact that you might win, not win? Well, let me just say, like, I'm thankful to have the competitors I have because... This was a stack line of everyone was in shape. Well, this is some of the best bodybuilders ever. Yeah. And I'm thankful for them because they pushed me to new levels. And I feel like, you know, we call each other competitors. We do compete. But we're also colleagues, actually, if you think about it, man. Because together, we're able to elevate the sport. If I didn't have guys like Hottie, Samson, Andrew, Nick, Martin, all them guys, man, and the list goes on, then the sport of bodybuilding wouldn't be where it's at today. So, though I may walk away with the Mr. Olympia title, it's all of us doing this together that makes it bodybuilding so great. And now I get to go to two-time Mr. Olympia's gym. You ain't coming. I'm coming. You can tell you. You're coming. I'm coming. I'm coming to your gym. Every Olympian that came to train at my gym, and you keep saying... I'm coming. I'm bringing food. I'm bringing everything. Rambondino came, and he won. Eduarda came, she won. That's true. That's true. Come on, man. I'm making up this over. Hey, you've got a special invite. Let's go. You might want to go visit his gym because it might give you some better luck. We'd love to have you, bro. We'd love to have you. Unless he's under construction right now. What possessed you in the beginning of the year? Other than... I know the first show you did, the Arnold, was kind of like retribution because you didn't do well at the Olympia last year. But what made you say to yourself, you know what? I'm going to do three shows this year. Well, because the Pittsburgh Pro was... This was the first open show for a Pittsburgh Pro. Right. And I just know... I knew right away that this was going to be a legacy show. Okay. And so I really wanted to go and be the first Pittsburgh Pro champion and have that notch in my belt. Right? And I wanted to go up against the best bodybuilders in the world at different parts of the year. So the Arnold with Samson and Andrew and then Martin and Nick at Pittsburgh and then the Mr. Olympia. So I wanted to be the undisputed champion best in the world. And you are. But would you ever do it again? I just... Bro, I just did it. Well, I just did it. I just did it. Would you do it again? I'm ready to go on vacation with my wife and my daughter. Would you do it again? I don't know, man. Here's what I think, man. I think this was a great feat that I'm very proud of. But I actually hope that I inspire somebody else to do something even crazier and better than I did. Hopefully in a foreseeable future, no one's going to be able to take you out. I don't know, man. We'll see. We'll see. Great job, champ. Thank you. Derek Lunsford, our Mr. Olympia. Thank you, guys. Regains his title. Thank you, guys. Thank you so much. Seriously, you got to come, man. I will. Thank you. And today we have to get back today. And today we have to get back today today. And today we have today today today.