Crushing news to start this weekend of the Pittsburgh Pro good veto is out. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Good veto Vitali Galnikov making the announcement earlier this morning that he is withdrawing from the Pittsburgh Pro uh due to a back injury. We'll bring up his full explanation in just a second, but this is a really really crushing blow not only obviously to Goodito, uh, who had real aspirations coming into the show, but for the Pittsburgh Pro. Obviously, this is the first time that they're having the open class. And you have a quasi Olympia lineup with the likes of reigning Arnold Classic champion Derek Lunser, 2023, Mr. Olympia. Um, Nick Walker making AI don't want to say comeback, but a resurgent Nick Walker. And obviously Martin Fitzwwater, the world's number four entering into this competition, William Bonak, arguably the most decorated active veteran on the IABBB Pro circuit right now. and coming off his impressive win at the Detroit Pro and and then you have obviously you know Krzo and all the fascination we've seen his progress pitchers and you know obviously we want to see what he's going to look like against some of the best of the best in the world but then you have good veto who put on an absolute show at the Brazil the Arnold South America Brazil winning that show and not only winning that show but really announcing himself as a real contender who can mix it up against some of the best of the best in the world. And then, you know, we see some of his, you know, recent progress pictures. Um, there was that one, I'm trying to find it right now, the one front double bicep that he put up. Uh, I have it right here in front of me. You know, Dave makes this look really easy when he toggles between screen and screen. But yeah, here's that front double bicep. This was from either last Thursday or Friday. But, you know, this is a this was a warning shot right here. This is the kind of picture where all a sudden you say to yourself, you know, this guy could do some damage. And, you know, look, obviously, it's no secret. You know, we are privy to some update pictures that we're not going to post obviously on Instagram or on RX Muscle uh the YouTube channel. And from what we have seen or had saw, Good Vita was on track to do some real damage in this lineup. Now again, you see pictures of somebody standing on their own and it's obviously not always indicative, but you get an idea of what they theoretically are going to bring to the stage. And you really wanted to see this all play out with him going up against the likes of a Derek, of a Nick, of a Martin, of a bone, of a Kriso. And obviously that's not going to happen now. So the story is um and we got confirmation this morning from Chris Aceto. Obviously, Good Veto posting this uh in the morning and then, you know, it started to hit the news circuit and it was really all over the place. Let me bring up the full um the full statement from Good Vidito himself. You see the translation with great sadness. I announce I will not be participating due to a major back injury, muscle injury suffered about a week in week ago. I did not report before trying to alleviate the symptoms by preparing my body for the championship following a strict routine. I mean he goes on to say that it's not a major major it's it's a rupture uh and it'll take about a month time of recovery but in consulting with his coach Chris Aceto they decided that the better option would be to shut it down to fully recover and then to start to look ahead towards the Olympia we're in May so you know we're about about five months from this time actually five months this weekend on the dot from the Olympia. So, that's where their focus is going to be. But, it it is a it is a setback. Uh this news obviously coming right before uh now again there's nothing official tomorrow. Dave and I will be flying out to Pittsburgh tomorrow and um you know, you're going to have the athletes meetings. You're going to have some other festivities, you know, in and around town, but the actual show is on Saturday. The women's portion is on Sunday. and the expo which again for the first time this year they're gonna have a full-fledged expo as well and from what I'm hearing there are a lot of brands involved and there gonna be a lot of top IFBB pros major personalities so this is going to be a big deal this is going to be a really really you know we always talk about a show versus an event uh this is going to be an event I mean we're talking about a quasi Olympia lineup in the open class and in the classic physique division you're going to see Karen Ruffins 's first appearance back after taking the year off from the stage. Um, you're going to see Carlos de Olivera, cake pro, making his uh, classic physique debut previously of men's physique. And from what everybody is saying that has seen him, they say this guy is on another level. Stan McQuay actually posted it on our post on our on our uh post from yesterday where we posted the full lineup for the classic physique and he said you know those in the no know this guy is absolutely on another level. So it's going to be very exciting and then of course you have uh Jose Manuel Munoz's Josema Beast uh who placed sixth at the classic physique Olympia last year in his debut Olympia. But all these reasons for excitement of the classic physique and obviously the above stated reasons for the excitement in the men's open class. First time the show is having a men's open class competition uh with a top prize of $100,000. Um but look for good veto obviously this hurts because this is his opportunity to really put himself out there against some of the best of the best in the world. I we're talking about a quasi Olympia lineup that's missing who that's missing obviously Mr. Olympia Samson Da um you know hottie chupan uh but I mean again you're talking about the world's number three in Derek the world's number four in Martin and you know a guy of okay Andrew Jacked who you know got his qualification a fibo and you know presumably he's going to be shutting it down from now to the Olympia so but Nick Walker is someone that you know yes he's missed the last two Olympias uh but you know who knows had he competed who knows where you could have, you know, placed the last the two one two years ago where he suffered the injury. You know, again, you go back to that prejudging and seeing how many of the competitors were off. Nick Walker with a track record generally never coming in off. Who knows where he may have placed in that in that lineup then last year uh withdrawing, but again, you're talking about one of the elite bodybuilders in the world. So, um would have been great to see Goodito uh you know, enter throw his hat into that ring. Uh and then for the show, obviously you do lose one of your top top competitors, but um you know, a not so great way to begin the Pittsburgh Pro weekend, which really has taken on a life of its own in terms of becoming instantly one of the top bodybuilding weekends of the year. You have the Olympia, you have the Arnold, you have the New York Pro, and you know, now you've added this other show where you know, here we go. I mean, this is going to now be one of the top events of the year. Uh, and this was set to be the big kickoff, but you know what? That's life. That's life in bodybuilding. And sometimes life as in bodybuilding is not necessarily going to be fair. So, Good Veto is out. Dave Palumbo and myself will be in Pittsburgh tomorrow. Chris Aceto is already there prepping his athletes and uh we will certainly catch up with him. We're going to try to grab as many interviews of some of the top competitors from both men's Open, from Classic Physique, from Men's Physique, whoever we run into. We're going to treat this show like we treat the Olympia, and we're going to have this thing covered for you wallto-wall. So, if you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell, so you're not going to miss anything. And then, of course, follow us on Instagram, official_rxmuscle. that way during the show with all the pictures that we're going to be posting live of the athletes and of course anything and everyone that we bump into around Pittsburgh, we will have it for you on our feed, on our story, and then of course here on this channel. Sad Farooqi with an RX Muscle news update.