 chrzez drin drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drinatz drin You already know. I mean, Mike. I know, I know. I want to hear it from you. Mike, this is the best Mike Summerfeld I ever saw. I told him that. You know, he looked, he was the most balanced. He was the most developed. He was the most dense look up there. Sorry. He was the most dense I've ever seen him. The back has improved. The glutes were lights out, shredded. He knew he was in great shape. But I saw him much fuller in the chest and everything than he did at the Olympia last year. This look right here, I mean, that could have won the Olympia right there. What did you think, Freed, about Mike Summerfeld's look here versus what you've seen in the past? Well, I hear a lot of people talk about the one that he went up with, Chris, the physique he went up against with, Sebum with. I think everything that he's shown since then has been better. I think last year at Arnold, he was definitely a lot fuller. But coming in now, I think what a lot of people wanted to see out of him was a more balanced, a little bit slimmed down look. And, you know, maybe the weight cap actually sticking to it actually helped him this time. Because I think most people would agree he looks more classic than he had before. And I think you'll find less people saying he looks like a 212. Yeah, I was going to say, I think coming down and getting close to the weight a couple weeks ago, he was able to be down long enough. And that might have helped him be able to fill up a little bit quicker this time and have more time to get that look. Because that's the look you would think he would have at a 212 look. Yeah, I think for me what summed it up, what I was most impressed with, besides his more relaxed stage presence, which he's been fidgety sometimes in the past, is that, and you stole my word. Because I said, I pitched you on that and you hit it out of the park balanced. He looked very, very balanced. And when I looked at pictures online and the video online before I came over here for the finals, I'm like, ah, looks the same. Or, oh, he looks good. Which, you know, video is not like being here. And I think that his waist, to me, looked more tapered. His legs looked more balanced with the upper body and less dominating. And I think, you know, myself included in the past, I thought that he was not almost too big, but like a little boxy. Almost like a little boxy in some shots. Like he almost needed to go to a different class or something like that. So the irony in what you said, making the weight actually, in this case, produces a better physique. Second place is the Arnold Ohio winner, Wesley Vissers. Right. Who I think improved a lot in the quads from just, say, a year ago. Yeah. Why is Wesley, you know, second here? I mean, because that's what he wants to know, right? How did I get second? Well, today, I mean, he still looked great. I just think coming down to nailing it 105% at the last show two weeks ago, I think it was hard to hit that same. Third show. Yeah, yeah, third show. I mean, that's not, I mean, even the way he looked was still very good as compared to, you know, a lot of people just hitting one show. But that look right there is definitely improved. I think he had a little bit more weight to play with. I think he's, say, like six pounds or so heavier than before. And that helps his physique. That helps his physique. That helps. Isn't it funny? The heavyweight helps him and the lighter weight helps Mike. Yeah, because he got the long limbs and everything. But improved legs. That improved his shape. Before, I think, from when he was lighter, it looked like from his waist all the way down to his ankles, almost like one. Yes. Just one piece. I know exactly what you mean. So, yeah. So that and posing was great. It was a two-man show like we thought it was going to be. Yeah. But, yeah, the third-place guy was great also this year. Wesley, what are your thoughts on Wesley? Other than he's our favorite. I thought he looked great. I think probably a little tad softer than he was at the Ohio and maybe Detroit. Of course, Detroit has different lighting. But I think I told you this a little earlier. Wesley looks more classic in the abstract sense. But when you look at Mike, if you have like a piece of paper and you have check boxes, you just check, check, check on paper. And because all those boxes are checked, but you might not have like the classic, classic aesthetic as Wesley, it just gives him a little bit more edge. Because Wesley has that abstract classic physique, but he probably checks like maybe three or four out of five of those boxes well. Yeah, I agree. Like Jorge Herrera in third place, what do you think of him? I know what you're going to say about him too. I was really, really, really impressed. He's the best he's ever looked in his life. He's the best Mexican competitor I ever saw in my lifetime. I said, who? I told three. No one ever looked like that. Who is this? Oh, yeah. He was second. He belonged there. He was second in the TJ show a couple years ago. Yeah. I've seen him down in TJ a few times. He trains down there. So I just think he really nailed his conditioning. I told him a little bit better on the posing and that could even set you apart a little bit more. It's going to improve your body. Just a little bit better posing. But that was the man. He was lights out today. Yeah. Yeah. He was phenomenal. How about Andreas Mamoli? Did I say that right? I'm the Italian part of the family. But I can't say that. No S at the end. Andreas Mamoli. I think he needs more width from the back. I think everyone would agree with that. Just when he comes up to the other competitors, his size just really, really shows there. And I was training with Toyton earlier and we were talking about Andreas. And we were saying, we think his best shot where he looks like the biggest, honestly, is when he just stands, shrinks down his waist, shoulders wide. But he kind of has this thing where he has a very small waist, but when he opens up, his rib cage just kind of like, yeah, it makes his waist look a lot wider than it is when it's shrinked down. And, you know, he has great poses. Phenomenal side, like probably the best up there. Maybe Mike Summerfield could compete with that. But, you know, he just looks small in a lot of shots. But I imagine he has a lot of, I imagine he has a good amount of rim in his weight cap to go up. If not, that'd be a shame. But I think if, bring up the back, probably some more chest too. His side chest can tend to look a little small. Maybe it's the way he hits it as well. Could he come in all the way back here? But, no, he'll be really good with like. He's giving posing advice and you gave him posing advice. So, he's stealing. That's why he's. I know, I know. The posing coach for, it's plagiarism. Yeah. Men's Open. What are your thoughts on Andrew Jack? What are your, any thoughts? Initial thoughts? Thoughts compared to the Arnold, the Olympia? I'm right there. So, Andrew Jack, today was the look that I was hoping to see at the last Arnold as far as, I mean, I was just like saying before, I want to see a dugout waist. I want to see a dugout waist. You like the polish. Yeah, the polish. You told me you don't want to leave anything on the table. Yeah, yeah. No, I'm plagiarizing from you. It's stealing everything. Exactly. So, with that being said, you know, that type of look, I mean, very hard to be for anybody because, I mean, having the abs all dugout like that when you can like just flaunt it instead of being like, I felt like at the last Arnold, it was a little bit fuller in the stomach. So, when you hit the ab and thigh, it wasn't as dynamic. Today, it was dynamic. It was, that's exactly what I wanted to see. Back double, the most muscular, the front double. Side chest is vastly improved. All the shots, side tricep, you don't have, it's not a lot of glaring weaknesses. We can still come up in the hamstring area a little bit as far as definition there, but I think you'll see it sometime, sometime it'll be there, sometime it won't. I think I'm more like, if you're putting too much weight on that foot, I think that might take away from that hamstring. So, something like that, I feel like, I mean, the sky's the limit, man. This guy is going to be dangerous the next time he goes on stage. Yeah. Did he look, did he look bigger to you here or more polished with the same size? Yeah, yeah, yeah. More polished with the same size. Like, that's the look. Because you know, you get the striations on the counter underneath the chest, the abs dug out, the back to a bicep, the last spread, all that stuff, man. It's just like crazy look. I was really happy to see that. That's some bodybuilding right there. Farid, what are your thoughts on Andrew, even though you saw him 50 times in the last three days with me? I thought he was a lot sharper. It looked like, it looked like he was able to set into his poses a lot better. And I guess what that looks like is, I guess, what Camille was talking about, the abs and thighs, it's a lot easier to see he kind of just into it rather than kind of like sinks into it, you know? It was just more pop, more polish. I think it was more, I mean, more pop means he was fuller and more conditioned. But if he's putting in the real work until the Olympia with those hamstrings, maybe a little more quads. I mean, there's not much now to improve on. But I'd say, I think everyone knows hamstrings, size-wise, condition-wise. But I think with the size, the condition, and the pop of those will show. I think he's going to just be a no-gap, no-gap competitor. Yeah, I think that's, you know, no-gaps is a nice way of putting, you know, what a winner should look like is no-gaps. Very true. I think, who's second place here in your opinion? I got Curry second. Yeah, me too. I got Curry second. I think he's got that prototypical torso that just, a lot of people can't beat that. And then when you come back with the... So the torso alone? Yeah, yeah. And then the legs and everything. And it looked like he got some regenerated muscle fibers going on in the back with the glutes and hamstrings in there. And he knows how to pose it. The back double bicep has always been great. Yeah, so I think that's going to carry him that shape. Yeah. What do you think of Brandon, who we were discussing, you know, before the pre-judge and speculating, like, what's he going to look like? Where's he going to place? I thought it was, like, kind of the Brandon that we've been seeing. I asked you, is he watery or is it the thinness of his skin? That's kind of, like, making it kind of hard to see some of the details. But, I mean, he always seems relatively balanced. I think he had issues with his leg size a couple years ago, but that's not really a problem anymore. I did have him above Martin because I mentioned to you it looked like Martin had some distention that was a little bit out of control. And, you know, his usual hardness, especially, like, in, like, the most muscular, he didn't have those, like, thick striations through the chest. It was kind of just, the chest was kind of just there and not the pop you see on Martin. Yeah, what was your impression of Martin? I thought he looked a lot better, more relaxed than he did at the last Arnold. So, I just think with Curry's shape, which is hard, it goes against, like, oil and water a little bit with Martin's look and his shape. But he definitely was improved so much more, and I was impressed that he was able to come back and look better than he did a couple weeks ago. Yeah, so that's one, two, three, and then four and five, it looks like they're going with either the Boogeyman or Patrick. That's a tight one. They both had something on each other. And they both had something on each other, and we're going to see what they think. You know, we've got a nice, clean look with Patrick in, you know, a small waist. He's always had that. Yeah. You know, so they may see him going with Patrick. But, you know, you could definitely see why they would take Boogeyman. He was a bit more explosive in the abs and something like that. But, you know, we'll see. We'll see how that goes. Yeah. We'll see. I want to see what you think. I thought it was decently handily to Patrick. I think, obviously, he's far more aesthetic. And, you know, Blessing's waist has kind of exploded out a little bit, and that might be there for the remainder of his career. More pop to his abs, but so much less streamlined. I just think in Chicago, I think in the last show with Blessing, I think it was over-contracting. Like, the abs can be here, and then you're going over that, and it's making them come out more. Like, I told him, you know, just relax in that pose. You don't have to go so hard. It's only abs. Yeah. For those big old abs, you've got the biggest abs on the stage. So just ease into that. So that last call out, I mean, I didn't use, I didn't plagiarize your word, explosive, but you could see Blessing's. Freed asked me, what do you think? I said, you know, it's open bodybuilding. I think they'll go with Blessing. And then the flip side is there's a lot of shots. There's some shots, too, where, you know, aesthetics. You know, it's not an aesthetic show, but, you know, side tricep, Patrick is extremely impressive in front spread. And then when they hit the final pose, where I think I nudged it towards Patrick, is the most muscular, just very square, round, and clean lines with a really sharp midsection. I think, you know, that's enough. Yeah. I think they'll do, you know, run them down again. So that is at the finals. Yeah. That's the wrap-up from the UK Arnold Classic, Chris Asito with Chris Cormier and Freed Mohamed Asito. It's all in the family, huh? Who's the real, real deal? Yeah. We'll see you tomorrow at the finals.