We don't hear you. Muted it. [laughter] I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. I HAVEN'T SEEN THE SUN WEEK AND A HALF. THEY JUST CAME OUT. LOOK AT THAT. I love that fight. And we are back for another episode of After Hours with the Wack Pack. I'm Dave Palumbo, joined by the entire Wack Pack, John Romano, and the crew. And uh I got to tell you, John, I gave you a chance to do the intro and you freaking blew it with that microphone. He was perfect. Everything was perfect. Soon as he touched that microphone, he went mute. I think he's still mute. He's still mute. Yeah, I We still can't He's still He's doing like surgery over there on on that thing. What are you doing? [\h__\h] around and find out. No, we can't hear you. We still can't hear you. See, Greg, I should have You're You're very consistent with your intros. I should have just gone to you, my old faithful. [\h__\h] around. Hey John, if you could hear me, see if it's plugged in. It was working fine. He touched it for a second and all of a sudden it went muted. He has a electrical. You know what it is? He dissed my shirt again. He had He did. He did make fun of your shirt. And that wasn't even the same shirt. There you go. See, that's a new shirt. Out. [laughter] Is that Does this have a brand on it? Is there a tag with a brand name on it? Yeah. You know what it is? It's uh Yeah, it is a tag. I don't know what the hell it says. It was made miner in 1914, that shirt. Cole miner's wife made that shirt. A mean asked him if if he bought that at the Gap in 1975. And I said, "No, someone else did, but he bought it at a garage sale from the guy who bought it at the Gap in 1975." said, "You got to admit it's in good. It's in great condition for Halloween." Polo Club. Bring it back. Let me see that. Bring it back. He got He got that from TJ Maxx. They got it. You know, one of those polyvers. It's in pretty good shape, the shirt. It's not like it's a shoveled shirt or anything like that. See, I cut the collar out. See? I don't know how you keep your your your Greg's [clears throat] got clothing from 30 years ago, but it's still like in good like pretty good shape, you know? It's not like it doesn't look like he like wiped his ass with it or anything like that. It's like a It's like a thrift store find, you know? You walk in there, it's like in a time capsule. Oh my god. The 70s are preserved. That's [laughter] right. I get these little bars of [\h__\h] like they look like soap or something. code in there with with the stuff that I if you would see the stuff that I give to to the Goodwill, you know, which goes to the thrift stores. Stuff most of the stuff has tags on it still. I haven't even I don't even wear the stuff. So, someone's getting some good stuff. Yeah. I give away a million t-shirts. Um, so update on Big Lenny. I just got a text back from him. Oh, sure. I asked him why you were in the hospital. First of all, I think we got a you got a tip, Greg. Hold on. Would it be possible for Greg to use his gallbladder to fill in the hole in his bicep? Oh jeez. Is that a possibility, Greg? You know, it could be. At these days, anything's a possibility. I think my boy Oh, by the way, in case anyone didn't know, Greg got his gallbladder removed. I don't know if a lot of people don't know for sure, but but I want to confirm that. So, I got a text from Big Lenny and Big Lenny said I asked him if he was in the hospital and he said yes for extreme fluid retention which I'm assuming is um No, Lenny did not get his gallbladder removed. Unfort Unfortunately, this guy thought he had his gallbladder removed. No, Lenny's gallbladder is intact. Um, try that. Can we hear you? Oh, there you are. You hear me? You're back. I was just saying, John, that big Lenny is in the hospital for extreme fluid retention, which would probably indicate like some kind of heart failure that he's having. Wow. When did that happen? Lenny, we're praying for you. 15 years ago, but um No, [laughter] no, I mean recently. Well, I mean, that's not the first time though, right? No, I think it's been one long drawn out event for the past several years, right? I feel really bad for that dude, man. Yeah, I do. He's a good guy. He's a good guy. And he's just so unhealthy. Listen, guys. He he he has uh he has defin definitely a personality, but I had a moment with him and I can tell you he's a he's a he has a really good heart. He's a good No, his heart's terrible. That's why he's dying. Metaphorically speaking. Oh, [laughter] it's a conundrum. The actual heart is not not his literal heart. Correct. You just use that or what? What? Armen. All right. We're gonna We're gonna [clears throat] I just want to say Armo's looking pretty jacked. He always looks jacked. Jack Armor, you look pretty jacked today. Jack, Greg, he's looking very jacked. And he's actually enhancing his his his image right now as we see him. So, you're really not seeing the real harm on he's that's actually artifici enhanced right there. Just letting everyone know so no one's being, you know, no one's being deceived or anything like that. I don't want any I don't want any emails on from Ben Armon. Can we see a dick pitch this way here? We can tell if it's if he's being uh know you know you want Well, you all of us wanted to say that. [laughter] We want to see if I want to see if it's it's Kai did Kai did a guest posing. Did you see the guest posing Kai did when he was very black and everything and yeah he was I was I was I wanted to get your opinion Arman if if you thought that his dick was enhanced. Hold on. Let me see if I could get the the thing up here. We're gonna do if we're going to do this. What do we pick connoisseurs over here? I think when he does his package is is Kai enhanced here or not? You looked fat in that thing, though. It looks fat. I thought so, too. I I thought so, too. I really did. I thought so, too. I can't see. Someone told me it's spray paint. Okay. If it's spray paint, then he's a little offseasonish. That's probably why he did it. Oh, off seasonish. You know what I mean? Al BUN's in better shape than him. Oh, he's not that bad, John. He's fat. Look at the It's why he's painted. He's hiding the fat rolls. When that robe opens, you can see the total fat roll, man. He's got He's the paint is hiding it. I've never seen I've never seen high fat. What? You You are now. We are now. Yeah, I haven't either. Could it just be the paint? Because he's never been fat ever. It's really weird, man. I don't know why he would Listen, first off, why why paint yourself like that? I was just fat. He's artistic, Arman. He's very an art artist. Not autistic muscle, right? I agree. I think you should have showed the muscle. I don't I don't I don't like this for bodybuilding. This is more like Look at that. Come on. He's hiding the fat with the paint. Come on. Look at his abdomen. Look lowex obliques. This He's the I'm sorry, but the dude is It's a great idea, man. I think it's genius. [clears throat] He got paid a lot of money and and and he's making the best out of it. But he's definitely out of shape. I think he's genius. Look. I mean, look when he first opens a roll. Look at that. Look at that. Look at that. Look at him. Spare tire on him. Come on. That is I've never seen Kai fat ever, so I don't know. That's weird. It's weird, man. Yeah. It's a Yeah. I think I think it's genius. I think it's absolute genius. If you don't That is genius. And it looks amazing, too. So yeah, it it does. But John, wouldn't you have rather seen him in good shape without without paint? What you Yes. Yes and no. It's too There's Kai Green, the entertainer. You know, it's like seeing, you know, Michael Jackson. I mean, it's like he's he is he's the Michael Jackson of bodybuilding. I mean, he really is, you know. So, but so if you're going to see the entertainment side of Kai Green, I think that was an awesome display. But if you're going to look for his physique, no. So if if you want to meet it halfway in the middle, I like the costumes [clears throat] that you can take off and the body still revealed. That way you could kind of get a little bit Look at how out of shape he was. He's never done anything like this. Like they painted like the body so you did it to hide the fat. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I I'll ask him next time I see him. I want to show you. So I'm I'm right now I'm I I am eating something that I made with my new Ninja Creamy, which is right there. And I'm going to give you my recipe in a second. So [clears throat] this is uh let me zoom in on myself. This is the this is my chocolate ice cream that I made out of chocolate protoolize my pudding from Species Nutrition and [clears throat] it's absolutely delicious. It looks just it's ice cream. It's got like a gelato consistency. It looks like Yeah, it's great. I'm gonna tell you this Ninja Creamy. I'm so addicted to it. All you have to do is you I buy unflavored um coconut milk. So you can get coconut milk. There's no sugar added. It It has a cons. It has a mouth feel like and it looks like milk but there's no sugar. There's no sweetness to it. And I put a cup of that into the ninja creamy. I put I buy this um monk fruit like powdered monk fruit. So it looks like sugar but it's really monk fruit and some arythrtol. I put a third of a cup of that in there. I put a little vanilla extract. They put two scoops of the proteolyze pudding in there, which is 60 grams of protein. And I you they want you to melt a little cream. I put like a tablespoon of cream cheese melted in there. Um I I don't know what it John, you probably would know what it does. I don't know what that does for consistency. Yeah, maybe. Mouth feel. And you turn on that Ninja Creamy and it blends up all the ingredients for like a minute and a half. Then you take this little thing that is that it blends it up in and you put a cap on it. You put it in the freezer and the next day you have ice cream. It's it's unbelievable. I can't even believe how great it tastes. I I I take so much this [\h__\h] Dave will take my [\h__\h] I take this twice a day every day. It's [\h__\h] Yeah. I've been sending you a lot of You obviously like that a lot. Yeah. [clears throat] Two cases of it already. Ask Dave and this [\h__\h] is amazing. I'm telling you right now. You know what? It has probiotics in it. And after my gallbladder, you get the diarrhea. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Back up, back up, back up. What do you mean gallbladder? Oh, Jesus. You didn't know he had his gallbladder taken out? What? [clears throat] Yeah. Yeah. You think you know what got donating? I hear he's donated it to Big Lenny. But this [\h__\h] this helps your your gut because Dave's got probiotics in this [\h__\h] It really did work. I'm not Yeah, I think I I already got a second case of this [\h__\h] from Dave. I think it's I know I know you'll never buy a Ninja Creamy because you'll never spend the money on it. But if you you might have an old food processor from the 70s. You could probably duplicate the same thing. Put all those ingredients, I'm telling you. And then put it in like a Tupperware container and put it in the freezer. You'll have ice cream. It's it's it's so good. I I can't even Dave, you need to send some of that to the White House. We need to get Biden's gonna He needs that. He's going to fall apart. He's got to eat some protein in his ice cream here. He's got to stop the jello pudding. You gotta, you know, poor guy. He's translucent. He don't give a [\h__\h] about nothing. He's not gonna be president anymore. He just came from a month vacation. He don't give two [\h__\h] If I was Camala Harris under the bus, I'd be like, as soon as that happened, he's like, he's like, what what are you gonna do? You know? Yeah. That was a North America's day. Was it like a relaxing tour? I um I really enjoyed it actually. You know what? I had a bunch of clients. First of all, North American is is five days now. It's Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. There's a show on every day. I had clients at all five of those shows, too. So, I was there five days straight. And the good thing is that they've spread it out enough that it's not overwhelming. Like, you can sit through the shows and it doesn't last like 18 hours because they're they're putting it on different days, which is brilliant. They can do that because in that hotel that they use the Sheridan Station Square there, I think that they get the um the venue for free because they, you know, they bring so much business into that into the hotel and into the surrounding. Where were you? Eat all your food downstairs like they still have that buffet. The Yes. Yeah. The buffet is not unlimited because we used to go down there and we would load up all our Tupperware and bring it up to the room. Now they theoretically charge you. They you can still get away with a little bit of it, but they they they have it a little bit. Uh I want I want to thank that guy who just donated $2 to the only scumbag on the panel. By the way, the only non scumbag on the panel, actually scumbag. All right. We're all scumbags. You're obviously not scumbag. Well, hey Dave, didn't you didn't you want to apologize to someone? I mean, oh yeah. Um I last week I mentioned Chris Cormier's name in and Titus's uh escapades and apparently that was uh wrong information. So Chris, good looking bud. By the way, I watched the um the Titus movie that was on uh Tuby. By the way, Tuby's free. I downloaded it and I watched the movie and it was very uncomfortable. I it was uncomfortable because I knew it was going to happen and I knew all the characters in there, but they did a pretty decent job. It was a, you know, they they had actors playing all these characters. They did a pretty accurate job, I think, on the on the movie. Uh, I'd like to see, John, I know John, you probably haven't seen it yet, but I'd like to get your opinion on it. See, I thought I order I thought I ordered it, Dave, but I ordered just a a 2024 new documentary of it. So, I didn't order the movie one. So, it was just another documentary a new No, there if you download Tuby, Tuby is free. And the Titus movie on Tuby is doesn't cost anything. favorite. It's It's free. Yeah. By the way, this past weekend, um, not TV, but it's close to it. It's close to it. Greg, this past weekend, uh, was the 30th anniversary for, if you know, Prince Harrison for the Heart of Texas show. So, yeah, it was pretty crazy. I had I had two clients fly in from out of town. They cleaned up at the show and then I had two other clients fly in that's been training with me every day now. But, it was uh, pretty impressive. 30 years, you know. I well I guest posted that show 20 years ago. How about that? I did 15 15 years ago with Victor Martinez. Dave Dave, how did they portray the the murder in the in the movie? So this Yeah. So I'll tell you what they So this is what they said happened. So I guess according to the way they set up the whole dynamic, she was there like Craig kind of got her there as the assistant and he was kind of banging her on the side a little bit. Not they didn't make it seem like it was it was a lot but enough and supposedly Kelly didn't know at least in the movie you know that she didn't know and uh they were doing on the slide but she this girl [clears throat] I guess needed money and they really weren't paying her enough so she was stealing like Craig was letting her use the credit card but then she started taking credit cards out in their name and I guess at some point Kelly had enough she wanted her out of there so on the the day she was supposed to leave Kelly supposedly you know, grabbed her bag and looked in her bag and she had all these credit cards that she had taken out in Kelly's name and [clears throat] Kelly was screaming at her and they started fighting. There was a for some reason Craig had bought a taser or something like that was in there and someone I don't remember who tasered who first but they were tasering each other and then Craig heard the screaming and he came into the room and he grabbed Melissa in a headlock and was holding her and he just was o overzealously killed her somehow, you know, like choked her out and maybe broke her neck. They didn't really say what the cause was. And then, [clears throat] you know, they were trying to like, you know, Kelly was like trying to revive her a little bit and then then they didn't know what to do. And then they thought she was just Craig said, "Oh, she's just asleep. You know, she's going to wake up." And then she never did. And they when they realized she was dead, they were like, "What are we going to do?" And Kelly was in the movie at least wanted to call the police. And Craig's like, "No, I'm not going back to jail." And so he came up with this brilliant, brilliant idea to like, you know, to um inject her. The weird thing is that the drugs that they were using in the movie like the the heroin like drugs were newane right now. It was morphine though. What they what they did though was morphine they injected. It was morphine. But I was saying they were showing Greg doing drugs. Craig doing drugs during the movie. He was shooting new bane like but it would make it seem like he was taking heroin. You know when he was taking it's one step away. Not even close. Yeah. It's not even close because just because you don't melt it in a spoon with a with a cotton swab. You don't get the same high from New Bane that you get from heroin jug. It's you get the same withdrawal when you don't have it. No, it's not. New and oxies are nothing alike. Arman, he's the expert. I did more. I I did the equivalent of a Harley-Davidson of New Bang up [clears throat] my vein. I I know exactly what it's like. So, let me ask you something because I haven't seen it yet, but I'm I'm from what I'm getting. I guess they didn't go into the sex parties and the orgies, which Craig did have, right? They did one like they showed he had a toga party or something like that and that's when he like hooked up with the first time supposedly. Yeah. Like [laughter] Kelly came back from competing and she had come in second place or something like that from show and Craig was having a toga party at the house or something like that, you know. But John, you were saying she was like not guilty and stuff, but she was like biting the lighter fluid and all that. You know, I didn't I didn't say she was not what happened. So, what happened is once the once Craig came up with this great idea, first of all, I mean, not that you you want if someone dies by it wasn't it certainly wasn't like a malicious killing. It was definitely an accident. So, they should have just called they should have just called the police at that point. They probably would have gotten, you know, he would have gotten some time, but he wouldn't have gotten, you know, probably like 10 years. I was thinking, you're right. You're right. Body in the car. He would have got nothing. He would have got 10 years and he would have gotten out in seven probably or, you know, six. When they lit her on fire out in the desert, do you think? Well, so listen. So they Yeah. So they come up with this great scheme. They go to Walmart parking lot. They're on the security cam there. Then they used their credit card to buy lighter fluid. Like I mean it would have been better if they would have just gone to the desert and buried the body. No one would have found anything. I don't know what they were thinking. It would have been better if they just let her leave the [\h__\h] house and call the police. Yeah. Yeah. Sent her on the airplane. Yeah. And sent her home. I mean the poor girl like that for for weeks at a time, you know. So the problem was they were all on drugs and they weren't thinking actually including her. I think you know she had you know an issue too with it. According to the movie, they were doing a lot of X. Well, they Yeah, they made it seem like they were doing more like uh they were I know for a fact they were doing X meth and really new. He was stealing meth and oxies that he was doing a lot of pill and they were smoking cigarettes. Yeah, I was just about to say that. They didn't go into the drug use like that as much as they should have and Gre and they still made it seem as though Craig was still like in the prime of, you know, in prime shape and everything like that. Wow. Did they Did they show where Craig staged the the the o overdose of Melissa in the car? Because he did he did do that and invited two people. What what they did what they said was in the movie was after they realized she was dead on the floor of the house, Craig then pulled out a bottle of New Bane, which is supposed to be like morphine, I guess, and drew it up like make it look like she except for the minor detail that you you can't OD on new. How do they get that wrong? That's so silly. It's a It's like always in the movies, you know, when someone's like in uh intubated, they never they're never have a tube in. They're just in a bed with like little oxygen in their nose. They never have IVs ever. It's always these Lifetime movies and they're just laying in the bed like peaceful like, you know, it's crazy. Yeah, there's definitely a sequence of events that's wrong because if she had morphine in her bloodstream, okay, and they injected the morphine after she died, it never would have circulated. So, um, [clears throat] I'm sure they infected her prior to to her death. You know, what actually happened was was they put her in the car and they put the needle in their arm. This is what really happened. And they opened the garage door. They turned the car on and they invited two friends of theirs which were friends of Richard Green bombs. They were in real estate. And they invited to their place to watch a movie expecting that those people would see the car on in the garage and then go and see what's going on. But they watched the whole movie. No one ever noticed the car. The car stayed in the garage with it on the whole time and they left and the car was still in the garage with lights on and never knows. That plan failed and so that's when they went with the burn the body in the in the desert. Oh, [clears throat] what the way the movie portrayed it was they put her in the trunk, you know, and then those people were coming over to celebrate some some some girl graduated from college or something like that. And after and then supposedly they told the couple what had what had happened and um they flipped out and they said we got to leave and they left and uh and that that woman is the one who went to the police told them everything that happened. So her flight was supposed to be the next day, right? I Yeah, I don't know when I thought her flight was actually that day. She was packing to leave supposedly at least that day or the next day was her flight actually. Yeah, I think that's why they were making it look like she was leaving. [clears throat] Let her go. They had started fighting earlier because Craig had to get her a hotel room, right, before he left and and then and apparently hooked up with her in the hotel and left her there. Exactly what they showed in the movie, too. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, and you said doing her nails. Well, no. Oh, wait a minute. The the interesting thing is how did she's she's holed up in a hotel the day before her flight. She's away from the house. She's in a hotel. She's gonna have Why is she back in the house? Because she came back to the house to get some of her stuff that she still had there in the house. So, she hadn't packed up her stuff yet. So, when she came into the house, went through her stuff and realized that she had all these credit cards in there. And supposedly that's when Kelly confronted her. It really unfortunately Craig's demise was because Kelly went crazy on this girl and and started fighting with her. So I mean Kelly does have responsibility. Kelly's demise is that Craig got her strung out on drugs. What I'm saying is if Kelly would if Kelly would have just let the girl go, that would have Craig would have taken her to the airport, it would have been the end of it. So Craig thought he had to defend, you know, his wife. He ran in there and grabbed her. And you know, he obviously wasn't in the right state of mind. I'm not giving him an excuse, but it was so he was banging the girl and Kelly knew about it. So, I mean, you know, you can't I want to address I want to I want to just correct Armen for a second. All right. I I I did not say she was not guilty. I Yeah, I didn't I didn't use the words right. Sorry. I No, I I just I I All I meant was she was a a victim of Craig's. Melissa was the victim, but Kelly was not Kelly was a good girl [clears throat] when she, you know, she like I am a mean knows she was a cheerleader from South Carolina. She was an all-American, you know, normal girl and Craig [\h__\h] ruined her. So, you know, that's the vi that is the victim part of it. Craig took this sweet, wholesome all-American girl and got her to in prison as an accessory to murder. has a needle in her all his he got that good girl to put needle in her arm and shoot up drugs IV that's hardcore guys I mean how do you get somebody to do that I mean that's Yeah exactly I mean that's that's when you're not coming back right right there's a guy that I know named David Steinberg um he got out of prison he was in there for uh counterfeiting money something and um anyway Anyways, I was trying to help him out when he first got out and I realized that he was train wreck waiting to happen. He he was high on uh what is that stuff called? Um bath salts. One of one of those one of those drugs that um GHB. I think it was GHB. Yeah, GHB. But anyways, um one day he calls us and he's telling me I'm in a hotel. They're out there. The police are out there in the bushes. They're going to come in, blah blah blah blah, all this stuff. Anyway, this goes on for like two days. I finally tell him, I'm like, "Dave, there's nobody in the bushes. They would have come in by now. They're [laughter] not waiting for days." And me and my friend Tim are saying, "Dave lost his mind." Anyways, he gets in some altercation with somebody over a drug deal. He goes with his roommate and he kills some guy up in the hills and then he was paranoid that his roommate might tell on him. So he kills the roommate too. Oh [\h__\h] He takes both bodies and he puts them in garbage bags and he takes them to his girlfriend's storage in van eyes and sticks them in the storage. [laughter] Oh my god. Holy [\h__\h] And just leaves them in there. So the girlfriend goes there like a few weeks later and is stinking like hell from dead rotten bodies. Oh my gosh. Calls the police and uh yeah, he's doing like triple life. And golly, what a nutcase. But this is what happens when people are just like spun out of their mind. Drugs. It's the drugs, you know. I knew I knew that he was a problem because uh we were training one day and I told him about some guy from my work and I worked at a corporate job at the time and I I was telling him me and this guy got an issue and he's like let's kill him. I'm like really? Holy [\h__\h] Yeah, we could just kill him. And I'm like yeah anymore. We can't just kill him. Like everybody will know [laughter] what a psycho. And then he's looking at me like I'm some kind. He's like like like what are you [\h__\h] or something? Larry, you're so calm about this [\h__\h] too. [laughter] Oh my god. You know who was in the movie? Um Tony Burton was in that mo in the Craig Titus movie. He played Victor Martinez. He played Victor Martinez. Yeah, they got Victor in there. What What was Victor's role? Well, Victor wasn't in there, but Antonio played Victor. What was what was alleged? What was Victor beat Craig at some show or something like that and um Craig was all pissed off like backstage or something like that at you know it was a pro show against what was it the Iron Man? It wasn't the pro show. Maybe it was the the Night of Champions. I don't know what show could it have been. Wasn't Craig in that night of champions in 03? Vic and Craig would have been nowhere close to each other. Vic is an I think they were just horrible compared to Vic. I know but they were making it seem like Craig was close. You know what I mean? Because they wanted to show that Kelly was the champion and Craig couldn't win a pro show and all that. They should have showed from the nationals where he took his number off and threw it. Who play Kamali? By the way, guys, you want to hear this? Is a good story. You want to hear the story about that? Richard Greenbomb was something Titus for that show because I've refused to go to that show because he wouldn't do my hell week and I and I really wanted him to do it. So instead of doing it, he did he did Aldactone for a week. You guys know what happens when you do all that going for a week. So, he's flat as [\h__\h] That's why he didn't look good. Phil Hearn is cramping and and and Phil isn't going to be able to make it to the show. So, Rich calls me up and and doesn't know what to do with Phil. I tell him what to do. Some some sodium. I don't know. We're not going to get into it. But anyway, Phil ends up doing the show and ends up eating Craig. You know that that that the show where he threw his threw his number, I think. Yeah. I was there with Mike Christian. He he and I went together and we as soon as he did that we bolted backstage and Mike is like Craig you got to go go back out there put you pick your number up. He's begging him to to you know undo what he did and Craig was just not happy. You know why he did that? I I because when we were in 90 at 94 at the nationals he came in second to Deo. I went backstage, I'm not gonna say who said it, but somebody very very high up in the industry told him, "Go to Denver and you'll get your pro card." So he went to and he was so convinced that the show was his. You know how like used to think that, oh, it's his show. It's back in the 90s, it's his show. Well, they the reason they said it was the Beao show was because Met Met RX had already published or they had already done the advertising that he won. So that that was supposedly the reason why it was his. I didn't think he should have won. He didn't have paint on in the morning. He didn't really look like they may have didn't look like he was in shape. Don Long and Tony Freeman all look better to me. Okay. And I think people that were there would have said that. So when Craig was backstage and somebody said to him, somebody who could actually make this happen, said to him, "Come to Denver and you get your pro card. You understand how these things are, Craig. I hope don't don't take it personal." And I was pretty pissed. I was right there. Sure enough, for the whole time, Craig thought that show was his. So, he didn't want to do the hell week. He didn't want to do the zero cards. He didn't want to do the 100 reps. He didn't want to do what I thought you should do to look your best when you win your pro card. Even if it is your show, you should still smash everyone. And, you know, he didn't have that attitude. You know, I was at I was in this show. So, in in at in 94, I was the first national show I ever watched. Yeah. It was down in um Orlando and Deo won. I remember that. And did Craig did look good at that show and the [clears throat] following year I competed at the USA in in in Denver, Colorado. I was backstage and before that I stayed at Ed Connor's house and Craig would come every day and that's when I first met Craig and he would tan on the roof naked, you know, because Ed, you know, Ed loved that and that you can, you know, would do whatever you want up there. And so I met him for the first time and I saw him and remember I'm dieting too and I'm like I'm like shredded and Craig is looking like I'm like this guy's not in shape. I'm like I don't know how he's gonna [\h__\h] make it to the show. We only have two weeks left and [clears throat] obviously he never got crazy crazy shredded for that particular show. Um but backstage. Yeah, he I remember he ran off the stage. He threw his trophy and I'll never forget because Phil Hearn he rest in peace. He's not with us anymore. Is off. forget he flicked the he threw the thing and flicked came up backstage because I didn't make the top five which I absolutely should have and he came up to me and says you know I just want to tell you he we didn't know each other behind the wall and he said you know I thought you were going to win the show when I saw you backstage because I mean I was healed beyond peeled for that show I probably overdided a little too I was probably too depleted you know for the show but I was crazy crazy shredded and no one was really nutty peeled in that top Five. Titus was off. Phil was just [clears throat] He had a lot. He had a lot of muscle, you know. He was He had an amazing physique, Phil. He could have I saved Phil. Phil won that show because of me. He would not have been able to step on stage if I didn't help him. Period. Yeah, he he was But he wasn't He could have been even tighter at that show. And his tan wasn't great, but he he was better than Craig. He was definitely better than Craig that day. No doubt about it. And he didn't he didn't do it. He He thought they were just gonna give it to him like they did. I think Yeah, I think he was coasting. I don't think he was dieting hard for that show. He would He looked He didn't look it. He told me he said he said, "Come to Denver. I'll pay for everything. We'll party. I've got Coke. I've got this. I got that. I'm not going to the show if you're not doing my hell week." Why am I going to sit there and act like I'm the guy that dialed you in for that [\h__\h] when you're not doing what I'm telling you to do? You're not listening to me, Craig. I'm not going. So, he said he would come. He was going to come to Virginia afterward. When he came to Virginia afterward, he set me up. He wore a wire. He was working with the feds. And that's when they got a warrant to search house. I was tipped off. [\h__\h] you, feds. I was tipped off. Clean the house. They didn't find anything. So, [\h__\h] Craig and [\h__\h] the feds. Was he not acting weird? I mean, like, was he not acting like acting like, you know, obvious incriminating questions? No. Absolutely not. He came to get he came to get New Bang and I didn't have any. I was already I quit. I was already came all the way. He came all the way there to get He was going around the country. He was going around the country setting everyone up. He went there to go see Richard De and and and you know when he came to see me he was wearing a wire. He was staying with Richard. Yeah. He was staying with He went he went everywhere. Ask anybody that that knew Craig. He tried to set up every single everyone. Wasn't that from the beef he caught breaking stealing drugs from the from Camp Pendleton? No, it was the I don't know about that. It was the exist. That was the show right there. That was Craig. Craig got long hair in that show. Yeah, there was Phil in the middle. And there's Gerard Dente. I helped Gerard Dente a year before that show. He's he was a great great guy, man. Really smart, too. Titus had a very marketable look. He he he really could have made a lot of money if he wasn't such a nut for a while. He did, you know, but was shortlived, though. As a cover guy, he did. Yeah. Yeah. He had more he had more magazine covers than anybody. And I think Michael Hearn was the perfect following because of the that, you know, covers, man. Blonde hair, the blue eyes, the look, you know, he had the the the right line. Did you see this? Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Wow. Ilia Golem's dog died. Holy. I saw I saw that coming. Who is Why do you say that? [clears throat] I mean, he could barely breathe, Dave. You know, he did all remembered like he did all the PMA like Rich because he was obsessed with Rich and then he could barely breathe every time you would talk to him and he was like Gasping just they don't care. They They're obsessed with size to the point that it's no no different than an obese person. It's it's a mental disorder. Who the hell? I never even heard. He You [clears throat] know what he look like? He looked like uh our good friend uh Alejandro. Open the door. Yeah. No, this this I don't even know why this the sad you're gonna agree with me. The sad thing is is that this guy's going to be promoted and you know and it's sad because this is a mental disorder. At what point do you see enough is enough and you stop? He can't even breathe. He's been like this for a long time. There are bodybuilders that are in competition shape that are he can't he can't even breathe here. Watch him look at them. He's gassing. Yeah, I think a lot of it is that that PMA or silicone they're putting in their arms that eventually kind of, you know, disperses and where does it go, Dave? You know what I mean? I don't I don't That's not synthol. That's DNA or famous microplastics. Yeah. Do they really? What does that go in their lungs and [\h__\h] Of course. Right. Probably probably surrounds the bronchial sack making them hard to open. Do you think that's what killed Rich Arman and PMMA or whatever that [\h__\h] is combination? Well, because your body encapsulates I don't think that directly, but you know, you know, I don't think that directly, but when you're dealing with multiple factors and several of them are deadly, it could be a synergistic effect that just sets the whole thing off. But just just the stress on his heart, I mean, how what how much did he weigh? Over 300, right? 352 in that in that thing I did with him. So, he got up to more than that. He got up to like 380 something. I think that guy got real big. Your body just can't do that. I mean, it just doesn't work that way. And the obesity uh comparison, he didn't compete. He didn't He was born in 1988. Wow. He's young. Wow. Young. Wow. That's young. Makes no sense. Rich just like Rich. like he just I remember when the first time they met they they recorded at a expo and he was just in awe of Rich and just you know wanted to be exactly like him. So he did. Rest in peace. Was he a big guy? Big tall guy. I never heard this guy. He's tall. Yeah, he was a little I mean he was strong as [\h__\h] I mean he was I mean he would he could lift some weight. Rich couldn't train at the end. Rich couldn't train hard because the times we trained together, he would be doing like a plate and a quarter on incline hammer and stuff like he could have go heavier than that. Can we can we say something? This man and unfortunately, rest in peace and I don't mean to say anything bad about him, but he lived for that picture you just showed, Dave. Yep. He lived for that picture that you just showed. Show it again. Show it again so the young people who are watching this can understand. You don't have to die to look good. You don't have too many people are dying. You know the [\h__\h] up thing that's going to happen, of course, because it's him in that size. It's all going to be about the drugs, the steroids. Yeah. And and and it's not it's the lifestyle that his quest to be 400 pounds shredded or whatever it was. That's what killed him, not the drugs. No, the steroids play a part in that. You can't get 400 pounds and ripped like that. You Greg, you know, you've injected more bottles of steroids at one time than anybody on the planet. If anybody would have died of steroids by now, it would have been you. It just doesn't happen. It's not a lethal drug. You can't OD on it. You can't. If I would have kept going, I might have [\h__\h] I mean, I started pissing Brown before I got arrested. No, if you would have taken like bottles of anrol a day. Yeah. Your arrest saved your life, Greg. Well, Andreas Munzer, he died of steroids basically and whatever else drugs he was taking. I think it was the anticortisol that killed him. When they did his autopsy, he had like four what 25 different substances in him. Yeah. Pretty bad. And very few of them were steroids. He was loaded with tumors, wasn't he? He he bled out. He had tumors in his liver and everywhere else in his digestive tract on his organs. Means though you gota you know you got to know when to say when. I I knew right right then and there. Like I was like [\h__\h] this. I'm not going back to he he was taking citadin by the handful. I agree. Yes. Lot of lot of cited you know. Uh when Chris Jalali got sick Dave he he was taking a shitload of citadine or why why was he doing that? Why was he doing anything that he did? you know, he was uh a lot of people would do side, you know, uh that I knew of maybe like the last two weeks, but Chris did it like for I think 16 weeks straight like wow tired, my joints hurt so bad and he and he at that show that's when he went to the USA's and then he after prejudging he went to ICU because all his organs were failing and then he came back after a month being in ICU and he wasund 115 or 20 pounds after competing at 200 pounds And he started like halo testing everything like 12 weeks out. Cided it was John was helping him at that time and he was telling crazy stuff. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. But if you [\h__\h] go and you're in ICU because all your organs fail and then you come back and start [\h__\h] around with that [\h__\h] you got to have a screw loose. You know what I mean? I knew once then and there, you know, as I started pissing Brown and I got arrested. All happened at one time. I was like, "Okay, I'm cashing in my chips." You know what I mean? Like, [\h__\h] that. You have never taken anything since. No, [clears throat] I I'm on HRT, but I don't take [\h__\h] like that. No, part part of that becomes a, you know, an addiction. Derek Anthony, our boy Derek, God rest his soul. He was he was jacking his arms right up until he died. Yeah. I was 278 pounds. I'm like a [\h__\h] buck 85 now. You know, I would I mean, listen, look at look at look at look at Larry. Look at you. Look at Dave. these we're they're on testosterone. Larry Larry, you said you're on MPPP. Larry's healthy. You don't have to be you could look really good and be older and and not get obsessed with this to the point that it kills you. Well, you got to know your blood work. I mean, but you also like Dave tells everybody, you got you got you got to get your heart checked, too. Absolutely. The blood work's not going to tell everything. So, right. I got I got my whole heart checked up. You die, right? You did the dime a year a year and a half. You don't need anymore. You just got to get a cardiac CT scan. Yeah. I mean, I did a year a year and a half ago. Cardiac TC CT scan tells you an awful lot about what's going on with the with the circulation. I have a friend who just um I'm going to mention his name, but um he found out I made him go for cardiac CT scan just for health purposes and he found out he had um a blockage, but it was like a we it was weird one one of his coronary is very weird how it was blocked. They can't stent it because of the way it was twisting and they're gonna have to do like a limited they could sometimes open rather than open your chest they open a little window and they could just bypass the one vessel because he only has one vessel block but he didn't even know any he had no symptoms whatsoever zero and now luckily he found that they'll bypass it he'll have a minor little surgery on it and he'll be fine and he but if he didn't know that he could have had a heart attack and died you know so you just don't know a lot of these doctors they they they won't do it. You can tell them, "Hey, I want to do this test." They're like, "Oh, you don't need it. You're fine." You know, you have to like literally argue with them to get test further than just like a echo cardiogram. I got mine done last year. It was not a problem. And uh my calcium CT score was like 800. Wow. That's terrible. I know. And then uh so then they did the uh MRI with contrast, right? But for whatever reason, all the plaque is on the outside of my arteries. There's nothing on the inside. The cardiologist has no explanation for it. So there's nothing there's nothing to do for it because it's all on the outside. Right. Right. How does how does how does uh calcium and plaque on the outside of of I don't know. But that they said all of mine is on the outside. There's nothing on the inside. Wow. But I still have it. Right. My left ventricle is double uh the thickness of a normal person. But you know what? All body if you were not a bodybuilder and it was that way that would be bad. That's a pathological heart. But if you if you train hard, your left ventricle is going to get bigger because it's got to pump more blood. So I hate when they they don't differentiate between an athletic heart versus a pathic heart. In other words, or a heart that's in failure because because in other words, if you're you don't do anything and you don't train and your left ventricle is double the size it should be, it's because the left ventricle can't do its job, right? It's normal job. But if you train real hard and your left ventricle is bigger, it's bigger because you're asking it to do more. So, it has to increase in size like any muscle would do. So, you're if you're inducing the left ventricle to get bigger, it's a that's not dangerous. as long as your circulation of your heart is good. And I think it's Well, I I had sleep apnnea. I still have sleep apnnea, but I had it for like decades, It took me like 20 years for them to give me a CPAP. Holy [\h__\h] No, for the like first 20 years, I I kept asking the doctor about it and they're like, "Ah, you're yelling. You're fine." You know, I I'm going to tell you guys something. I don't know if this will help anyone out there, but I for some reason when I when I regain my size after my operation, I have a big neck and and what I notice is when I lay straight back, I will I will snore and I probably I'm sure I probably have some kind of sleep apnea like that. It's very hard. It's uncomfortable. Sometimes I'll wake up gasping for air, but if I lay on my side, I have no problem breathing. I don't even But the only way, listen, the only way you can really align your head properly is that you need to get one of these chiropractic pillows that they kind of dip in the middle and then they're higher on the side. So when you turn to the side, your head is up higher because you don't want your head dropping down or or number one, it messes your neck up on the side and it's uncomfortable and secondly, it doesn't align your your airway properly. So gets a pillow. You you gotta replace those pillows every like six months because they Oh, you do? You got If you get a good one now, if you get a good one, you don't I didn't mind. So, we Val and I are are going on a cruise in in January and the cruise line you get they have a pillow menu in your suite. You got five different pillows to choose from. That's cute. Wow. Five five hypoallergenic adjustable I mean great I can't wait to have to choose I'm going on mine in two weeks I'm so ready to go man I'm I'm just like counting the days yeah I meant to tell you I you convinced me to take a cruise where where are you going John Caribbean 10 days out out of where uh Fort Lauderdale to Fort Lauderdale did you get one of those last minute deals where the prices are like no I paid more than this than I made in one year this There's a good car. Yeah, there you go. No, it's it's it's um there it's it's a smaller cruise line. It's only 500. It's less than 600 people on the guest. What's [laughter] that? It's so I I didn't tell you guys this, but I did some research. I have one of our listeners whose wife books cruises for a living. That's what she does. Really? And Yeah. She and I I think that we could pull off a an RX Muscle cruise in in 25. Wow. Maybe even in like this in in April or something like that if we wanted to. And it really would not be that expensive. We could probably get it for like you know several hund like three to $400 a person. And and you know it would be out of Florida so you know which makes it convenient. And I I think we could do it. I don't I think a lot of people would spend you know three 400 bucks to come on a cruise for five days and you know we can make it a fitness cruise. We could we can get some celebrities to do you know um speeches on there. We can have some seminars and stuff like that. I could do a seminar. John could do one. The mean whoever wants to do one can come and do it. And I think that people would like it. I I think it would be fun. I I'm gonna I'm gonna try to put this thing together. Now, I would I would suggest Virgin Cruise Lines, and Armen will probably agree with me because they have topless sunbathing, adults only, 18 plus, no kids. So, no, we It's like Vegas on the It's like Vegas on the ocean, okay? And that's where we got to have it. I mean, it's got to be We I don't want kids running around. I don't want a water slide. I don't want balloon animals and all that [\h__\h] floating around. No. Yeah. I don't want to see anybody over under four foot three foot eight. I don't want to see anybody. I ain't going no cruise, bro. We don't want old John. We don't want old people on the cruise either. I don't want You got no choice. There's old people. Well, that's why if you're going if you're going on a Virgin Cruise Line, Armen, you can step in here anytime you want. And [laughter] that that's like the crowd you want. You You don't want like, you know, 50 to 80 year olds. You want What do you think, Armen? The old people are actually cool. I mean, you I mean, they you have some I've had some pretty good conversations like in the hot tub talking to like, you know, 60 year olds. I don't want some old guy with a schlong hanging out. I'm sorry. You're having conversations with 60 year olds right now. 70. You don't want to be with other 60y olds. That's I know. But, you know, they have the cruises that go year round, John, too. You know, they they literally a year long. Yeah. John, when's your birthday? Isn't it right around now? Right. Next month. Oh, I thought I thought it was September. Yeah. No, next month. And but I mean, if we do this the way Dave's talking about it, it seems like it'll be a fitness group because he'll promote it as a RX so that everyone come. That's going to be great. Dave, you should definitely competitors come because then you could do a seminar on how to peek bikini women and that could help. And then you could do the have the guys come to a lot of guys, the bikini, you know, the whole thing. We could have like we could have John you can teach glute classes you know like for [laughter] women if you're have a bunch of mini control if you're trying to dodge the whole time but I look at it this way if they have cruises for you know swingers they have cruises for all these kind of you know microcosms of of society why not us I mean what's Greg can run if he wants you know Greg he's already trying to back out. I can't. Greg, why wouldn't you on a Wouldn't Why wouldn't you come with us on a cruise? I'd [\h__\h] be the first one. That thing would [\h__\h] sink if I'm on it because I got bad luck. You know what I mean? No, you don't. No, you don't. Bad luck. You got to get over that [\h__\h] Greg. You go on a cruise, man. You got You go on it, you'll you'll fall in love and you'll be like, "Oh my gosh, why not do that earlier?" You're missing out so much. Just hang. I'm looking forward to it. I'm like I'm totally excited about it. Yeah, I think it'll be great. That would be great. Can we have one that's not going out in the ocean? Maybe it just stays docked. You know what the problem is, John? We'd have to get a sponsor to [\h__\h] pay Greg to go on the crew. Like, everyone else is paying and we'd have to get someone to pay Greg to go on the cruise, you know? Oh, yeah. I ain't paying Especially to pay get you. How much get you to go on a boat? What do we got to What do we got to round up? I don't know, man. I'm scared [\h__\h] of them things. The golfer has to have some vintage clothes in it for in a boat off Sheep's Head Bay in Brooklyn all the time fishing. I can't do it anymore. I'd [\h__\h] my pants. You're not going on a fishing cruise. It's like a It's like a building in in the in the ocean. You can't feel it moving. The rooms The rooms are like apartments. I mean, they're like Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's nice. Titanic was also a building out in the middle of the ocean. [laughter] You don't think we've learned anything since 1903? First of all, we're not crossing the Atlantic, John, either. Okay. Exactly. Going out in the bay. Listen, [laughter] you wouldn't want to be on a boat if I'm on here. Trust me. I say a three-day cruise on Virgin Even from Fort Lauderdale and it would be a blast. Yeah, I think so. That's great. We bring Lee Priest. It won't be called the Virgin Islands anymore. Get it? Uh, Lee, Jimmy, will Sid go? You know what would happen, John? Greg would have to get his gallbladder taken out again while he's on the boat. They we'd have to make a stop and then do emergency surgery on him on the boat. He grew back. Yeah, he grew back. [laughter] He has so he has so much residual juju in his body that that [laughter] he grew a new gallbladder. Oh, that I'd be [\h__\h] my pants out there. You have no idea. [laughter] A side effect of teeth. Don't they have these cruises, John? Like where they have these murder mystery cruises where you go and you someone gets killed supposedly. You got to like sleuthly figure out who did it. We maybe we should do one of those because we we'd be good at that. That would be fun. I I think I wanted to go on rock the ship shipwrecked. Uh shipwrecked. It's where they have bands on there. Like one year they had Chevel and Breaking Benjamin and uh Oh, really? Yeah. And they play every day. That That was really cool. Those are those are pretty expensive. Those are those start around like 34,000 because No, we we need the cheap ones because otherwise Greg will never go. Yeah. The the the three those short ones Greg ain't gone. You'll You'll do what we tell you. Remember that. I was on the [\h__\h] circle line and I was getting sick. We will tell you. It's not a freaking ferry. It's a It's a It's a building in the ocean. Think No, it doesn't. You won't even feel it. We'll kidnap him. We'll tell him we're going to a buffet. That boat will Greg, I got news for you. The food on these The food on these boats looks incredible, man. Holy [\h__\h] It depends which one you go on, right? The one I'm going on has got sushi bar, cold fired pizza. What if it What if we go on a [\h__\h] cruise? Will you go then? No. I've been on many of those. I don't need to go on. WAIT A MINUTE. BACK THE [\h__\h] up. What do you mean? What do you mean you've been on many of those? I was joking. I was joking. Get a crew. [\h__\h] So, you're cruising the streets for training. Joking. Wait, I want to know. Would Jimmy go on a cruise? We'd have to ask Jimmy probably. You would. He would go. You're the You're the guy we have to crack first. It would No, it would have to be the three the team of Lee, Greg, and and Jim. Yes. Can you imagine him ordering at the Can you imagine him ordering in the in the meal place down there in the cruise? I'm not going. You know how long it take him to order? Forever. Entire inner tubes wrapped around us. Greg, what do you do when you go to a buffet? Do you go up and talk to the buffet? I mean, I I you know, put the bread away. I don't want I don't want to see any bread. [laughter] I love buffet, but I just don't want to eat all that starch. You guys got it wrong. It's not the gallbladder. It's the It's the diabetes. Diabetes. He had the diabetes. YOU HAVE THAT, TOO? [laughter] CANCER, TOO, JOHN. I don't know if you're aware of that, but Yeah, my throat's a little shot right now. I don't have the real legit disease. He had throat cancer. You never hear about that. [laughter] Gallbladder, diabetes, right? Oh my god. I'm horse your way. Well, let's send we send our condolences out to the family of Ilia Goolam the mutant was a good guy. I you know he came to my studio did a great interview with me. I seemed like a real good person. I we don't know what he what he passed from. So I I think you know we were speculating of course but too young. It was I hate to see anyone in our industry go down and die and it's just not good. So young. Yeah. Guys get your cardiac CT scans. Check your blood pressure. Please check your blood sugars. Something you can routinely do. Uh, everyone should have one of these $8 blood pressure monitors in the house. And $9 blood sugar monitor from Walmart. I mean, that's something you can check every day. Go get a cardiac CT scan if you haven't gotten one. You're over the age of 30. This way you can see what's going on with your coronary arteries. You know, get your blood work done at least once a year so you can see how your kidney function is and all the other all your other values. it. These are just simple things that you can do that it's not very time consuming. It's not cumbersome. Knowledge is power. You know, that's the the take on and the and you guys got to realize you're not invincible. You are you think you are, but you are not. And you're just not. And and I know you believe you are now, but later on you're going to realize you're not. And you're not. You are not invincible. So get that through your heads and act accordingly because you guys are gonna [\h__\h] die. I mean it's [snorts] that's it. We've it's avoidable. You know, look, you can still be great bodybuilders. You can still do what you got to do. Just make sure you know your numbers so that you if something is out of line, you can get it back in line and uh before it gets out of control to the point where you know you wind up, you know, dropping dead. I also want to send out uh our get well soon to Big Lenny who's in the hospital. He tried to he tried to log into the show but it just didn't work. Yeah, it says device not. He's still connected actually. He just just there's no camera. I don't know. He probably take Lenny.