I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations dosed for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hey. All right. 2025 Fibo Championships just concluding. Sadik Farooqi, Leo Myofa, and of course the shed, James Hollings head, Andrew Jacked, outlasting Sassan Hayatti. Now James, let's go right to your Instagram post earlier. You were very consistent. You You had sauce ahead. I did prejudging as did you, Leo. what did you see in the finals? So, first I want to congratulate Andrew. Always um never take away the champions moment. He's the champion of this evening and deserves all the praise, the hard work that's gone into the show and um deserves to walk away feeling good about himself cuz no one should feel like they the work effort isn't uh respected or rewarded. So, well done to Andrew. Um, now my analysis of the show is kind of like I would say I've seen Andrew many times and competed with Andrew and Andrew is so good. He's such a good bodybuilder that there's uh I feel there's a level of threshold where him versus his very best, he has a certain amount of movement and swing where he can still be good enough to beat a vast majority of professional bodybuilders because of certain attributes he has such as u body uh you know his body type, his structure, his stature, his muscularity, his lines. He's someone that has incredible lines and lines are apparent in a lot of people even when they're not necessarily in what I would consider their best of shape which I feel is the Andrew that was presented tonight. I think it was a good Andrew. Um I don't think it was the best Andrew we've seen but it was enough to edge out and get the victory um against the competition. Leo, obviously we talked earlier today. Um, and you had you also had Cassandra Rody and I made the point and we can address it again here. Two weeks ago, Detroit almost a similar scenario in which you have Cissan the more conditioned bodybuilder going up against William Bonak two weeks ago just the more muscular bodybuilder. Was it a case of a repeat here tonight? Uh, I would say so. Um, also I was basing that on uh the way Tyler moved the two. So in the last call out when there were three guys he actually moved him uh out from the center and Cissan in. So that also gave me the indication that he saw him winning um or had him winning. So maybe they said it was a one-point decision. Maybe at the end they were like okay the structure and the muscle like size is just so overwhelmingly incredible that he has to get the win. So that is probably the argument here for him. So you know you can see that it's like on one day maybe the condition wins on the other day they give it to the the structurally perfect guy. I mean Andrew Jack can win against anyone if he's 100%. I just want to freaking see him at 100% please. That's that's the thing. I think what it is the slight frustration we have is just I just I just want to see him at his absolute best no matter what show is. So again, I'm a huge Andy fan. I've been one of the people actually over the years. How close was it to you get the Arnold Classic in terms of that threshold? The Arnold Classic, we're still here. The Arnold um classic in I think this year was a really good Andrew. There was stations in the chest and stuff that was like not really prevalent before and actually a lot of growth and size, new size actually even up top, which I heard on the previous interview I was floating around, Andrew's been working on more muscle cuz he's such a big guy and he certainly achieved that. So, as fans of bodybuilding, we'd love to see more muscle, but we also we also just want to see him uh bring it in 100%. Which again, like I say tonight, I think it was a good Andrew um and enough to certainly if you the criteria swang in those favors to get him the nod. Um I think maybe we're suckers for a little bit more of that condition front, right? Therefore, obviously being like kind of I suppose team sass tonight was understandable based on our preference in what we like in bodybuilding. But you can totally understand how things go, especially when it's such a close call. And again, as you said, with the way that it was moving in prejudging, that's why my assessment kind of was because of the way that Andrew um with the final call out. Yeah, it was moved back into the middle. So I was like, oh yeah, damn. So predictions obviously based on what you think you see as well as what you kind of see. So uh it's a tough one, you know. I think uh Andrew, like I've said that for a while, he should be Mr. Olympia like from from his gifted structure. Well, let me ask you based off what you saw at the Arnold Classic, based off what you saw here today and tonight, what further would you like to see out of Andrew Jack that would put him in that category or at least in that conversation for Olympic title? I just want to see him condition. It's a simple very simple if if he came in peaked. Yeah. If he came in like Derek's peak at Arnold, imagine Andrew top to bottom Derek's peak. Insane. That's Mr. Olympia. Yeah. Make a case for Cassandra. Um, obviously, look, this is two shows in a row where you could very well make the argument that he was the more conditioned bodybuilder. Talk to us about as we go a little uh wobbly here. That's fine. We can continue. Fans just want to hear us talk. They don't need to see us move around, get all motion sick and everything like that. I mean, we're still recording, right? Yeah. Yeah. All right, we're good. All right. Anyway, fans are going to have to bear with this. Um, what biggest improvements? Again, we talk about the conditioning. We talk about the conditioning from the front, particularly with Cassan. What impressed you the most based off what you saw? Again, you competed against him two weeks ago, but then you had a much better view here today and tonight. SAS has just got a very unique physique. Um, I feel like it's certainly a genetic thing, which bodybuilding is, you know, it's a very genetic game. Yeah. You're you got the good bodybuilders, you got the great bodybuilders, and then you got the ones that are like blessed one in a million genetics where the lines and the separation and the muscle bellies just sit in a certain way that is very very unique. And there's Sass's physique is just like kind of one of a kind. Um you can look at a whole lineup and look at how Sass's muscles sit. He has kind of that roundness of like a a Phil heath in like a most muscular, but he also has that kind of hardness of the the Europe the Middle Eastern guys. I was just going to say you're basically describing the Persian bodybuilder. Yeah. Like it's there is something about it. It's just that that skin quality. Um and and you know like you look at the separation in the guy's thighs, right? Oh are like some people can be super lean low body fat. He still won't have those. The midsection midsection crazy good. Um you know the only way only place really where an assassin suffers and I think it's because of age and we've discussed this is a little bit in the limbs. He said he's noticed that there's a little bit of aging going on there and that's right. But I still think he has enough and I think especially over, you know, for this season, he still has what it is to get to the Olympia and do really well. Well, well, you know him personally, obviously you both from the UK. Do you know what his plans are? Is he chasing his full boore? Is he going to do another couple of shows or whatever it takes to get to the Olympia? I want to talk for him, but we've we've we've all said Spain. Spain. Okay. He may do it, he may not. I can't talk for him, but yeah, because he's he's there. He's there. We talk about conditioning versus size. And again, you made the case that superior conditioning should trump size if the conditioning level is not there. All things equal, right? We talk about muscularity and all things equal, the muscularity should win. In your opinion, what more would you like to see out of sauce? I think I think it's because I'm I'm like I'm a merit guy. So if if I see the gifted guy not working as hard as maybe the lesser gifted one and he's like he's showing he did everything he can, then I just want to see the guy who worked harder where at least it looked like he worked harder win. Um maybe that's not objective because there's more criteria obviously. So um but I'm also like if Andrew Jack would have been let's just say 5% better and still less conditioned. I would have said, "Okay, now the conditioning is at least close enough that the size and the structure outweighs it." But if the difference is too big in my opinion and you not good enough in shape for a pro show in my eyes to win, then I would give it to the what what do I want to see more from? Yeah, from Sun. It's tough to say. Um there was uh just a tad maybe tighter in the back in the in the back lat spread and the back double and I I screamed and he did it a bit elbows forward. When he moved like this he could open up his his uh lats a little wider and the width is something that Tyler will criticize on him and the width compared to Andrew is dramatic the difference. So, you've got the widest line in lifeb I did want to close this out with, you know, again, one of the cooler story lines of this show and really in my opinion, one of the cooler story story lines of the season is the return of Sergio Lea Jr. Now, technically, it is not his return. He did Cal last year, but we know with everything going on with him in his in personal life, that wasn't really Let's just scrap that one. This was his comeback show. We know the level of excitement that Sergio brings to a bodybuilding stage. um the personality, you know, the flare and obviously look, we talk about a physique that at its best, the winning package of the New York Pro a few years ago brought a round and conditioned look. I feel like he's still on the comeback trail, but the trajectory is seemingly there is certainly there and I think he showed you enough this weekend to show that he's going to be someone that's going to be, you know, that that trajectory is there for him to be a player over the course of the next 18 months. I think I think now that he's got his feet settled and he's back on solid ground from all the knowing where to live and where to be, you know, with personal things. Um I cuz literally I'm looking at him, I'm thinking all he's got to get back is some of the maturity and density and some of the muscle he's got. Like get some, you know, the lats just just just posterior chain just get it back up where it was, which will come. He just needs a solid I think he just needs one solid um run after whatever shows he decides to do of a you know a time in a calorie surplus to build some more tissue and I think it will come back pretty quick because of you know muscle memory right I think he just needs a little bit of his muscle back I I personally think he's a great representative I think the way he poses is emotional even even now it's funny cuz you could have no connection really to his father as a bodybuilder cuz it's a different generation but even in the time in the music when he hits the victory post you still feel something in your gut which is really nice because I think that's a good thing for legacy of bodybuilding as well. You can feel like he's paying homage to someone, you know, I don't really know. I can feel it. It's small. It's nice. Um, but I think he did a really fantastic routine tonight. I really enjoyed it. Uh, condition was good. I think just a little bit more muscle again cuz he's a big guy, right? I mean, you're that big. Muscle matters, right? I don't know what you think about that. What did you think? Best thing you saw out of Sergio Lun. Okay. I wanted to criticize right away. I just feel like he needs to fill out his skin a little. It feel felt like he has that there was more and if it's back in then he has this fullness again this plasticity and then you know then he can get back there it looked like almost a little flat maybe it wasn't even flat it was just that he needed that muscle back that density that but again the point up there coming into your prep with more muscle so you've got enough to get down to that position where you look your best and full yeah so I'm like he's a great guy his charisma and I love the stash obviously, right? I hate to say that. At the end of the day, this is a great comeback story. We talk about bodybuilders that, you know, we don't see on the stage, take a hiatus, sometimes 13 months, sometimes years, we may never see them come back. So, for Sergio to come back, overcome everything that he's overcome in his personal life, I think this is one of the better stories of this weekend. And certainly, I'm sure we'll see him back on a stage at some point this year. I was going to say a show of this caliber like for anyone that's not educated on bodybuilding coming like top three in any pro show nowadays kind of like I felt it last weekend in Detroit that that it's not easy to do. I promise it's very very hard to do and he will feel like a victory from that because of everything that's gone on in his life. So it's uh yeah it's uh it's a win for him. I think third on your on your comeback is such a big deal. So congratulations Sergio. Congratulations, Sassan. And of course, congratulations, Andrew, winning the 2025 FIBO Championships. And we'll see if we're going to see him back at Texas where he would theoretically be competing or defending his title there for a fourth time, right? Or third time, rather. It would be his fourth time if he wins. Yeah. Three-time champion of the Texas Pro. But either that or he's going to shut it down. And the next time we see him is going to be in October at the Olympia. Foofa, James Holling said. I'm Sadik Furki. Thank you for watching.