I am the first Iranian from the Iranian Bodybuilding Federation to be able to become an Olympia champion. You know, people who go from zero to location here in Columbus, Ohio.  I'm here with Mr.  Olympia and Arnold classic champion Shupen and his translator Habib.  What's up my friend?  Good.  Good. How are you doing Dave?  Uh I want to say before we start the translation just I want to say something is really important for me which is more than even the show.  I want to honor the people who lost their lives in Iran protest and I want to send my condolences to their soul and their family and I want to say we're gna be their voice here. Let me go to you because there has been a lot of controversy.  You're usually the most quiet guy in the whole industry. You were usually a quiet person and you were busy with your own business. Now, in the last two months, there has been a lot of controversy and a lot of things have happened to you. What's going on? So, as you can see, I am the first Iranian from the Iranian Bodybuilding Federation to be able to become an Olympia champion.  Just like you know, people who go from zero to 100 have a lot of envy that arises among their peers.  But not all Iranians are like this.  I am popular among my people. I am a good asset.  My people are not all that they were created to be .  But everyone knows that I was always here for the people, I was always here for Iran, and I never said on any platform, "Hard Chopin, from such and such a government, from such and such a monarchy, the name of Iran has always been the name of the people, and now that I am here, I am like a soldier for my people, for the name of my country, and so on." I'll try to remember all what he said. So he said because I'm the first person from Iran I could attend the M Olympia and win the Olympia probably there are some people from our federation and our industry maybe they will feel jealous and try just to bring me down but this is not representing the old country because I'm I've always been represented and competed for my people.  And when I won, when I did receive any success, they did n't call any government or any official on stage.  They called Iran, which is the people of the Iran and always been represented for the people of Iran and always competed for the people of Iran and always going to be competed for them this year as well.  And I and I believe that wholeheartedly but um there was you know there are people who are suing that you were supporting the regime currently in place and I personally give me feeling to the Many say that you are supported by the government Why do you feel pressure now What is your opinion on the fact that they say that you are supported by the government These are all false opinions that want to overcome me or force me to do that I am for the Iranian government I say the opinion on the fact that I myself accept that you are a bodybuilding athlete and you have always been concerned for your people But what is your opinion on the fact that some people are doing amphalor ?  Look, I have a population of 90 million. These are just bodybuilders. Bodybuilders think that because Hard Shopan became a champion like Olympia, he has been like Olympia for years because they themselves could not be in my position. And those like, for example, gentlemen who are outside Iran, these are the ones. I don't care if someone is a fan of someone, if they are real, they will support him. I was not upset at all. Those who didn't want to be beaten or judged me, everyone went to their own gold. I know I'm not upset at all. Maybe people out of the country didn't make me an Instagram champion because they want to make my Instagram followers look small or my popularity is not from Instagram.  I did everything I could for my people.  I did everything to make the fans happy. Instagram is a virtual paradise for me.  There is nothing that wants to make me bigger or smaller.   Your popularity in the hearts of the people comes before your fans. I have not given any amount of money to my people, not to my fans.  Instagram is a typical self-made thing. You know, I've been to America more than once. This is my tenth time coming to America and I even participated in a big road race.  Everyone thinks that if Shopa changed his car or bought a new car, that means the government has it. If the government was going to give me all this money or do the work for me, I wouldn't have to suffer so much. I would have stayed in my country, I would have beaten the wall, I would have taken my money, I would have eaten. And each of these gentlemen who are posting against me today, if they had won these awards, they would have left Iran, and their entire families, and gone to live in another country. But I said, my country is important, my people are important. As you know, I won all these places in Iran and I am living in Iran, and it doesn't matter what those outside Iran think about me. I get money from the government.  I was staying at my home and just laid down and just got my support.  I wouldn't do all this hard work to be here and compete in a show.  Some people they try to just release some wrong information and they do n't know what they are talking about. Now, a lot of people are saying that because of all the stress you're going through with all the negative publicity that you're going to come in at less than your best.   He says I believe that you are under the pressure that you were under this year and you will bring the best package of your body and I always said in my podcast and I said tell me this issue. This pressure is natural for me. I spent many days and nights like this. I cried a lot of nights because I couldn't believe that some kind of coincidence was judging me. But God is bigger than all these words and I trust in God and I know that all my people are not the ones you see in the virtual world and I am in the heart of my people in the heart of my country and I am still a soldier of my people and I will fight for my country as long as I live. He says I believe uh uh this all pressure had a lot of pressure for sure and there was a lot of night I couldn't sleep I cried until morning because a lot of the negative uh comment I was receiving and a lot of negative judgment was about me which is was all wrong but still I'm a people soldier I'm going to compete for the people and by the time they will know I'm on the people side and  I don't belong to any government. After this match, I can never stay outside Iran for more than a month. As you can see, I will quickly return to my family. That's where my soil is. That's where my country is. My people are there. I will return to my people. For sure, I will go back home because I can stay more than one month out of the country back to my people. Who has the best line? Hatti or Kamali? Who is on Kamali's team? I don't know Kamali's team. I know him as a stadium. I know him as a player for a long time. But now, Kamali's words have no value to me. He is saying these things to me out of happiness. I have no problem with anyone. I have never seen him up close. But it's good that someone has traveled with someone. He has been a friend. He can judge him. And judging anyone is not good at all. I don't like to talk about anyone. And when I say I don't know Kamali, I only know him as a player, nothing else. And the things he says, the slanders he has made.  The babies that he did ignore me at all and I don't care know as an athlete but not as a person and for him also better to if he wants to judge me to get to know me first because we never see each other even once and he just he will forgive him for whatever he said but just he needs to first uh at least have a vacation with me trip with me sit with me then judge me please because I like that that's very very very diplomatic that's that's very cool chopen RX muscle and I'll talk about something else The power of big and strong people on the pages is not allowed Those who make themselves heroes in the real world The heroes who are in the virtual world They are not heroes I consider the real heroes ‏The powerful people they don't make inside the social media in real life they get powerful and they sma and the selfmade person social media athlete the people