all of a sudden you're going to make a video about it. I I don't I understand that the guy was upset. Hos was upset and I understand all that [\h__\h] but why couldn't you just like get a hold of me and say, "Bro, why'd you use that word?" You know what I mean? Or whatever. You have to make a whole video and then you put me down and you think like people are going TO YOU'LL HAVE A FEW PEOPLE you're right that Valentino sucks. But you know what I say? Get in line, bro. That I got a hater line longer than Sam C. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to another installment of the Dave Palumba podcast. Today we have a great crew. We got Lee Priest driving in his car to Sydney, Australia. We got Greg Valentino. We got our special guest Joe Sabata, also known as the number one witness on today's show. [laughter] of Jersey, Joseph. That's right. Tonight, me and him go. So, all right. Now, um Greg, there obviously was a lot of controversy over the past couple days. what Abiad got very upset uh about a comment that you made on after hours earlier this week where you said that um Sam Sulak who you couldn't really pronounce his name properly but Sam Sulak uh I CAN'T PRONOUNCE YOU TOLD ME SAY PROUD I STILL CAN'T SAY IT BUT I JUST WANT TO SAY ONE thing before we tell the story I want you to learn to say hold on BUILDING NO CRYING AND BODYBUILDING. Go ahead. That's right. Before we do this, we're going to do a little rehearsal with you. You're gonna have to learn to say fouad and you're gonna have to learn to say Sam Sul. So, practice. I knew it was. Okay. But it's say it's a Oh, a Okay. Fouad. Abiad. Aad can I just can I call him Hos? Yes, you can do that. That's an acceptable nickname. Yes. I think I think he would say that. Yeah. And and for and if you're listening to this, I mean no shade by that. I really [laughter] can't say I say nobody's name, right? If you're watching the show, I was talking about Sam. I John Romano schooled me on connection is terrible. By the way, it's not me. I'm telling you. I'm on AI'm on a computer. It's you. I'm telling you, it's you. Is it that I'm too loud? Maybe. Let me if I lower the volume. Let me see. Ready? get you. How's that? Is that better? I just I just think your connection is not good. I don't I'm on AI'm on a iMac computer. Lee is driving in Australia and he has a better connection than you. How is that possible? Yeah, I'm driving upside down on the planet Earth. [laughter] I love Lee. Where Where are you going, Lee? By the way, I'm going down to Sam's Fitness in Sydney to just film a couple of couple of instructional home videos for people to train at home. I thought you were exclusive to me. I thought you're not allowed to do any other podcasts. Well, you know, you know, this guy gives me tips. you done. [laughter] I I told I I encourage Lee to go on every podcast. More he spreads his insanity. The the Lee Priest religion is spread throughout the indust wants me to go on more podcast because he figures the more Lee goes on other podcasts, he can probably get them banned and then he'll be the only one left. [laughter] Yeah, if I if I told Lee to go on another podcast, I resurrect. Don't forget I resurrected you. DON'T FORGET THAT LEE WOULDN'T LISTEN to me BECAUSE AFTER ALL, WHO THE [\h__\h] LISTEN TO VALENTINO? Who listens to Valentino? He's a, you [laughter] know, he's a freaking liar. I know. All those years he put sinfold in his arms and I put stall in my arms. I'm just a f I'm a disgrace. Dave Dave, really? Why do you have me on your show? He says he says he says he goes on TV. I only have you on because I like I think you're funny. That's the only reason I have you on. I'M AI'M A DISGRACE. BUT I'M I'm a liar. Everything I see is [\h__\h] Dude, by the way, how many how many how many TV shows How many TV shows have you been on, Greg, that no one's ever seen because nobody's ever seen him? I've been on 50 of them. I WAS JUST ON THE ONE WITH ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER. I THINK Hos might a little pissed. Who's Arnold Schwarzenegger? I haven't heard about Arnold, but I do know. He was not on He was not on the show with Arnold. He was on a show about Arnold. I I was the narrator, which is even better. All I know is Jay sells peanut butter for dogs. That's all I know. Who [laughter] the [\h__\h] Who the [\h__\h] Greg Valentino? YOU KNOW WHAT'S FUNNY, LEE? THE WHOLE REASON WHY I BROUGHT this up about Joe, what Joe said was because the kid Sam said he knew about me and saw me or whatever on the Arnold show on the documentary that I did on on Vice, but he didn't know about Jay Cer doing he didn't know [laughter] anything about. SO I WAS SAYING THIS WHOLE THING NOT because I'll bet you Jay Coll, but he was BUT I WAS DOING IT TO BROKE A DAVE LIKE HAHA. YOU see what I'm saying? like, you know, because I was on the TV show. Oh, let everyone the story. Okay. Yeah. So, Joe Joe went to this appearance in New Jersey where Fouad and Sam were making an appearance and it was I I got to tell you Fad is I don't know he has a problem with me, but all I've done is try to help him his career. You know, I helped him when he first got on podcast. If he calls me up for any any advice, I always give him advice. I I don't He seems to like take some shots at me. something some for some reason because I don't know why but the bottom line is he's a very good businessman and Joe went there tell us what you saw when you went to this appearance when you first got well it was in uh Mountain New Jersey um it was at Aries Nutrition it was a very well done event a big turnout over maybe 400 kids um all waiting online so I waited and got I bought my uh nutrition supplements and bought what I had to buy to get inside to finally meet Sam. It took me a long time. You know, how long did you get did it take you to get to the to to to actually meet Sam? How many hours? About three hours. Three hours he waited, Greg. And he had to buy the supplements in order to get in. That was the rule. Yes. Give us the rules there. So, you had to buy at least um it was $100 worth of supplements and you could mix and match protein, creatine, whatever it was. Um, and then he would take a P that would give you a ticket to enter. And then if you wanted items signed, I think it was like an extra 40 four 45 bucks or something. I'm not sure. You spent you had to spend a hundred bucks to actually get on the line of hostile supplements. Brilliant move on. I have no problem. And you and you and you and you people complain about Lou Farig knowing $20. You [\h__\h] [laughter] I have no problem with a with a GOOD BUSINESSMAN. SO THAT'S A SMART MOVE. Marvel and then he I don't know if I would have ch I don't know if I would have charged for the the signatures after that. I guess Sam's got to make something after you know Fuad's making the money on the make make as much as you can. I say I say make as much as you can right because kids were out going up there asking him to sign like six or seven items and it was getting really out of hand. So what was it? How many people were online back there? At least 400. Dave. Wow. At least 400. Did they get through? Did everyone get a chance to meet Sam? Yes. He shut down the tent about 3:00 3:00 p.m. so no one else can come online. And he stayed there till probably about 9:00 at night signing up. Wow. That long. Holy. That's you know. And so when I got to meet Sam, he was a really friendly kid. He's a nice kid. very genuine, really nice kid. Um, I asked him a couple questions. You know, most of the kids there were asking him kid questions, you know, I asked him a couple other questions about and it even was being on the podcast. He did not say yes. He did not say no, but he sort of around the exact I want to know exactly what he said. He said that oh I said to him, "Oh, would you like to draw on my podcast?" And he was like, "Uh" I said, "Why? No, Brag, Lee, or maybe even Dave." He said to me, he was a little bit u apprehensive to answer the question, but he did answer it and said, "I appreciate that. Um, I work for Hostile, but thanks for coming." So, he just kind of worked around the question, so I don't know. My opinion was I took it that I maybe had to ask Hostel. I'm not sure. So, yeah, you felt that obviously by him saying that it he was he was saying basically you got to ask Fourett because I correct, you know, and I was going to go ask Fouetta and I wasn't sure though. So it put me in a position where I was my opinion was I maybe I should ask fouet but I wasn't sure. Okay that's I think that's a very reasonable uh assumption to to to reach. Yes because you know he was he was basically wasn't giving you an answer. He was saying you got to talk to I I work for them. Yes. And he did preach, right? You know, you know, I'm not a huge fan of Nick Traili, but Nick Jill had posted something I saw on the thread that we had posted about the fact that he said he's actually seen Sam Sulak's contract and it says he's exclusive. Okay. There there's nothing wrong with that. We we used to we used to be exclusive with MD and [\h__\h] like that. DAVE, I'M THE PERFECT I'M YOUR PERFECT EXAMPLE, DAVE. I HAD TO GO TO COURT BECAUSE BLACKMAN HAD ME EXCLUSIVE FOR 15 YEARS. HOS 15 YEARS. I WROTE THE TOP COLUMN, RAMBLING FREAK, BROTHER. And then you know what? You're a loser. You're a loser now, though, Greg. So yes, it doesn't matter. It's negated all the 15 years that you But I'm lying. I'm a liar. So, so don't listen. Anything I say on here, I don't want you to believe anything. I'm just making it all up. Okay. But, um, you know, he did love Lee. He did love [laughter] Lee. If if you assume he'd want to go on a podcast with Lee because I was on I was on AI was on a podcast with Sam. I was on Fads with Sam. So, on a podcast, right? But if you had asked him to come on, you would assume he would come on with you because he really likes you, right? I I wouldn't assume he'd come on. Look, look, Sam Sam with all his followers, he doesn't need to go on anyone's podcast. It's like he's got over million. He likes you, correct? Yeah, I guess he likes me because he's done a couple of videos where he's talked about my training. I guess I like him too because I see, you know, he's a young kid. He's habit. It reminds me of when I was in my 20s, I just wanted to train and eat junk food and and eat good food. That's why I get so annoyed when people come down on him because I'm thinking, "Leave the kid alone. He's [\h__\h] training. He's having fun. He's filming what he's doing." His video Yeah. His video is more like a diary into his life. He's not saying follow what I do, do what I do. People should just be happy that he's filming his life and letting you watch what he's doing. Now, Joe, is it true that everyone online there had chocolate milk in their hand? There was about 10 to 20 people who had chocolate milk from the sign. That's true. That's absolutely true. And they all had that broccoli hair. The broccoli hair. They all look the same. Yes. They all look the same. I couldn't tell them apart. And you asked You asked the kids how old they were, right? And you said one or two was talking to the kids. They were all between 13 and like, you know, maybe 18. all young kids who were really I I understand I understand the hair because back in the day I actually had probably eight people send me photos of actually that had face tattoos exactly like mine. They went and got face tattoos. Yeah, [laughter] that's that's way more extreme than having hair. Yeah. I know. I know. All right. So, before I let Greg give his spiel, I want to just say that, you know, given what we just heard. Okay. usable assumption to assume that fluad has some sort of an exclusivity with with um yes and I don't think there's anything wrong with that blackman had it you know if you pay someone enough money you can do whatever you want I don't know why he's maybe he didn't like the fact that maybe the social media opinion was that he shouldn't be exclusive I know did that really kind of well I think I think too like from when I from when I was on the podcast look I think for a while I never said it for a while look I totally understand Sam not going on, let's just say Sam went on such and such's podcast, but that podcast, Muscle Tech's the major sponsor. I wouldn't want my athlete going on that podcast when every ad's muscle tech and you're a hostile athlete. So, you know, it's like Lee, when you were working for Species, I didn't care. I told you go on other podcasts, just wear the Species shirt. That's all. You know, that that brings me up a question, Dave. Dave, Dave, Dave, I got a question for you. Yeah. the Zab brand podcast. Why don't you go on? It's because they don't have enough. They don't have enough viewers. You won't [\h__\h] podcast. I have limited time to go on the podcast. You're being asked to go on it. And you said I'm not going muscle. Now I go on podcast all the time. You can wear your I agree. I don't want to overexpose myself. Oh, thank God. Yeah, [laughter] I've done podcast with the guy. They had three views on the whole thing just to help the guy this channel before. But now is that the one is that the one you and A do every week? Yes. [laughter] The one we've been doing for 15 years. Yeah. That's what I used to go to bed at night when I can't sleep. I watch Dave. That's why noise. So So Joe, you hear that? So Joe went there. He had a good experience. He said there's a lot of kids there. This guy's very popular. Uh how was Fouad with the with the crowd? Is he um he was and you know like I said I was seeing it. He was he was to the side letting Sam do his thing. Stressful. It's stressful. It's a very stressful. He came out a couple times to look at the crowd and you know it was getting late so he was you know trying to hurry up. I guess hungry. He was hungry. You got to go to cheese. Probably hungry. Yes. Um I wasn't going to approach him. Let's put it that way because you know he's I I heard on his podcast when I was listening before about this whole segment. He said he's on a ketogenic diet now. So he's okay. Might have been a little hungry. Maybe he Well, now he's got the money to be able to afford the ketogenic diet. Dude, LET ME TELL FOR THAT KIND OF MONEY, I WOULD HAVE LET THEM ALL stand in line and blew them all. You know what I mean? IF I TOLD MY GIRLFRIEND, "BRO, WE'RE GONNA WE GOT 400 PEOPLE. I'm getting at least $100 ahead. my girlfriend be like, "You get on your goddamn knees and YOU GET MAKE US SOME GODDAMN MONEY." I think too you got to think from Fouad's point too, it is overwhelming even for him because you figure he's a young kid like a phenom that's come out that has all these followers that I think sometimes you know Fat has a great company, great supplements and that but even I think he has to step back sometimes and go man I can't believe the amount of people that coming out to see this young kid. So I think I think even Fouad gets overwhelmed by the I want so I want to what I want to do is I want to just the reason I'm bringing this up on the show because otherwise I wasn't even going to talk about the topic is I Greg and I feel you know Greg and I are like brothers you know just like I feel about same way about you Lee and yeah he's a great brother how he how he promoted you going on that TV show. Yeah, I thought I remember hold on. When people are brothers, if they make a mistake, they don't have they don't they they apologize. He did. And Dave did because because I I didn't say, "Fuck you, Greg." I said, "You know what? You're right." And that's what what family does to each other. We all make mistakes. And you know what? When you make a mistake, you admit it and and you apologize and you move on. So, I didn't like Greg, I'm sorry. I sick for three shows talking about peanut butter. Well, I do. That's my boy right there. Lee Priest is my boy. No, Dave. Dave did the apology video. WAIT, CAN I SAY SOMETHING ABOUT S? WAIT, I JUST WANT TO SAY SOMETHING ABOUT SAM. I want to say something that you guys Let me explain something about Sam. And I told Joseph Potter this. Okay, you got to understand something. Sam, three years ago, nobody knew who he was. He was a kid watching Rich Piana's video thinking, "Wow, I love I would love to be like this guy." Starts doing his thing. all of a sudden he rocket ships to to to being like this big guy right now. I can equate that when I did when I did the bigger, faster, stronger, they asked me of all the people Mark Cuban hired me to open the Tribeca Film Festival. Right. So now I'm standing up there on stage and I see all these movie stars. I SEE MARTIN SCORCHES SITTING THERE IN a seat and they're all listening to what I have to say and THAT KIND OF GETS I FEEL LIKE WAIT A minute I I I like three years you know I'm I'm just like a squirrel trying to get a nut. I see everybody like it's overwhelming like the kid I think that the kid still is processing LIKE HOLY [\h__\h] YOU KNOW LIKE I'M STANDING UP THERE ON Tribeca Film Festival and it's you got all these celebrities I'm like my god Steve show you his [\h__\h] got up there Lee I took care of it BUT NO ALL JOKING ASIDE I'M STANDING UP THERE AND I'M saying I almost don't belong here like WHAT AM I WHAT THE HELL AM I DOING HERE THESE GUYS ARE ALL LIKE movie stars. I'm just some freaking momo that like, you know what I mean? That with, you know, had a little spot in the movie. But the thing is, I think that when Sam was standing there and he sees lines out the door and he he didn't bring his way up and win, you know, Teenage American and that like like Lee Priest and everything. So, it becomes overwhelming. You go from here to there overnight. And I think that that's a little bit overwhelming for the kid. So, I feel for the kid a little bit. I had nothing. You know, he'll grow into it. He'll he'll grow into it. He'll he'll he'll he'll absolutely mature in time. I think he'll definitely But you were older when you you were older when you did bigger, stronger, faster. So for you, you were more mature. I was more mature. But the thing is you're I'm nobody and I'm standing there with like you know these. So it's a little bit of a mind screw. And I think when a kid stands up there and he sees 400 people standing in line, he's like for me, you know what I mean? Like do you understand? Like I think it's a little bit overwhelming and I think he deserves it. I think he he deserves it. And as far as getting back, I'm gonna let you do your in a second. So, okay. I felt that that Fuad disrespected you by going on there and saying, "Who the [\h__\h] is Valentino? He doesn't know what he's talking about." You were just relaying what Joe told you that he experienced at the appearance with Sam. So, you number one, you're not a liar. Anyone who knows you, you know you're not a liar and you're not a bullshitter. Okay, that's a lie right there. I know Joe's I believe Joe and I and I know you were telling the truth because I I know you don't [\h__\h] people. So I didn't like that he did that. So I wanted to do this show so you can so we can clear the air that no one miss Yeah. Fouad likes to you know I when I did the whole thing on Chris Bumstead about his followers and I and I forgot for three seconds that he didn't have an energy drink. You know they're trying to make it seem like I don't know what the [\h__\h] going on and and you know that's that's that's him taking a cheap shot. Do your research. Do your research, Dave. Do your research. You probably You probably don't even know I'm [\h__\h] Australian. Yeah, I don't need to I don't need to take cheap shots at anyone. There's no reason for that. That's not how I operate. I I don't put other people down. I just We build up people. That's what we do here. So, I didn't like that he did that about you. He could take a cheap shot at me all he wants. I don't give a [\h__\h] Doesn't affect me. But Greg, uh oh. Oh, I thought I lost you guys. But Greg, you're not gonna you're not gonna put Greg down. And I didn't like that. And that's why I wanted to get Joe on here and clear the air. Now, you wanted to say something, Greg. Right. What I was saying is I'm going to call him Hos cuz I never get his name right. And I don't mean it disrespectful. I have nothing against the guy. I really don't know too much about him, okay? I I really don't. I I I've never really talked with him unless he came to me years ago when I, you know, when he was younger and one of the guys at the expo or something or whatever. I I don't I don't know who he is. You know what I'm saying? Like I I so I have no animosity towards him or or whatever but you know he got kind of butt hurt and I understand I use the word pimp but that's the way I talk. I call my girlfriend Satan Joseph will tell you call my kids say I play around. Okay. So if he got a little buttth hurt over that, I don't know why you should because after all he said, "Well, why listen to Valentino?" So why would you get butter? Would you just, you know, I'm, you know, I'm I'm nobody to him, you know, just maybe because he see, you know, maybe he read my column every year for 15 years in in muscular development. Maybe he saw me on TV. Maybe he thinks I'm a liar after all that. I don't know. But I have no problems with him. You know what I mean? and he seems to have the problem with me. And if he wants to interview me, I'm more than open to go on his channel. Not not because I need hits. I don't need hits at all, bro. You know what I mean? I'm still doing all kinds of media stuff. Watch me. Exclusive. You're exclusive. You're exclusive. And you know what's funny? I was exclusive with Steve Blackman for 15 years. So, I understand the whole exclusive thing. When I when he fired me, you violated you violated that exclusivity with me once. You remember? Yeah, I did. I actually said that Joe Joe I even said that uh John Romano was the best writer and I got in trouble for that. I got in trouble for that. But Ste I love I I love Steve Ble still. But Steve had me talk about get back to the story. You know, uh so Dave, my brother George, you know, he's around a lot of boxers and promoters and what Fuad was doing with Sam, you can see he's managing the situation, guiding him what to do and what not to do. So you can see that you know um how you can take it. You know Greg used the word he maybe shouldn't have but we know what you know what was going on and you know the way I talk Joe. Yes. And and I think he got stewed. His claims got stewed. Now I'm a liar and everything like that. I you know again you know he can act like I made you know like I have not accomplished anything in his sport but I've accomplished more than he has. Not for nothing. You know I'm in the mainstream media and you know he's big on YouTube. He's won a few pro shows. Gone to really. Well, you know what's funny, Dave? If I decided, you know, as well as I do, if I if I would have stopped if I didn't stop competing in the 80s, I would want some [\h__\h] myself. So, not legit. I was natural and I look like I I'm just going to the toilet. I'll be back. Can I hold it? [laughter] You know, you know, honestly, but a little bit shy at times. In all joking aside though, no, you know, I I again for the guy to come on here and be that butt hurt, he hasn't of what I hear, people tell me he's a very angry guy. He has a lot of anger and he attacks a lot of people in the industry if you even like wipe your nose in front of him. So, I guess I'm his new target. You know who the [\h__\h] listens to Valentino? Well, I'll tell you who listens to Valentino. producers in another TV show. UH, HOSK, YOU CAN WATCH ME ON the on the Hulk Hogan show. So, you know, and we seem to do very well on RX. We have we have a great show. We do after hours and it gets a lot of people and, you know, I mean, I I don't know why you're So, if you Why would you care when somebody says, you know, something that you don't like? I mean, like, you know, you I'm a liar to you, so I don't know why you'd sweat that, you know. So, but I I wish you no harm. I I I don't care. You It's a God bless you. It's nice. It's nice listening to Greg while I'm standing in the toilet. Wait, I don't SEE NO WAIT, WHAT? DO YOU HAVE A toilet in your car? [laughter] I'm in a truck stop. There's a hole in the wall. There's a hole in the wall outside, you know. But Sam is a really nice kid. He's a nice soft spoken kid. Yeah. NOBODY TALKS BAD ABOUT HIM THOUGH. NOBODY. HE'S VERY GENUINE. GENUINE. He's really nice kid. Very polite. Nobody says, "I HOPE THE KID MAKES SO MUCH MONEY. IT'S NOT FUNNY." God bless him. He did well. He's doing really well WITH THAT. BUT NOBODY UNDERSTANDS. THEY CALL US OLD MEN, DAVE. WE WERE ALL in their position long time ago. And we got experience. And when we talk, we talk with experience. And Hash should know that because when he was a kid lifting weights, my mother, my my friend, I was already in in in the bodybuilding world. Greg Greg was already in jail locked up. [laughter] WELL, THAT'S WHY I TALK THE WAY I DO. DAVE knows when you're in jail and stuff, you know, guys their own language and we say things and, you know, again, maybe I should go. I did I did a guest posing I did a guest posing in the early 2000s in Windsor, Canada, right over the border from Michigan. And I think and and and Fu had reminded me this, you know, a couple years back that he had come there. He was a kid. He was like kind of a teenager and just getting into bodybuilding. And I think I encouraged him and another guy and they became pros, you know, both of them. And they became, you know, Floyd did very well bodybuilding. Now you're going to become you're going to be called a liar. Now you're going to be called a liar. No, it's not. He can validate that story. He's never told me the story. I didn't even remember. DUDE, DAVE, I WAS BODYBUILDING 10 years before you were in the sport. So, what I'm saying is he may have came up to me and watch the expose. I may have taken a picture with him. I don't know. You know what I mean? Maybe he read my column for 15 years and muscular development. M maybe it was all [\h__\h] but not for nothing. You know, you know, you know, all I think it was is Sam Sam's free to go anywhere he wants. He can do what he wants. But but I think Fouad is just sick of hearing people say that he can't. And I think it was like, you know, when things build up just hearing Greg say it was just distraught at broke the camel's back and for like I'm sick of hearing this. He can do what he wants. He can go where he wants. Stop saying we don't know if that's the truth. It doesn't seem It doesn't seem It doesn't seem as though that's the truth. So he shouldn't have responded so well. It is. You're just negative. Nancy had never been on the Zapata show, so you show up. [laughter] Well, no. Joe Zapata is the one saying that he was Did you hear what Joe Zapata told us before? He said that Sam said he's hostile and that was it, you know, and he left it at that. Well, if I Well, if I'm with if I'm with a company and somebody wants me to go on a show and I've got a good contract, I'd probably say you'd have to speak to such and such. Right. We didn't say that. We were all once exclusive. You know, I was exclusive. It doesn't matter if he's exclusive or not. No one cares. But don't put Greg down for repeating what what what the story that JOE TOLD HIM. WAS NOT WRONG. BUT YOU'RE PUTTING ME DOWN FOR TELLING THE TRUTH BECAUSE HE'S TRYING TO SAY, "NO, YOU JUST REPEATED what you what you heard." And Joe obviously heard from the source. I don't Yeah. I wanted to get HA, STOP BEING ANGRY. THERE'S NO STOP IT. There's no reason to be angry and walk around want to sue everybody and point the fingers and you don't need TO DO THAT. WE'RE ON DUDE, I'M ON YOUR SIDE. I don't hate you. What happens, Greg, is people when as you get more and more successful in business and you start getting more stress and it can get to you. I mean, doing an appearance like that can really, you know, it's unnerving. I know I've been at these things. It's remember when we used to do the bros vers bros challenges. It was like I was so I I I needed like a drink when I was done because I was so I was so stressed out from the whole day of performance. You were ne I know you so long and how many people say [\h__\h] about you call you your supplements are the best supplements out there and they'll call you snake oil and this and you you never you let it roll right off your back. You don't go making videos like, you know, I mean, that's ridiculous. You don't have to like It's not like It's not like you ever sold fake GH or anything. Come on. What? What are these people talking about? [laughter] Oh, you had that rumor, too? It was HCG. No, I'm kidding. Yeah. [\h__\h] didn't work. What? You ruined You ruined my career, Dave. Luckily you didn't Luckily you didn't use GH right Lee you need doggy peanut butter leech uh Lee you need for your dog you the doggy peanut butter tall I am look how tall I am obviously I got to take grow hormones you should have gotten some GH when you were me too Lee I maybe I should have took growth but I took all androgens but uh you know but then again wait a minute I'm a liar I didn't do that I just like sent right isn't that All synth. Yeah. All synth. Yeah. That's why I got the lines and all that [\h__\h] because I got it from synthol. But anyway, you know, listen, hos, uh, we got no problems with you. You're I think you got to, you know, I don't know if you need anger management, whatever it is, but don't be so, you know, don't let things get to you so easy, proficles. The most hated man in bodybuilding that Steve Blackman hires me and my shit's, you know, the most READ COM. WHO DOESN'T WHO READ THE RAMBLING FREAK? You know what I'm saying? I remember when he had triple Not me because it's all in caps. I preferred I preferred the priest confessionals. [laughter] It was much more It was a much better article. The difference was that Greg actually wrote his article and you didn't. Ron your article. Did he really? I didn't know that. Honestly, I didn't know that. But I do know that. I remember Ron Harris wrote everyone's article, you know, except for me and yours and Romanos, I think. Well, everybody knows because all the words were spelled wrong and I wrote in all caps, you know what I mean? all the periods and stuff and then people like why does he spell check you right spell check your article he didn't you know why he said I love it it's gritty you're the rambling freak it's it's just like don't like HE DIDN'T WANT me to to write like you know in little words little c whatever they call that small you know I'm stupid remember so you know so I wrote in all caps and then I wrote the periods and commas and all that stuff colored certain letters in and he loved it was like serial killers letter you're reading. You know what I mean? And and Dave loved it. You know, Dave, I want to see if Dave remembers this. Uh Carla Koker brought uh uh what's his name? Triple H to the to the thing stage and Dave had him on stage and he's talking, right? And that girl, that porn star girl said, "So, what do you love about MD and all that stuff?" And he said, "I love the rambling freak." AND DAVE GOES IN ABOUT HURRY. AND HE GOES, "AND THE ANABOLIC FREAK. I LOVE THE anabolic freak, too. [laughter] Anyway, don't remember that, but I can I can definitely see myself doing it. Yeah, I did I did see the video that I sent you lately. That one you sent me of when Greg pulled me up on stage there at the expo. Yeah. AND DID I SEND THAT? WAIT, JOE. JOE SAW IT. I GOTTA SEND IT to you. I got it. I got it. PLEASE BRING LEE PRIEST BACK AND PEOPLE GO AND LEE LOOKED freaking jacked. Lee had Lee's arms were like this and he was up there. Were you out? Were you Were you out were you out of the sport then? Were you banned today? NO, THAT'S AFTER BLACKMAN AND HIM HAD the problem. I was. Yeah, that was 08. That was 08. It says 08 on the video, so it might have been I was two years out. I brought you guys kissed. Is that when you guys kissed? No, we kissed at MD Barbecue. Oh, Andy Barbecue. Okay, that's what it was. That was another That was another romantic moment. [laughter] Me and Lee Prince kissed. That was over. That was over. That was after it just creamed in my face. We [laughter] we kissed WE KISSED. WE SLIPPED EACH other the tongue. Jimmy the boy was like so pissed about that. I'm kidding. Jimmy, I love you. Um but in all joking aside, I think that I think that to get angry I understand the word pimp like sent them through to I I I said 10 times. Okay, sorry I used the wrong word. But to get angry over THIS AND THE GUY IS UNDER YOUR control and this is no big deal. So what? He's under YOUR CONTROL. WE WERE ALL ONCE THAT WAY. IT DOESN'T MATTER. You know what I'm saying? And nobody said it's not like You know what the truth is, Greg? Greg, you're using the bad words again. He's not under control. He's under a supplement contract, but when it come when it comes to podcast, Sam has free range. It's just that I don't think Sam's interested. Sam's doing his own thing. He has a contract when it comes to supplements, but everything else, Sam's his own person. I think that's why Fouad's getting mad because people are blaming Fouad saying Fouad's not letting him do it. Fouad's not letting him do it. Sam's just not interested in doing it. So, but I you know what's funny? I just a slightly DISAGREE BECAUSE I GUARANTEE IF LEE PRIEST said to him, "Hey, Sam." Yeah, I don't agree with I don't agree with you either, Lee. Sorry. I think he is wrong because if I said to Sam, "Sam, do you want to come on my YouTube channel?" He'd go, "Well, you've only got 15,000 followers. [\h__\h] off. That's a barbecue. By the way, just like just like Dave said. Just like Dave said to us a part of brothers. You don't have enough followers. [laughter] I'm not coming on. I'm not coming on your show. See Dave, see that? David Dave can't hear us. He didn't hear any of that. But listen, when you idolize somebody and the kid looks up to you, Davely. He looks up to you. I THE KID WOULD DO YOUR PARK IN TWO SECONDS. I don't believe if if he was allowed to I think you kind of stewed the other guy's clams a little bit when you you know did that interview and you posted some stuff. You know what I'm saying? Dave, can you hear us? Yeah, now I can't. I I have a very bad connection where I am. So I'm you in a you you're in the basement somewhere, Dave. Hiding. You're in hiding. I'm in jail. I'm in jail. Witness protection. No, but you know but it was witness protection rightly. You got it. But Dave, [laughter] I I HONESTLY THINK IF YOU IDOLIZE A GUY, YOU GREW UP and you idolize this guy, I don't care if Lee had one person on his channel, okay? I think that he would do the he would do the interview in two seconds because it's Lee Priest asking me. You understand? I agree 100% with you. But I think but I think but I think you know I was on two odd shows. Sam and I had a chat there. Hopefully, like I said, I'll catch up with him at the because we still talked about reenacting that photo of Tom Plattz and me and I do the plat's part and Sam does that part. So, I think you are all just being [\h__\h] mean and coming down. You don't know. [laughter] I think Lee, you have I I think you have an agenda, Lee. I I I I feel like because you're you're always you never want to be Lee has never back Lee hasn't I just know I I have an agenda. I just know if I go on TV you're never going to [\h__\h] promote it. So why come on? Well maybe if you went on with Jay and he had his peanut butter you might get you might get some Jay and you ate some dog peanut butter. you would get a lot more views like and I bet and I bet if someone sent me in a $10 tip, Jay would [\h__\h] give it to me. There you go. [laughter] Chris Aceto might even freaking give you might fly you in. Jay's got a lot more money than we do. So yeah, Jay would fly you right into the studio there. But you better Hey, listen. If you see if you see Samique out there or whatever, whatever you say his name is. If you SEE THE KID SAM out there, you better not kiss him like you kissed me. I'll be jealous and then I'm going to do a video. I'm going I I told I told I said I'm going to the front of Sam's line taking a photo and say look at all the people here to see me. [laughter] That's a good one. I like that one. That's good. It is a pretty It is a pretty crazy phenomena. I'll tell you that. And but I don't know what does that really say about about the current state of bodybuilding. Greg, you're always saying how it's not that healthy. Um this is like another population of people. They're not really competitive. They're just like wannabe social media guys that idolize him because he doesn't compete yet he still wants to be jacked and he does his own thing. It's like it's like another subpopul of of the bodybuilding world. Absolutely. I think because I think young kids can relate because I remember remember years ago in Australia we had the Ziz guy and I never really liked Ziz and the way he carried on but I like Sam because like I said Sam it it was just like when I was young I love to train. I love to eat. Yeah. We didn't have the video cameras to record it, but he's just doing his thing and having fun. And I think that's what a lot of kids can relate to now, just having fun going to the gym. And like I said, you know, the Nick Trail's come down saying Sam's encouraging kids to eat wrong and do this. It's like, look, if he's encouraging kids to get into the gym and work out and do whatever, that's a plus. What kids eat, kids are gonna eat whatever. I'm sure what Sam's eating now in 10 years time, he's not going to be eating the same thing. Unless you're like me. Unless you're like me and you're still 50 and you eat a McDonald's in Kentucky, that's a whole different story. You know, you know, Dave, Ronnie Coleman was in New Jersey about a month ago and his turnout was nothing like Sam's. [clears throat] It was nothing like Sam. Totally night and day. New generation is not That's my point. New generation. Did Ronnie say Did Ronny say he like Lee? Didn't let Lee beat him five times? Did Well, let me tell you something. But he DID SAY, "WAIT A MINUTE." He did say something about me. Tell him what he said about me. He said, "You and him go way back. He loves you." Thank you. Thank you. See, Ronnie, he read He used to read your column, Greg. Yeah, he did read my He used to make ask me to repeat Ronnie Coleman used to ask me to repeat some of the stories that I I actually wrote. But but H, I want you to know, I think you might have read my column a lot when you were coming up. I think that you might have met me at one of the expos. Maybe we took a picture together. Maybe we didn't. I will be more than happy to send you a picture. I don't hate you. I I I'm not upset at all. You hate me. You think I'm a liar and and whatever. But again, the producers don't think I'm a liar. And you know what's funny? Um what was I gonna say? Oh [\h__\h] I just lost my whole train of thought. Uh because I said I'm in a tunnel. I'm in a tunnel if you want to know. A big tunnel. Well, can you guys hear me? Yes. Yes, we I hear you. YES. I JUST THINK THOUGH to Dave, there's too much of this like every time somebody if I pick my nose on, you know, all of a sudden you're going to make a video about it. I I don't I understand that the guy was upset, hos was upset, and I understand all that [\h__\h] but why couldn't you just like get a hold of me and say, "Bro, why'd you use that word?" You know what I mean? Or whatever. You have to make a whole video and then you put me down and you think like people are going TO YOU'LL HAVE A FEW PEOPLE, you're right, that Valentino sucks. But you know what I say? Get in line, bro. that I got a hater line longer than Sam Celik's longer than Sam Celik is whatever he say kids name Greg Greg you're looking at you Greg you're looking at it all wrong you're looking at it all wrong fouad gave you more air time than Dave did about being on [\h__\h] TV so we should be [laughter] you should be happy with Fouad your own your own Dave your good mate Dave when you said you're going on TV threw his hands up and said who WATCHES TV GREG FOUAD FOUAD HAS GIVEN YOU MORE time than your friend Dave has. So go easy on Fouad. Okay, [laughter] I tell you. You know what's funny? I got How come it got dark there again in in Australia? Wasn't it tunnel? I got to tell you something. I love Lee Priest. I would never want to be on his bad side because he could break balls. DAVE, LAST SHOW WE DID, DAVE WAS LIKE, I'M CUTTING MY NECK. THAT'S IT. I'M CUTTING MY NECK. I CAN'T I [laughter] say is I enjoy it. I enjoy it. It doesn't bother me. That's No, I KNOW. I KNOW. WE'RE DUDE, WE'RE ALL FRIENDS. WE COULD TALK. H, LISTEN TO ME. THIS IS WHY YOU COULD BE ONE of us. You could hang out with us. We're good with you. Maybe you wouldn't be angry all the time cuz you know what? I hear you go around with a lot of anger with people idiots in making videos. Anytime somebody sniffles the wrong way till YOU CAN'T MAKE A VIDEO ALL IF I MADE A VIDEO I WOULD, you know, bet everybody talks [\h__\h] about me, I I WOULD BE ON 20 24 HOURS, YOU KNOW, YOUTUBE LIKE THIS. MY LISTEN, I DO WANT TO SAY ONE THING. My girlfriend talks [\h__\h] about me when we're having sex. She tells me, "You're a loser. You're nothing. You're a piece of shit." And you know what? Well, I I understand that. I understand. As a true I understand I understand that though because when Greg and I slept together you're you're a dead [\h__\h] So I understand it. Okay. I understand where she's coming from. You're like you're like a [\h__\h] starfish. You just lay there. Don't [\h__\h] do anything. You see? YOU SEE HE'S RIGHT. He's right. BUT MY GIRLFRIEND TALKS [\h__\h] ABOUT ME CUZ she knows it turns me on and then I spake him all over the place. Now, when Lee had that that dick problem, I helped him out. I said, "Lee, let me let me suck LET ME SUCK THE BLOOD OUT OF THERE for you." You know what I'm saying? And I thought I thought I was in I thought I was in Twilight and the vampire was like relieving. Greg, is it true? Hold on. [cough] [snorts] See, when you when you don't take yourself seriously and you guys, WE ARE ALL FRIENDS. HOS, YOU GOT TO WATCH THIS CUZ WE'RE ALL FRIENDS. WE MAKE JOKES. WE play around with each other and we love it. Nobody here gets buttth hurt. Dave, do we get butt hurt? No. Right. We don't get butt hurt. None of us guys get butt hurt. LEE DON'T GET BUTTER. JOE DON'T GET BUTTER. Dave Dave can't hear us. I think he's frozen. But we don't get butt hurt, right? Am I right or wrong? You know, but like I said, I think it's just, like I said, has him under contract, which we know it's great supplement company, but I think it's just a constant, like I said, Sam's his own person. Sam's not interested in doing other shows. So, I think it just I think I think Fad just hates it because people point the finger at him and going, "Fouad stopping him. Fouad's stopping him." Fouad's not stopping him. I just think Sam, he's just happy doing his own thing and if Sam wants to do a podcast, he'll do it. If he does it, he doesn't. He's just happy training and doing whatever. So, I think Fouad just gets sick of people saying, "It's you stopping him. It's you stopping him." When it's not it's not Fouad stop. But, you know what though, Lee, there is there is a point though a little bit. You're right with that. But I also think you and I been on exclusive contracts and you do have to get permission. I couldn't do anything without getting permission. When I worked 15 years for Steve Blackman, muscular development, I loved every minute of it. Steve is the greatest guy and I love him to this day. But if I had to do shows, I used to even ask him. I was on Jay Leno. H I WAS ON JAY LENO. And when I was I used to ask Steve Blackman, you don't have a problem with me going on TV. You don't have a problem with me doing this interview that. I had to get permission. No matter what it is, when you're on an exclusive contract, even though I'm sure the kid doesn't feel like doing any more interviews, whatever, but you still have to get permission. It doesn't matter. I had to get permission. I simply said John Marmano was a great writer and you know, I got I got schooled for it. You know what I mean? And I have to get permission. You had to get permission, didn't you? You know, Greg, I was talking to some of the kids that were online seeing Sam, and these kids were eating tons of They were like, "Oh, we eat Cinnamon Toast Crunch just like him." But I'm getting fat. Wait, anyone would guess that Sam's a genetic freak, that's all. You know, I know, Greg. I know you I I know you your girlfriend actually told me when we I was showing her my rice and beans, she said that Greg plays the fouag clip on on repeat while we're having sex putting him down and it it helps you come. She think it helps him come faster. Actually, I swear to God, WE HAD SEX LAST NIGHT. I ate her ass out. SHE THREW A FART RIGHT WHILE I WAS EATING IT AND I loved it. I said more rice and beans, please. Oh god. And on that note, we're gonna wrap up today's show. The way you [\h__\h] talk. No wonder doesn't want to come on your [\h__\h] podcast. Punch. You bunch of [\h__\h] heathens. [\h__\h] on here. He might like it even better. All right. Well, guys, I just want to give a note. My brother's going to be boxing um April 27th. My brother's coming out of retirement. He's got to box. If if it's if it's on TV if if he's boxing on TV, D doesn't give a [\h__\h] [laughter] Wait, I'll watch it. Wait, what channel is it on? It'll be on. It's not going to be on TV, but it'll be in Bur Burick High School. Burick. Uh, but he his his brother runs the commission in in Pennsylvania boxing. But wait, Lee, when is Dave going to do Joe's show? That's what we want to know. Exactly. Dave Dave, whatever you want. I'll do whatever you want. Now you got me. do it with me. I'll only do it with with with Greg, though, so I can make so we can make fun of each other. Okay, that's fine. We'll do it together. No, I'll do it. If you want me to do an interview, I'll do it after. Just Yeah, just hit me up. You got me, Joe. Just Just text me. Yes. See, I got your number. But anyway, all right. I'm The connection sucks today. Sorry about that, guys. He's got He's got your He's got your number, but he's not gonna answer the phone, Joe. So, [laughter] he'll be too busy. He'd be too he'd be too busy ordering Jay's peanut butter to answer the phone. I think Dave's make him believe he can't hear us. [laughter] I think he's got Exactly. The last show he had Lee Adams where he was going to cut his throat. Dave Dave's a [\h__\h] motel sink somewhere hiding. Where the [\h__\h] that's Holy [\h__\h] I guess he's ending it now. I guess we're gonna Yeah, he's gonna come back on and say his goodbye. Goodbye. Dave, you can hear us. All right. Yeah. All right. See you guys. Yeah. I'm sorry for the bad connection today. So, that's all right. You guys at least got Yeah. Motel Motel 6 don't have the best Wi-Fi, do they? [laughter] Not at all. All right. Thank you, Greg. Thank you, Joe. Thank you, Le. Have fun at Sams. And uh we'll see you again next week. Same time, same station. And lighten up. Remember, lighten up. Take a deep breath. Don't take life so seriously. You're going to give yourself a heart attack. We got no problem. No problems. You're on a bunch of You're on a bunch of meetings. I'm the only I'm the only sensible one here.