Reagan Grimes wins the CowPro. Our review coming up. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we are live here at Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palumbo joined by the technician Chris Aceto. And uh Chris, big weekend in California. Regan Grimes wins that going to the Olympia. Biggest I've seen him ever probably. You know, it's I remember when you've trained him years ago when he first kind of came on the scene and I didn't really think he could be a guy that would be like a mass monster. I know you told me, Dave, this guy's got tremendous potential. He can go far. He's got a great structure, but I didn't think he was going to be like a like a like a monstrously big guy. And he and he really was kind of impressive with the amount of size that he's added over the last three, four years. Well, when he turned pro in uh he turned pro in Brazil, actually, funny. turned it in Brazil and I think the following week or so or two weeks he came to the New York pro to watch it and I remember being in a restaurant t like texting with Jay or talking to Jay and Jay says how's the the this Reagan kid and I said well he's either gonna I don't you know he's either going to like make it or not or something like that. But I specifically referenced I said he reminds me a lot of ways in a young of a young Dennis Wolf in that you know that he had big giant structure like Dennis Wolf. And I said it remains to be seen like how long it will take to add the size like Dennis Wolf has. You know what I mean to just you know add all that amount of muscle. I mean, he was like 20 then, you know, maybe 230 lbs and he's 234 now. I'm just kidding, Reagan. You know, who knows what he weighs now, but he's big. Well, you know, he he went to um Kuwait for a while. Remember when you you were training him? I think he he he placed him really well in a few pro shows. First pro first pro show he did when he was 21 when I was coaching him, he got second place. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, he was really doing well. He wasn't huge back then, but he had really good structure. Yep. And then he somehow got conned into going out to the the the camel crew out there in Kuwait. What did he last about a month out there? I think he lasted six weeks. So he went awall for Christmas. He he snuck away from the camel crew. Came back and then didn't he do didn't you have him do a a classic physique show? Yeah. Then he then then he did uh won the New York Pro and Classic, which he almost died probably making that weight, I'm sure. You know. Uh no, he made the weight. Um I I don't even know what year that was. Isn't that the Didn't you have to suck him down like a ridiculous amount of poundage? 54 pounds in two days, but it's not like 20 pounds 20 pounds in a week or something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then uh and then I think I don't even remember what he did after that. He went back to the open. Yeah, he went back to I think did he do the Milos protocol for Oh, no. He did the he did the he he did the um he did the classic Olympia that year. Right. Right. Right. Right. And then um it was obviously too it was you gave up too much size, you know, to do that. Yeah. I think he had co- coaches for that show. In fact, I know I don't do well with co- coaches. No, no, I know. We know you don't like that. It's like the uh the year that Kai had Ron Norman and uh and and George Farah at the same time, connecting rooms, you know, right? So then Rean went to Milos for a little while and did the whole size the whole Nasser Elbody size thing and and put a lot of size on with Milos. Yeah. No, he had very good shows. He had a very good run like a year or so and I don't know how much how much time did he take off since his last show and then he No, he did the Olympia one year. I think that year uh he got like seventh or eighth and then I think he took a year off or so and then came back this year. He he definitely made some really nice improvements. Yeah, I told you in New York he was great. Yeah. Yeah. Great. I I kid he was great for the first minute and a half. Better in New York or better in Cal? Oh, better in Cal simply because he looked big through the show in in the um New York he only looked big for First, it's not We talked about it last week. First couple minutes, then he faded. Well, the line the lineup wasn't as difficult. Yeah, it was a bigger lineup, too. You I mean, you got like uh Nick, you know, Nick Walker and, you know, Bonax Stick and even, you know, he went up one-on-one with Kriso, who's also a big structure and big big dude. So, you know, different lineup. Tell me what you liked about him in and Cal and tell me what what you weren't so thrilled about. Um, I like everything about him with the exception of like, you know, I think I mean it's the quads. You know, the quads are the problem is the quads have probably gotten bigger, but so hasn't the and the, you know, he's just a lot of width. So, it's it's hard to make those legs look big. And you see it in comparison. That's why you you know when you see it, you don't see it maybe necessarily when he comes out individually hits the front shots, front double front last spread, but it's in comparisons where you know where you're standing next to someone that the legs look small for the competition. Smaller for the competition. How how tall is he? He looks really tall in this uh in this lineup here. No, he might be like Is he 6'1? He might be six, I think. 61, five. Yeah, six over six for sure. He He's like towering over these guys. They look like they're they're short compared to him. I don't think Sass is that short, is he? Sass is about 5'8, I think. Oh, okay. I guess that's kind of short compared to him. Maybe five 5'8. So, Rean gets straight ones. Sass straight seconds. And then Leandro Perez, who I thought looked really good from Brazil, also he gets third place. He gets some mixed mixed scores with the other his countryman Bruno Santos. Also from Brazil takes fourth. Uh so I think it was I thought it was a pretty decent lineup for for the Cal. You know, I think it was smart for for Rean to go out there, get that qualification for sure. Right. Yeah, I think it was I mean good move and I think that top five, four were very good. you know, you um sometimes you got to just, you know, go from show to show to show to show essentially until you get that pro card. I mean, until you get that Olympia qualification. And Rean did it, you know, and I think that was uh the right move on his part and he got rewarded for it, you know. Uh I mean, Nick had to do it, right? Nick didn't want to go to New York, but he did it. He got the qualification. Sometimes doing a couple shows also kind of gets the rust out and, you know, kind of gives you some idea of like how to, you know, fix problems. Like you said, Rean faded really bad in New York. He didn't fade here in California. He must have figured out something that he did wrong in New York and now it's fixed. So now when he goes to the Olympia later this year in October, he's not going to make that mistake. So, you know, sometimes not competing the whole year is is not a good thing either, especially when you're still kind of young in the sport and you're still trying to figure out the best way to peak yourself. Yeah. I mean, it's, you know, experience. That's how you learn from either, you know, you learn from what you do right and you learn from what you do wrong. Usually, you're too excited to learn from what you do right so you end up, if you got a level head, learning from what you do wrong. How does this physique do at the Olympia? You know, we I was talking I interviewed Rich Gaspari this past week and we'll I'll talk about that a little bit and we did a little breakdown of you know who's the guys to look out for at the Olympia and uh you know there's there's a there's about six really good guys obviously up there. Does Rean come into play? Is he a guy that could make the top six or is he still you think just outside that top group? Well, I just think that I mean the the top six are, you know, we talked about five people last week who could win the Olympia. Yeah. So, I mean, there's almost like a lock on five and six, you know, outside of injuries, outside of XYZ, you know, whatever miss peaks or something. I think um I think the top five are really top six are really challenging to slide by especially when you are you're not missing legs you know he's not missing them but especially when you know I just look at like his balance versus let's say hottie's balance. Yeah. you know, to use him as it's of course I'm using like most conditioned guy on the planet with possibly some of the best legs on the planet, but just I mean that's who you're going to be standing next to. So, right. No, you mean make a very good point. Um, but you know, I think with his size and his, you know, his height, that's going to definitely help him on that Olympia stage more so than maybe the smaller guys that are trying to break into that top group. I think he's got, you know, like I'm thinking like an Antonio Burton or something like that, you know, is going to have a little bit more difficulty only because he's not as tall. Rean kind of sticks out on stage when he stands in the lineup. You know, can I think he I think he can still be harder than he was in Cal. What do you think about that? Well, he was standing next to Hardy Jr. at the show. Junior. Yeah. Sass looked really great. I think this might have been his best look to date, which means could he be harder? I guess anyone could be harder standing next to someone who's like, you know, that type of condition. So, well, I mean, I I think I think we've seen Rean harder. So, I think that Rean can achieve that level of of hardness and I think that that's going to go a longer way. You know, Regan has almost like a Steve Klo physique, right? Oh my god. Dave, you're thinking that? No, I almost I almost I almost said he reminds me of K. He does because Kulo's physique is like it's big, it's dense, it's hard, but it's not like refined, if that makes sense. Yeah. Polish. You know, I've used that word endlessly in like the last three weeks. Polish. like his polish next to SAS is like not even in the same stratosphere. Yeah. Klo the knock against Klo was um same thing like didn't have a lot of like ultra refinement to his physique. Didn't mean he didn't have low body fat or wasn't in shape. It just means like it wasn't fibery looking on stage. Yeah. Yeah. I think Rean though still can can achieve that. I don't think that like I like some guys can't achieve it. I think he can achieve it. I think I think it was a it was a big deal for him to come in full enough in this show and you know, you mentioned it when he got flat last week. It kind of hurt his look. Yeah. You know, he might need to put a little bit more muscle on so that he can then bring his physique down. Um I saw a um an interview with Dorian. did it was a real that someone put up a clip of and they asked Dorian, they showed a picture of Derek Lunsford and they said to Dorian, "Do you find that uh would this guy give you uh if you were competing against him back in your day, would it would he give you sleepless nights?" Dor Dorian said laughed and he I think Cormier was on the podcast, too. He said, "I I wouldn't lose any sleep over it." But Dorian had that ultra fibery crazy strided look to him that you couldn't even really dup. You couldn't even really get a good appreciation unless you saw him in person. I don't know if there's many guys maybe maybe Hottie Chopin is the only guy who who really has that look now out there. Uh where every muscle on his body is just like freaky fibery looking. Branch Warren had that look too for a while. And um I don't know if that's a genetic thing or if it's just a hard work thing or if it's a a qu a combination of hard work, hardcore dieting together with a lot of muscle. But I think if someone like Rean got that look, I think that would be super dangerous, you know. Well, I think if that's like saying if you know if any the Olympia that look, they'd all be dangerous. Yeah. If Greg Greg Kovac got that condition, he would have won the Olympia final. Yeah. Well, yeah. I don't know about that. But yeah, he I understand what you're saying, man. I understand. But I think I think Rean's got a pretty enough physique that um and I think if his if his conditioning came in a little better, his waistline would look a lot more impressive. Do you remember when Hottie did the Arnold two years ago and won that, how how shrink wrapped his waist was. And then he came to the Olympia in 24 at the end of the year, at the end of last year, and you didn't have quite that shrink wrapped look around the waist. And so, you know, he can achieve it, but he didn't have it. But when he had it, it was like there's no way this guy could lose. And I think if if Regan can get that like shrink wrapped look around his waist, he's, you know, he he's got a really nice structure. He's got big shoulders. He's got pretty relatively small waist in proportion. I think he'd be much much more dangerous. I don't, like I said, I don't know what it's going to take for him to get there. if it's harder dieting, if it's a combination of harder dieting with more muscle, but if he can get that level of of conditioning, he's going to be very hard to beat. Hard to beat as Mr. Olympia or hard to beat in in any lineup. I think I think he's got a lot of muscle in his body. You know, he's, you know, he's he's formidable. Like I said, I'm not saying I don't know if he's ready to win an Olympia, but he can certainly, you know, possibly win an Arnold or something like that. Yeah. No, he's he's very good. He's very good. I mean, I was so impressed with him at the at the New York Pro. Yeah. Was uh Sass upset with the uh outcome of this show? Um, of course. But he didn't say that. But of course, you're going to be upset. It's like the first year, so Yeah. What's So, what's next? What's his next move now? Because he obviously still trying to qualify for the Olympia, right? Toronto. Yeah. Okay. He's going to Toronto. I was gonna ask you that. I mean, luckily there's a lot of shows back to back to back to back. So, I mean, yeah. Well, you know what's crazy, Davis? He did the New York which seemed like a month ago. He he did that and he flew back uh Sunday night on the red eyee. So he got into England on Monday and then he traveled Wednesday morning back to California all the way from England. Wow. So um you think that hurt him in terms of um No one did. I thought he looked nuts. I I thought he won lots of shots in the show. Yeah. I think the thing that hurt him is that Klo is some is is a lot tall. Klo I'm calling Klo. That Rean is is a lot taller than him and wider than him and has a little more wow. But I think that Sass obviously had number one much better tan, better conditioning, drier. Um, well, let's do let's do a um I mean you can't see them side by because you don't have the pictures. I can pull up a side by side. Hold on. Let me see if I can find run through the poses because it's it's a tutorial judging. Let me let me see if I can pull up if I could find it. Oh, here it is. Hold on. I think the news can't really get the the pictures won't download. Here we can see we can see the posing right here. That's Leandro Perez to the right of Rean and then Sass is to the left of him. Like Sass is way harder in this shot, but Rean is just really impressive because he's got the, you know, the big upper body, you know, the big wide rib cage and everything. I think where SAS beats Rean is some some of these shots from behind maybe. No, no. Sass loses the back shots for sure. You think he does? Why? Just based on size of Regan's back. I mean, if you look at the pictures just even individually, you can pick him up on the NPC news. The comparisons up. So, where do you think he loses his shots? Um, Sass loses the back shots. Yeah. Uh, ironically, um, Sass has better hamstrings on the back shots, but that doesn't help him because Reagan's got great hamstrings, too. But um I would think that nobody had Reagan's hamstrings coming into the show, but SAS is better on the hands. I have um SAS on both side shots. Side chest, side tricep. He definitely wins side tricep, I'd say. Good. He's got really good abs. Abs and thighs. Most muscular by a mile. Regan's tan didn't help me either. I don't want to go on another tan rant, but uh Yeah, you can't do two rants in a week on No, I've done about three of them. But he he definitely better get himself into a tan. I mean, Leandro Perez is probably got a great tan. These guy, the Brazilians always have good tans. So the the point was is that on judging this show, you can go pose by pose and have SAS win more poses and because of Reagan's structure, you can still say Reagan if that makes sense. Yeah, it's a in other words I Anyways, you can have you can actually lose more poses, but at the end of the day say like, okay, this guy's overall a little bit better. Yeah, I I I think he's his structure. He's just bigger and and like you said, his conditioning is not as good as Sasses, but it's good enough and for him to win this show. I mean, he's got hamstrings, he's got glutes. He doesn't really have any visible fat on him. He's just maybe he can be a little a little grainier, you know, for his physique, but I think he's I think he's still improving. I don't know how old Regan is, but I I think we're going to still see more improvements come from him because and I think if he gets another puts on another maybe five to seven pounds, I think he's going to be super dangerous. Yeah. No, I'd agree with that for sure. With the big guys, it seems like the the more back they get the the more impressive they are. And like you said, is some of his his legs are good, but they're not like really great, you know? Yeah. His right leg is better than the left leg. I don't know. That left leg looks like it's a little behind. It's kind of like the Jay Jay had the one good leg, too. Um, but I think this is a good showing for Regan. I think he should be proud of himself. I think he did a great job. I think, you know, he did two two weeks in a row and he, you know, he got better from week to week, which is, you know, the judges like to see that. And, you know, he's going to the Olympia and that's all that counts. You know, it's all that matters really. Who Who we seeing? So, who are we going to see next week in Toronto with SAS? Do we have a do we have a lineup yet? Weeks, I think. Right. It's not this weekend. Oh, it's two. Oh, it's two weeks. Okay. Okay. I don't even know who's doing the show, you know. Not sure who's doing the show, but I would expect, you know, all the people who were really good here. Perez, um, uh, the Bruno. Um, I mean, they they'll obviously be there. What about this one? This this Legion Sports Fest. Is this an open This is an open show next week. Yeah, that's right, Dad. That's an open show next. How come Sass isn't doing that? Because I just told you the travel schedule, right? Oh, I You said he had to leave. I thought he was Now that he's in California, why would you just I didn't hear what you said, Chris. What' you say? He He flew from New York. If you missed the previous No, you said he moved back He went back to England and then he went back to um back flew from New York back home on Sunday. Got there Monday. Cool. flew back from Wednesday all the way to California from England. Goes back. He's I think he's flying tonight. Gets back Monday and Dave wants to fly him out to California again or yeah, California ging on on Wednesday. My point my point was why didn't he just stay in California and do the other show? I think he has a family. So, no. I mean, you don't think they they would have been okay? I mean, it's it's more traumatic to fly back and forth, I would think, than stay out there. Traumatic, you know, may maybe it's expensive to stay for three weeks from New York to I think you should be out there in California for two straight weeks with him. You think your wife will buy it? Oh, yeah. Should should stay in your snake pit. Are you Are you driving to Toronto? The most traveling, Dave, I've ever done in like five years. I know. I I was going to ask, are you going to uh Toronto? Because you can drive there from your house, right? Eibo. I went to New York Pro. I went to Pittsburgh. Did you Are you going to Toronto? My question. Okay. All right. I'll let we'll let you off the hook for that one. What do you think of Leandro Perez? Uh, fantastic. Good. Future. Definitely future. Future dangerous. Yeah. Um, very big. very round, very dense, and in very good shape. He just happened to go up against uh two good guys. Two two good guys. That's it. That's the answer. I mean, he's in shape and he's big and he looks great. Um maybe he'll do the um do the show next week. Yeah, he may. He might he might qualify for the Olympia. Who's going to beat him? Unless someone comes out of the woodwork. Well, what's his face is doing it. Baby Dexter. Oh, Tonio Burton. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, it could be a battle. This guy's a lot bigger than Tonio. That's for He's in really good shape. Look at that back. He's got a really good back. He He just went He went up against the structure guy next to the conditioning guy and he was like out. He has good structure. He's in, you know, his his structure is good. His legs are better than Reagan's, but he doesn't have Reagan's stance structure, you know. So, that puts him on the odd man out. And his his condition's good, but he doesn't have Sass's condition. So, he lands exactly where, right, he was supposed to land, third place. You know, he he's not that he's not as wide as Rean. Yes. But he's got good delts. He's got really good delts. Yeah. He does look like, you know, this guy says he look like Anthony Pasquali. He does look like a little bit like Anthony Pasquali. if anyone can remember him. I think he's gonna I think yeah I think he could I think if he does enough there's enough shows now that when we're talking about this that I think he possibly could do he could possibly qualify if he keeps going to show. So we got Legion Sportsfest this week. Then we got Toronto which will be packed. And then you got the Empro in in Spain. Yeah. And then Dubai which Right. Giving away 140 grand. Who do you got in that? You got anyone in that show, Chris? No. Anyone who's not doing that shows nut a nutcase if you don't do that show, right? I mean, a lot of people already did their stuff. You know what I mean? It's a hard I know. I know. I um I would have liked to seen Andrew Jack win that money, but I mean, especially since he lives Linda would have been right on like Instagram live saying, you know, I don't get 140 grand when the girls they didn't even have a woman's show. Unlike women in those Arab countries. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I had I heard a good story this past weekend about Ron Love and um Linda Murray. I guess they were dating back in the day. Yeah, I know. everyone that anyway it was a good story. I don't I probably shouldn't tell the story. So no, you can tell it's me off the air, Dave. So might get demonetized. Put it this way. Lender Murray was not happy with Ron Love in this story. So I'll leave it at that. Who had big adults? Lender Ron Love was a cop, you know, in in the Michigan area, Detroit area. And the Dabishes, who were very good friends with uh Dean Caputo. Yeah. Which where I was this past weekend out in Ohio. The Dabishes are the ones who started Powerhouse Gym. And you do you know how they named the Powerhouse Gym? I found out the story. I never knew the story. Dabishes were incredible. But go ahead. Yeah. Do you know how the Dabishes came up with the name Powerhouse? No. Second time said no. Okay. I was I was giving you a chance. I believe that that um Will Anorm was a big beer drinker and candy eater, candy bar eater. And I believe the candy bar was named Powerhouse that he was eating. Oh, I know Bar. Yeah. Yeah. And so he that's what they named it after. The Powerhouse candy bar. That's like Joita drinking that Olympia beer or something. Yeah. Yeah. And then they named it the Olympia after. Yeah. So that's where Powerhouse came from. There's like there's, you know, there's still like 300 powerhouse gyms. I don't know if you're aware of that. It's funny because I don't think anyone ever thought Powerhouse would be successful against Gold and World Gym. And it's super successful still to this day. They they were they were kinder to their franchise. Yes. Is No, they're not a franchise. Are they franchise or license? There's a difference. They You pay a fee every year. It's just Yeah. It's just like you pay a fee. A licensing fee every year. Yeah. you can do whatever you want with the gym as long as you pay the fee and they approve you. People love that because they didn't want, you know, they didn't want Golds and World Gym to be, you know, looking over them for every single thing that they did. So, them a lot more freedom. I remember the powerhouse convention had to be, oh my god, Dave, 25 years ago and it was packed. And you know who it was all packed with? Who? All previous Gold's gym. Oh, really? Yeah. Well, I know Weinberger changed from a gold gym to a powerhouse. There you go. So did the Montinary brothers in Connecticut. So I'm glad I'm Look, I'm glad uh Will is still alive and doing well. Crystal, Norm, and and the other brother, I think. Norm was the other brother. Norm died, but but Will, Norm, and Will. And um yeah, they they're doing they're doing great. I I love Will every time. I haven't seen Will in a while. I interviewed him a like a few years ago um from his gym and he's still you know super super if you if he was your friend super loyal but man I got that was Dean was telling me some funny stories about those guys. They were tough guys back in the day you know they were you didn't mess with those guys you know and they were in a very tough neighborhood with that that Highland Park powerhouse in outside Detroit there which was where the first powerhouse was was not a good neighborhood Chris I don't know have you ever been there? No, I've only been to Detroit once. Yeah, it it's I've been there once. It's It's not a good neighborhood. So, I think the I think they moved it, but it's the the original one in Highland Park was was terrible. So, people like crackheads would come in there and they would have to like, you know, beat them up and kick them out of the gym and stuff like that like because people would come in and try to rob people in there supposedly like what Dean told me. So, it was pretty funny. Uh but, uh yeah, powerhouse is still going strong. I think yeah, I think I would consider opening a powerhouse if I was going to open a gym. I think they give you a pretty good deal. You know, the franchise fee is not is not high and they don't they pretty much let you be creative. Supposedly, Will is opening up a crazy big one somewhere in Michigan. It's going to be like the biggest powerhouse of all time and it's going to be like nuts. I don't I don't know. I don't know. I don't want to quote. I think it was like over 100,000 square feet or something like that. So, I don't know where the exact location in Michigan is going to be, but when I find out, uh, I got to get Will on the show to talk about this. I think this is going to be like the crown jewel of the Powerhouse franchise. Although, do you remember when they had Powerhouse on right by Gold's Gym in Venice there? Yeah, they had it there for how long how many years was it there? Three. Didn't last that long. I think it was very expensive the rent there. Yeah, everybody every it was because that was the word on the street the minute they opened it. People knew it. Whatever the number was was insane. Did you ever train in that gym? I never went into that gym. No. No. Stridum lived above there, right? That wasn't his like house, right? Apartment right above there. Yeah. Dean was telling me that Stridum lived right next or maybe Gaspar told me that Stridum lived right next door to Barry Demay. They both lived up there. Oh. At that building there fighting. Yeah. And they were always fighting with each other. Yeah. I used to think that was I I never went into I went into that building once actually in the res. I used to think like when I was young and working at Gold's Venice that was the I just thought it was like the epitome of luxury. Well, I figured you're such a real estate guy. I figured you would have definitely have gone in there. Yeah. Although I had the vision then I Yeah. Yeah. I think it was like wow. It was it was very expensive supposedly there and supposedly Striden would he lived there but he would like literally people told me he would get in his the garage underneath the thing and he would drive his car across the street to the firehouse and then he would drive his car another half a block to the gym like he would never walk forget what car he had but he had the he had a he had like a BMW right or Mercedes something like that one with a convertible and I think it was I don't remember which one he had. Yeah, I know. He had a really nice car though. Christian Mike Christian got his like one up them right after Mike Christian I remember someone told me because I was into BMWs at the time and Mike Christian I think got like a seven series BMW and like cut the top off of it. Right. Made it into like a like a convertible, right? Yeah. He was the man when he drive that car to go Venice. It was like it was like a hedge fund guy turned. It was one of a kind. That's why Chris it was it Dave it was okay so you're talking to someone who knows nothing of a kind of cars at that now but at that time like when I was in Gold's Venice I had to be like 22 and Mike would drive that car up. That was a car that you you knew was special. Yeah. No matter what. Well you couldn't buy it. He actually had it made. You know, no one would ever think to cut the top off of BMW. No, nobody enjoyed the attempt that that cared in it more than Mike Christian. He probably looked like a pimp in that car, I'm sure. Right. He loved and he would he would I think Ed may I think Ed gave him a parking spot. You would have to ask him. Did he really? But if he didn't have a spot, Mike would wait like one hour. He would just, you know, because he'd have to park it in the garage. I mean, in the garage, in the front in the front lot rather than just like leave it somewhere, right? Pop was cut off, you know. Yeah. Yeah. And, you know, just for protection, nobody would if it was parked directly in front of the gym. Right. Right. That's funny. But yeah, evidently I guess since Barry Demay lived next door to to Strideum up there, Barry would be playing music late and have girls over and you know Gary would be trying to go to sleep, you know, so you can get up at like six in the morning and and go train and stuff like that and and they would be screaming at each other like through banging on the walls and stuff like that. That's right. It was crazy what they would go through over there. I used to know it all. I used to know what this because people knew people knew what like Mike ate for the car. Are people doing you hear what Gary paid for rent? You hear what Mike paid for that car? You know, I think they would brag about it because they wanted to let everyone know how much it it costed to live there. That's why when I think when Schrodam lived there though, he was Wasn't he with the the WBF at that time? Yeah, he might have been paying three grand. He bought it. I I was told he paid 33, which is a lot back then for his boat. Um and I think he was paying three grand rent. And I think which is nothing now. Oh, you can't even get a [\h__\h] shoe box for the dentist for that. Back then it was like, you know, outrageous. Yeah, probably it would have like cuckooaroo chicken for $4.95. You know, Shriden was working for the WBF. He was making I think 350 a year or something like that. 350 grand a year or maybe more. It might have been more. I don't even know. I I adjusted for inflation. I just gave you the the a chicken meal for $4.95. No, I know. I know. But what I'm saying is, I don't know if you knew this, but Gaspari told me this weekend that he was offered 250,000. Yeah, Bob told me that even Bob and he turned it down because he was he was said he was mad that that that I think I forget who who was offered I think Barry Demay was offered more. I think Barry was making 300 or something like that. Yeah. And uh I said, "Richie," I said, "That's a lot of money you turned out." He goes, "I know." Oh, he goes, I I you know, I didn't I said, I guess probably in the long run you it probably paid off for you, you know, but uh yeah, they wanted to uh they would they were really wanted Richie bad. They told you told me Vince McMahon did they were sworn, you know, they were really, you know, trying to get him over there. How much did they pay Lou Frigno and how how how fast did Joe We to blow a gasket? That was the only person Joe wanted back, right? I mean, and he didn't care about anyone else, but he didn't like the fact that they they were trying to get Lou back over there. They did get him originally, remember? Yeah. I don't know how how did how did Weer get him back? I mean, how did he get out of that contract? God, can you I can't probably Joe probably called him endlessly. And but how did how did Vince let him out of that contract? I my guess. You want my guess? Yeah. Joe paid to get him out of paid him to get him out of the contract. Oh, you think he he paid Vince? That is a guess. And I wish you could confirm it. Yeah, I know. I wish we could confirm it. Confirmable from someone. I you know, you know who can confirm it? Lou. Lou can confirm it. We got to find out from Lou. I gota ask him way that he just Okay. You know, I'm under contract with WBF and now, right, I'm under contract with Joe without an enormous amount of money changing hands. Yeah. No, I gotta ask Lou because, you know, it's all it's long enough now that I don't think anyone cares anymore, but it was Yeah, exactly. That's funny about the contract here. Here, here here Vince, here's the money. Let him go. Well, what's his name? Because Barry told me that um you know, the smartest guy with his money was Troy Zukulado because Troy took all that money that he made from the WBF and he you know invested it. He was buying real estate. He was buying he bought the the rejuvenation clinic that he did. He had the rejuvenation clinics before anyone anyone. Yeah. No one even knew what I didn't even know what a rejuvenation clinic was when he when he had one of those. They were they were only quirky little clinics exclusive to like LA in California, right? They were they weren't any place else. You're right. He he may have had the first one. I remember to him somewhere some of them and he said I have rejuvenation clinic and or maybe someone told me he has a rejuvenation clinic and I I get but they gave me the number like what he made like I don't know year three into it. It was Yeah, it was big time. Big time. He was They also told me he was he he owns a lot of car washes. He owns like 25 car washes, something like that. He's a California. Yeah, he he owns a lot of, you know, he's smart. He's a very smart car wash in in in New York, Dave, where you're washing a lot of dirt. California, you're w the only you're washing in California is money. That's all you're rinsing it off so that your Mike Christian car can stay looking That's right. That's right. You do you know I take the car I take my car to the car wash every day. You know that, right? Because in in Florida they have these like you just pay one price for the whole it's like a gym membership basically. You know Yeah. And uh it's one price you can take it as many times as you want. I know people who go through those like twice a day. I'm not that I'm I wish I had the free time to go through twice a day. I I it's someone who does some construction work for me. I said the great greatest truck. I said, "This truck is the cleanest construction car wash twice a day." Yeah. You know, my kids, they where they go to school, they're they're they're putting in city water. So, it's a like a disaster construction zone. So, every time I I drop them off, I have to go get the car wash because it's like it's like covered with like soot. It looks like a It looks like a a volcano just went off. You know, when they it spews out all the soot before the the lava comes out. Just perfectly covers the coffee. Yeah. It's like Pompei, you know, before they they buried the city there with the with the ash. So, but yeah, so I was out in um I was out in Ohio this past weekend, Streetsboro. We had a great show, the Northwest Championships. Uh Richie was there with me. We hung out the whole time. I actually did a really nice good interview. We'll put that up this week. Uh I did a seminar out there, a real real nice seminar on nutrition. I think a lot of people really enjoyed it. I'm gonna I have we videotaped it. So, I'm going to put up four I'm going to put it up in four parts and I interviewed all the winners there. So, from the Dean Caputo Northwest Championships, Dean does a great thing, Chris, to all the for all the competitors there. Anyone who wins an overall, he'll pay your way, you know, application fee, airfare, hotel to go to a national show like the team universe or that must get a killer turnout just for that. Yeah. No, he didn't. That that that's what I'm saying. It's it's a great idea. It's a very small investment for a promoter to make to get a very big payoff. And I think that more promoters should do that. Offer to pay for, you know, the winners to go to a national level show and you'll see better guys show up at your show because it's expensive. You know how much it costs to end? It's $350 application fee. The plane flight's probably, you know, five, six hundred bucks and then your your hotel can be god knows how much. you know, are just out of control everywhere. I know. I know. So, we good turnout, you know, did some had some fun out there and um made some new friends and some new connections. And, you know, I always tell people, look, whenever I travel, I always it's it's always it's always turns out to be a good thing. You know, sometimes it's a pain in the neck to travel. When you travel, you really network. And the best advice that was given to me when I was younger and just getting into the sport, I was I think I was about 23, 24. Mike Lions, who ran that the agency in Manhattan, you know, he used to send us out on commercial auditions and stuff. He said, "Dave, let me tell you something, I don't care how much money you have or if you don't have, you got to go to the big shows, the Arnold, the Olympia, Nationals." I said, "Why?" He goes, "Because it's the same people at every show. And once everyone starts to know who you are, you're going to network with these people because everyone's you guys have similar interests. You know, this person's going to be looking for a guy to do this and you're gonna have need a guy that does that and you're going to like trade ideas and before you know it, you're going to be networking with people and making a lot more business for yourself. And you know what? He was 100% right. I I can't pass on enough of that information to you guys. You got to if you really are interested in being in our industry and making money from this industry, you got to go to the shows and you got to talk to people and you got to walk around and network and especially if you're up and coming and no one knows who you are. You know, once once you're an old [\h__\h] like Chris and I, it doesn't really matter anymore. But but seriously, no. If you go to these shows, you're going to have a lot of opportunities presented to you. Mike Lions, Dave, is the Bob Gruskin of uh casting agents. Yes, absolutely. You'd never think he was a casting agent. Yeah. You'd never think he's a casting agent just as you'd never think that Bob Guskin is a he's a coach. Yeah. Well, it's funny. Mike actually lives out by me now. Isn't that funny? I I see him every time I go to Mel's show in Pontagora. He's there. I said I said, "Mike, of all the How did we wind up in the same place?" I said I said, "So weird." Yeah. Yeah. You know what? He got me a lot of gigs over the years. And I and he said, "You know what? One of the things that why you were successful, Dave, is because you showed up." I Dave, you took the words right out of my mouth. I was going to say that's two. You took uh you I was going to say you that you showed up. Yeah, you have to show up. Do you think I wanted to get on on the Long Island Railroad, you know, two, three times a week? Sometimes he'd be like, "I got an audition for you. You got to come in." I said, "Mike, I got" He's like, "It's up to you." And I'd never say no. I'd get on that Long Island Railroad. I'd go in Penn Station. I'd walk or take a cab to the audition. It would be 5 seconds the audition. I'd get back in the cab, go back to the railroad, take the train back home. And I would do that all the time. And you know what? The ones I the times I never wanted to go, those are the interviews or excuse me, those were the auditions I always got and the commercials I got. So, speaking about commercials, Dean was Dean Kabuto was in a couple really good commercials back in the day. What was he in? What was he telling me? He was he he did a couple commercials. He made a lot of money. He told me um I can't remember but you know he also you know if you remember he was the GNC guy. Yeah. You remember when you were a kid you'd go into GNC and you'd see this guy like they'd have a whole like cut out of him holding a a jug of the GNC protein. Yeah. That was Dean Dean had that a really good gig with GNC. And then he left GNC and he and he got involved with remember Universal. Yes. Yeah. Oh ultimate excuse me Ultimate Nutrition. Ultimate Nutrition. and uh and he was with them for years and and then I guess you know he made Ult Ultimate got taken in by GNC so they were um so he was still promoting GNC just via Ultimate. So yeah, he was a guy who never turned pro like me. Great physique and uh you know it was just the era was just really really difficult and he had and he wound up getting having a kid and he wound up having to you know stop competing because of that. But he always made in money in the industry because he was a guy that was a hustler like, you know, like me, like Richie, like you. And uh, you know, even though he didn't turn pro, he made a lot of money from the industry. He's still making money from the industry. No. Well, how many shows he's promoting? He only promotes this one show, but he's got it. He he got back into the gym business. He had had a really successful powerhouse and from when he was 18 years old and now he has another powerhouse in a very similar location a couple blocks from where it used to be. It's beautiful. It's the cleanest it's the cleanest gym you'll ever go in. Why Why'd he get out? Because I think he got involved with the supplements and I I think he just it was it was too much to do, you know, both. He said though his passion was always the um the gym business. He really likes the gym business a lot. Much much better, which you don't you don't usually hear that from people. Yeah, he's had the he's had that show for a long time. Dean Kaputo Classic, whatever. Dean Kaputo Northwest Classic or Yeah. Well, he Yeah, he started he he kind of started it up again, you know. He he had a show a long time ago and then he he kind of was missing from the business for a while. Pull up a picture of him so you guys know what we're talking about. Anyway, he's he's a super super good guy. I've known him for over 20 years now. There he is. That's him. Yeah, he had a lot of He had a lot of muscle. Big big dude back in the day. So, and that's it. So, I had a nice time out there and uh wait, hold on. Let me show I want to show you one more picture. Yeah, he had the one where he would shoot hit the He had big packs. Yeah. See, I get another picture. Like the American version of Reagan. Yeah, exactly. Who's also connected to Yes. Look at that. Right. Big packs. Yeah. Yeah. I said, "Dean, what happened to your hair, man? You're like me. You lost all your hair." He's like I said, it's all these blonde guys with the blonde with the great locks of blonde hair. Doug Wentz, right? They all lose their hair when they get old. Send them to Turkey. Except you, Chris. You kept your hair. You and Jay. I I've been scrolling for the uh Turkish Airlines. I lose. You and Jay never lost your hair. I don't know how you pulled it off, but good hair genetics. I guess he kind of like was a Jay Cutler-ish type of physique back in the day. You know, Caputo was really good. He just was up against blockbusters. Yeah, it was it's like like you know he was really good and he just was in a tough era where you had to win the overall and I mean he looks really that looks like a pro physique for this day and age. Oh yeah. Yeah, that definitely. How long ago was that? Was it probably the early 90s maybe? Yeah. He had to go against 154 pound Victor only four feet 8 inches tall. Oh, you know you speak you know what speaking of Victor not Victor Terra Victor Richards. So Gaspari was telling me a a great story about how he competed at some some Oh know that story. You know the story Lou Wick called him up said you got to compete at this. He wanted to do the Teenage America and Lwick said, "You got to do this other teenage show." So, he's out in California doing this teenage show and and he's he competed against Victor Richards. Yeah. And Victor Richards, he said, was the biggest 18-year-old you've ever seen a after after uh what's But he wasn't hard. He was He was He was the West Coast Derek Woodset. And Richie beat him, of course, because Richie was ripped shredded to the bone, you know. I remember that that I've heard that story before and and Lwick didn't tell Richie that uh Vic was going to be there and No, he didn't tell him. Tell Victor uh Richards that Gaspar was going to be there. Isn't that funny? And he said Victor Richards was having was like scream was yelling at him, "Little man, how do you beat me? I'm so much bigger than you." And Rich said, "You're fat. That's why." Yeah. That's great. I said, Richie, that that's a good accolade. You're probably the only person who's ever competed against Victor because I don't think he ever competed after that. Oh, Rich. No, no, he didn't. He Yeah, he he competed. Yeah, he ever right. Absolutely. Right. Yeah, because you know Rich got his head. Yeah, he I think Yeah, I think I think is I believe that's that's a teenage uh Victor Rich problem is for see that that started Rich was like okay if I can beat Vic if Gaspar was like if I can beat Victor Riches I can beat Hammy. That's right. That's right. I mean it just motivated him, right? Oh yeah. Just made him train hard. Richie didn't you know you couldn't tell Rich not you can't tell Rich Gaspari you can't do something because he'll he's the hardest working guy. I told you when he we got there. Um I got there on Friday and I had to do a seminar Friday night. So I went to the venue about six when they were doing check-ins and everyone's like, "Where's Richie? Where's Richie?" And he's like, "Oh, I just picked him up." One of the guys like I picked him up from the airport. He said he had to go train legs. So I had to drop him at the gym. Drop him at the gym. You I said, "Richie," I said, "You train like like you got the Olympia coming up like next week." You know, I can't miss leg day. He goes, "I can't miss legs." Yeah, after the show's over, I'll text Rich and say, "You got to watch the latter part of the show." Because, yeah, I worked, I guess, three summers in Los Angeles at the bodybuilding when Rich was competing at the Mr. Olympia and um Rich was the I saw everyone train who was top 10 at the Olympia and no one held a candle to Rich's volume, intensity, and weight period. So out of the top 10 in the Olympia, three years straight, Rich his training intensity was would smoke theirs. Was he strong too? Strong endurance and his diet was he had the only diet. Can you imagine? He had the only diet I would approve of because it was just everything was weighed, everything was measured, right? I was stunned when I went out to California and I was only 19, I think. Yeah. People did not weigh their food. Oh, he was the only one doing it. Really? I didn't know that. Okay. He was only like I remember I took him to his room where he was going to stay and within He just had to get there. The first thing came out of his bag. What do you think, Dave? first thing the scale of course that's awesome scale was the first thing he put on the kitchen counter and that thing was like that was like his key like he thought he was the bomb because he had that scale and I I told him or he told me he said he might have said like people don't even measure their food or something I'm like I bet no one measures I mean he's really the first guy to ever have strided glutes as far as I know Right. I mean, well, he had strided glutes, strided, pec, strided, quads. Yeah. Mystery. I mean, he said that when he was he was posing for some guy in the gym, and the guy's like, "Your freaking glutes are strided." No one even knew what that was because no one had strided glutes. And he's like, "I was just so lean." He goes, "That every everything was strided on me." Like you said, that pecs, quads. Yeah. He had phenomenal phenomenal abs. I think his best look even though people were critical of it. I liked his 87 look was that when he played second behind Haney. Uh he might have got third. They said he was too heavy. It's just he came in fuller and I thought it worked but I don't know. I think they just wanted to see like death shredded which was two years prior. He was still the hardest guy by far on stage. Right. What was his first? I don't even know. 85, 86, 87. Those were his heyday years. Yeah. And he had he he was the original Nick Walker. Um there was no social media, but uh I can tell you that when he had at the bodybuilding camp his week, he would have to be there full week and he would have to like do seminars every day and uh he'd do like a nutrition chat and then he'd do a training seminar and I think he would train, you could watch him train and then like a meet and greet at night. They do this like every day for like seven days for the same seven group of people. But his fan base was it was like uh Lee Priest type, you know, people just I'm coming from all over to see Rich Kaspar, right? And you know, it was uh interesting to see that. I think his weak income-wise for the camp would uh outstrip Lee Haneies and Lee Haney was Mr. Olympia. Wow. So he would they would sell more packages where people come and stay for the week. Um then can you imagine Dave if we had a bodybuilding camp like the week before the Olympia and fans out and stay at the same hotel all day long with the the Olympia you could sell the you could sell the tickets for like Oh yeah 12 14 grand for the week like the I know I know maybe we should do maybe we should do a training camp we got to do maybe we could make AI think it cost an 89 89 99. So you're talking 36 years ago. I think it was a grand for like six six nights. Wow. So it'd have to be like about five grand now probably today. I mean have to be. You can't tell $1,000 was a lot of money in Yeah. 1989. Yeah. But, you know, there was really no access to the athletes like like there is now on social media though. So, it might not be as you know as gonna DM him now and tell me he looked like trash last week. He he told me when he was like 13, you know, he there was AI forget I forget who it was. There was a guy in the gym and he would pick him up like take him to unlike you who walked to the gym. He had someone pick him up and take him to the gym in the morning or something like that. They would train together and he thought it was a great I said, "You did it when you were 13?" He goes, "Yeah, 13." He started Yeah. Isn't that crazy? He was so good by 18. I know. Well, that's why he I said, "How are you so good by 18?" He said, "I started at 13," he said. I said, "Oh, well, that explains it. It's uh, you know, it's it's and he was disciplined at 13," he said. It wasn't like, you know, some kids just go work out, but they don't eat right. He was eating like you know bodybuilder at 13 years old you know. Yeah. So he his work I told this story on um on stage because they um Dean Caputo introduced both Rich and I and I said listen I said Rich is I know you're giving me accolades. Rich is is an is an icon compared to me. I said but I remember I did a guest posing in PA. I think it was York, PA, or it was like someplace in Pennsylvania. And Rich at the time had was hadn't competed. And I don't know if he was he didn't have a lot of money at that point, but he probably didn't because he had he wasn't winning shows or anything like that. And he essentially came to the show to launch Gaspar Nutrition. He drove himself. He had like a little van. He he took all the stuff out. He set up a booth himself. I was there to guest pose. He was there to to to to showcase his products and did it all by himself. And I I said, you know what, I was so impressed by the fact that this guy who was a bodybuilding star was so was humble enough to come in his own car by himself and and launch his product line because that was the kind of work ethic that Rich Gaspar had. He said, "Dave, let me let me make the story even better." He's like, "You probably didn't know this, but I sold I had a Porsche." She said, "I sold the Porsche to buy the van so that I could transport all my product around with me when I would set these booths up at these local shows." So that that shows you right there that Rich Kaspari has no ego. You know, he he was a he was he gave up the Porsche, which he was he said that was the dream car I had uh because he wanted to launch a business and he knew he needed the money. I mean, isn't that a great I mean that right then and there it shows you how unselfish he is. Yeah. I always call I've said it before. I call uh you know Rainman. Yes. The bodybuilding Rainman because hard work, hard work, hard work, hard work. Got to work hard work. Wake up one morning, work hard, work hard, work hard. That's mantra and he lives by it and he's that's why he's really successful. No, I know. No, he Believe me, I'm still motivated by him because you know what? He's I guess he's what about 62 now and he's still he travels he travels more than I do. He's and he's got a 5-year-old son, too. He gets his butt on the airplanes. He goes to the Middle East. He goes all over the place to network with people and, you know, we were talking about business and, you know, how the business has changed and, you know, how expensive protein is and we would and he was, you know, give me all his ideas. This guy doesn't stop. I mean, he's like, he's unbelievable. He really is. You know, I think that I'm motivated and I'm focused on what I do, but he's as focused, if not more than I am, on on on single-minded. Hey coach, Dave, it goes back to scale. Everything you know about him is that scale. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. But Chris, we're sitting at the table together. We're eating, right? And the guy Rodney who's driving us around is there too. And he's a super good guy. He's friend of Dean when they grew up together. And Rich reaches into his pocket and I reach into my pocket independently of each other and we pull out a bag, the same the same little crumply plastic like sandwich bag with that we have our vitamins in and we reached into the sandwich bag at the same time and we got the vitamins in our hands. Rich, it's it's almost it's it's very eerie that the three that the the two of us are just as neurotic. So I was giving him some more neurotic. I said, Rich, do you test your blood sugar every morning? He goes, no, I don't do that. I said, he goes, "How do I do that?" I said, "You got to go to Walmart. You got to" and I'm telling him the the blood sugar monitor get I'm adding to his rituals now because, you know, I want to make sure that he does everything right. I said, "You got to know your blood sugars." I said, "Rich, come on, man." I said, "Don't slack on this because he's also very into his health and he wants to make sure he does everything right." And so, uh, but yeah, we both we have a commonality because we're both very driven and we're both neurotic and we both have all little all little rituals that we do every day from going to the gym to tanning to, you know, taking our vitamins to making sure we get all our meals in. He still eats six meals a day like a body. Yeah, of course he does. And he weigh I wonder if he weighs the food, you know, he might he might he might have a little scale that he didn't want to show you. They'll they'll fold up. Anyway, I I had Rich, if you're watching this, I had a great time with you this past week and we got to get him on the show. We've had him on before. We got to get him on and talk about some of the old days again because I think people really need to hear these stories. They're great stories and um thank you Dean Caputo for bringing us out. Also had a great time the whole weekend. Everyone was the hospitality was awesome. He's invited me back next year. I will be there again on Memorial Day. So, if you guys uh want to plan a trip on Memorial Day 2026, you can go to Dean Caputo show in Streetsboro, Ohio, and I'll be there doing my seminar. So, thank you, Dean. And uh congratulations to Rean Grimes. He is going to the Olympia. For now, we're out of time. Chris, as we say every week here at Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. We'll see you next week.