Great Veto delivers on the Brazilian win. I created species nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're back for another installment of Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palumbo joined by the technician Chris Aceto in this first week of April 2025. And Chris, we have finally good veto has clinched his first Mr. Olympia uh I guess you could say invitation and qualification winning the Arnold Brazil in rather splendid fashion as predicted. I have to imagine as his coach you're very excited and uh pleased. Yeah. Well, it was a bomb because it was a good bomb because Bob Chick has Chris has bombs good and bad. I'll take the good bomb. bomb. This was a nuclear bomb for sure. You know, before we start and and and wrap up everything, do all the stuff we have because we have some we have great news obviously, you know, veto winning and then we have a lot of few we have a few deaths to report which I hate doing but we have to do that. I bought my kids well I bought myself but really my kids um a bunch of kittens, Siberian kittens. So I I had to pick up the fourth one. I have four of them total. I picked up the fourth one from the airport with them this morning. And I get to the airport and the woman, Renee Smith, meets me, who's the breeder. She flew it in from Colorado because she has they have so many kittens right now that her and her son her son usually delivers them, you know, and she she was helping out. So she's like, she goes, "You're a you're a bodybuilder." "Oh, you were a bodybuilder." I said, "Yeah, yeah, yeah." So So she's like, "Oh, you probably know my ex-husband." I said, "Who was your ex-husband?" She's like, "My ex-husband invented the Smith machine." I said, "What?" Because, you know, her last name is Smith, Rene Smith. I said, I said, "He is the Smith of the Smith machine." She's like, "Yeah, he invented the Smith machine." She goes, "We're not together anymore." But I said, "Did he invent it while he was with you?" She's like, "No, before he met me, he invented it." I said, "Did he make a lot of money from it?" I said, you know, she's like, "I don't know. I don't I don't think so." But I I he made something from it. He sold I know he sold the the whole patent and everything like that, but uh I said, you know, every gym has a Smith machine. I I've never seen a gym that doesn't have a Smith machine or that a machine that looks like a Smith machine and people call a Smith machine. She's like, "Yeah, isn't that funny?" Like, of all the people to It's just a weird weird I didn't I didn't even I guess you could patent anything, right? So, I guess there was probably a patent and all that. And I I mean, but think about it. I mean, you know, the even Arthur Jones is not hasn't named the Nautilus machines after himself. It's not like the Arthur Jones, you know, pullover machine, you know, Nautilus pullover machine. So, I thought that's really cool. If you're going to be known for I mean, think about it. If you're going to be known for something for the eternity, I mean, that's not such a bad thing, you know, to say, "Hey, that Smith machine, I I created it." You know, Dave, so your kittens, because Dave, I want to tell people the crazy story about you because there's too many. This had to be I've told it before on the show years ago. Okay. Um, we went to the New York Pro, right? I know what you're gonna tell me. We were driving back to like It was It was so late. It was like 1:30 in the morning and Dave's like, "Oh, I just just nonchalantly. I just got to make a pit stop at Kennedy airport." I'm like, "What?" It was actually LaGuardia airport. You said, "It won't take long." I'm like, "What are we going to the airport for 1:30?" I thought like you had traveled and stuck there or that's the only thing I could think of. Dave run in and get a FedEx order that was delivered. I don't know why it wasn't delivered to your house, but you had to pick up a fish. I Yeah, I had There's a fish called an arowana. They're pretty, you know, they're pretty popular. And at the time, they had just produced the first they call them albinos, but they were really lucistic. They were all white with black eyes and a red pupil arowas. And I happened to know the guy who had access to them in Hawaii and he and I bought two from him and he shipped it to like he had to ship it like Delta. Delta ships animals and stuff like that. And so I had to pick it up at the airport. They don't deliver. And it came in like on a Saturday night and he's like, "Oh, the fish arrived. You have to get it. You know, if you don't pick up the fish, the fish was worth a, you know, like 500 bucks these two fish. I had to go get him and and and we were coming back from a show in Jersey. I think it was Weineberger show. Might have been the New York Pro. And we we stopped at LaGuardia on the way back. I picked it up and then I had to go to my office with the where the fish tank was and I had to put the fish in the fish tank and uh then we went home and then you know we went we you know probably got home about three in the morning. But yeah. Yeah. I'm a, you know, when it comes to animals, I'm, you know, I'm a nut like that and I have to have the best and the, you know, the the stuff that no one has. And well, that was the first time I stayed at your house. That's right. You were the New York Pro that we were we were at the New York Pro was in New York at the time. And Dave had a thousand things to do, tag photos, photos up, you know, all this stuff. and you were busy a mile a minute and and your stress level with everything that was going on was zero. But when the fish came in, you didn't tell me there was a fish. You went into stress mode when you're like, "We got to get to the airport because I was afraid they were going to die, Chris. That was what I was really afraid." Yeah. And that was the craziest. Like I I was so tired. I came down from Maine. I I probably like And I felt bad, too, because I I I know Chris was tired and I'm like, "Chris, we got to stop at my office on the way back, too. I got to put these fish in the fish tank there. Well, then I I crash on your bed. Yeah. I wake up the next day and instead of nightstands, he has live snakes by side of the bed. Big giant snakes. Right. Oh, that's right. You stayed in the room. You stayed We call used to call it the porn room because I had the mirrors all over the place. Yeah. The whole Because I had mirrored the walls because I wanted to, you know, have like This is when I was still competing when I bought that house. I used to pose in the mirrors there. And I had Yeah. I had I had a ball python in in a tank. Yeah. There. or two of them. Maybe two of them on each side. Didn't realize there was a live snake in the tank. Yeah. I jumped out of bed. I'm like I ran out of the room and you're like, "What's the matter?" I'm like, "Did you got snakes in there?" That's before you became really big in snakes. That was I only had two snakes at the time. I actually had two snakes. That was it. Yeah. So, you have a good memory, Chris. Not as good as Milos's, but pretty close. So, how can you forget that? Yeah. So, yeah. So, I got these um I got these four So, I have four four Siberian cats. My kids are obsessed with them. They're great, beautiful cats. And send me pictures of them. I got I will. I will. Yeah. Once we produce babies at some point, I'm going to breed them. So, once I breed them, I'm I will. Dave, it didn't even cross my mind that you would not jumbo Palumbo Siberians. And you know, these are like bodybuilder cats. These things get beefy and stocky. They're thick. They're like they're like uh may rest in peace like Eugene mission, you know. They they got a lot of like beef to them and they they're very hearty. They have to survive the Siberian winters in Russia. So, you know, they're they're tight. They're tough. They're tough. So, that's Yeah, that's my kids and I went and picked that up and I met Renee Smith, the uh former wife of the Smith machine creator. So, there you go. There's always a tie to bodybuilding somehow in everything I do in life. Now, before we get to Good Veto, uh I there's a couple of terrible things. First of all, Val Kilmer died, who I I have one of my favorite actors, I don't know about you, but I I love Val Kilmer. I think one of his his greatest roles was probably uh Jim Morrison in the movie The Doors. Did you see that one? Yeah, I did see it. Loved it. I loved it. I thought he was great. He actually became Jim Morrison in that movie. I thought that was like his greatest acting stint and but he was in a lot of great movies. Yeah, a lot of good movies. I hadn't realized he was that sick. I didn't know that he was bedridden the last, you know, couple years. It's funny. Yeah. I just, you know what, just maybe like six months ago, he came up on like MSN something about being sick, and I was like, that's Val Kilmer. He looks so different, you know, because he was sick. How come all these good-looking guys, Chris, in Hollywood, when they get a little older, it's like their fa I feel like my father, this is something my father would say, their faces like fall apart. They get all bloated looking and and is it are they doing plastic surgery to themselves or is it just like you can't you can't be super good-looking for the only Michael her can be super good-look till the day he dies. Everyone else has got to like they if you got it early in in life, you got they got to take it away from you like later in life. Like Mickey Rock is another one. Greatlook guy. He ru he ruined himself with plastic surgery. But but I mean Val looked I mean he looked weird. His like face was bloaty and he wasn't he wasn't really that old but he you know I mean no he wasn't he wasn't they don't even Johnny Depp I was looking at his fa this guy was a Johnny Depp was a good-looking guy. I remember back in the day I'm like, "Man, what a good-look guy this good guy is." And he's another one. His face is all like bloated looking and he has he has this weird mustache and it's like he looks like creepy looking, you know. Yeah. Still a good actor. Lot of people say that about me and you, Dave. So, no, I don't think so. We I think you know you know it is I I don't think that you know guys that like are Irish and and and they they they're really good-looking when they're younger, but they don't age well. Us Italians, we're not that great looking, but as we get older, we we we actually get better as we age. We're like a fine wine, you know. We we we we mature well with with age because we're so we're we're oily, you know, if you're oily skin. Your skin seems to age better. My my my uncle's my my uncle was like 75 and he looked 51. Yeah. Even your you said your father also looked very young. He didn't have too. My father was 81. He didn't have he didn't have a single wrinkle. Yeah. And he had and he had his hair too, right? My god, he had the best hair of all time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, the Italians, they I'm telling you, Italians age well. Uh Irish don't age well at all. Terrible, usually. So, would agree with that. The Irish crack. My They do. Yeah, they crack. Yeah. But they they're such good-looking people when they're younger. The women and the men. Holy mackerel. I would agree with that, too. They're like the the features they have are incredible. I feel like Jimmy the Bull like stereo stereotyping people Asian people a age very well too by the way. No where I grew up a lot of Italians like my father married Irish. That's Yeah. Yeah. The Irish and the Italians the combustible marriages they call it. Yeah. Oh yeah. Absolutely. Very explosive. And the the Italian grandmothers teach the on day one they teach the Irish wife cook step one. This is how you're going to cook. Right. Right. If they don't pick it up, they don't have instincts. Irish don't have instincts for cooking. My mother learned. Oh, your mother learned. Oh, that's great. I thought she was Italian the way she cooks. Oh, she Oh, she Oh, your grandmother really see a lot of times they won't they won't share the secrets. The Italian uh mothers, you know. So, but see, you were lucky because your mother got they shared the secrets of your mother. A lot of times there was no there was no if if if guruism was cooking there was no measurements at all. No, it's hands. It's all hand. Yeah. Yeah. That's you got it, Dave. Because like we never had measuring cups and someone you know someone would ask my mother, you know. Yeah, that's funny. You know. Yeah. But you know how like visual of that and that's how like meatballs were made and manakotti and ravioli and monagots. Monagat all that. Yeah. But you know what it is? It's like it's like some gurus will give you all the information and a lot of gurus leave out information you know like important ingredients. Some Italian women they they won't give you all the secrets because they they don't want anyone to to surpass them. They want to be the queen of of cooking, you know. So they leave out key steps in the uh in the cooking process and so you never quite emulate them. My mother's was excellent, but my grandmother's was next level. Really? Yeah. Okay. That's that's usually the way it is. My grandmother was next level, too. And my grandmother used to feed Fred Hatfield because Fred Hatfield's mother. That's right. I forgot that. That's right. So insane, isn't it? Yeah. See, there you have you have six degrees of separation. So Fred Hatfield getting back to uh the Val Kilmer story. Yeah. So Val Val passes and then I hear you know CJ Cynthia James those of you who I'm sure everyone in our industry has had some interaction with her because she's probably made 90% of all the posing suits out there. She's was absolutely I would say she's the best just because I'm biased because she always made all my suits for me. But uh when it came to custom posing suits for men and women, I think CJ really she she wrote the book. When was the first time you met her? What first suit? I'll tell you because I'm I can I can predate you. You go back to Yeah. You go back before me. So I I was competing. I did the junior nationals. I think I met her there. I didn't have a custom suited. I was I was buying the Andreas Calling ones and someone told me, "You got to get CJs to make your suit." So, I think I asked her in 96 to make me a suit. I don't remember if I paid for it or not, but I know after that she literally would see me backstage. She's like, "Let me see your suit." And she's like, "No, no, no, no, no, no. I have a better style." And she she'd get on the sewing machine and she'd be like, she'd hand me a suit. She's like, "Wear that." I'm like, "What do I She's like she would just like like her hand in my face." And and that's how we became friends. and she literally would make she made all my suits. If I had to do guest posing, she would make my costumes and stuff like that. And we just became friends. And then, you know, she started dating Ron, you know, Goldstein. And u, you know, I became friends with him. And uh I just saw it recently at Mel's show in December. It was everywhere. Yeah. I mean, she I know her health was deteriorating because she was she had been telling me every time I saw her, oh, I'm doing, you know, this is bothering me, this that's bothering me. I talked to Ron earlier via text. Great guy. Ron is oh man, he's he's the best. And he told me that she um she I think she had like like 90 emergency room visits like last year or something like that. She just was having so many problems and uh she he was like this was another one and she just didn't make it. She was in the ambulance and she passed. Heart related. I think she had a heart attack and um we lost her. I mean I sort of there's not one person like I said in the industry at least from our era that doesn't know her. I saw Dexter Jackson posted. Everyone's posting, you know, because everyone had a great relationship with her. And like I said, she made most of the suits for at least the men and and probably 50% of the women out there. So, she uh she'll be greatly missed. I mean, it's a terrible, terrible tragedy, you know, that we lost her. Yeah. She used to make suits for for Jay. She made suits for She used to make suits back in like Oh, that's right. She did all Jay suits, too. That's right. She She did the all the suits for Laura. Oh, she she even Oh, wow. that far back. I didn't even realize that we were in we were living in Fort Lauderdale in um 95 96, right? I didn't know. She said one day, you know, I we ran into her and she had a like a storefront in Pompo Beach. That's right. She had that store for a while there. Yes, you're right. Yeah. Pompo was a little, you know, left for dead back then. You know, not the best. It's come up a lot a lot since then. And we went she gave us the address. We went there. We drove there. You know, no GPS, you know, here's the directions. And we went into her shop and what a Dave. It was every inch of inch was covered with material and invoices and envel. Yeah. I don't I don't know how she ran that business. There was like sewing machines here and sewing machines there and and it was like complete utter chaos and she loved it, you know, there and I think she had like one or two people helping her at the time, right? Was just going full blast and like her phone was ringing when we were there. Landlines mostly, right? Yeah. Right. you know, people needing suits and her shipping them out there and, you know, all the pictures, all the pictures on the wall, but not framed yet. You know, like Dave Columbo gives her a picture and it's just like put a tack on it. Right. Right. At some point when she unburies herself from all this work, you could tell that she was going to like, you know, seemed like she was going to make that office like quote professional, but I mean it was professional regardless because she put out a professional product. For years though, Chris, she would be backstage in all the shows, too. If you remember, the USA and the Nationals, and she'd be sewing back there, right backstage, fixing people suits for them, you know, sewing new ones. I can't even imagine like as big shows would come up, how many people would contact her and text her and call, you know, I don't like the red. I need to go with the green. You know, green. Or, you know, I, you know, I've dieted. I've lost five pounds, eight pounds more than I thought I was going to weigh my loose in the back, you know, cut from behind. She had a great eye um for, you know, what looked good aesthetically. Matter of fact, she's the one she created that suit where you you you kind of pinch it in the back, you know, like like most guys have like it's it's like this bloomery looking stuff in the back of the suit. And she decided to sew the seam there and pinch it a little bit. So they kind of cut in on your glutes so you can see the top of your glutes. And that was her that was her thing. And if you if you really think about it, all the girls that wear these these Brazilian, you know, spandex that they they sew the seam also down the butt cheek so you can see the the line in your butt. That really they stole it from her. I mean, she's the one who invented that essentially. She loved what she did. She loved bodybuilding. You know what, Dave? There's not a lot of people in the sport. I mean, there are, but people loved her. Straight across the board, you know, she was just she I mean, and here's one of the many reasons why, and it's not the primary reason. When Dave Plumbo said, you know, what do I owe you? She said nothing. I don't know how she did that with lots. Too many where she just here's the suit, you know, she put her time into it, which was not paid for. She put her material into it, her design into it, and often was not paid. And I know people too. I would love to name them, but I wouldn't want to embarrass them, but you could guess who. Uh Dave, I already gave up. Jay, I already gave up the Okay. You know, people who like Jay who would say she would say like, "No, it's free." It's like, "No way." Oh, he would make her take money. Oh, that's great. Day one. No. That's awesome. Yeah. Yeah. Well, he he was, you know, Jay Jay was a good guy. You know, she did Phil's Phil suits. She did she did almost everyone had her do the suits for I mean, I think she was actually better with the men's suits than the the women's suits because she understood, you know, a lot of a lot of people who do suits don't want to do men's suits because it's hard, you know, but um and there's not and there's not much not as much money from men's suits if you think about it. Yeah. She probably put Andreas Colin out of business. She did. People don't realize that, you know, people would buy suits from Andreas like online. He had like a little like a little like ad in the back of the uh Muscle Fitness and Flex and you would order. It was like an off the rack. It was there was nothing custom about them. They kind of just fit like under like this. They went 30. They were 26 to 28, 28 to 30, 30 to 32. And they were like third maybe 10 colors, right? And he came up with the he he had the like the Arnold type cut. Oh yeah. They had the Olympia cut and then they had the uh the right the high cut was the ones which you know were very slim around the hips so that you could see the you know quads more. Right. Right. Right. Right. You're right now I'm remembering. And that was innovation to come up with, you know, the the first person to cut posing trunks from like the traditional stuff that like Franco wore, Danny Padilla wore. Right. Right. So, and then she took that to a whole new level. Well, when we when we start the bodybuilding hall of fame, we'll we'll put her suits in there. The sewing machine, Dave. The sewing. There we go. Yeah, we got to get that sewing machine to the Hall of Fame for sure. Wow. Didn't even think about that. All right, I'm gonna pull up one more. Hold on. All the Dave, all the goofy stuff that sounds goofy. That's memorabilia. There's a segment of the population would like it. There's CJ Cynthia James sewing machine. There's Dexter's Trunks, you know, when he won the Arnold for the 50th time. Or when he set the alltime record with the most wins. Yeah. Unbelievable. We also lost another person. I don't know if you know who he is. Did you know the promoter John Hec? H E C. He promoted shows. Um I think he worked for Muscle. I think he worked for Joe Weider, too. Yeah, I know. You know, John, he's been around. He was around for years and he promoted shows in Pennsylvania. I I actually guest post for him. I believe it was in ' 01 at the NPC Pennsylvania or something like that. Um great guy was around. He knew everyone. He was around for a long time. He was He was already old when I met him in in 2002. So, he had to be pretty old when he died. John John Hec would remember every person's face and name. Oh, that's right. You're right. And John Hec would approach you like let's say he didn't know you, Dave Palumbo. He would come up to you and say, "Hey, Dave Palumbo." And he'd he he'd regurgitate your entire resume. I didn't know he had a photographic memory like that. and he'd introduce himself as John Hec. And I I met him John John worked when I was at the bodybuilding camp. We're talking 89 90. Yeah. John was up there with Life Fitness as a sales guy. So John Hec because he was he had gray hair then he gave the appearance of being older than he was even though he was an old that was you know I'm talking 1990. So what 90? I mean Oh wow. Oh, he had gray hair in 1990. Oh my god. Wow. How Dave, I don't know. I It might have been old age. I I don't I have to I have to look it up. By the way, I wanted to just I got to show you this one picture. Sergio Oliva Jr. posted this picture of CJ with her f with his father. Look at how young she is here. I didn't even know she went back that far. I mean, she was 65, but Oh, she had to be close to 65 years old. That's a great picture, isn't it? Of her and Sergio. Beautiful picture. She's so young there. Wow. I don't I don't I That was before I I think I I don't think I met her when she was that young. No, that had to be like, you know, mid 2008. No. No, that No, you think so? That had to be in the 90s, Chris. That picture maybe. It's a great picture, though. Leave it to Sergio to find the that picture. Uh, this is the best. Unbelievable. Wow. Love that. I Sergio, great job. That was a great picture you found, man. He's like Milos. Milos has pictures of everyone from all the way back in the in the 80s probably. Anyway, the the Epstein of bodybuilding photos. Epste has a photo of every single person who was important on the planet. I got news for you. If Titus was smart, he could have had he could have had the Epstein Files if he really if he played his cards right with all the parties he held. I got news for you. All right. Well, we want to send our condolences out to CJ's, you know, family, friends, and loved ones. And of course, uh John Hex, family, friends, and loved ones, and uh Val Kilmer, of course, too. So, we lost a lot of good people this past weekend. That's never fun, but it's part of life, obviously. Let's switch gears and let's get some really good information and some good vibes going. Good veto, no pun intended. Chris delivers. He wins uh the Arnold Classic in South America. We knew he had to be the favorite going in there. Talk to me a little bit about uh what he did right and why he won the show. Um, he won, you know, best guy on stage. I mean, freaky legs, freaky width, um, you know, big arms on the front elbow, you know, crazy glutes and hams, uh, small midsection on the absent thighs. You know, his vulnerability, of course, is a front lat spread, which I think is just the way he poses it. Yeah, I don't think he hit the right. You're right. I've never I've never met him. How's that? Oh, you everything's just been done via like text and and email. Three years and not one We haven't met ever. I love it. It's weird because I I you know, three years of competition. Of course, the first year he he didn't get the visa, which was completely devastating. Um but I' I've never even met the guy. And yeah, but he does he still uh have speak little English or does he is he better now? No, he's you know, as you know, he's he's he looks like Jay Cutler there. Well, yeah. That's why I put this picture up. Chris sent me this picture. He goes, "You got to see. He looks like a young Jay Cutler there." I said, "Yeah, he probably doesn't even know he's wearing he's probably wearing CJ Trunks he got somewhere." Yeah, he might be. He might be great. Great. Um I I was a little surprised that there there wasn't a better lineup there. That used to be a very popular show. I don't why why do you think the people aren't going to this show and down in Brazil? Is it too hard to get there? I mean I remember the years when Cedric and Ramy were there and you know it was a top level show. God they there were a lot of bon I mean I went down a couple years in a row. The lineup was extremely good. Yeah. I'm I'm just it's just it seems weird that that it wasn't better than what it was. I mean, they're probably probably not giving out chump change, I'd imagine, for prize money either. So, I don't know why people don't go down. I was surprised with the lineup, you know? I mean, I I didn't know what the lineup was until the show started, but like I was right expecting, you know, not expecting, but you would imagine so and so and so, you know, someone with a name be in the show. I mean, he looked he was really peaked out really well. There's some video out there that's not so good because it's it was a little cloudy, but this is this is good video right here. You can see how good he looks. I mean I mean I Chris I look at this and and I you know I'm not just saying this because obviously you're coaching him or he's here but but I mean I'm saying to myself I mean this guy could win Pittsburgh very easily you know against guys like Martin and Nick Walker. Yeah. You know you got you got to see them next to each other. I mean I don't want to jump the gun but I'm I I don't see many weaknesses in in his physique. He's his conditioning is crazy. He's got I think he's got better legs than Martin and and Nick and he's got a small waist. I mean, what is he missing? Not not too much. I mean, he um as you know, he I mean, in Detroit last year, I think he was behind um Martin. Yeah, he lost prejudging by a point and um you know, ended up getting second to Martin and a week later Martin was lost by a point to Nick. So, wasn't a week it wasn't a week later just to illustrate you know the level of competition between Martin and uh Nick where you we were there last year in New York and then back at just the week before two weeks before I think it was Detroit um you know where he compared really well with Martin and of course Martin goes on fourth at the Olympia. Well, you know, my take on what happened last year was that he should have beat Martin in Detroit, right? I I thought he had in Detroit. I I thought he had him easily. Martin, I think believed that he he didn't I don't think Martin thought he should have won because I talked to Martin and that's why he decided to do New York and then what he delivered in New York was really a knockout performance. Martin I Martin then beat Nick there. Unfortunately, they didn't let him beat Nick, but he did beat Nick and then he showed up at the Olympia. Great. But uh really I think there wouldn't be many people that would argue that the good veto easily could have beat Martin in Detroit, you know, last year. Well, I mean, not to take it is that the the reason I brought up that, you know, that Martin had beaten him by a point. So, I mean, people on judging panel, you know, there were some judges who felt that way as well. So, yeah, and good Veto weighs more this year than he did last year. So, by about 10 pounds. It's going to be a great rematch. I think people should be excited. The fact that Veto is going to, you know, now that I mean, he doesn't really need to do the show, but he's doing it anyway, which I think is great because we're going to see where he stands. I mean, Martin was fourth, right, last year at the Olympia. So, if I mean, if Veto wins or beats him and beats Nick, I mean, that really puts him into a top five conversation. If he doesn't, no one's expecting anything anyway. So, I mean, I don't think he has anything to lose in Pittsburgh. Yeah, I don't think he has anything to lose. And I think the fans will I mean it's it's turning out to be you know the show of the year really. Yeah. I mean got to be thrilled the fact that he's got such a great lineup from Pittsburgh. Yeah. You don't need 30 guys in a show when you have you know head like these that are running into the show. I mean Nick, think about it. Nick Martin good veto. I mean there's gonna be other guys that are good in the show too but I mean that's it. Derek is in the top show. Derek is in the show and oh and oh Derek you know what I blocked out I mean this is like an Olympian lineup here we got here you know this is incredible I mean I mean this is I mean this is look I know Jim was probably a little worried that hey we're not going to get the lineup that we normally do because the Arnold and the Olympia get it but you know what this is shaping up to be you know better than anyone expected and you know what a $100,000 on the line you know we'll do that and you know that once again I give you all the credit. Chris said consistently over and over, you're not seeing lineups at these shows because they're not giving away enough prize money. Jim makes a firstear show, gives away a hundred grand, and look at this lineup we got going there. So, yeah. I mean, people want to, you know, people, you can understand. I mean, I don't know what the prize money was down in uh South America for the Arnold, but you can just people wanting to, you know, save themselves for like the Olympia era or the Arnold, but here we are, Pittsburgh, 100 grand, and everyone's throwing their hat in. Yeah. Look, trying to look up the prize money. Keep talking. It's gonna be um you know you you've got this the Martin Nick story, you got the you know uh from a repeat of New York and then you got the Detroit Martin good story and then of course Derek just winning the Arnold coming into the show. I mean what's his face is looking good. Uh what's his face? What a way to mention him. Um the big giant German guy with the big giant arms. Yeah. Um, yeah, I know he's I'm just looking something up. Kozo. No, I mean, is Kriso doing that show, too? Yeah, he's doing the show. He's gonna be good. He's not German, though. But yeah, but he's um And someone else someone else uh slips in my mind. someone else's, you know, headliner. You know, Leandro Perez looked pretty good in that show, too. This past weekend, yeah, he put on in the last three years, a monumental a ton of muscle this guy put on. I'm trying to find some some video of him right now. In the last three years, he's put on He didn't get blown away by any means by by Veto. No. which I think is, you know, a testament to how good he was. Yeah. He he put on a ton of muscle and it's just got to, you know, sometimes it's it's not as dialed up when you put on a ton of muscle. You know what I mean? Only Kai Green put on a ton of muscle and have it dialed all at once. Right. Right. Right. I think people are going to be very very uh surprised and happy about this this uh Pittsburgh show that's coming up. I think people are going to lose their I wonder if all these guys will do the New York Pro also. Dude, the prejudging is going to be off the charts at Pittsburgh because I already I got my hotel room booked already. So good. I may have to crash there. Yes, that's fine. No, I I you know what? I I I want I literally I'm going because of this because of this lineup. I h I have to go. I I How can you not go to this thing? There's gonna be going to be disappointed. I I don't want to miss it. I'm I'm as a fan. I'm actually excited about the you know this show. There's not many shows I get excited. I was excited to go to the Arnold, too. You know, listen, Duke folded in the last two minutes yesterday, so anything can happen at the I know. I saw I saw that. My son is obsessed with Cooper flag. So, anything's possible. You're right. So, hold on a second. Let me pull this up. Where do you think Where do you see Leandro Perez, you know, a year or two from now? Is this is this a guy who could be on the Olympia stage? Yeah. Yeah. winning shows. He's going to win shows. Yeah, I think so, too. I think that uh he's he's big and he's got good shape and he's tall. All three of those. He doesn't have any body parts that are like missing. Yeah, he actually made good veto look short. I I you're right, which is is interesting. Yeah, it was a very good showing for him. you know, I'm sure he wanted to win like everyone else, but you know, he just ran ran up to somebody more seasoned than him or hardly, but just, you know, with more polish and just better at this point in time, but he's very Yeah, I think that uh we're going to see a lot of stuff from him in the future. It's terrible when you go up against third. Uh Cruz, what's his face? Yeah, he was too face. It's most insulting. What's his face? Cruz was Marcelo Marcia Marcelo the Cruz. Yeah, he was in very very good condition. Third with Andre Carlo. Everyone's from Brazil fourth and Kat Kataniano Faserini in fifth and there was only one guy in the whole show from Paraguay. Dave on the live stream. Take a guess how many people watching that show on the live stream. How many? 150,000. All Brazilian too probably. Yeah. That it, you know, it's funny because we always say the Middle East is like the mecca of bodybuilding in the sense that, you know, it's like the number one, you know, sport in their country behind soccer. And uh Brazil has got to be right up there with these guys. You know, they they love their bodybuilding, man. They really these guys are like all superstars there. So, I think in terms of a fan base, even though they're crazy, uh the the fan base, the Brazilian fan base is probably the best fan base to have in the world. Yeah. Because they're so passionate about about the sport, you know, unless you lose. Well, yeah. But yeah, but but I'm just saying they're they're passionate about like they they they get very emotional about it, too. And you know, I I look, I've been to a lot of you and I have both been to a lot of shows in in in Brazil. You can't walk through those expose. Those those people are crazy in the expo, you know, and no one speaks a word of English there. And they're but you could you could just they're like so happy to see you, you know? They're like hugging you and and grabbing you. Arnold, do you remember when you were at that at the what was the booth that you were at the Probiotica booth? Probiotica booth. And Arnold came to the booth with and and the Brazilian fans r he had the security. They and they rushed past the security. They Arnold looked like he was gonna he was gonna cry. Arnold was 20 feet from me and I had a he had a all the bodyguards clasping arms maybe like 25 people around Arnold and they broke through that clasp and they they like got Arnold like to grab him and Arnold's face was like complete chaos and panic. That was the show Dave. That was the expo. was so crowded that the fire marshall had shut the the door and then Eduardo wanted to pay 20 20 whatever 20 bucks you could let you could go out the back door and people would they would let people more people in. You know that there's that saying like squashed in like sardines. Yeah, that that metaphor hit home for me when I was there and Arnold was being rushed and I said that's it. I am leaving because you could not move with the amount of people and I think that was like the first or second year that they had it. Um, it's funny, Dave. Another Eduardo story is I went down to Brazil when Eduardo like come back number three or something when he had surgery and came back from like 130 lbs to 212. And it was the last year he competed. I think it was like 18 or 19. And uh, I went down and helped them prep the last week for the show there. And uh I remember seeing Good Vito backstage, right? And I like looked over and he like raised his eyebrows because you see him on stage. He's very animated. Yeah. And uh I just all I could see is like legs, you know, legs are gigantic. Yeah. Body has caught up a lot since. But he he had those wheels way back then. The funny thing is he didn't in the the I I did watch that show and his condition was like miles off but he still won the class based on you know when he hit a front double the width you know he had the width and the quads right it's like Jay you know Jay had the quads and the width yeah yeah he has he's very Jaylike I think his physique he just and matter of fact he has a smaller waist than Jay but I think Jay was a little wider than him but I think it all proportionally it kind of balances is out. I don't know if he can hold as much mass on his frame as Jay did, but I I like I said, I don't really see many weaknesses in his physique. And you know, when I look at a physique, I always look for weaknesses. And I don't see any gaps. His all his shots are very very powerful. You know, and like you said, until we see him standing next to some of these guys that are better than him or theoretically better than him, we're not going to really know if he can hold his own or not. I mean, what did he weigh on stage? 250. I mean, that that's pretty. And what is his height? 5'1. No, he's not 5'1. I I I think he might be uh 5'7. Oh, so he's a little shorter. Okay. So, that I mean that might be the only drawback. You know, he's might have some trouble with the taller guys like Samson and Andrew and some of the guys that are, you know, a little taller than him. But, you know, he's damn dangerous as far as I'm concerned. Now, I did see um an update, let me pull this up, of Nick Walker uh on at five weeks out. Let's pull this up. He looks like he's put a lot of size back on. They're not showing his legs. Upper body looks pretty big. I mean, what do you I mean, you can't really tell a lot from pictures, but what do you think? looks. He's very big. I I never look at pictures anymore because they're just Yeah. I mean, the lighting is very very uh weird, too, you know. I mean, it's judged these days by pictures because a picture's not worth a thousand words. It's worth a thousand filters. I'm not saying I'm not saying by any means that he's filtering his pictures. He looks tremendous. I just mean that you just can't tell anymore the way people look. I mean, Samson looks super dialed five weeks out, you know. Yeah, he looked about the same on stage as he did five weeks out. I'm not saying Nick is not going to change in five weeks. That right pictures can be deceiving, you know. Um I'll give you an example. I I didn't I thought Derek's pictures looked really good running into the Arnold, but I thought he looked a lot better in real real life than than the Arnold than pictures I had seen running up to the show. I I think Derek and and Good Veto are going to match up really well because they kind of like, you know, not maybe not. They're pretty similar in height. You know, they got, you know, they both got some freaky conditioning. You know, they both got really good legs. Back shots are dominant. I'd like I can't wait to see them on stage. I'm I'm kind of interested to see how Nick is going to, you know, fare in comparison with them. I mean, he he looks huge in those update pictures. His waist looks, you know, like his normal waist size. I mean, that's going to be tough for him to battle these guys with the tiny waists like Derek and and Veto and and and even Martin has a pretty small waist. So, he's going to have to try to outmass these guys and obviously out freak them. And you you know, Derek and and Veto have freak and so does Martin have freaky conditioning on stage. So, it's going to be a really tough battle. I think I think Nick's going to have trouble in this lineup unless some of these guys come in off a little bit. Uh, haven't seen Derek off this year. We haven't seen Veto off this year. Martin hasn't gotten on stage this year, but Martin has seemed to has uh figured out how to dial his conditioning really well. So, I I think it's going to be a very very very dangerous show for Nick to go into because if he doesn't do well here, it's, you know, his stock is going to go way down and I'm sure his his confidence in himself is going to go way down. Yeah. If he does win and dominate the show, maybe because he's bigger and freakier than everyone else, then obviously it's going to do the opposite. His stock is going to go way up and his confidence level is going to sore. But it it could be a disaster too for him. Yeah. It's funny how people frame it like the only negative is against Nick. I I'm not sure why it's like framed well because he's the guy everyone's billing as the next Mr. Olympia. He's building himself as the next Mr. Olympia. So if you're going to build yourself as as as a guy who's going to win the Olympia, you know, you got to deliver the next Olympia. Well, that answers that question then. Yeah. I mean, he's been saying I'm going to win the Olympia. So if you're going to win the Olympia, you got to deliver. I mean, he hasn't been on the Olympia stage in two years, and uh so this is the show for him to deliver. If he delivers the knockout punch and and and takes these guys out, then I have to believe that he he is really the guy maybe who's next in line. If he you know, especially if he beats Derek, who who is a former Mr. Olympian, just won the Arnold. But if he loses to these guys, then, you know, that brings his stock way down. So, you that's a lot of pressure for him, you know, and uh I hope he performs because I like him. He's a good guy. He's got AI like his physique. He's freaky looking, you know, coming as I was a mass monster myself, so with crazy conditioning, so I can relate to his physique, but it's it's not going to be a walk in the park. There's al there's a lot of good competition here in Pittsburgh. Yeah, it's uh it's going to be I mean, it's going to be uh it'll probably be a nailbiter. You know, there's just so many things that can happen and go wrong and for different people. And I mean, I just I think everyone's vulnerable when they're not at their very best. Yeah. You know, and I I you've seen that with with everyone. The names that we've mentioned, not everyone's come in at their very best all the time. So, uh, you know, what happens if everyone is at their very best? It's going to be hard. Yeah. You know, work through as a as a as a judge. Yeah. I agree with you 100%. Especially because you don't have like that weird factor of like, you know, like if hottie was in the show, we' just be talking like hottie's condition, right? Hatch it. And if Samson was in the show, we'd be saying, "Okay, he's going to be the biggest guy there." And you know, the whole nine yards, and the idea of where people would place would change, but due to like the height similarities of all of them, you know, no one's that much taller than the other, you know, and their own strengths and own weaknesses. I think we're going to see something gonna be incredible. Yeah. Did you see this uh this teen classic guy at the uh Arnold Brazil? Um I don't know this Brazil with crazy teenagers. You see this kid? He's pretty good. Let me see if I could crazy. I think years old. I think Edardo might go through it. I think Ed Duardo coaches him. I don't know. Dad was coaching a phenomenal uh teenager last year and the kid was 18. I think this is him. This is the kid right here. Yeah. You see who he tagged. He didn't I don't see him tagging anyone any coaches, but I mean for 19 years old, he got really good development. You know, there was a kid like I don't even know 15 in the show or something. There was something. Was there really phenomenal for 15? The Brazilians are Yeah, they're starting them young now. They're like, "We got to we got to keep this uh we got to nurture this this whole Brazilian thing that we got going on here." That's Bob. Bob would love that guy. He's like he's like a Vict Terra, you know? We'd be if Bob was with him, we'd be talking like 24 months winning the Olympia. He's got 60,000 followers already, you know. He'll probably have a million by by uh by Monday, you know. It's great. I love to see guys uh doing so well. Right. Would would Bob not have him like Bob be like, "Yeah, you can win the Olympia in two years." Oh, it'd be like, "Dave, what place you get in the in the in the show, the international show? I got second to a 21 to 20 year old." Yeah. What's your weight, Dave? 265. What was the kids weight? Oh, 193. You're right. You're right. Bob would always have a way of bringing someone in like some easily little weight. Yeah. Yeah. Here's, you know, I finally found the video I was looking for for a good veto verse Leandro Perez. Here we go. Here Dave, you you can handicap it with your bestel voice. Oh, hold on. You know, if Veto wasn't in the show, this guy wins. I mean, goes to the Olympia. I mean, it's it's, you know, he's that close. You know, Veto just had more wow and more, you know, firepower in his physique. That's all. I mean, that's all there is to say. Think there's a lot of firepower to it. You know, I noticed that Veto brings his elbows a little too low on that double bicep from behind. Yeah. I don't know why he does that. Does he realize he's doing that? Um, I don't know. Chris can't communicate. Can't communicate with him. Tell him to lift those elbows up a little higher, man. West cord hamstrings. Jay used to be able to hit both hamstrings like that. Yeah. J the the glute hamstring looks just like Jay. I think that's why we always keeps comparing him to Jay's physique because he's got that that same uh and he hits the side tricep the same as Jay, too. That side tricep he could he could hit a little bit better, I think. Yeah. Yeah, he can pull that. I think he's like slumping down on his waist too much. Too much. Great front double though. I love it. Excellent. Excellent. Good comparison right there. I was also I saw on Instagram that someone was saying that uh maybe Ronnie was saying it that Ronnie said he might walk again. Did you see that? I heard somebody somebody told me that. Hold on. Let me pull this up here. These these guys like uh I they scour the the I don't know how these social media guys they're like uh they scour the net for all these like stories, you know, that let me let me pull this. I got the president I got president of Mexico. I mean president of Brazil calling me. He wants to get on the show here. All right. Hold on a second. Let me pull this up here. Yeah, this is the story I found. Walk Ronnie Coleman comments on social media about his possible return to walking again in two years. So, let me see what he says here. Let's see if we can do this. Understands that that he's got stiffness there from the buildup of scar tissue and that's going to affect how all the joints move and that's going to affect how all of the muscles work to provide stability. And so, um, you know, he has a team of people that are kind of breaking down the different aspects of where the deficits are and then trying to work on each aspect separately, but then coordinate it together for the overall goal of getting them back to walking. Nice and easy. There you go. Good. Luc warmed up. I mean, most athletes have pretty good body awarenes down in the Puerto Varta where I went, the stem cell clinic there. Um, because my friend Daniel owns it. He's telling me that Ronnie comes every six months and gets stem cells right into his back. So, I mean this, you know what, if anyone can walk again, I I would say it's going to be Ryan. Now, Ronnie, remember, is not paralyzed. He just has he has so much his spine is so weak and there's so much there's so there was so much compression there uh you know all the the hardware they put in there that that's what was causing him to you know not be able to walk. So if anyone could strengthen themselves and and you know and basically put their mind where they need to be to make a comeback of that type and when we're talking about comeback I mean come back to walking again. I think Ronnie can do it. He's look he's like the he's the Michael Jordan of bodybuilding. You know if it's like you know they always say if you put your intention on what you want you can create it. I think that Ronnie believed so strongly in everything that he does. I mean he the guy won eight Mr. Olympias, right? I mean well he he uh he won eight Olympias and he he built a nutrition company. Yeah. And both of those you know I mean hard work begets hard work. Yeah. Yeah. And I know people who had worked for him for the supplement company and traveled with him and said, you know, his work ethic. I said, "Of course." You know, I mean, you saw that with bodybuilding. Yeah. He doesn't let the fact that he he he has to be in a wheelchair stop him from, you know, making all his appearances. He goes everywhere, this guy. And what a fitting way that would top off his career if he actually was able to start walking again. And you know, not only so think about Ronnie's, you know, rags to riches story, you know, he was delivering pizza, right? And then he and then he he got a job as a police officer and then he, you know, Brian Dobson gives him a free membership to the gym. If he decide if he if he agrees to compete, he competes after less than a year. He wins, you know, first show. He does the nationals against Kevin Levrone, Flex Wheel of Paul Deo, Matt Mendenhal, and he places fifth naturally, goes to the World Amateur Championships because no one else can can take a drug test because he's the only natural guy in the top five. He wins the whole overall, gets a pro card, and then he starts working, you know, you know, going to paying his own way to, you know, these these shows, the the European Grand Prix tour. He finds out that these guys are all taking steroids. He starts taking steroids. He starts winning pro shows. And then he finds out that the steroids he's taking is he's not taking really enough. He starts taking a little bit more and and he's winning Olympias after that. I mean, it's it's the story is incredible. It's just, you know, and then then he retires because he's got an injury to his back that turns into 25 surgeries later and the guy can't walk. He's in a wheelchair and then imagine if he starts walking again after the doctors tell him he'll never walk again. I mean, that's I mean, the greatest [\h__\h] comeback story of all time. And you know what? During this whole time period, Ronnie's demeanor, his personality, his outlook on life has never changed one iota. He's always positive. He's always smiling. He's always there for the fans. He's polite. He's, you know, he he doesn't have any regrets. His only regret is that he didn't lift 800 pounds on the squat for an extra two reps because he felt he he stopped short of doing all the reps. I mean, the guy is just like he's unbelievable. You know, you know who would have been a great training partner for him. Who? Take a guess. I don't think anyone can keep up with this guy. That's why I said take a guess. Think psychotic. I don't know who who John defenders. I don't know. Tom Black. Who? Plats. Oh, Tom. Yeah, probably. Yeah, two of them. Two lunatics. Gosh, they'd be there'd be two peas in a pod. They'd be nuts. Yeah. Yeah, buddy. I would We should That's what should They should have done a leg training sessions together back in the day. That would have been some video. That would be a video that would have six million views probably on YouTube. Well, the the whole idea that he did his whole career chest, shoulders, try next day back, legs, then repeated it with Sundays off, you know, you remember that that's, you know, every show we do goes full circle. Remember that squad off that that Tom Plattz had against Fred Hatfield? Speaking of Fred Hatfield, um, were they I think they did what, 500 for reps. Yeah. Who won that? Was it Platt won that or Hatfield? They were both crazy. Yeah, they're both great. Ronnie probably would have beat both of those guys. Ronald, this is easy, man. If only 500. We're only doing 500. Ronnie would have been Ronnie would have come to one of your bros versus pros, Dave, like five days out. No, because I I told you the story. I I'll end the story. Speaking of I was just talking to my good friend Jimmy Pletche earlier today, but um there was the we used to at the Metrics booth, they used to have a a contest, and I've told the story. If if you heard it, I'll repeat it. If you haven't, it's a good story. And at the Metrics booth back in the 90s, they would do Beat the Bull. So Jimmy the Bull would do reps like 225 on the bench, you know, uh he do 225 bicep curls. And so Jimmy was at the booth and every the whole weekend people would get to go and then Jimmy would be the last one to go. And that's that really was the beginning of Bros versus Pros. That's where I got the idea for it. So there be fans that would do a lot, you know, pretty were guys and then and then what Ronnie was sitting Ronnie worked for Metrics at the time and Ronnie's like, "Man, can I go too?" Now remember, Jimmy was training for this thing because he knew that at the Metrics booth at the Arnold and that we were going to do this contest. Ronnie didn't even know the contest was existing. So Jimmy's like, "Yeah, you could go." You know, he's like, "All right." So since Ronnie was a pro at the time, they're like, "You go right before Jimmy goes." So Ronnie got on the bench and did like like 80 reps with 225 or whatever they had on the bar. I don't even remember what was on the bar. And then he did like, you know, like like 90 reps with with with 225. And Jimmy couldn't do that many because Jimmy didn't think he had to beat anyone. You know, he knew he could beat the fans. He didn't think he had to beat Ronnie Coleman. And Ronnie hadn't practiced at all. But he was just so strong that he's like, "That's all the weight we're doing." Like it was like a joke for him. Yeah. Ronnie did full range motion on everything where you know Jimmy had this little short reps he was doing and uh and Ronnie won the he won the contest. That's how genetically gifted Ronnie was. Milos will probably watch this but maybe I'll tell him to watch it. Yeah, I've told the story before is before Ronnie came into his own he was really into his own. He competed I up in Montreal and uh I think Milos was in that show, right? Milos looked wild. He looked that was his all one of one of his had a lot of shows where he was really good. I think he was third there, right? Yep. And uh Wheeler was outstanding. Yeah. And those days they came out I think it would like you know they'd bring out like one guy at a time, you know, first guy out before the quarter turns to bring. So I think Gunter was in the show looked pretty good and yeah there like 30 40 guys in the show and Milos came out and Milos nobody knows how to present their body better than Milos. Well maybe maybe Wheeler. Yeah. Came out and he just looked so full, full full, full full. And I remember sitting in the audience thinking like, God, I wonder how he got that full on that, you know, there was a lot of fullness with, you know, just he looked tremendous and he looked very, very tight and separated. And then Wheeler came out, right? And Wheeler looked like Wheeler like phenomenal, phenomenal, phenomenal. And I thought, okay, he's going to definitely beat uh Milos. And then Ronnie came out and he just was absolutely diced out of his mind and rock hard and full. And Ronnie didn't even like I don't think he knew it. And after the show, he was signing autographs and I went up to him and said, "You are absolutely 100% gonna be Mr. Olympia." He beat You did him? He beat Flex. Yes. And Ronnie was like, "Huh? You think so?" I'm like, "Wow." And that was how many years was that? Two years before he became Mr. Olympia. Uh, three. Wow. You said that to him? Okay. I I didn't know you said that to him. I remember he I remember him wearing a uh a sweatshirt that was cut off at the arm and his arm you you you know his arms in his prime. Oh, they were insane. Yeah. His arms were the greatest arms in the history of history in his prime and 95. I mean they they nuts. how they were just he was signing autographs in his with I remember he had a blue pen and I just remember how his arms were so ridiculously big and in 95 if you look at if you look at pictures from that show his waist was tiny tiny right in the sport without a doubt without a doubt I mean if you want to put up Phil's front double at his best and back double at his best versus Ronnie from 95 Five. I will pick Ronnie all day long. Yeah, he he did have a small waist when he first came out. The back double the waist was like CJ wouldn't even CJ wouldn't know how to make a trunk for that body. He was He was imp he was impressive. You know what the funny thing about his arms are, John? Chris, I um it was his his bicep and his brachiialis are probably 95% of the size of his arm. He doesn't even have big triceps. No. But his it's all bicep and brachiialis. It's it's unbelievable. It's it's it's like it's like unre it's like an arm should not be able to do that, you know, to get that big. It's And they were big when he was natural, too. They were huge. And I remember he posed to a he posed this is how crazy impressive he was. Yeah. I what song Milos posed to. I don't know what song Jay posed to. I don't know what Lex or Cormier anyone posed to. He posed to a slow Barbara Stysan song because the audience just went berserk. Yeah. And you know what Lee Hay like man a good big man don't pose to Bob Stysan, right? Yeah. He was just he was another creature from another planet. I mean, the guy was just second to none, you know. I I like I said, I I really hope he does walk again. I I love the guy. I really do. I mean, there's there's nothing I've had such great interactions with him my whole bodybuilding career, and he's been nothing but genuine to me at all times. We we actually spent about eight hours together in a in a lounge in um uh Australia. the the airport lounge because our flight got delayed like half a day. And we laughed our asses off, Chris, for for eight hours straight. And uh you know, Ronnie just had no pretentions. He was just a downto-earth guy. You could sit and have a beer with the guy, you know, if he just met you, you know, and he would treat everyone exactly the same with with respect. He didn't think he's he doesn't think he's better than anyone. And that's why people love him so much. I mean, he's he's just he's just a real guy, you know? He's he's a guy that, like I said, that doesn't live higher than he needs to. He's just I know and I know that I know Flex has said this, but he's he's helped out a lot of people, too. A lot of bodybuilders that that were down on their luck, maybe needed some help financially. I know he's he's done things, and he doesn't talk about it, but he's done financial things and helped a lot of guys out. I'm not going to mention names, but uh that's the kind of guy he is. He's he's just very genuine. And uh like I said, if I if if he can walk again, I I would, you know, if there's a miracle out there, he will he will find it. I can guarantee it, you know. So just just just the name is intimidating, Dave, when when people getting ready for the Olympia for everyone. Coleman, right? Coleman. Yeah. Yeah. He was uh he was he was scary. Sounds big. Look, I give Jay credit because Jay always said, "I'm going to beat him eventually. I'm gonna beat him eventually." Now, the fact that Jay was a lot younger than him, you know, uh, made that reality happen for him. But, I mean, Ronnie really beat himself. Jay didn't beat Ronnie. Ronnie beat Ronnie. You know, Ronnie had an injury. His lat, you know, was deteriorating, you know, atrophing and and I I love Ronnie, too. But Jay did beat him on the scorecards in the 01 Olympia. Yeah, sure. I I understand that. But, you know, that was that that that was an off year for Ron. Ronnie was off. Basically, Ronnie beat Ronnie beat Ronnie in 01. Ronnie Coleman was not off at the 01 Olympia. He was addiction, wasn't he? No, just Jay Brought in double next level condition. Wasn't that the year that he said that he got he had to drink like 40 gallons of water in the morning or something like that because he was cramping a little bit? I don't know. The point is that Ronnie was unbelievable and uh you know that there'd probably be another never be another Ronnie Coleman. No, I don't I can't imagine as Lee Haney would say did Lee Haney won when Lee Haney won the uh 80 what year did Lee Haney win the Olympia? 85 was the first year or 84? 84 was the first year. Yeah, 84. Because I could have gone to see that darn show and I took the PS instead in high school. What a waste of time that was. That's that's why I said to my son when I dropped him off at college, don't worry about grades. Just just just graduate. Just get the diploma. I remember Lee Haney on uh Wide World of Sports ABC. Yeah, they interviewed him stage and what what was crazy is they interviewed like they interviewed all the guys in the show and the guys like when Lee Haney came on, you know, just took up more space on the you know his traps were huge and and like Coleman he said he said they said do you think you're going to win? He said oh yeah I'm going to win for absolutely sure. They said why are you so confident? He said mother nature only you broke you broke up. What do you say? Mother Nature what? Mother nature only whips up something like me every once in a while. That's great. That's a good That's a That's a classic. That's a classic. Well, once again, congratulations. Good veto going to the Mr. Olympia 2025 in October. And prayers once again out to CJ, Cynthia, James, family, and loved ones and John Hec as well. We are out of time. As we say, Chris, every week here at Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth still hurts. We'll see you next week.