Andrew Jack comes out victorious at the Fibo Pro and I'm here. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're back for another edition of Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm in Darien, Connecticut visiting my sister, but the technician Chris Aceto is in Cologne, Germany, coming off a fresh win for Andrew Jacked and a re-qualification for the 2025 Mr. Olympia competition. Chris, I first of all, I didn't know you were in Germany. Secondly, I didn't even know Andrew was going to do the show until you announced it like a day or two ago. And uh talk us through this how this whole thing came about. Was this always the plan? Germany. Andrew wanted to do FIBO. So I said, "Okay, FIBO." And he had uh visa. So, you know, he applied for the visa and he he didn't get it. Didn't get I mean, he just bottom line is the answer. He didn't get it. So, I was like, you know, you know, Andrew, I I kind of like have to know because you know, one, you're in prep, and then two, I mean, I have to make plans. I can't just like drop everything, which I I'll get to. I did drop everything. Yeah. How did you not get divorced and get get over to Germany? Well, that because of Andrew. Um uh Andrew, it's just too much, man. So, he couldn't get the visa. So, like like two weeks, two and a getting close to the show. I just gave up. I'm like, "Okay, I'm definitely not going." In fact, Sergio Sergio who was in the show texts me on on Wednesday or Thursday, which would have been 10 days out from the show. He said, "You're not going to FIBO, are you?" I said, "No, no, I'm not going." And when he found out I was at Fibo, he said, "What are you doing here?" You know, you just like thinking like I lied or something. I said, "Right, when you when you texted me, there was absolutely unequivocally no way I was going to FIBO." This was this was Friday. This was Friday before the show, which is what, eight days out, right? And Andrew lives in Dubai, so a Sunday is a work day. And he messaged me on Sunday. The afternoon, like five o'clock, 6 six 8 o' 8:00 p.m. my time. So 8:00 PM on Sunday, the visas just came. This is less than a week out from the show. Yeah. And I was like, "Oh my god." And so I like I I I go into my wife's office and I said, "I have to go." I was waiting for be a bullet to be shot into my head. I have to go to Ger I have to go to Germany. You know, our schedules are so busy. And she's like, "When?" Like in nine hours. So I I got online. I I found like the only flight that I could find. Wow. And how many connections did you have to make to get to Germany? Two. But I had to take AI had to take a bus from my town down to Boston. Oh my god. Holy mack. Three hours to get to to to to the Boston airport. Took a bus. Um so when I get back I just realizing right now Dave, you're saying like, "Oh, can you do the show on Sunday?" That's why I get home tomorrow night at 11. That's why we're doing the show now when we are. Yeah, exactly. I gotta take the Well, we have someone's anniversary today, too, which you We'll talk about. Um, so I I take the bus down, I fly to Germany, and I get in here at 10:00 a.m. on uh Tuesday, and Andrew was supposed to come like midnight on Tuesday, like same day or and but his but something there was a travel issue and he didn't get in until Thursday morning, which would like 3:00 in the morning. So, not Wednesday midnight, but one, two, three. And I, you know, he's I said, "There's no way. I have to see you Thursday." So, you got you actually got there and he wasn't there for two days. Wow. And so, uh, he didn't get into Thursday at 3:00 in the morning. And I said, "There's no way you'll, you know, you're going to be so tired because flight from Dubai." Then he had to take a train after taking a he took it like a a train in from Frankfurt. Oh my god. Holy. And um stress. Yeah. So like 3 in the morning he gets in and I said, you know, that that leaves us like a day and a half. I I have to see you at 3 in the morning, right? See what's going on. And and uh and I did. And then uh I just it's just like two days just flew by and and the show was today. I mean, it just was like a blank. But I will say he put me up in the Turkish section of Cologne, so I I I fit right in. Um, because you're Turkish. Yeah. Yeah. And Well, the All Turks are Muslims. This is a good He looks good here in this night at night time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And the food on the his I stayed at one end of the street. He stayed at the other end of the street. And to get to his apartment from mine, I'd have to go by like 18 different restaurants. And I've never eaten so much good food about in in years. Yeah, I love Middle Eastern food, man. That's You were lucky. I'm a little jealous of that. Let me ask you a question. What do you weigh here? I haven't weighed I haven't asked him for his weight in He looks like he's 300 pounds here. I mean, oh, definitely. I have I Dave I have not asked him for his weight in in six months because I just go by the scale and by the mirror. Yeah. I don't even want to know. He's not he's not been on the scale in six months. I'm sure you told me I I because I saw his his his videos from the prejudging and he looked a little watery to me and you said you you knocked out six pounds down, right? Yeah, about six. I mean, he was just he was holding like a film in prejudging. And you know, the fact is is that well, not the the fact is is the issue was that um like I like to try to deplete him, you know, like a couple days, but he didn't even know he was doing the show until he had the visa in the hand. Right. So that was Sunday and he was supposed to travel on Monday. So I think I cut his carbs down low for like a day and um like you know at the Arnold I was with him like eight days before the show and here I was there like a day and a half. Um so he had like a film in prejudging which I knew I I knew it. Um, and you know, I just knew if he didn't drink between prejudging and finals, um, that, you know, he would tighten up. And a lot of people don't realize Sass Herate was winning the show after prejudging. Yeah. He was running by a point. Look at the scorecards, he was up by a point. Yeah. After prejudging. And, uh, you know, Andrew came back at night better. Obviously, obviously Andrew is a better bodybuilder, but you know, he was he was definitely holding a lot of water. I was very surprised that uh and how he looked, but you somehow pulled a miracle. Thank god you actually went there. Imagine you weren't there, Chris. Well, the the whole point is, you know, I prep Sass and um who looked absolutely stunning. Um uh and you know, and I love SAS. Uh, but I have this like different relationship with Andrew, which is I mean I don't go to shows for people. No offense to people, but you know, like Andrew's close with my son, and I'm close with Andrew, and Andrew's done a lot of things. I know this is embarrassing, Andrew. You've done a lot of good things for people that only I know about. Um, so, you know, it's payback. You know, I I would definitely I come to any show wherever it is to support him because I know what he's done for people and he's probably get angsty just hearing me say that because he's like a low-key guy who doesn't want agilation and doesn't want to be thanked for things. So, there was no way I wasn't I was not going to come to the show. So, got um Well, the last person that won Fibo was another guy you were very close to, Cedric McMillan, who right before the show, Chris and I were talking. We always do the the pregame shows is better than the regular show, but we can't put the pregame show up or we would be Oh, it's so funny. It's ridiculous. We would be dead for life from everything. But we were talking about Cedric and I said, "You know what? Something's bothering me." I I got like like I felt like Cedric was sitting on my shoulder or something like that. And I went and I looked up because I remember Cedric passed away around this time of year. And I went and I looked up and I said, "What date was Cedric McMillan did he pass?" And it turns out it's April 12th, the day we're taping the show, and it was uncanny. I was like, "Chris, you're not going to believe this." We're talking about Cedric and telling funny stories about him. And you know what? This was the day he passed. Uh, so when when Cedric won this show, it was the first time he met Guy. Guy was backstage. And Cedric sent brought me backstage and uh he said, "Put the oil on me." I put so much oil on him, Dave, that like he was diced for the show and like the the judges just like screamed at him like when he he first came out. And so I went backstage because he he had called me come backstage and and Guy was and he said man he said the guy I'll never forget it. He said this white boy thinking he he's he's he's using Armorall on I I he put he put more oil on me than than a white I don't know card car uh puts uses Armorall Armorall on on rims or tires. And guys, guys said to me like, "What what what were you thinking?" I said, "I don't know how to put oil on. I don't know." I thought like like more is better. Like anabolic more is better. Like put tons of oil on them. Cedric's commentary was always second to none. There's there's no one that had better commentary than he did. He he he had the most insightful things and and the the wittiest things he would say about people and and and he was always 100% accurate too about it. That that's the funny thing. Yeah. He he was so insightful when it comes to so many things, politics, people. Uh this was the best though when when Cedric won the Arnold Classic, which I believe was was that his last victory? Believe it was. Yeah. 2017. Yeah. Yeah. and uh he gave that acceptance speech and he was making Arnold hit poses and breaking Arnold's balls. Yeah, that might go down as the greatest Arnold competitor interaction of all time because most of the time Arnold says, "Oh, what did you eat? How much did you train your abs?" You know, and everyone gives the same, you know, answer, you know, 14 chicken breasts and yeah, I train my abs every day. Cedric would like turned it around on Arnold and he's like, "Let me ask you a question, you know." Yeah. Best acceptance speeches of all time. Even better than the big Sean Allen acceptance speech when he won the North American Arnold came up to him that after when he got second to Kai Green and he won the prejudging, right, unanimously, but they judged the the posing as 50% of the damn routine or whatever. So Arnold came up to Cedric backstage and I saw Arnold's head fall back in laughter. said, "What did you say?" Arnold told him to like come to like the next show, which is the Arnold, I don't know, whatever. Like Brazil or something. Yeah. Yeah. And and Cedric said to him like, "Man, nothing's changed after 400 years. You still, you white guys are still trying to get take advantage something, you know, telling telling a grown black man what to do." Arnold lost it laughing. He he had a way of being very funny. Dave, it was the delivery that he had. Well, he was like Muhammad Ali. Muhammad Ali did the same thing to all the reporters that would always interview him. He would always say, "You you white guys are always, you know, trying to take advantage of us black." But he said it in such a funny way that you you couldn't be mad at him. It was it was it was very hysterical. It was like tongue and cheek almost, you know, but but there was a always a level of of truth to everything he said at the same time. Oh, yeah. Cedric was very also very sarcastic and and and and was very observant and all his comments were comedic, but there always was a little bit of truth behind what he was saying. Like he was trying to get a little dig in on people, you know, all the time. Yeah. Yeah. And look, he he I I miss him. I mean, his personality, his his presence at the shows. I mean, really, that was 12 years ago that he won the show. Tibo. Wow. It was that long ago. I wonder why Fibo waited so long to have a show. You know, our very own Sid was out there as well, obviously, as you know, doing a little bit of announcing. And he he couldn't believe how big the expo was. He's like, "Dave, it took me like a half hour to walk across the hall." I said, "You didn't even you didn't even see all the halls." I said, "I've been there. It it's if anyone's ever like thinking, hey, you know what? I want to go see an incredible uh fitness expo." Pho is makes the Arnold Classic look like it's like a junior event. Yeah. And it's absolutely mind-boggling how many booths are there. It really is. Dave, you'll laugh. I was I was uh backstage. They they had like a they didn't at the night show there was there was no such thing. They didn't have any space at all. Zero. There was no backstage space where they had it, right? So they like you would leave the auditorium, walk 30 yards and they had this kind of like pavilion where you could with picnic tables and it was nice where where the athletes hang out and stuff and it was like kind of like open air, right? And this guy comes up to me and guy in a classic show and uh he said, "Hey Chris." I said, "Yeah." And Andrew was like right near me and he says, "You know, I was just tired and I've been here a week and I make fake talk with people a lot. Just I'm tired. You know, I don't want to be rude." And he says, "Your boy looks good." And I'm like, "Yeah, whatever. I thinking I don't I just don't want to talk to anyone." He said, "Hey, I'm telling you, your boy looks good." And I said, "Yeah, you know, he's tighter tonight." And he's like looking at me like, "What are you talking?" He's thinking like he has this confused face. He said, And I look at him and I said, 'N no. Yeah, definitely. I think Andrew's tighter tonight. You'll say. He said, 'N no, Andrew's not your boy. Your boy, your son. They're all your They're all your sons. All these guys, Chris, let's take a look at this lineup here. Andrew obviously in the red trunks. Sass next to him. Sergio Lever Jr. to his right. How was Sergio? I felt that he was also a little smooth at prejudging. Well, let me say this. The um I I should send them to you if you want to post them up. Like um Sass was in the condition of the ages literally. And you can't see it in this lighting, but Well, no, you can. He was in You can see how tiny he is. He's rainy hard. Yeah. Yeah. And so like in prejudging, I had saw him backstage and I I thought like, "Oh my gosh, that is just like light double out condition." And I just seen him, you know, 10 minutes before he came out on stage. I'm like, "Gosh, he's not really he's in good condition, but not that good condition." You know, I said, "I wonder if he spilled or something or, you know, something." And then and then uh you know I realized that the prejudging lights were kind of like watering out. Not watering out made people look not like the condition that they really really truly had. Um and then the venue at night had better lighting uh because it was it was a whole different venue compared to the morning. The morning it was at the expo. Um and then the night show of course was at this you know nice theater. Yeah. So you you think Sass took out Sergio because of conditioning? Yeah, his condition was just too much. I mean it was it was like freaky condition. Now you didn't work with you didn't work with Sergio. I know Sergio had switched coaches. He told me when I interviewed with the Right. Yeah. No, I didn't work with Sergio. I suspect he'll be he'll be he'll be getting a phone call from him probably tomorrow. I thought I thought his I thought his back was flat and that's about it. you know, if if I want to make a like a negative comment. His tan really wasn't that great either. I thought Yeah, Dave, you you know what? He was a little light um in terms of a tan. Definitely a little on the light side. Yeah. Um you know, um his front lat was very good, his front double was very good. Uh side shots were were good. Absent thighs was good. Most muscular was good. Just, you know, the back double, right? You know, looked like it was holding some fluid. There's the back lat. And there's the back double. Yeah, you can see his lower back is not looking so so dry. So, yeah, Sass's conditioning was the German guy. Is that the German guy to the left? Great condition, too. Yeah, really good. Yeah, he's really good. Yeah. What would you say his potential is for the future? Um, you know, he do do good in shows. Just just so many good guys right now. I know. You know, I mean, Assassin's just coming off second place to Bonak that, you know, I saw William and William said it's the best end. So, you know, SAS if I if I he said he would have beat me if I looked like I had at the the Arnold. Bonac so honest. Yeah, know he is. Justin Musil from Germany was was number four just if you want to know his name. Uh then uh in fifth place was Joseph Cavetan from Czech Republic. So that was the that was rounding out the top five. Winning the classic was Valentine Petra from Bulgaria. Jennifer Ziner from Germany won the women's figure and then bikini was won by Ivana Escanda from the USA. So, uh, was it was good. Four four good divisions they had at the show. And I think that hopefully FIBO keeps this going next year. Yeah. I hope they have it next year because I would like to form some kind of a media partnership with them like we used to do in the past where we would come out there and we would cover the show like more completely. Yeah. Because I think it deserves the it really deserves it. You know what I mean? It it's I think they kind of threw it at the last minute. They really weren't, you know, they didn't prepare for this show as it if they were preparing for the expo. The expo is like run in typical German fashion so so beautifully, so so effortlessly. And then the bodybuilding show they kind of threw together at the last minute. And so hopefully they can get that thing a little bit more tweaked out. They want our help and you know they want to bring us in. You know, I know Sid was there, you were there. If I come in next year or something like that and we cover that show. Yeah. the the night show the final show completely sold out. Yeah, the European fans are just nuts for bodybuilding and good good energetic audience. Yeah, you got you know Germany is a great place to hold the show and they I'm surprised they don't have more pro shows here to be honest with you. But I'm glad that they brought the Fibo back. It seems like uh you know it was the right move to make and I'm glad they did it. And you know what, I like I said, I didn't know Andrew was was going to be uh re-qualifying here, but he really um I'm glad he got it got it out of the way. Now, is Andrew going to still do Texas and defend that title, or is he done till the Olympics? No, he's gonna he's going to do, you know, he's got a lot of time to, you know, let his body rest. That doesn't mean not train, but um you know come up with a good plan going forward to to make a run at the Olympia, which I I've already said. I mean, if you go he's he's he's he's remarkable. Look at those night show like front lat spread, front double side chop. It's just he's got so many tools. He's he's devastating for sure. So, it's that's another another hat in the ring. Are we going to see him at uh maybe in Pittsburgh doing any guest posing or is he kind of No, no, no. He's gonna he's laying low. Yeah, lay low like he always does. He's, you know, I've done he's just he's a uh he's a very thoughtful uh very smart uh thoughtful more than anything. um respectful person. It's it's like he's he bodybuilds, but he's he's not really involved. It's just it's weird. He's a little detached. Yeah. From it. That's that's focuses on himself, which is amazing, you know, and he doesn't take, you know, he doesn't take anything for granted. Um and he you know there's there's people who like have camaraderie and like respect for their fellow competitors. Uh it's kind of like it's people people they they have a genuine there's a lot of bodybuilders who have a lot of respect for each other you know at the IPB but he has like he speaks so highly of like people who he competes against at the Olympia Arnold you know it's a rare it's such a rare trait you know and he wins shows or loses shows and it's the same you know if he wins you know I I I know the improvements I need to make and if he loses I know the improvements I need to make and back to back to work. Yeah. Well, you know, show's over and I said, "All right, I'll see you." You know, good night. You know, you won't talk to him for two months now probably. Yeah. Yeah. I'll probably talk to him like and Sass is gonna do Spain and he should Dubai. So, you know, hopefully he'll be able to win one of those shows um and and qualify for the Olympics. He had a six year layoff. I was just going to say, you know, a lot of people saying, "Oh, Sergio hasn't competed for a few years and and it's a great comeback for him." But Sass hadn't competed for, like you said, six years. So, I mean, that's that's probably the best comeback we've ever seen, right? Yeah. Best come. I mean, and he come not only comes back, but he's better than ever and and he's going up and he's he's a big threat to Andrew this week and he's a big threat to Bonak two weeks ago or last week a whole lot. I think it was two weeks ago. I think he'll qualify. I think if he keeps hitting it, the good thing is he can maintain that conditioning and keep going, then he's going to he's going to re-qualify. Now, I wanted to bring up the uh I want to show Valentine Petro who won the classic. How's this got to get going to do with the Olympia, Chris? Oh god. You know, I thought it's so funny you asked, Dave, because I I thought like just the classic I mean, the top two or top three, four, they were all extremely good. He looks like he could have done well in the open, this guy. Yeah. You know what? He had more of a from Bulgaria. Thicker build compared to the guy got second. like that. I The guy got second had more of an X frame, which is usually what the judges, you know, lean toward. Omar Ba came in second from Finland. Yeah. Yep. And uh I think that that was Omar's first pro show. Oh, really? Wow. Yeah. Amazing. Oh, I saw Omar backstage and he he he introduced himself and I said and I I'd seen him at prejudging and I knew he was in the the the last call out, right? Mhm. It was the the last call out was just two people and I said to, you know, encourage him. I said, "Were you in the last call out?" He's like, "Last call out?" I was in the first call out. You meant Yeah. the last the last one for the show? Yeah. Anyway, I said, "You can have nine people in the first call out." I said, "What's important is the very last call out." Yeah. Yeah. The last call out with just two people. And he laughed. He said, "Yeah, yeah." I said, "The last call out is the best." He said, "I thought you meant last call out of like he was doing terrible." Yeah, exactly. That's funny. Hold on. Let me Let me pull up some I got some footage here. These guys There they are. Right there. Mono. OMar and his name is Momar. Maromar M O M A R not Omar but it's Mar and this is Valentine Petrov on the left who won. Yeah, this this kid on the right Chris has some serious potential, right? Yeah, look at that. He's almost I I thought I think he's better from behind, right? I thought he looked very He had a very winnable physique. Yeah, I'm I'm shocked that they they went with the I guess Valentine has a little bit more muscle maturity, maybe a little more thickness, but but I think the other guy has a better classic physique, don't you? Yeah. Yeah, he has a better typical, you know, beautiful classic structure. And I thought that they would and he was in good good enough condition for sure for that structure like where you would just say, "Okay, I'm going to go with this guy." You know, I would imagine it was a close decision. I'll tell you exactly what the decision was. It was Nope. It was unanimous first places for Valentine and got second. The winner had very, you know, paper thin skin. So, um, you know, maybe that's what gave him the nod. This kid could be good, though. Uh, this the second place guy, the mmer. He's, uh, he's dangerous, you know, with that structure. Yeah, he I don't know. He he looks a he reminds me a little like Chris Cormier. I don't know why what what the Chris why I'm thinking seeing Chris Cormier in his face all Cormier sat behind me at prejudge and I said I said, "What what do you think, Sass or or uh or Andrew?" And he said he said Andrew's got too much firepower. Yeah. He's on the he's on the Andrew freight train. I know that. So was Cormier helping him with his posing? Uh did Cormier help him with his posing? I don't think so. I don't think so. Cormier was been in Spain for a week doing some type of promotions. Then he came over Germany. I think he had people on the show who, you know, that helped with training and stuff. Let's look Let's look at Andrew at prejudging because it's a it's a it's a world of difference from what he looked like here to Yeah. the night show. And this I don't know. The lighting also looks really too bright here. So, I don't know if that's a problem also. Yeah. Yeah. the the lighting was very You can see you can see that that you definitely dried him out because I I see it in the glutes and the lower back, too. I mean, he's much drier at night. Yeah, he's much I mean you he was he was fairly devastating at night. Did you did you feed him anything after the prejud or you just kind of depleted him water-wise? Um I depleted him water-wise and gave him like a giant plate of French fries. Did you really? A little salt. Yeah. Yeah. Probably helped them too. People don't realize when you're really when you're kind of close to being dry enough, you know, and and sometimes you're a little over depleted, like a high sodium greasy meal for some reason works wonders on a body. You do that the night, you do that the day before the show, it can be a disaster, right? But once you're dry and stuff like that, it seems to work really well. I don't know. Kind of pulls the water. You have Do you have the video? There's a really good video of him and SAS at the end side by side. Let me see that finals. It's a great video. Let me see if I have the Let's see if you if Sid put that one up. Oh, this Want me email? I Yeah, I have the pictures. Let me I I can show the pictures. Here's the pictures, Chris. Yeah. And and you can see Andrew's just got too many bells and whistles. Andrew's like going against like uh like Barry Bonds in baseball, you know, trying to hit more home runs than him. Andrew's like a monster on stage. I mean, Sass is is no slouch. How much does Sass 250? 240. Yeah. And andrew looks like he's like like 30 like 40 pounds more than him. He probably is. That's the funny thing. Here's a good one. Dagram. Where should I send it to you? Send it to my Can you send it to my Instagram? Message it there. This way. We can uh take a look at that. Andrew's I I got to tell you for you guys who, you know, don't know, but Andrew in person is very very impressive, too. It's hard to to even explain it to people. I see this. All right, let's put this up here. You want to walk us through this, Chris? You're You're muted, Chris. I can't hear you. I lost Chris, but we're going to watch this side chest. This is Andrew's pose all day long. Although SAS has that really, really good lower leg, a lot of striations in the glutes, side leg looks phenomenal. Back double SAS definitely has better conditioning in the hamstrings and glutes. Andrew's back is just freaking enormous. But look at those lower latrations on Sassarati. Very impressive. There's no doubt that Sass is the most conditioned guy in the show, more so than Andrew. Just doesn't have those bells and whistles. Look at how big Andrew's back lat spread is. This is just super impressive. This is where he he really dominates in my book. That back lat spread is huge, Chris, of uh Andrews. Look, look. Yeah, he just he he looks col. Look at the pecs hanging. Yeah, he's he's just he just has too much too much firepower to to for SAS to beat him. You know, Sass did as much as he possibly could given his physique that he had to work with. He maximized it and I applaud him for that because you know what? When you bring your best to the stage, you got to feel good about yourself because you're like, you know what? I'm I'm the best that I can be. And if that's not good enough to beat this genetic freak from another planet, then then then that's fine. But at least he knows that he was at his all-time best. And he's obviously better conditioned than Andrew here. But Andrew just has too many too many gifts to his physique. I mean, even that front lat spread is enormous. Look, his I gotta say, Andrew's legs look pretty damn big in these in this video. He doesn't look like his legs are lagging behind like they were last year. Well, which will bode well for him come Olympia time. Yeah. All he needs to do, I'm telling you, is just put, you know, he he's just gonna take this size right here and and just, you know, three pounds less or Yeah. two pounds less and it's it's lights out. Yeah, he could easily win the Olympia then. It'll be interesting to see if that's uh that comes to fruition. So, I am, like I said, I'm out up here in Connecticut visiting my sister and then I I went to a gym, you know, you know, I love I love hardcore gyms, first of all. I love gyms that that really cater to bodybuilders. There's a fourstory gym in Mamarin in Westchester uh called Pro Body. It's I think it's relatively new and uh you know I know a few my friend Frank Wilhelm works there works out there and trains people there. Uh Marco Rivera and his wife Yoshyra train people there. Uh my friend Donna Restivo Donna Sterling now she um Marco Rivera. Marco Rivera. My kids know Marco Rivera's name. Oh they how do they know Marco Rivera? Because I always tell them, never spray the the cooking spray on the pan when it's on the gas stove because that's how Yeah. That's how like got injured one year. Yeah. He blew almost blew himself up. Right. Yeah. And and I always tell them like when they like my 11-year-old wants to cook like eggs or something, I'd scream at the top of my lungs. I said, "You're gonna end up like Marco Rivera. They don't even know who Marco Rivera is." So this Yeah, that's in the middle. That's Wendy. She's the owner of the gym. There's Marco on on the right with his wife Yashyra who's a former bikini Olympia champ. That's Kareth Bajjo who I'm working with again, Chris for the 25 season. And he'll be doing the Texas Pro actually in the open. He's going to do the open there and then he'll be doing the 212 Olympia come October. So got a little uh jam session in there. The gym is amazing. It's four levels. One level is all legs, one level is all upper body, one level is functional training, and then there's the intro level where there's like, you know, abs and stuff like that. The gym is it's like you're in a Vegas casino, Chris. You know, when you're going to a Vegas casino, you're not really sure what time it is. It's like it's like you you know it you know it's you know it's like night time, but you're not really sure what time it is because you can't tell what's going on outside. That's what the gym's like. It has this like almost nightclubish like appearance to it which which I really love and uh I I think they did a great job with it. I I'm I I'm jealous. I almost wish it was in my own backyard because I I'd be training there every single day. I love it. Here's uh show this picture here. This was with Kareth and Donna sporting her EC shirt and Scott her husband. So great time here at Pro Body. got a great workout in and uh we were they have a posing room too with the you know the slanted mirrors so you can see behind you when you pose. I was putting Donna's daughter who I'm training, you know, through her figure mandatories and then we were doing um Carrot's posing and Marco was in there and they were it I felt it was the old days at Gold's Gym Venice where you know you just everyone's helping everyone you know yeah move here, move this, change your back, don't lean over so far, you know, we're all giving each other advice. It was it was cool. You know, I I kind of miss those days where we would spend the whole day in the gym. You know, you'd work out, you'd eat your meal, you know, other people would come in, you'd go into the posing room, you do a little cardio, you eat again, you know, come back out, you hang out. Oh, more people would come to the gym that you knew. It's Speaking of gym, I I posted a picture of me and Ed Connors, Dave, I saw that. Yeah. Hang on. Let me pull that up. Oh, man. I told What was Ed doing there? Ed went and um he he just went because they had a bodybuilding show and he loves Europe and he they haven't had FIBO for years, right? And it was an excuse to he had to be in Spain for something to meet someone he said. So he said, "You know, I killed two birds with one stone and come to Fibo." And Jay had text me because Jay had had breakfast with him like the day before and I turned around and there's Ed and I I was thinking of Ed when Jay said he had breakfast with him because right Ed I mean we've talked about him before but he's still going. He loves it to death. He loves bodybuilding and um he gave me a job when I was 22 years old. He actually I said in the post he said, "You want to manage a gym for me?" And I thought he Oh, you know what I thought? I thought he wanted me to manage Gold's Venice. Oh my god, that's so funny. Yeah. I'm like, "You want me to manage the gym?" He said, "Not this gym gym." because they had the franchising and and he and it was like way in the desert in California and I'm like and I just want to be like in Venice, you know, right? And he said well that you know he he got me started out there. He said um you prep some you know you prep people for free and there won't be many of them. I've told that story before. I'm not going to overburden you and you can have uh an office next to mine and I got to use his secretary. Did you really? Oh my god. Oh yeah. So people could be like I had a full-time secretary for free. It was his. So like you come you'd sit in the waiting room and and someone with the the girl would like the B was old time. Remember the old time like? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The intercom speakers. Intercom systems which was high tech back then. And Oh yeah. and she'd say, "Chris, are you in?" And then she'd have a very professional voice and I'd say, "Yes, I'm in." And she'd say, "So and so wants to come see you." And I'd say, "Send him back." You know, I'm surprised given your relationship with Ed, I'm surprised that you never opened a Gold's gym in like Maine somewhere. Yeah. Well, I just I wasn't I didn't like I didn't like I didn't like the gyms. You didn't want to do a gym. You never had like a an inkling to do that. No. You know what? And I I did not I I don't know if I posted that in that Instagram, but I used to work. I told Ed this. I said, "Ed, I used to show up at the gym at 5:30 in the morning. The only other person would be there like consistently." No, Charles Glass. Oh. Oh, you mean in Venice. Okay. Dennis. I'd be there at 5:30 in the morning. I'd train in the morning and then I'd work all the way up to 8:00 and I'd do that Monday through Saturday and on Sundays I'd do 11 to 4. I did that two years straight. Two full years non two and a half years non-stop. Wow. Yeah. That's crazy. That is crazy. You gota if you want to do the gym business, you got to really love I told you you got to love the gym. I'm always having people ask me, open a gym. I was talking with I was talking with Donna, my friend Donna, and she was she's like, "I'll run the gym, you know. I'll move down to Florida." Like, "Yeah, you never know. You never know what I might do." I wouldn't I wouldn't be if I opened the gym, it would have to be like a very exclusive bodybuilding gym where I didn't have to really depend on memberships, but it would be if you wanted to join, it would have to be very expensive. Like, if you want to hang out with all the top bodybuilders, I let the bodybuilders train for free, but everyone else has to pay, but it would be very expensive to join there. Oh, by the way, I did see breaking news. I saw Derek uh Lovesford when I was here. Oh, he he was in Germany, too. He was in Germany and I went to his room to How does he look getting ready for Pittsburgh? You guys are in trouble. Uh oh. Really? That good, huh? Full full stop. You're in trouble. Really? Oh, you don't give you don't give out too many compliment. I'll make it big time trouble. Wow. That's awesome. I can't wait. What a battle that's going to be, Chris. When we get when we get to Pittsburgh, I got to book my flight. I have the hotel, but I forgot to book the flight. Yeah, I can't. I'm that one. I'll tell my wife three weeks, four weeks. I'll tell her this week that I'm going rather than I got to go when? Um, eight hours from now. You You might be better off with the with the short with the short notification time because there there's not there's not much thinking time involved in that. So, you I thought you were gonna say I thought you were gonna say you might be better off with the short guys. The problem with you is that you have to go a week before with these guys. So that that's a long that's a long haul, you know. You know, it's just I have a lot I don't I just Yeah. I have a such a bus like you, Dave. Such a busy life. You know, three kids, four kids. I have It's you know, I have a other stuff that I'm committed to. It's just like, oh my god, to get away is a disaster. I can't even imagine how busy I'm going to be on Monday. I I noticed. Is this some kind of app or something like that? Have you seen these like little Hold on. Have you se Have you seen this stuff like where they have like everyone's like, "Would you buy one of these?" You know, and it's like these like little mini uh bodybuilding figures. And Derek, someone someone did one. What's it been called? Alexi, the guy who did my who did my who did my um documentary. He made one, too, I think. Hold on. Let me let me show you mine. You get a snake, you get a McDonald's bag, and you get a printer. A printer because I was yelling at the printer in my documentary. So, someone should make these. I think people would fire on the bottom. You don't get a little small can of fire. Dave, you should put the fire. What's his name? You want to add I can go over to the kitchen and I can show you that I didn't bring any anabolics, but I did bring my fiber over there. I never leave home without it, Chris. Remember that. Sitting over there right on the the Airbnb counter. I was in uh one of the Crunch Fitnesses uh on I think it was Friday. Yeah, Friday yesterday. And I was training and uh J, you remember James Rivo, Donna's ex-husband? Oh, yeah. Yeah. He works there. So, I was in there and we were talking and he's like, "There's a guy in here who's training. I think he's a trainer at Crunch in Massachusetts somewhere and he's I think he's competing or something like that." I'm like, "What?" So, so soon as he said that, the guy must have spotted me and he came running up. He's like, "Oh, man. I'm a big fan. I use Fiber. We watch you, Chris, every week." And 62 guy. I I forget his name. I wish I I'm so so stupid. But he looks amazing. I He was doing the Mets. And I'm like, "What are you doing in the gym if you're doing the Mets tomorrow?" You know, the Steve Stone Metropolitan Championships. Yeah. And he said, "I'm just trying to get a little a little pump going." I'm like, "Get out of here. Go home." And we we we watched him po. James and I both, you know, sat with him and he posed for us. Looks great. He'll be he'll be a pro one day. This guy's really good. And uh so I ran into a lot of good bodybuilders in New York and Connecticut. So I have to say that I had a good time this weekend. And you know, sometimes it's it's good, you know, to be in that like uh because I you know, I for you forget when you're when you're I don't know. I I guess Florida is great. I love Florida, but I'm kind of out of that New York tri-state area loop. when you're in the tri-state area like there's bodybuilders everywhere and it's so congested that you run into people at different gyms and so that I do miss that little camaraderie you know from back in the day when you knew everyone you know I went to the gym we knew everyone everyone was a competitor you know you knew where all the competitors compete uh worked out which gyms they were at and that's the gyms you trained at and so in Florida it's a little more spread out you never know where anyone's kind of competing and where they are and obviously you know you if I would have had time to go to Bev Francis powerhouse house gym on Long Island. If I wasn't staying in Connecticut, I would have run into a million people there, you know, for sure. So, it was a it was a good weekend. I'll be It's funny. Chris is leaving. What are you leaving? 4 in the morning. Yeah. For the airport. I got to get I'm leaving I'm leaving 700 p.m. tomorrow. Uh, and we both get back at 11 p.m. Sunday night. Your your trip is like 18 hours. My trip is like like two hours, you know. So, That's why we recorded the show a little early and why I'm going to let Chris off the hook because I know Chris hasn't slept and it's very late over there. So, I want to thank everyone for joining us. I'm sorry it's a little shortened this version, but I want do want to say uh let's take a moment and really remember Cedric McMillan for the great bodybuilder that he was died only 44 years old. He did win an Arnold Classic. He was one of the most entertaining bodybuilders on the circuit. You know, Chris and him obviously had a very close relationship. Uh Cedric and I had a Howard Coell Muhammad Ali type of relationship, but I love the guy and I miss him. We miss his personality and uh Cedric, I know you're with us right now and you're watching over us and you're probably cracking jokes at us. We miss you. The sport misses you and I know your family and friends do as well. So, um you know, you'll always be remembered, at least in at least in our minds. That's for sure. And congratulations to Andrew Jack for winning the FIBO. And Chris, as we say every week here at Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. We'll see you next week, guys. Have a safe one.