The Patrick Moore true story. What really happened? I created species nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. I haven't seen a week and a half just came out. Look at that. I love that fight. And we're back. And we're live for another edition of After Hours with the Whack Pack. I'm Dave Palumbo and I'm here with the Wack Pack. And uh let me see if we can add Greg to this thing. Can you hear me? Am I echoing? Echoing. Echoing now. You're not echoing. We're echoing, right? Actually, yeah. There's something going on with your computer. I don't know what it is, Greg. It's nothing. It's nothing different than I'll try it again. I'll reboot it again. Usually figure out these things. What's happening is his Yeah, I can hear you. Can you hear me? Yeah. Everybody's Yeah, we're just What's happening is his his microphone is mute. Hold on. I'm muting him. What What's happening is his microphone is picking up his speaker. So, it's creating an echo. So, somehow he's got to shut off that that parallel. It's a desktop. I think he's I think he needs a new computer. He claims he's using a desktop and he claims he's he's got the same setup he always does. Yeah, I've heard. John, should he just unplug his microphone and just use the computer then? It's what he doesn't have. He is That's what he is using. a camera, but for some reason for some reason his microphone is picking up his speaker and that's what's causing the echo. Do you have an external mic? All right, I'm gonna try one more time. All right, I just unmuted you. Let me hear it. We're have no microphone. I have no headphones. I don't Something you did is changed. I'm telling you the setting. I swear not. I will reboot it and I'll come right back. All right. All right. Try it. All right. Someone's gonna say someone's a good guy. I can't I can't I can't deal with like audio problems. It drives us crazy. And we don't want to drive the We don't want to drive the audience any crazy. We always have them. It's either him. It's usually nostrils and a stealing fan. We always every single show have technical problems every time. It's in. Speaking of George, I sent him the link. I don't know where he is. We should start a GoFundMe for a set of headphones. The problem is that if we send him headphones, he won't use them. That's the problem, right? Like we send him cell phones, we send him cars, he'll still continue to use the old [\h__\h] He'll just sell whatever we send him. That's the problem. Exactly. Exactly. His girlfriend will Lucia will put it on eBay, you know. Yep. They'll let Facebook marketplace almost used by Valentino, you know, it will already be on eBay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And she'll sell it as as Greg's microphone, like so they can make a few extra bucks off of it, like for his celebrity aspect of it. So, that's cool. So, John, have you been following this uh Patrick Moore fiasco? Of course not. I don't even know who [\h__\h] Patrick Moore is. Oh my god, you're so you're so uninvolved. Don't you know me? 35 years we've been friends. When do I sub subscribe to drama? Never. Ever. You would love you but you but you you have very good insights into drama. That's why I don't know you. I have to like send you the stories ahead of time so that you can see what's going on so I can waste my time. So I So Patrick Moore got into a fight. Who? What? First of all, who is Patrick Moore got into a fight. Wait, who is he? Patrick Moore is an IFBB pro bodybuild. That's pathetic that you don't know who he is. Now you're starting to sound like Greg. You're worrying me. to California. He's obviously not that good because I don't know who he is. So Greg's back, right? Better. Greg, can you can hear me? And John, you're right. He's not And it's fixed. It's fixed. Yeah. I rebooted the whole computer. That's why. And that solved the pro. It solved the problem. Thank God. What am I missing? What happened with this guy? What's going on? No. So, we're going to talk about Patrick Moore. Do you know what happened with Patrick Moore? No. He doesn't know who he is either. Oh my god. The two of you are like, "How old?" Oh, you guys are over 65. I forgot. Yeah. Well, John and I have been following, we've been involved in a sport since the 70s. So, you know, it's getting a little crazy now. You know what I mean? So, we're uh So, Pat, let me give you a summary and then I'll let Larry tell the story. So, Patrick Moore trained people at this gym in Texas and supposedly he well, he owed the the owner some rent money and uh the guy was demanding that he pay him instantly. I don't know how long he's owed it to him for, but there's a whole story behind it, which we'll get to the details. And somehow they got into this verbal texting argument and the guy basically called out Patrick. He went down to the gym. They went to the parking lot. We have the video footage. I'll play it. They got into a fight. Patrick knocked him knocked him pretty much down on the floor and was grounding and pounding him. And then his friend came in and separated them. And then next thing we know, the police were called. Uh uh you know, no one really know. According to Patrick, he the guy the gym owner called the police. According to the gym owner, Patrick called the police. No one really knows. And Patrick basically said, "Hey, you know, this guy sells steroids now. I don't know why anyone's busted by bother than my bothering me." So, some people were upset that he mentioned that he sold steroids, but Patrick's came on the the Heavy Muscle Radio Show last night or two Yeah. two nights ago and said, "Listen, when you're when you're in the street and you're fighting, there's no rules." And, you know, that's how it goes. So, that was his explanation for it. So, I wanted to get, you know, your guys take on there's the fight if you if you can see it. Yeah. But why would you tell the cops a guy sells steroids? It's a fight. And then, well, let me say let me let me say this, Greg. And then I made a video. Me and Kamali made a video. I posted the fight video. I posted text. I posted two videos. You'll see that guy hit Patrick right now. He hits him right now in the face. The other guy. Boom. Right there. Yeah. So, you know, so the gym owner's the guy on the left. Patrick's on the right. John, the gym owner's the guy with the overalls, right? Overalls. With the overalls, right? He wanted he wanted to fight Patrick. This guy wanted to make a name for himself by knocking out Patrick. Patrick knocked him down pretty good. Let me tell the whole story. Here we go. Well, you can tell your rendition of the story again, Larry. Okay. So, first of all, I have no horse in this race. I met Patrick when he turned pro at uh 2017 USA's. Same place Derek Luner turned pro. Seemed like an all right guy to me, but I don't know him personally. I don't know the gym owner personally. So, there's no personal uh thing for me in this. But I am qualified to speak on this because number one, I've trained clients in gyms for 30 years now and multiple gyms for everything from private training centers to corporate gyms and everything in between. And I've also owned gyms since 2007. I still own a gym. Now, a lot of people seem to be confused about how things work in the gym as far as what trainers go. So, there's two different types of trainers. You have an independent trainer, which means they're an independent contractor. They pay rent to the gym to use the facility and they collect their own money, the money from the client, and they train them on as they will. So, it's no different than like me paying my rent at my gym. I have to pay my rent every month and it's none of the landlord's business what I do there and if my members don't pay that's not his problem. I signed a lease agreeing to pay so much every month and if I don't pay I'm going to get evicted. That's just the way it is. You also have an in-house trainer. In-house trainers basically work for the gym. They're an employee and they get paid usually an hourly wage plus some commission for whatever training they're doing. Um, I personally don't do independent trainers anymore because it's a pain in the ass. I Everybody in my gym's in-house. Look, let me let me ask you a question. Let me stop you for a second. So, if you have an independent trainer, okay, who works at your gym and maybe might be, you know, a bodybuilder who people know, okay, so he he's probably attracting some people to your gym. He's paying you rent. Let's assume he's paying you rent on time. Okay. Would you charge that bodybuilder uh a membership for the gym? Yeah, he's an independent contractor. He's just not an employee. You're gonna So, Pat, so Keon Pearson comes into your gym and you're going to say, "Uh, yeah, you can train people. I charge Keon, you got you got you got to pay me 70 bucks a month, too. Membership are train for free." Are you kidding me? He's making money. Larry's telling I agree with Larry. He's telling you to go. So So you're going to charge Lee Haney to train at your gym? No. No. Hold on a minute. Hold on. Dave Lee Haney's Mr. Olympia. A eight time Mr. Olympia. I think Mr. Olympia is Rich. Rich Garry wants to train people at your gym during his young. Dave, let me just charge him gym membership, Greg. No, you're not charging a business out of your gym. He's running a business. Are you charging Rich Gaspari to train at your gym in Yorktown? Yes. Yes. I'm not going to train money. If he's making money at my gym and he's charging people to train them at my gym, I didn't say rent. Should I buy paper, too? Should I [\h__\h] hold your gym each day? No. He can, Greg. He can pay you rent. I'm not talking about rent. Will you charge him a gym membership to train at the gym? No. Out of a courtesy. They wouldn't charge you any of those top. Of course not. Of course not. They were charging. That's not what Larry's saying. Larry saying Yes, it is. Yes, it is. That's a bad business model. That's not how you make money. Yep. Not unless unless unless you can promote the fact that Rich Gaspari is training at your gym and use his image and promote. If you can do that, then no, you don't pay a membership. If he's coming to my gym and he's training in my gym and he's training people in my gym, that's my business. But you can't let him train people comes from memberships. It doesn't come from what cool bodybuilder train is paying you if paying you 500 bucks a month rent, okay, to train his people there, are you going to then charge him for a membership on top of that? for his membership. Is he training in my gym? He's training in your gym and he's training people in your gym. He's training in my gym because it goes both ways. Okay, let me You guys are out of your mind. Let me just say this real quick. Let me just say this real quick. Unless I can Let's not finish. Let's finish training there. If I can promote that fact that he's training there, then it has value. If he's training in my gym, well, you're telling the members they're richest vary trains. They see him in the gym. So, so that's how does that how does that make me money? Do you think you do you actually people want to train? Do you actually think people are going to come off in Do you actually think that people are going to come in off the street and say, "Oh, Rich Gaspari is training in gym. Let me sign up. I'm training there, too." No. You're exactly right. I'm a You obviously have never owned a gym. I'm an 18year-old kid and I go into the gym and I see Rich doesn't work that way. The gym signary. Larry, does it work that way? Can I answer the question? Why do the gym let all those bodybuilders train business model? Let me say that's a bodybuilding gym. Everyone knows that. That's different. But still, we we have to at least separate who are the you said who were the top guys. There's a big You're gonna charge Chuck to play on your golf course. Come on. But listen, but that you guys are completely out of your mind. You know what I'm back in the day? Would you say would Craig Titus because he was a pro. Okay. If Craig T back in the day, if Craig Titus was training people at the gym, would you say he gets a free membership? No. Nobody gets a free membership. Yes. Anyone Anyone who's a top Anyone who's a top tier pro who's well known and has a social media following should be in that gym for free. They don't bring That's [\h__\h] Only if you can promote that. They should pay rent. They got to pay rent if they're training people there, but you should never charge them for a membership. That is disrespectful. Let me ask you this. Let me say Hey everybody, let let Hey hey hey, let Larry talk. But right before right before Larry talk, let me say this because I've trained people in the gym for 20 years. Okay, so if you're at gyms, I've worked out before. Yes, I've paid rent at some gyms and other gyms I haven't paid rent because I had like 30, 40 clients. So that that brought the gym way more money. So the gym owner said, "Hey, I'm not going to charge you rent because you're bringing so much money in already." But if I don't have that many clients, I'm paying rent. So that's my point of view at how it works. We're not arguing rent. We're talking about a gym membership. Let me answer this question so all of you can just understand it. Number one, we're not in the 1990s. No one gives a [\h__\h] that a pro bodybuilder is training in your gym. You're not going to get any more extra members because of that. Exactly. Maybe back in the 90s, but not today. Mo people come sign up because of the gym. They're not coming to sign up because I have four pros trained in my gym. No one's coming up to sign up because of them. Exactly. Number two, he's right. Whatever is agreed to in advance is right. So if me out of the kindness of my heart decide that I want to give him a free membership, that's my prerogative. But if I don't, I don't have to. That's up to me. I'm the owner of the gym. And if he agrees that he's gonna pay rent and pay a membership, then that's what's agreed upon. Simple as that. Larry, you know what I you know what I would tell you? I'd tell you to go [\h__\h] yourself. If you if you try to charge me a gym membership and I'm training people at your gym and I'm and I'm paying you rent and you're not going to let me train there for free, I'd be like, "Fuck you. I'm going someplace else." Because that's being that's being very cheap. That's cheap. Hold on a second, Dave. Let's let's get this all under context. Okay, let's get back to So, you have your in-house trainers and your independent trainers. Okay, in-house trainers work for the gym. Everything goes to the gym. The money goes to the gym from the clients and you pay the trainer, right? They're an employee. Independent contractor is a independent. They're renting space and time, right? Okay. As far as memberships go, in my gym, every single person pays a membership. Everybody, everybody, everybody. Liability. Here's here's why. Because maybe that guy will bring me some business, but I've had I have pros training in my gym that they might have like one or two clients that they brought from somewhere else. It doesn't matter if someone trains at your gym and pays you rent, you let them train there for free. I don't I don't have to do that. That is I'm talking about I'm talking about you're crazy if you think that people are going to get a very bad taste in their mouth trying to you never owned a gym because you you when you own a gym the membership is your revenue that's where you make your talking about 10 people John you're not talking aboutund members you're not making any money on the 50 bucks you're train you're charging the trainer to work there you're making your your money comes from the membership the membership covers, hot water, gas, electric, utilities. You're being cheap. You're being cheap. You're being cheap. If I have a pro bodybuilder who's bringing clients into my gym and bringing me memberships for those clients as as well as paying me rent, they're bringing a lot of revenue into my gym to try to membership is super is super cheap. Is super cheap. I'm sorry. I don't agree with you guys. That's your opinion, you've never owned a gym. You've never You don't you never had to pay the rent. Larry will tell you the gym business is [\h__\h] hard because you got to pay everything. I'm telling you it's merchandise and you are selling a membership. These trainers can go any gym. Well, you're right. I'm not because you know what? If I own the gym down the block, I'm going to tell the trainer, "You're welcome to have a free membership here. My rent is this. You pay it. You're gonna have carp launch in my gym." And I I respect the fact that you're bringing members into my gym. You're bringing outside members paying memberships. And you know what? That's how you foster a relationship with people. If you start getting nickel and diamond him on a membership, you're noticing him. That's like saying you're a car dealer. Why does it dealer and you're going to say that Corvette for free? You're rich. Steve let top guys train for free there. I never paid a gym membership at Steve's gym and I I got to tell commend them for that. But who Dave is Patrick? No top pros pay a gym membership at Steve. Okay. telling your clients. I don't think Patrick Moore is a top. I mean, I wasn't even a pro. I mean, I wasn't a pro and I never paid a gym membership anyway. They always Well, that's their bottom line. Going to Larry's gym. Listen, right now, I would think the value of you being in a gym is more valuable than him because you have more popularity. There are a lot of pros that nobody knows and I don't think that's a cart blanch thing. I'm talking about back in the 90s, though. Dave, look, I'm not telling you to give the the supermarket checkout girl who's a bikini pro a free membership. I'm telling you if you have a top name bodybuilder, okay, who's top 10 in the world and he comes into your gym, he brings you clients who are signing up for memberships and then paying for training with him and he's paying you rent, you don't charge him a gym members. So if I own a motorcycle dealership and Valentino Rossi comes in, I should just give him a free motorcycle because he's Valentino Rossy. No, but if you No, that's not a good That's not a You know, that's not an exactly the same thing. My We're talking about a $50 gym membership versus a $10,000 bike. That's not the same. You're too smart. Sean, you're too smart for that. Come on. Don't Don't do that BS. I just don't think he's a top pro. I don't I think he's a a good bro. He's a top 10 Olympia guy. Who Who are you ranking you using? Let Larry speak. Let me speak. Yeah. Okay. If I have an independent trainer come to my gym and he says I have 40 clients that I'm going to bring, I might comp him a membership. But if he doesn't have any clients or he has one or two clients and he's not the money. All right, let's do the math. Let's say he I'm charging him cheap rent, $300 a month. Let's say Let's Hold on. Let's say he brings five clients to your gym. And And this gym that Patrick was at was 70 bucks a month. That's $350 per month you're getting from him bringing these outside people into your gym to be trained. Plus, he's paying you whatever rent you're charging him. You have the nerve to charge him a membership on top of that. Are you kidding me? If if we training at the beginning of the meeting and I have x amount of people this and that happens in real life. You're gonna lose you're gonna lose a lot of people these independent in there. What do you think, George? I'll tell you what I did. When I when I was I I had offices in in since up until I opened up my own place in the in the later uh 2000s. I would uh pay rent and then every client that came in, I would I would uh pay for their memberships, but I didn't have to pay them for a membership because I was already paying my rent. My rent. Exactly. Thank you. You know, because it but but the members But the members had memberships because they were going to The whole idea was that I'm bringing members here. They may train with me for the next month, three months, year, or they may not, but now they're a member of the gym and they get used to coming. Exactly. But Larry brought up a good point. That's what Larry said though. Larry Larry said No, he didn't. No, he didn't. No, he didn't. Larry brought up a good point. He did say what he said that which makes a huge amount of sense is first of all, I was a schmuck. I let everybody train for free. But the thing is is that Larry said in the '9s it was a thing. But today you can't even find golds and worlds and power. They're they're dropping like flies because you know why? It doesn't mean you should be disrespectful to the guys that have achieved levels of success. way bodybuilders scare away the mom and pop who pay every week. We don't want the 18-year-old kid. He's got members begging to come in the door over there. I I think it's disrespectful to open a business and expect and expect that you're going to give [\h__\h] away. That's disrespectful because you're John, you give stuff away to the people that that that sentence. Just because you're an IFBB pro and you come to my gym does not mean [\h__\h] today, dude. Everybody's an IFBB pro. It means absolutely nothing. If they are a top IFBB pro and they have a huge following and I'm going to be able to promote the fact that they're training in my gym, that's a different story. But if they're coming to my gym to train their clients and then after they're done, they're going to go train themselves. You're a member. You're paying a membership. Do not expect you're getting free [\h__\h] out of me when the only thing I have to sell is a membership. Yeah, but you know what? Is 300 324,000 followers enough? Is 324,000 followers enough to allow this guy to train for free at your gym? I don't know anything. Do I get to promote the fact that he's training at your gym? He's gonna work with me on promoting the fact that he trains there and do videos and Instagram posts and all that. If he brings Hold on. If he brings in five new clients at 70 bucks a month and he's paying you whatever, however many $100 a month rent, that's not enough to give the guy a free membership, following himself on Instagram. No, if he's training himself, he has to pay a membership. Now you're Now you're qualifying things. You know what? You know the same thing I ran my gym like a trainer and you trained in my gym and guys if you were going to train there yourself too, you had to pay a gym membership. The gym membership is what you sell. That is what your business is. You need to sell it to this guy. You can't sell it to this guy. This guy's bringing you business. He's bringing the gym down the block. He doesn't have to bring it to you. Let him go. I don't want to waste the hot water. The You're going to give him You're going to give up this 350 bucks a month that you're getting from the line. And then he And then he goes over to my chest press machine. He pins two 45s to the stack, breaks the pin, breaks the cable, and breaks the thing. And I got to pay for it. Yes. So, you're turning you're turning down is $350 per month in gym memberships that he's bringing in to you. Okay. and the rent he's paying you because you don't want to give the guy a free membership. I don't I don't buy that. I'm not believing that. Sorry. I get it. But what if it was a restaurant and you brought in six people? Do you get your dinner free from drostanolone? Let's Let's move on. Let's move on together. Finish the story. Finish the story. Larry, finish the story. Regardless of whether you decide to give him a free membership or not, he agreed to pay rent. Okay. Now, according to him, he said he's making like $4,000 a month on these training clients that he's paying that he's No, no, no. He said 4,000 when he charges him for 20 sessions. He doesn't do 20 sessions a month, though. Well, I can do 20 sessions in two weeks. So, I don't know what you're talking about. No, no, no, no. You're not listening. If if people sign up for 20 sessions with him, which is probably going to last seven or eight weeks, he'll get 4,000 upfront for that. But he doesn't it doesn't it's not per week he's getting that regardless of that. That's his business. But $300 a month rent is cheap as it is. That's like a because if he has two training clients and he's making at least $1,500 off those two training clients and the gym's only getting 300. So he's getting a deal already and he had the money to pay and he owed and yes. So he anyways he's only paying $300 a month rent, but he doesn't pay his rent for three months. The owner asks him for it and he says, "I can give you 300 now and the rest later," which I'm sure the owner didn't go for it because he's already been down this road with this guy and the guy just doesn't like to pay. Well, he backhoed. He was backed several months already. Yeah. So the owner said, "No, you need to pay." Let me just stop one second. According to Patrick, what he said on the interview was that the owner and him also came to an agreement that the owner wasn't going to charge him rent anymore moving forward as Patrick lied. So that's not true. I have all on I have all the text messages between him and and the owner. Right. But is that not true that the owner? No, he said the owner said that to him personally in person. Patrick's full makes up stories. A lot of the things he said was just [\h__\h] He said a lot of [\h__\h] All right. Okay. So, we don't know. Finish. He owed the $900. He didn't want to pay us, right? Now, according to Patrick, the gym owner uh called him out and no, according to Patrick, he went down there and didn't even think he was going to get in a fight, but he contradicted himself because then he said he didn't think he was going to get in a fight. But in the text messages between him and the owner, the owner says, first of all, there was the day before that the owner told him, "You can't come in unless you pay your rent." And he showed up anyways. And then he made a big commotion at the front desk because he turned his key card off, which I would have done the same thing if he owes me money and he doesn't want to pay. He didn't. He his hold on, hold on. His gym membership was paid. He he owed rent for training people. So he still had a gym membership that he was paying for. So why would you lock him out of the gym for not because he's not paying me my money? Yeah. Well, yeah, he he still has he has a valid gym membership. He owes me money for something else for rent. I have a 24-hour gym. It's open 24 hours, seven days a week, and people can come all day and night whenever they want. And I'm not going to sit there for 24 hours and see when he's coming and who he's training and all that [\h__\h] There's no way. Well, he wasn't training anyone. He was just going there to work out for the to do his cardio in the You don't you don't know what he's doing in there because you're not watching him every [\h__\h] five seconds. Well, you got a person who works at the front desk. You can ask you don't have 24-hour person work at the front desk checking on this gym. You did she There was a girl at the front desk who could have called the owner and said he's someone. And she did call the owner because he was giving her a hard time about coming in the gym. And that's when the owner She got fired that girl. She got fired that girl. No, that's a lie. That's true. That's a lie, too. That She's not fired. You're saying she's not fired? No, I talked to the owner. No, that whole Did you talk to Hold on. Did you talk to the girl who said she was fired? No, but I'm I'm sure Why would the owner [\h__\h] make that up? Because the the loaner the owner has lied about other things so far from what we we've seen. I don't I don't believe the owner's lying about anything. Now you're believing the owner without getting the the other side of the story. Until you heard this girl, you don't really know if the girl was fired or not. I heard him on on Heavy Muscle Radio. I heard everything he said. Bottom line is he owed $900. He didn't want to pay. Okay. Well, you know what the weird thing is? He was going to give the guy $300 and then he said he's getting paid by a client the next day. He could have paid him the other 600. I don't know why the gym wouldn't but he already owed three months back. Listen, you take what you get. He already owed he already owed three months back pay and Patrick. All right. So why would you take 300? I had numerous gym owners message me and said Patrick has done this at four other gym at gyms and he does not pay his dues and he he just moves on to another gym. So this is a pattern for him. And when I made a video I played all the text. I played all the audio of him snitching. I played that all when I came on with a Dave text me 20 minutes before the show said you want to come on. I just watched the Chiefs game. I was in bed. I was like laying down relaxing already. I was tired. I came on anyways. So Aceto comes on. He starts attacking me not even knowing the story just because Patrick is his client, right? So I eventually just shut down because I'm tired and I lost respect for Aceto because Aceto is is defending this guy like an attorney as you said earlier, Dave, not even knowing the story when I already I already saw all the text messages between the gym owner and the guy. I saw both the videos of him snitching. Um I talked to the gym owner also. And then uh you know then Larry got all the information for me too and then he contacted the Jim too and got that further. Patrick was lying that night. I was tired of defending myself because I made a video two days earlier. What did Patrick What did What did Patrick lie about? He lied about lots of things. Everything Arma. What did he lie about? Mo like 85% of what he was saying he lied about. What What did he say was a lie? What was a lie? Okay. Well, so when he pulled up to the gym and said, "Let's run it back." Okay, that street talk or whatever. He didn't he failed the mention that the guy said, "I have my kids in the car." Okay, so before they fight, Patrick rambled on for 40 minutes. I was exhausted listening to him ramble on because he didn't want to get to the snitching part. Then Chris Cito's attacking me, not even knowing the story at all, just because he's Chris's client. So I lost respect for Chris. So that's why I shut down and Patrick, hold on. What did Patrick say? That was a lie. That's what I'm I'm trying to figure out. He lied about the Let go. Several things. Number one, he lied about the gym owner saying that he didn't have to pay his rent because that's ridiculous. If somebody owes me money and No, no, no. He didn't say that. He said he said he had to pay the rent he owed, but he said moving. Oh, that the owner said, "Don't worry about it. He's Oh, yeah. They just got into a fight. They got into a fight. I don't think I don't think he's going to be going back. Patrick on the podcast. Dave Dave the gym owner and the and and Patrick on the podcast together. We don't need that. We don't we don't need that. We don't need that. And then I spoke to Patrick after I made a short clip on Instagram. I spoke to Patrick and I said, "Patrick, do you want to come online with me, King of Ali, and tell your story?" He said, "No, bro. Just run with your narrative." I said, "Okay." So, I made the YouTube and then I made I showed all the clips and the text. Then when Patrick came on, me and Patrick already talked the day before that. We already spoke. So when Patrick came on and started telling this whole drawn out story, I'm just like, I have a effing headache. And then Chris attacking me. I just shut down. His story was pretty detailed. His story was pretty detailed. Let me let me let Larry Let me let Larry finish because I told him he can he can he can speak. I want to ask Larry, how did how did that story get on the internet in the first place? Who put it on the internet? Who decided to put it up on the internet for the very bunch of people? Several people did it. Yeah. Why would he No. Several people reported on it already like other security footage. So he put it up obviously because let Larry let Larry tell his story. So, the gym owner did put it up because he was pissed because the the guy owed him money. And in the text messages between him and the gym owner, when the gym owner is telling him he needs the money, Patrick says, "I'm going to come down there and kick your ass." It's in the text messages between him and the owner. So, Patrick told him, "I'm going to beat your ass." Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Larry. Larry. Larry. Before that, the guy said, "Why don't you come to the gym and let's run let let's run it over." That's street talk for we're going to [\h__\h] fight. That's why Patrick said what he said to me. Run it back. That's why he said that. Regardless of run it back. Yeah. He still he went there with the intention of fighting. That's not regardless. You call out a guy, I'm going to fight you. And the guy says, I'm going to kick your ass. That's the right response. Okay. Here are the exact here are the exact words. What's up, homie? you called Misty and then he said, "Misty told me you had a lot to say this morning. Why don't you come to the gym so we can run it back real quick? I got my family in the car." Patrick left out that he said, "I got my family in the car." And then Patrick says, "Boy, I'll beat your effing ass." So when he said, "Uh, why don't you come back to the gym and run it back real quick?" He says, "But I got my family in the car." Patrick says, "I'll beat your effing ass. When are you going to be there?" "I got one. I got the right one for you today, homie." Patrick says, and the gym owner says, "I'm here for it. I'll be there in 30." And Patrick says, "Bet, [\h__\h] ass [\h__\h] homie." So, the uh, you know, they're already they're already gonna, you know, fight. So, that's But the other guy challenged them first essentially. And Patrick said, "Fine. You want to challenge me? I'll come kick your ass." That's how it started. Okay. So, I think that was accurate. I think that was accurately revealed by the two of them. Regardless of that, Patrick said that he went down there thinking that they weren't going to fight. He knew they were going to fight when he went. No, he had his hands down. Did you see the video, Sid? Put the video up when he walks out. Yeah, because he he knew there was cameras there and he he he knew that he didn't want to get He didn't want He didn't want to fight this guy. This guy threw the first punch. If you walk, Dave, he wouldn't he wouldn't have showed up, Dave, if he didn't want to fight. He didn't want He would have showed up. Arman, he's not a [\h__\h] He's a street guy. He's of course going to show up if someone calls him out. If I'm six weeks out from the Arnold, if I'm six weeks out from the Arnold and I'm a professional, I'm gonna worry about the Arnold. I'm not going to go to some gym to fight. Yeah. I'm not going to go to a gym six weeks. I'm not going to go to a gym six weeks out from the Arnold get in a fight when I when I'm a professional and I have to hold a certain status and and be looked at a certain way. I'm not going to go fight some uh gym owner that's No, you're not. You're a different You're a different guy. You grew up in a You grew up in a different situation than Patrick. Did Patrick gets called out? He's a street guy. He goes and fights. That's how it works. I would have gone and fought, but but Patrick is a fighter. He's not going to finish. Okay. Regardless of like, you know, whatever was said and who thought whatever, he owed $900 and he didn't want to pay it, right? So, the gym owner was pissed. He didn't say he didn't want to pay it. He just he just couldn't pay it at the in the time frame the gym owner wanted. This is a [\h__\h] story. You know how many times I've had trainers telling me Larry who posted another gym owner he posted but Larry the gym owner wanted the gym owner wanted to fight him. It was pretty obvious he was in the parking lot. Come on. I would have wanted to fight him too if he owed me $900 and he told me [\h__\h] you. I'm not paying your m your money. Would you put the He didn't say that to him. He didn't say that to him. He didn't say I got 300 for you. I'll pay the rest at the end of the week when I get paid for my Larry is law enforcement involved now. Like is somebody get locked up for that? We'll get to that. Let Larry Let Larry talk and just get to the whole the whole thing. The other guy threw the first punch. Yeah. Okay. So any anyways they square off in the parking lot. They all they'll both go there knowing they're gonna fight. The gym owner is not a [\h__\h] Regardless of what anybody thinks, he actually handled himself pretty good in that fight. Yeah, he got caught and he got knocked down. But he's he's a scrapper. You could see that. You know, he didn't just get his ass beat. And well, he he would have got his ass beat if his friend didn't step in and help him out. So, well, regardless, he still was holding his own. And even after he got knocked out, he held his own until he got knocked out and was getting pounded on the ground. It looked like he tried to attack him and he got what he deserved. That's what it looked like to me. Yeah. Yeah. On a whole another level. Can you guys wake me up when this is over anyways? Jim, he should have just You're not interested because you don't because you don't even understand. Will this make you feel better, John? Here, let let me let me put it to you this way. There's only Greg, Larry, and me who have actually owned a gym. Yes. So, we are the only ones qualified to describe own the gym. Well, I own the gym and Greg and John Greg gave out free memberships to everyone. So, what does he own? And he admits that was stupid. And he admits that was stupid. Okay. No, he didn't. What What you got to realize is is that a gym membership pays for things that people break that I don't want to argue this whole gym membership thing. We're past that, John, already. Let's move on. Let's move on to the next thing. Move on to the next That's my point. So, if you're going to tell me that I'm letting XYZ dude train in my gym while he's paying rent and training clients because he's an IFBB pro and he's going to bring people in. That's that's not even a tenable. It doesn't work that way today. Nobody trains in a gym because somebody else is training there. He brought five people to the gym. Hold on. Let's come that income that you didn't have. What you what you fa What you failed to grasp. It's 40 minutes. Let's move on to the next part cuz there's a lot more to it. I don't want to I don't want wear and tear on your Let's move on to the next part. Utilities break. You got to cover that stuff. And the only way you cover that stuff is by charging a membership. You don't have other argument. 40 minutes. We've been babbling about it. moving on. Okay. So, so anyways, regardless of the membership and what you think or not, whatever. Okay. He owes $900. The gym owner's pissed. He's been owing for three months. He told him, "You have to pay because I'm not I'm I'm sure he asked him many times. I I know somebody's behind one day. I'm asking for the money." So, after three months, he's probably fed up with it. You know, he's like, "I've asked you for this money for three months, and you're just telling me bullshit." And now he's telling me, you know, I'll give you 300 and and then I'm going to pay you later. I'm sure he's heard that from the guy a bunch of times already. So anyways, then Patrick threatens him. So then they end up getting in a fight and the, you know, you saw the whole fight. Everybody saw the whole fight and what happened. And after the fight is over, the gym owner goes back into his office, which is exactly what I would have done because I'm not going to stand in the parking lot, right? Somebody called the police. The gym owner says he did. He says the gym owner did. We don't know who called the police. It could have been any It could have been the girl at the front desk called the police, right? True. Or anybody watching it. But the police do show up and Patrick is there. And Patrick tells the police on camera and it's all recorded that the gym owners are selling steroids and the de he's going to get the DEA involved and all this [\h__\h] That's wrong. But hold on, let me finish. The what Patrick didn't know is those cops that he was talking to are members of that gym and are friends with the gym owner. So they go in and talk to the gym owner. They go in and talk to the gym owner and they tell him exactly what Patrick said and it's all on camera and it's on camera. We got Yeah, we saw it. He didn't hear him saying everything he's saying. So, no matter how you try to spin it, he's ratting out the gym owner whether he didn't deny that, Larry. Yeah, but you should give him a free membership. He didn't He didn't deny He deserves a free membership this He's an IFBB pro. He gets a free membership. He didn't deny it. He didn't deny it. I wouldn't defend that. I would not defend what he said because I I would never do that and rat someone out. But what he his explan Hold on. His explanation of it was and you guys can agree or disagree. I don't care. It doesn't matter to me. I have no horse in this race. The the disag what he said is once this guy brought it to the street and made it into a street fight and and called the cops or whoever called the cops, he's like there's no rules anymore. On the ground, you can do whatever you want. No, Rene does not mean you can be a snitch. Listen, whether you buy it or not, that's what his explanation was. That's what he said. A fight is different. A fight is different from the snitch. Listen, a fight is different from snitching on somebody that owns owns the gym. Okay, you've got in a fight. Someone called the cops. The gym owner didn't call the cops because he's doing whatever he's doing. Patrick says he didn't call the cops. The gym owner swears that Patrick did. Okay, so I think someone else probably called the cops. Neither of them proud to call the cops. The cops show up. Patrick starts snitching right away about ju juice and gear. And like I said before, all of us, we have all of us have sold gear, whether it's a bottle or a thousand bottles or we've helped somebody out. He has my my whole deal is is is like you don't [\h__\h] That's a code. You don't break. You don't snitch on somebody for gear. That's your own gear, right? Your own gear. He sells gear to his client. The irony of it all. Plus, let me tell you something. You talk about got street, bro. We're doing street [\h__\h] and then you rat like that. Do you know what that would do if you were dealing with gangbangers on the street? Do you know what would happen? Not cool. You know what would happen? Big muscles and no big muscles. Patrick had to pitch Patrick had to say he did it because it was all on audio. After we got off the steroid thing, why would he if you knocked the guy down and you you felt like you got the better of him in a fight, just walk away. If I if I were Patrick in this situation, what I would have said on the show two nights ago is I would have said, "You know what? I was so heated up. I was so mad at this guy. I should never have said what I said. You're not a You're not a street dude. You're not AI just telling you I would never have said He should have just said, "You know what? I shouldn't have said the thing about the steroids and that would You're not a street You're not a street dude. If you call If you snitch on somebody, I'm sorry, but you're not a snitch dude. You're not You're not You're not a You're not a street dude, dude. I Listen, let me talk. Let me talk. I understand what he's trying to say. Okay, this guy called the cops on me, which didn't. So, I'm going to tell and snitch about he sells gear. Listen, I'm not going to say I grew up hood and I'm from the streets. But all a lot of my friends did. And if you're a hood, if you're a street guy like Patrick says he is, you're not going to freaking snitch when you're you're taking gear. You sell gear to your clients and you're snitching. That's the part that's a [\h__\h] That's AI agree with you on that part. I agree with you. And in our industry, that is [\h__\h] [\h__\h] You don't do that. That's a [\h__\h] I'm sorry. And Christo, I was fed up with Chris Aceto that night. I lost respect for him that night because Chris was, you know, kept talking. I was tired as [\h__\h] and I just like just sat back and was just like, "I'm done." Me and Patrick, people don't know, we talked the day prior and then as soon as we got off that podcast, Patrick text me. He's like, "Hey, do you have the audio to that video?" Because he didn't even know still the audio was there. And I said, "Yes." And I sent the two things uh videos of audio. Then he just said, "Cool. Thanks." Yeah. So Patrick would have lied and said he didn't snitch if this wasn't on audio. So, I'll just tell you a little story real quick. When I was young, I knew a lot of big-time cocaine dealers. And I was in AI can't say details because there's too much I just can't say certain details. But anyways, one of the big time quoting dealers told me to go get this guy and bring him to him because he owed him a lot of money. I'm talking lots. And right in front of me, he told him, "If you don't pay us the money that you owe us, we're going to kill you." And the guy said, "Don't worry, I'm going to pay you." And instead of paying, he went to court the next day and testified against them. And when he came out of the court, he got into his car right in front of the court. And that car got lit up by machine guns. And that guy got blown into 7,000 pieces right in front of the police station. And then they buried his remains and then they dug up his remains and freaking desecrated the grave. That's what happens to snitches. Okay, can we all agree on this? If you're a street guy and you want to claim like Patrick did, I'm a street guy. I grew up like this. Are you going to snitch on somebody for gear and you already No. Right. No. Raise your hand. No way. No. Yeah. We all agree on that. We all snitch on anybody for anything. Especially if you're on [\h__\h] You're on [\h__\h] That's a [\h__\h] That's a alcoholic calling a bar bartender. You [\h__\h] sell booze. You know what I mean? Like, come on, bro. That's after that. Who want Who's going to f with Patrick and sell him gear or let him in the gym after he's snitching in the bodybuilding community. He should get He should get underground blacklisted. Yeah, but dude, if you were gang banger, you would be that would call that you just sign your death. Imagine a real true street guy, a gang banger, a mafia guy doing that [\h__\h] He sells steroids. You Yeah, this person says I snitched on a snitch. You're full of [\h__\h] You had him on the ground. Okay, you won. Leave it at that. [\h__\h] that. He looks like Steve Harvey, man. Who? All right, hold on, guys. I got to give a shout I promise to give a shout out to I'm gonna break the topic. I promise to give a shout out to somebody. Yo, let's finish the story, bro. Let's more to the story. Larry, finish the story. Holy [\h__\h] There's more. Yes. Well, if if everybody give him a chance to talk, we would have been done 15 minutes ago. says the guy who keeps cutting him off. I'm not cutting him off. I'm kidding. I'm kidding. Go ahead, Larry. So, anyways, Patrick, it's all on recording. He He snitched on the guy. There's no disputing that. Patrick doesn't even dispute it. And then Chris, hold on, Larry. He Larry, he he snitched on the guy, but the guy No one got arrested or anything like that. So, he's not, you know, it was it was a bad move on his part, but it don't matter. It don't matter if he got arrested. They might start investigating. No, I'm just saying thank god. Thank god no one ar got arrested is all I'm saying. That's all. He didn't get arrested because the cops that actually showed up are members of the guy's gym and their friends. Are you saying the cops are corrupt? No. No. Plus, they're not going to arrest Listen, they're not they're not going to arrest somebody on the spot. Listen, they're not going to arrest somebody on the spot because you said, "Oh, this guy sells gear." Okay, put your put your hands behind your back. If they if they're going to arrest him, they would do a legit investigation. probably do a sting operation down the road. Let me ask you a question. Do you think he ever bought gear from that gym owner? Do you think? Of course. Of course. Do you have a bottle of test, bro? Can I get Of course they Hey, they were bros before that. They were cool. I'm sure he sold to Patrick. I'm sure that's what I had a problem with. And I had a problem with Chris. It's repulsive. Yeah. members of that gym. I'm pretty sure they probably take gear and they maybe buy it from the gym owner, too. So, that's why they didn't arrest him. I have cops that train in my gym and they're on gear. Yeah, but they don't care about that because they're worried about fentanyl. You know what the truth of the matter of this whole thing is? We can put it to rest. After the fight occurred, that should have been the end of it. And that's he thought it's over. We fought. All right, that's it. It's done. And that should have been the end of it. Patrick's not Patrick Patrick is not some 20-year-old scared little kid. Patrick's not scum scared little 20-y old kid. He's a 40-year-old grown ass man, right? And he's been selling. Listen, Patrick has sold gear before. Patrick has bought gear. The gym owner has probably sold him gear. They deal with Judge. They were cool before that because all the text message before that, it was like, "Yeah, thank you. I appreciate you so much." And then it turned sour like that. So, people don't know the story at all. And then Aceto comes on here and starts attacking me with Patrick. And I'm just like, I'm not dealing with this. I lost respect for Aceto because Aceto don't even know what's going on. If that wasn't Aceto's client, Aceto wouldn't have said a word. He would have just Chris was just saying you didn't have Patrick's side of the story. That's all that Chris was pointing out. No, no, no. Chris said there was a code and Chris says, "What? What? What code? What does it matter? What code?" This is That's what he said. He was basically saying that yeah, Patrick snitched and it's okay, right? That's I don't That's the only part I don't agree with the whole story. Well, that's a big [\h__\h] deal. Especially coming. I was shocked to hear that from Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then I listen, I knew Patrick before this. I I was okay with Patrick. We talked before our shows. I I never even I never even knew this gym owner at all. So people say, "Oh, you I didn't know this gym owner whatsoever." He contacted me, gave me all the text, all the text between them, all the videos. I I liked Patrick before. I just Is he Is he kind of an issue with you or something? Is there like this gym owner This This gym owner wanted to make a name for himself by knocking out Patrick. He was all eager to fight him and he was doing pretty good until Patrick knocked him in the [\h__\h] head and knocked him to the ground. And then, you know, we're past We're past the fighting part. We're we're talking about the the snitching and gear part. No. Well, look, Patrick ended the evening poorly. He was he actually finished on top and he should have just left and gone home. That's what he should have done, you know. Yeah. What happened with Arman though? What's like what are they is he is somebody coming after you now Arman or something? No. No one's going to come after me. Okay. Patrick, I was hearing you before the show. I heard you say whatever. You know, I don't I didn't know. No, no one's coming. No. No. We just what you just said that I said that but I heard you saying I heard you talking. I couldn't make out what you saying. I wish somebody would and it would make this whole thing interesting. I said Aceto and Patrick on the show. They attacked me because it was it was two against one and I felt it was a setup coming on the show. I should have even came on the show because Aceto came on and then Patrick came on and I got attacked by both of them and Aceto is like well you know this. I'm like, I'm done. And I just shut down and I don't want to talk anymore because A, you know, the reason the reason the reason I had you on the show was because I knew you knew the story. So, I wanted you to tell the story. I didn't think Patrick was going to was was listening and was going to say, "Hey, I want to come on the show." So, that was a surprise. So, that that's where that's where that whole came from. So, if people want to know, me and Patrick, we talked before the show. We talked before I made a video on my channel and we and he text me after the show. He said, "Let me get the videos." And I sent him to him and he said thanks and put with a fist bump. So, you know, that's the end of it. I'm just not okay. Like I reported on the story about the snitching part which Dave's been a lot of us have been in trouble for selling gear or we or we sold gear. So, it's a sensitive thing in the bodybuilding. Every one of us, right? It's a sensitive deal. It's a sensitive deal in the bodybuilding industry to to to specially tattle on somebody like that. Larry, keep going around. That wasn't cool. That wasn't cool what he said. And for Chris to say that it's okay that he's being a rat, man. I I don't know. If I was a client of Chris and Chris is saying it's okay to be a rat and tell on people for selling gear, I'd be nervous. I wouldn't want That's where I lost That's where I lost respect for Chris right there. I mean, can you imagine if I'm training a client and then I'm snitching on people for selling gear and I'm saying I'm fine with that? That's that's just crazy. And then Dave, I get I get that you're friends I get that you're friends with Aceto and you let him run and all that stuff, but I felt recommending the cycle is defending the guy who's snitching about the Yeah, I felt like it was a it was a setup after that. Not from you Dave, from Chris and Patrick. It was a setup after that. So what's the point if you keep trying to talk when Chris is like now we're nine? You're n I'm like no whatever regardless this is how Hold on. This is how they pedal the story though. The story according to Patrick was I yes I I knocked the guy down and then all of a sudden the owner called the cops on me and I felt like hey this [\h__\h] wanted to fight me. I knocked him and now he's pissed off and he's trying hold on and he's trying to get retribution on me by getting me in trouble. [\h__\h] him. I'm not going to let them arrest me. I'm going to tell I'm going to tell the cops what he does. That's why he was trying to justify, hey, you want to go to the streets with this? You're gonna try to get me in trouble after I kick your ass when you actually challenge me to a fight. [\h__\h] you. And that's the mentality. Do I do I agree with what he said? No. But that's his rationalization for and then the next day Aceto posts Aceto post on his Instagram. Arman gets knocked out a second time like he knocked out the gym and then he knocked me out on the show because he shut me down. Come on, Aceto. You're I thought you're a lot better than that, dude. If this wasn't your client, I had respect for you for years. I lost respect to you during that. That's That's [\h__\h] up. That's Chris. And if you're listen if you're saying if he if you're saying he came after me hard and if and me and Chris were cool before that. We've done a lot of playbyplays interviews together. If you're saying it's okay to go after someone for gear, you've been a coach your whole life and all your clients do gear. That's that's the No, Chris, you're in the wrong. That's wrong. He tells them how to do the gear. them how to do the gear and he's done a lot of and he's done a lot of dangerous insulin protocols that's that's diuretic protocols if you want to be real this is what your problem is hold on this is what Arman's problem is the problem is that we're arguing today right I'm yelling at John and I'm yelling at Greg and I'm yelling at at Larry but I'm not going to go on Instagram and say I knocked out Larry you know what they are a lot because that what we do on here is is stick for the show and it's just opinions I'm I'm not going to like try to rub his face in anyone's face in it after we're done. That was that was another by Chris. That That's what's rubbing you the wrong way because Chris could argue with you on the show, but he shouldn't have taken it to the to Instagram afterwards. Yeah. And then cuz Chris had a big following and Chris wanted to get all these people saying, "Oh, fbon." And people messaged me, which I don't care. I think he should have taken it to Instagram after that. Was not cool. He was a Chris was a Chris was a [\h__\h] on the show and he pulled a [\h__\h] move the next day. So Chris No, he can he can argue he can argue with you on the show all he wants. That's part of the show. But after the show's over, he shouldn't have he shouldn't have done the Instagram post. I argument that being a snitch is okay is not okay. That's right. That's right. Right. That's right. There's no justification for snitching. You don't have to defend your client. You don't have to defend your Let's let Mr. G do his announcement. What's your announcement, George? Uh, I just promised to give a big shout out to a friend of mine. Yo, Vicki, it's me, George, Mr. G, on the show. Want to say hi to you. How good of a friend are you is she? If you have to describe who you are, through the window looking at it's the neighbor, isn't it? That's the whole announcement. I don't even know him. Larry, do you have anything to finish it off with, Larry? Since you spoke to the gym over owner after me, do you have anything to finish it off with? Stewing it is for if I was in the gym owner's position and this guy owed me money for months and months and he's telling me [\h__\h] I would have kicked him out of the gym, too. Yep. I would have done the same thing. I would have said, "You know what? I'm tired of playing games with you. I've been asking you for this money. It's been three months and now you're telling me more [\h__\h] Your membership's revoked. You can't come here. Don't bring clients. don't even come. And then the guy shows up anyways. Now we're going to have a problem. And I wouldn't have done it like the gym owner. Honestly, I wouldn't have done it like the gym owner. I would have taken a baseball bat out there and cracked his [\h__\h] head open because that's what I would have done. I would have you know he's making money. When you see him training clients and you know he's making the money and he's not giving you any of it. If that's what you agreed to. but all you have to do is if you really want to hurt him, you shut his membership down, close the door, and he can't nobody agree. He did that and the guy showed up anyways. Started story. Then you got to handle it. Then you got Patrick showed up to fight. Patrick didn't Patrick didn't show up not to fight. It was real simple to fix. Yeah, they got they got called out. I used to want to rehash it again. I I used to charge the trainers the daily fee when they came in in the morning. You came in in the morning, you had to pay your 150 pesos or you couldn't come in the gym. I never had to chase anybody for money ever because if you didn't talking about rent, John, we're talking about rent. He was paying about rent. Talking about how much is 15 personal trainers. The personal trainers would show up in the morning. The girl at the desk says, "Pay me your 150 pesos and or you can't come in." I had him every sing they had they had because you know why because if I didn't do that I was doing what this guy's doing. I'm running around chasing people for money. Not going to do that. My time is too valuable. And you know what's funny, John? I mean one thing. It's the bodybuilders who never want to pay. It's guys who are really into working out bodybuilders. Those are the guys that always gave me the song and dance. I get paid. True. You know, me and Dave talked about that the other day. Me and Dave talked about that the other day. Me and Dave talked about that the other day. How many bodybuilders Dave me and you have helped out. We've helped out in other ways and then they don't even pay you. Yeah. So, that's just another one of these instances. Pay your pay. Let's here's the deal. Pay your dues. Don't go fight a gym owner because Patrick went to fight. He showed up. Go. Don't go fight a gym owner that you owe money like you're mad because you owe the guy money and he wants it and then he'll snitch on him. Patrick is in the wrong Patrick's in the wrong one, two, three. You know that that's what it is. Yeah, for real. That is that is the bottom line. I think the take-home message is pay your debts. That's it. Period. I want to ask you I want to tell you one more thing before we wrap up. So Jimmy Null's like harassing me about how we didn't let him on the show last week and you know I don't know when he's going to come on or not. I said, "Why didn't you text me that you're around? I would have sent you the link." He said, "I got bit by a pitbull." Did you hear this? He got bit by another dog. Yeah. Bit by a dog. He got He got bit by a pitbull again. He was showing me wounds. And then he bit the pit. Didn't he just get bit by a pitbull recently, too? Sure. Yeah. You remember he was telling us the story of delivering oil with the fence? I love He was delivering oil, right? He had the hose over his He got bit by that dog, but then there was a dog in the house that he was like sending off with a fence or something like that, you know. Hey, so I thought he was going to come on today and tell the story, but evidently not. I don't know. Dave, that's a good one. Let me ask all of you guys a question. Okay, you can get certain things from a TRT clinic, like a little bit of testosterone, maybe a little bit of DECT or some Anavar. That's pretty much all you can get out of them in in in small dosages. If you're a pro bodybuilder and you're gonna compete in something like the Arnold Classic, you need a lot more than that. You're not gonna get tremblone from the TRT clinic, you're not gonna get enough gear to compete. Now, knowing this guy as a snitch, does anybody want to do business with him? No. Hell no. I would not I would be like, get the [\h__\h] out of Actually, there is somebody right now who was a training client of mine who is a bodybuilder. Larry, his exact words were, "I don't care because I got into bodybuilding. So, I'm not I don't consider myself one of these bodybuilders like all y'all. I got into this at a late age, right? I know his ear now." Nobody want to deal with him. Chris Chris Aceto will Yeah. Chris can Chris don't start casting his versions on Chris doesn't sell beer, so don't don't don't even don't even throw that out. It was It was a joke. It was a joke. I know. What were you going to say? You were going to say something. I know a guy whatever. There was a guy that was a training client of mine, a bodybuilder. He's also a cheap ass. He still owes me money because I I did his contest prep and he strung me along and about paying me paying me and didn't. And he owed me money for other things, too. And he still owes me money. So, he's not welcome in my gym, but he got involved with some people and got busted like I told him he would because I knew what he was getting into to. And now he's busted and and I don't want nothing to do with him. And I've told other people that you better stay away from him because that guy's hot and he's probably going to wrap people out. Yeah. He's gonna set people up probably. Yeah. And so just set you up. That's just the way it is. Yeah. Yeah. If if you're willing to snitch on somebody like that, you're dangerous. you're in the bodybuilding world, especially dangerous in any world. You got, you know, it was look, he wasn't, it was, he didn't make a very good decision. I'll agree with that 100%. Bad bad decision. He should have a bad decision, right? I mean, that's guys, the guys got to live by their own code. You know what I mean? I guess, you know, that code I wouldn't trust him. I wouldn't trust him. He didn't realize he didn't realize he was on film while he was saying all this [\h__\h] Right. That's what That's what I said, Larry. He didn't realize he was recorded because he even asked me after the show. He he knew there was video of him talking to the police, but I already posted on my YouTube all the audio, but he after the show he's like, "Hey, do you have audio to that?" Cuz he wanted to make sure if there was audio or not. And I'm like, "Yeah." And I sent it to him. So he was probably like, "Oh shit." Yeah. So, for for Okay, for the people that's messaged me like shitty messages that are that are sucking Patrick's D and sucking Chris's D or all that. I just presented a story and you know, it is what it is. I If I saw Patrick at a show, what's up? Whatever. If I see Chris at a show, what's up? You know, no hard feelings. I just It wasn't cool at all for Chris to again the next day try to start more [\h__\h] and people send me [\h__\h] messages. Chris, that's not cool. That's [\h__\h] [\h__\h] That Get some testosterone. Get some get some tes on how to address it. Once you put something up on on social media about yourself, you got to then address it. It should be kept behind scenes. If you have an argument with somebody, you don't put it up online. Yeah, I agree. I agree. Someone does it, then you got to confront them. Well, it was a it was a good arguing show. I had a headache. The show I know Dave, what? I'll send you I made some protein bagels. I'll send you a couple. Oh, yeah. I would love that. Those are really good. Hey, baking again. No, I bake them for myself. But you David son, I feel like we're at an Italian [\h__\h] get together where everybody's arguing at the table, right? It's like a holiday. It's like [\h__\h] Christmas. We need some [\h__\h] argy to dip that bagel in. I need some gravy. Yep. Put breadcrumbs in your [\h__\h] meatballs. Yes, I did. Marie, don't tell me. Goddamn it. [\h__\h] Dr. Forte. Hey, you remember that? You remember that movie Once Upon a Time in America? You ever see that? It's about a Jewish and and and Italian family, which is funny because that's what I have. And remember they they they got all upset because they cut the turkey before he got there. He's cut the turkey before it got to cut the turkey. You got to show the turkey on the greatest scenes of all time. You're supposed to show the turkey. On that note, we got to wrap things up. Thanks for joining us. Thanks for arguing with us. We love you all. We'll see you again next week. Never give up. Never give up. W you