Howard co- sell for RX muscle Patrick M TKO in the parking lot in Texas. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're back and we're live for another edition of Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palumbo, joined as always by the technician Chris Aceto and special guest Armadi. Thanks for joining us, Arman. Tonight, what's up, gentlemen? We got uh we got a little uh a little gossip, a little TMZ action in the bodybuilding world this past week. Uh Patrick Moore, TKO or or knockout, I would say. Not even a TKO, a knockout in the parking lot. Yeah. You know, from what I understand, isn't Patrick Moore a former Golden Gloves guy or something? Yeah, he's for former Golden Gloves champ. He was a boxer. His whole was like a thing he fell into because he was like people thought he lifted weights and he didn't lift weights. Oh, is that what it was? Now, Arman, you you did a really nice little summation on your Instagram, I thought, of what what kind of went down. you're from the Texas, you know, gym community there, so you kind of know all the gossip that goes on in the gym community over there. Give us like a a little uh summation of what happened leading up to the fight and then we'll show the video of the fight for the park. Yeah. You know, so I made a video of like what happened and then um on Instagram and after I made the video, the owner of uh the gym text me that got in the fight with Patrick and he told me like more details. He sent me all the text messages that transpired in between them and basically you know Patrick uh you know owed money rent money to the gym. He owed it for a while and um you know uh he didn't want to I guess you know he was the gym owner was like hey I need you know the the 900 bucks by today or you know you can't come in the gym I have to you know 900 bucks for rent. Yeah gym rent. Gym rent. Yeah. He was training he was training people at the gym in other words. Yeah. Yeah. So, his training his training rant. So, okay. Uh you know, uh Patrick, it was a friendly conversation because he sent me all the text like, "Yeah, no problem, bud." Patrick's like, "Hey, man. Thank you for giving me the extra time and all this and and uh you know, very very friendly conversation like they were like friends and then it turned south." Hold on. I don't I want to stop you. So Patrick knew that he owed this guy money for rent. That's what it seems like. Right. Right. Yeah. And so Pat the So Patrick's like, "Hey, I'll I'll I'll have 300 paid today." And the guy's like, "Unfortunately, I need the whole 900 before you come back tomorrow because, you know, it's been months since you owe me this money." And then uh the the the conversation, I guess Patrick showed up the next day to the gym anyways, even though the guy said, "Hey, you can't come back." The guy give the guy the 300 bucks. I I don't know if he gave him the 300 or not, but he didn't pay. I don't think he paid anything. And then she just showed up the next morning. And then apparently Patrick was uh bad mouthing um uh the owner to the front desk girl and all that. And so uh the owner did the front desk girl let him into the gym to train his clients? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He she let him in and then, you know, he I guess he was badmouthing the gym owner. So the gym owner uh called him and Patrick didn't answer and Patrick's like, "Yeah, you call." And the gym owner's like, "Yeah, you know, hey, like what? Wh why why are you badmouthing me to to Misty? You like you owe me money. Why why'd you come in the gym?" And then the the conversation turned south quick, you know. He's like, you know, uh you know, I mean, I have all the texts. I can't I mean, I can't even remember what how it turned south. They weren't in person. They were texting each other at this point. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They were texting each other. It was just like, you know, um let me pull up the first one just so I can, you know, remember what happened. Uh you know, like, hey, it was like, hey, you know, brother, everything's good. All all that. Um Patrick's like, hey, man, I can't I appreciate that you have my word. I won't mention this to anyone. Like that he's giving him extra time and special treatment and all that. And the Jim's like, "Yeah, man. Thanks." You know, I'm I'm giving a short version because they're long text. I, you know, I appreciate that. Patrick's like, "No problem. I can send 300. Uh, one client just paid me." He's like, "Sadly, I won't be able to accept uh the 300. Um, I need everything in in full." Patrick's like, "Gotcha. Well, I need a yada yada yada." Giving excuses or whatever. And the guy's like, "Let me know." And then um the next day, Patrick's like, "Like I said, "What's up, homie? You called." And then he's like, "Misty, I guess the front desk girl told me you had a lot to say. Hey, why don't the guy says, "Why don't you come to the gym so we can run it back real quick?" I got my family in the car like this. So the gym owner's like, "Hey, why don't you come so we can like talk talk about this and Patrick just says, "Boy, I'll beat your FNS out out of the you know." Yeah. To him. And he's like, "When are you there? You got the right one today, homie." Patrick says, "And then I'll be there in 30 minutes." He goes, "Bet. I'll ass [\h__\h] homie." And so let me let me stop you for a second. So, it seems as though the gym owner is not interested in Patrick's 300 bucks, which usually if someone's offering you 300 bucks, you take it and you give him, "All right, look, I need the rest of it by Friday or something like that." But he wants all his money. So, which I have to believe means that Patrick has probably owed him for quite a while at this point, right? Yeah. But like it sound like it's several months. The guy told me already, you know, he's given Patrick Yeah. Or he's pissed off that Patrick's bad mouthing him to the front desk girl and that's really what got him all heated up. That's what it seems like, right? Because well, it was it was before that like, you know, before that he was like, "No, I need the whole 900." Everything was But he was cordial about it. He just he just now he wants to fight Patrick. You know what I mean? So, I mean, I don't it didn't really sound like that, you know? He just said, "Hey, I have my family in the car." So, it's like, "Hey, you know, come to the gym." And it sounded like, "Hey, let's talk. I got my family in the car." And then Patrick just said, "I'll beat, you know, I'll beat your ass." So, I don't know where. So, so the guy goes to the gym knowing that Patrick wants to beat his ass is my point, right? He didn't call he I would have called at that point. Wouldn't you have Well, it sounded like, you know, they were going to get into a a conversation. It It didn't sound like they were going to fight, but then Patrick said, "I'll beat your ass, homie." You know? So, well, if someone said they're going to beat my ass, I either going to go there with the idea that I'm going to fight this guy, which I haven't Jimmo is a big guy. We We'll play the video. You'll see. Right. Or, you know, I would have called the police and said, "Listen, this guy wants to beat my ass. He's at the gym. He owes me money. Can you please show up?" And I don't want to I don't want to have a confrontation with this guy. You know, I would I would have just trespassed him, you know, like if you're not, you know, he's threatening. I'm not going to go fight a guy and I'm a gym owner. You know, I'm not going to have that bad PR at my gym. Plus, Patrick is is a former Golden Gloves guy, so he knows how to fight obviously, you know, right? And, you know, I don't know Patrick why he wants to fight. I mean, Patrick owes the guy money. The guy's given him enough time to pay. Bro, you're you're you're reading you're reading your friends. This guy's your friend, this gym owner. No, he's No, I don't I didn't know him at all. Why do you have text messages? He he contacted Arman because Arman did this video on Instagram about the whole thing. So, he contacts me, Chris, and then sends me. So, so you get Did you talk to Patrick? Yeah, Patrick texts me after the video and Patrick's like, you know, was upset and I was like, Patrick, do you want to come on with Kenny Kamali and I and talk about it? He's like, no. And I'm like, "Come on." I mean, all right. So So So Patrick goes to the gym and how does how does this thing even escalate to the fight? Tommy, I actually when the show is going to start, I I don't want to get into like like text messages. This guy said, "Yeah, well I'm not biased. I'm not biased, Chris. I didn't even know the gym owner. He's just he's just letting him know that letting everyone know that the gym owner contacted him trying to like like get into the weeds of like Right. He's your client. I get it. Well, I want to see I want to see how the whole thing escalated, Chris. That's what we're trying to figure out. How you want to You just want to like talk gossipists. Well, that's this is a story that's out there. I want to see what happened. I have a video. You You can I'll join back in after you guys can like take it into like an important story and it's a story in the industry. So, we're just we're just going over it. That's all. But, all right. So, what happened Arma once he I mean, I'm I'm at this point, Chris, I'm friend I'm friends friendly with Patrick. We've talked before at shows. We're cool. We've talked before about judging anyone here. We're just trying to Yeah, we're Me and Patrick are cool. I have no issue with Patrick. I don't even know the I don't even know the gym owner. I don't even know who he is. Patrick's cool with you coming on the show and talking about text messages and Yeah, me and Pat Well friends, you know, they're cool with them. I'm just asking, did you did you speak Chris? Me? Yeah. So, Patrick Patrick text me text messages. Yeah. me. Patrick texted me after I made a short clip on IG and he's just telling me basically I don't know what's going on. I said Patrick well I I seen the text going on because you got all the text messages apparently right and I see the and I saw the and I saw the other videos of him threatening the Jim motor to tell on him for selling let me play let me play this video since I got the video. Let let's let's play the video because this is this is this is undeniable. So there's no there's you know it is the point but you don't know what led up to the video. Everything you're talking about is the gym owner providing text messages to Armen and Armen claiming that he's like cool with Patrick but when like well I don't think Patrick is denying that he owed the guy money though Chris. So this obviously this whole thing escalated because of money. But but but now Armen is like taking sides with like like he's gonna No, I'm not. No no no he's not. I didn't I don't get that impression. I get the impression. No, I I tal I talked to Patrick after that, Chris. I talked to him and he said, "No, you know, he just said, did you tell him you're gonna come on RX Muscle to read like private text message?" No, I said Me and King Kamali already did a video. They're already on Two days ago. I said I told Patrick did a video. I asked, did you ask Patrick when you spoke with him because you guys are bros according to you that you were going to come on the show and talk about private messages from the opposing side? Yeah, I said me and King Kamali are coming on to do YouTube. Would you like to come on and tell your side? No, not said no. Didn't say YouTube. It's but it's already on you. I was already doing a a channel on my show on my channel. So I asked I asked Patrick, do you want to come on Patrick? He said no. He said no. Texted me no. By the way, okay. Well, he's probably watching. I don't have I don't have anything against Patrick. Obviously, I liked it. Just showing We're just showing the story. Let's Let's watch this video, Chris. Let's watch the video because the video is pretty entertaining. I will say, no matter who you agree with on this. No, I I didn't say the video was not entertaining or not like quote newsworthy. I'm just saying Armen is like, "All right, hold on. Let's watch coming on like an expert witness when he's not even there and he's only getting text messages from the gym owner. All right, there's Patrick at the bottom of the screen with with Patrick and Patrick just text me right now. You're not cool. All right. Well, I'm sure he's not cool now that he did the show with King Kamali on him. Yeah, right. We're not Yeah. Did you tell Patrick? He said, "Oh, yeah. Me and Patrick are like cool." It's like, "Well, did you tell Patrick you're coming on the show?" Chris. Yes, Chris. Okay. So they get the timeline straight. I make a video on IG telling, "Hey, the fight went down. Give him my, you know, like I said, the guy pulled him off. Talk about this video." And then and then the the guy calls the the gym owner tells me all this. And I said, "Patrick, I'm doing a a YouTube with King Camali. Do you want to come on and tell your side?" He's like, "No." And he said, you know, basically, you know, I have all me text message. He's like, he didn't want to come. He's like, "Run your shit." And that's that. I'll go up generation iron and tell my side of the story. I said, well, I've got all the videos of you, you know, telling the police this guy's selling gear out of the gym. Why? Why? Why? That's like a bro code of the industry. Why would you break that? That's So, I found that not cool. Like, you're you're I mean, we've all sold gear. We're in the industry. We've got people gear. Why would you tell the police this guy's selling gear and try to get him in trouble? All right, let's watch Let's watch the video. Let's let's watch the video because the video is the most entertaining part of this. I don't I don't know all the details in between, but I know the video is entertaining. We'll send Patrick. Call Patrick. He said he's coming on the show. All right, I'll get you. You want me to send him the link? I know. I know. Yes. All right. So, what can you send him the link while I'm showing the video? How to send the damn link? Why don't you just pause the video, Dave? Just copy and paste, Dave. Dave there. So, I'm with Patrick. All right, let's All right, let's get Patrick on. I'm all in favor of that. Yeah, that's fine. I'm gonna send him a link. On his way. All right, let's give him the link if he wants to come on. This is great. All right, just can you can you copy and paste that to Arma? Can you since you have a text message, can you copy and paste that link and send it to uh Patrick? Copy and paste what? The link to the show. The one I sent you. You want me to text Patrick? You can text it. It'll It'll just be quicker if you do it because otherwise I I have to try to pull things up. Yeah, I I'll send it to him. Yeah, I'd have nothing against Patrick and you know. No, just send him the link. Let's let him come on and tell his I'm glad he went to tell his son. I I'm dying to hear his side of the story. Let's see. I'm dying to show this video. I love the video. It's a very It's a very good quality. For someone who didn't know that they were being videotaped, it's a very good quality. I don't have I don't have his email. How do I forward this to his number? Send it to his text. He can come on with his phone. I know. I know. I know, Dave. But I got the link. Check your email. Check your email on your phone and then and then you know and then grab it. All right. Hold on. I I got it. Here is Patrick. No. No. I'm sending to him. Yeah. All right. I gotta find his text. Bring Bray Sean Ray. Okay. Now you're Now you're really starting trouble. Yeah. Patrick Mo send Patrick Moore to him with the front bicep. It's going to be an upper. Now Now you're really starting trouble with with You had to bring Sean Ray's name up. Oh, Sid sent the link to Patrick. Okay, good. Thank you, Sid. By the way, Sid's mom's in the hospital, so let's send out some prayers to him for that. So, all right. Um, Chris, they want to know if you wear a G-string. Not Not I was 53. Since we got sitting, I said, "Can you do the play by Can you do the audio playbyplay of the five press?" The playbyplay. Yeah, we want you to do it in your best Howard Coell voice. 243 lbs ripped. Patrick Moore. Hilarious. What's up, Patrick? What's up, guys? Let me uh put this on this on the headphone really quick. All right. Should I say Patrick Ali? Patrick Ali, what do you call? Hold on. Hold on. He's put his headset on. Okay. Can you guys hear me? Yeah. Yeah, just turn the music down in the back just because they're going to they're going to ding us for that. I tell you what, let me go into cuz actually I don't even know why it's not connecting to the uh to the deal to the headphones. Are you It might be connecting to your car. Are you in your car? No, no, no. I was actually not far from finishing up training. Uh look, he even stopped his workout to do this thing, Chris. Well, good thing I was towards the end of it, you know. Yeah. All right. We don't want to ruin your workout. You got a show coming up. Yeah. Yeah. No, no. Today was uh I I don't know if I was supposed to be training, but uh you know, Chris, you're not training at the gym where you got into the fight, are you? No. No, absolutely not. I don't think I'm actually welcome over there. I don't think you're welcome over there either. Yeah. No video. So, while while you're trying to figure the the video, what what happened? Give us your Give us your Don't want the video, Dave? Don't Don't ruin a good thing. Oh, you want me to show the video first? No. Patrick's face. Oh, no. No. I know. He's trying to figure that out. Oh, there you are. Okay. Okay. Okay. Can you guys hear me? Yeah, we can hear you. We can see you, too. All right. Come on. Let's go ahead. You look 241 with sucked face, but go ahead. It's a good day down here from training, man. I I I gotta say I was telling the guy, I'm pretty excited. You look enormous. I got to tell you, too. You know, a lot of people, you know, were concerned if it if this little issue kind of stopped the progress. It did for maybe half a day. That it was not an issue. But so, you know, you have the video there. Um, if you, you know, you have a chance to kind of watch it, but I can kind of give you the backstory to give us the backtory before we play the video. Yeah. Because I I I love this video, but you could walk us through the video once you once we hear the backstory. I want your version of the backstory, you know. Okay. Gotcha. So, I had been training at this gym. Uh man, probably maybe four months, five months. Um so I've been over there quite some time and and the guy he actually that owns this this facility, the leader fitness, he came from this gym, which is Texas Iron. This is my home gym where I, you know, normally train on the regular for myself. Uh so I had a couple of clients, you know, that didn't necessarily want to make the commute, you know, coming out this way because it's slight slight bit further. Uh but once they actually came and saw the equipment, you know, it was an easy transition. But uh that's neither here nor there. So I start over here at this gym. First off, you know, the the uh the membership not being paid is is some some stupid [\h__\h] Uh that's so annoying because, you know, rather than going post all the text messages and the bank account drafts and all that stuff because, you know, the membership is automatically drafted every month. So this is what kicked off the whole issue. So, at a certain point, I told them, "Hey, man. I have a couple people that I want to train there, you know, because okay, they wanted to come over from another gym where they necessarily weren't getting the results and they wanted me to train them." No, let let me ask let me ask you a question first. I'm I'm want to just get clarification on something. So, you're you go to this other gym, you bring some clients over there. Were you were you paying a membership to train at this gym or you working at this gym? No. So most gyms here um some somewhat you a membership is going to be automatic but there's actually four gyms here that I don't pay a membership at at all. Right. I tell you you're a pro. Yeah. Yeah. And so for the couple that do I never have a problem with it because business is business and people have to eat. So you know before I was a professional and an amateur I still had to pay gym membership. So this was nothing new to me. Uh so over here the gym membership was $70. Um and I a month. Yeah. Uhhuh. Uh so nothing spectacular about the gym at all. It's not like I said half of the equipment in that gym was actually purchased from this gym owner. Right. So uh once he transitioned over there and he start putting all this together. I actually went to that gym before it was completed um and had conversations with the owner and the other guy who actually punched me at the end of the video. He runs a meal meal prep company and he you know he tech he DM'd me on Instagram and he kept asking if he could give me some meals. uh if I could promote the company, you know, they were sponsor and all that, but at the time I wasn't interested, so I kind of declined, right? So, I started going through the gym and in total, I had bought over like six members. So, mind you, and you're paying $840 a year to train at this gym. That's what So, this guy, he's automatically getting gym membership, which is fine. I don't care about that. Right. Okay. But you should you should if you work at the gym, you shouldn't have to pay a gym membership, but you guys Yeah, that that's how I figured it. you know, people run their business how they want to run their business. So, I whatever. Uh, but I told him I had a couple guys in one of the train. So, he told me that he had another guy that was the, uh, head trainer there, and he was a guy that I know. So, I said, "Hey, man, what's the protocol? How do you guys go about doing this?" And he said, "Well, um, it's 300 bucks a month to, you know, for gym rent." I said, "Okay." And um you know with that I've paid gym rent before at a gym but with that gym rent usually they'll give you a client here or there if someone comes in and right none of that was happening here. So I paid the first month's rent um and my guys started training. Now the way that I run my training program is guys will buy sessions by the month. So these guys in particular they buy 20 sessions by the month. So it comes up to about four grand is what they pay in training fees every month. That's a good that's a good business. Okay. Yeah. You know, especially here in Texas cuz you know that's that's pretty high rate. So they're in color. So they're taking 300 bucks a month from your rent and the 70 bucks on top of that, right? Yeah. Yeah. For me for myself and and my and the members that I bought over you're bringing in members too at 70 bucks a month, right? So Exactly. Seems like they're double dipping here a little bit on your part. Okay. Yeah. So we'll we'll we'll get to that part of the conversation. So, um I I the guy uh I bring over members that I'm not training. So, he's getting membership fees or dudes from uh other people that saw that I post content there, which is usually what I will always do is any gym that I go to, whether I pay a membership or not, I'll try to promote them because that's just what you do. You know, if if it's a local gym, I like to support those guys because they allow me to train. And you know, it's just gives me an environment for me to do my job professionally without having to go to a LA Fitness or a 24-hour fitness or corporate gym or whatever. Uh, so I tell the guy, hey, okay, he tells me, well, it's 300 bucks a month. I say, no problem. I send him 300 bucks. I told him, well, my guys, they once they finished their sets of sessions, they then purchased a new set, right? Well, between me having to travel for the UK Pro, the Legions, and them being in and out, uh there were sessions that they had to make up. So, at this time, um time had gone by. I wasn't even paying attention to it because I just wasn't right. I'm the membership aesthetic being drafted or whatever. And I'm I'm not seeing the owner. Uh I guess he would come in maybe a time when I'm not there or after or before. So randomly one day he saw me in the gym and he said, "Hey, I've been meaning to c how's everything going?" And I said, "Man, it's going good. I'm just prepping for the Arnold," so on and so forth. Um, and he said, "Um, I've been meaning to catch up with you for gym ring." So I responded back to that and I said, "Okay, cool. No problem." Uh, cuz it split my mind. And then he sent the other message, which we'll revisit that to go ahead and clear that rumor up about the snitching nonsense. Um, so he sends me a request for $900. I'm like, "Okay." Um, and I I text him. I say, "Hey, man. Let's have a conversation about it." We go back and forth through text. Uh, which I did not post online cuz I didn't think it would go this far, right? I thought this would be something we could settle manto man or in person or whatever. Knocking him out of the parking lot. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. So, uh, he says that and I say, "Okay, cool, man. Hey, I tell you what. Uh, my guys will be purchasing new sessions here in a couple days. I'll go ahead and get you squared away on that. And in the text, you know, it's having text is always a good thing when it comes to these type of issues. Anyways, I told him, I said, "Well, they actually just paid today, so I'll go ahead and send you that $300. Um, if you're saying that I owe you that, I'll go ahead and square that away. And then whatever is remaining, I'll take care of it in a couple days." He says, "Okay, cool." And after that, he said, "You know what? How many people do you have?" And I said, "Well, I'm just training three people." So in the text he goes and he says, "Well, I'll go ahead and comp that rent, the gym rent for those three people. If it's any more than that, then I'll go ahead and have to charge you regular gym rent." I said, "No problem. Um, that's cool. I appreciate it." He says, "But keep this conversation between me and you. I don't want to ruffle any feathers with the other trainers." Blah, blah, blah. I say, "Okay, no problem, man. I I appreciate that. I'm thankful." You know, so on and so forth. What do you So are you paying are you paying a $100 per person per month? Is that how it works out? No, I think that's just a flat rate uh that that they must have. Yeah. So, what was how is he giving these people to you for free if he was still charging you the 300 bucks? Well, he never gave me anybody. Those were people I bought over. Right. But I'm saying so he's still charging you 300 bucks though. I thought he's giving you those guys for free though. He said Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And that's the thing. So once he said he would come the the um the gym rent, I said, "Okay." So once I told him I would square away the debt, which is clearly in the text, and he has this text, too. So, other words, you weren't going to use you weren't going to get charged anything in the future. You just owed him that back money. That's it. Exactly. And and it just slipped my mind, right? So, we're going through the text. I said, "I'll square it away." And I clearly put in the text. I said, "I'll make sure to cover the debt." So, he said, "Well, sadly, I'm going to need the the entire I'm going to need the balance by the end of the day." So, in my brain, if you knew this guy and you knew how pretentious he was and the way he carries himself, it was all left field because you swear he's a millionaire, a multi-millionaire, um, you know, from his social media and all this other stuff, which he has since taken down uh, with all the [\h__\h] that he has actually orchestrated and started. So, I told him I squared away. So, he sends back a message and he says, "Okay." And he said, "Just let me know." So I said, "Well, speaking of that, those anytime you bring members to the gym, they're supposed to give you a credit." Like some deal that they have, you know, that they were promoting the gym. If you bring someone on, they'll give you a credit, a free month or whatever. So I text him and I said, "Hey, I bought these members over um and I mentioned it to Joselyn," which is one of his uh assistants or the front desk girls, but I don't think she had a chance to take care of it. He said, "I'll make sure you get credited for that." So, at the end of this conversation, this is the previous night, I'm thinking, okay, because he sent the handshake emoji. Um, and I thought, okay, we're square. Um, I'll take care of the balance in a couple days, right? So, I go and train at my home gym, which is here. I think maybe this might be what it's the only conclusion I could come to. I came to my home gym and actually posted some content that night, right? I hadn't heard from the guy other than like I said the official agreement which Armen, if you would have reached out since you had my contact, you could have had all these text messages, man. And I actually actually didn't have your contact. When you text me when we traded numbers at the heart of Texas, it just showed up your text. I knew it was you because the manner of the text. I didn't actually have your name. Here's here's where I think you screwed up because the guy was going to give you free rent from this point on. I would have somehow scred up the the 900 bucks and given it to him because he obviously was was for some reason obsessed with this 900 bucks and and I would have said, "Man, he's never going to charge me to take it out of my bank. Here it is. Take it." That's what I That's what I told him, Dave. I I told him I said, "Look, well, they just paid. I'll I'll send you this." You should have given it to him right away. You should have given it to him immediately and that would have ended the whole thing because you're not getting any more rent charged to you. And and and this is true. So I told him, I'll send this to you now and then I'll send the rest, which is, you know, because everyone has a certain way that they're going to do their finances. And of course, this is the end of the month, so all the bills are coming out, I'm like, "Okay, dude. I got it. It's a couple days. Don't worry." It was like he was testing you almost to see if you would. So, right. And and had he said, "Hey, man. This is I'm in dire strength or whatever. I need it now. Okay, cool, man. I'll take care of it." But he was so nonchalant through the day I got and and I that's the energy I got like cuz he was like okay cool just let me know that's the last thing we had the last communication. So I get up the next morning of course you know we have the freeze warning here uh or we had to freeze and it was snow and all that [\h__\h] So now the commute to the gym is like 30 minutes instead of the normal 15. So I come out uh my couple clients come out and this is at 5:30 in the morning. So yeah, fresh ice on the ground. So, we we get there and I try to hit my key tag on the door and it turns up red. I'm like, "Okay." Uh, which was a shocker because they had just drafted my bank account for my membership two weeks prior. So, I'm like, "Okay." Uh, so I tried it again. It comes up red. So, my client, he hit his and it opened. So, we went inside, right? At that time, uh, he had he had a front desk girl who had a woman who had been there for a while. Her name was Misty. So I said, "Hey, when you get a chance, can you check and see what's going on with my me with my key tag? It's not open in the door." She said, "Oh, well, yeah, Patrick sent a message late last night to block your membership because you hadn't paid uh the gym." I said, "Okay, which is the crazy part, Dave, is gym rent is completely separate from my membership. There's no standing contract for a gym rent. I have a standing signed contract for my gym membership." Right. So you were paying the gym membership, right? So that he should never have cut off your key key code. And and and that's where it got sticky because I'm like, dude, I'm I'm in prep for the Arnold. I need to do my fasted cardio. So now now you're [\h__\h] with with me personally. When all it was, you could have said, "Hey, you know what?" Yeah. Don't [\h__\h] with the guy's workout. Yeah. Exactly. No, because it was a simple conversation. All he had to do was say, "Hey, you know what? Um I don't I you can't train these two guys here until we square the balance." Right. But you were paying a gym membership, but that should not have affected you getting into the gym. Exactly. So once she said that and she said, um, we looked at the time stamp. She said, "Yeah, this was later last night." I said, "Well, damn." I talked to him prior to that and I we were square. I mean, literally the text said we were square, right? So, of course, I get pissed off and I start talking. I'm like, "Yeah, you know, that's [\h__\h] up. This, that, and the other." So, I didn't This guy, I guess he records audio and video in the gym without people's knowledge. This find out. You're not supposed to do that. Yeah. No. And this what I find out after the fact. So, um, it's about 9:00 a.m. I go home. Um, and I get a call from this guy, but I was asleep. And so, I called him back around 100 p.m. after I woke up. And I said, uh, he didn't answer. I said, "Hey, man." I said, "What's up you called?" Because by this time when I left Dave, I went ahead and cancelled my membership because I said, "Well, wow. If this is how this goes, I have no interest in continuing a membership, so just go ahead and cancel. So he texts back and again all this stuff is in text. So his reply he said, "Well, Misty said you had quite a lot to say this morning. Why don't you come up to the gym so we can run it back real quick?" So at this time, let me let me ask you a question. What is what is run it back? How do you interpret that as as a guy? So I where I come from a very very very rough background. Yeah. And that means we're about to [\h__\h] fight, right? That's Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's what it sounds like, right? Yeah. So, um I I caught I said and so my immediate response as a self-respecting man, I said, "Man, I will beat your [\h__\h] ass just like that." But hey, Patrick, he said he said he had his kids in the car though. I don't I if I have my kids in the car, I'm not going to No, this is through this is through text message. So, the kids this is through text. This isn't a phone call. So, yeah, I know. I saw him. Yeah. So, after that, um I go downstairs. I'm I'm get I'm right now. I think it's Hold on one second. What's important to say is when you see you didn't interpret like a lot of people didn't when he said let we could run this back over. That means I know what that mean. I know what that means. But when threatening Patrick at this point, you know what I mean? But but the go further. Hold on. Hold on. Let me hold on Armen. Let me show you how it goes further. This because I found out all this [\h__\h] after the fact. So, I go downstairs and my my lady was like, "What are you doing?" I said, "Well, uh, the gym owner has some words for me. I'm going to go up here and go see about it real quick." Uh, and I put on my Olympia jacket. I'm I'm 100% not thinking like I'm thinking once I get there and he sees me. Okay, we can go ahead and settle this out, right? like maybe rethink the uh the whole male bravado and tough machismo all that [\h__\h] that you're just this display because it's just me and you at this point I'm not knowing other people have been privy to any of this altercation or whatever. So I go there and you know uh she's like okay well she's shocked and I say yeah I'll be back. So, I grab a Bang energy drink and I get up to the gym and uh his buddy, the the one who hit me at the end of the video, is standing at the front door. So, I walk up and I say, "Hey, what's up, man?" I thought it was him at first, but you know, they look similar. Yeah. So, he says, "Oh, well, Patrick will be here in a minute." But it was the energy was kind of like the champ is coming. Like, no. So, so now I'm I'm feeling the energy, but I'm still not really there. Uh, and I said, "Okay, cool, man. I'm going to go in and take a piss real quick. So, he was like, "Oh, okay. Uh, but make sure you come back out here." I said, "Okay, cool." So, as I come out the restroom, immediately when I'm coming out, cuz the rest there's one restroom at the front of the facility. Um, he the owner comes walking across the front door, uh, with his He's hyping himself up. He He pulled his little coveralls, snaps of [\h__\h] He He Now, this this is this is funny because this is the [\h__\h] he This is the [\h__\h] he cut out of the video. Yeah. So he he's he pulls us the suspenders and I go out there and I'm like, "Okay, he's kicking the ground and there's no ice on the ground." Like, so all that [\h__\h] that people are saying he slipped, [\h__\h] we all would have slipped if that's the case. Let's Let's watch the video. You can walk us through the video. Let's watch the video here because this is this is I actually enjoyed the video. I gota I gotta be honest with you. The the m the sadistic lunatic in me enjoyed the videos. So hold on. Here we go. Let's pull this thing up here. Um, okay. All right. So, that's you. You're at the bottom of the screen. He's in fighting stance at the top of the screen. So, if you rewind that video, you'll see me standing next to the car. U which is my car, right? So, see, that's when he walked up. So, right here, I stopped and I put my I put my phone in and see my hand is up, right? I said, "Yo, man, this really a conversation. We can go inside and handle this. I'm five weeks out from the show. out about to fight you on some ice or wet ground. And so he says he immediately goes to [\h__\h] that, [\h__\h] that. He's all, you know, all these profanities and he's just screaming them out. So I walked up and I allowed him to take the first couple swings because I knew at that point uh what? Yeah, I'm going to stop it. What's So what's your background in boxing now? Are you a Golden Gloves guy? Yeah. Yeah, I've had plenty of Golden Gloves tournaments, all that stuff. So that's something I did for quite a long time. You're not a boss. You're not a bot. And coming from where I come from, you're going to have to learn how to fight anyway because it's just not a friendly place. You know, you're going to learn some form of self-defense. So I purposely parked right there in that corner because I knew that camera was there and if anything happened on his property, everything could be documented. You know what I mean? So I walked up to him and if you notice when I walked up my hands were down because this way I'm not trying to be threatening you know and I told him I said we can go inside right there. You see my hands are down. Yeah. He immediately put his hands up and then he took a swing. Yeah. Right there. He took a swing. Yes. And then he took Yeah. So I said, "Okay, so you really want to go?" And so we mix it up. Um and and and he's just at that time I remember saying, "Oh, you're kind of nervous." cuz he was just all over the place. Now, mind you, I have not put on gloves in 12 years, 14 years, and uh I'm dieting as Chris knows. So, this is like I'm not 100%. So, I get him with a few good shots thinking it would deter him, but it's not enough. He grabs my Olympia jacket right there and he ripped the jacket off. So, at that time when he took that cheap shot, I said, "Okay, I'm about to put this guy down." You just Yeah, that that was the the knockout punch right there. That was not That was not a slip. No. No. And so Howard Coell, is that a slip the gym owner and so he he he was completely encouraable. He just was not he would not back off. And I could tell he was either on something or I don't know what had him so hype. Bang. Bang energy. Jack. Yeah. And so where everyone's like, "Oh, I should have stopped." You don't realize when someone grabs you and they hit you with a chief shot, a switch goes off because at the time again, I'm not locked in thinking we're really about to fight. My brain's not processing that. I'm not in that mode. But once he hit me with that cheap shot, okay, then now I'm going to try to kill you. And I told I told him that. I said, "Dude, I was going to try to kill you, man, because you took this way further than it had to go." So right here where his buddy trying to break it up, uh he took that cheap shot at the end. So once the video completed and all the altercation was over, uh he goes inside, he runs inside the gym and um he actually locks the door. So I'm standing out there talking to his buddy. Oops. I didn't realize his buddy had took a cheap shot because my adrenaline was going at the time. So I didn't even know what happened that that he pulled me off in that fashion. So his buddy was talking was like, "Yeah, man." And all this stuff. So the next thing you know, a Tomball police officer comes up. So I'm like, "Okay, this is great." Uh, but I'm I'm not worried because if anything happens, the whole video is documented. And he threw the first punch. He threw the first punch. Exactly. And uh so the he he comes up and coincidentally the the officer is the guy that goes to the gym. So he asked me, he said, "Are you good?" I was like, "Yeah, man. I'm fine." And uh he said, "Are you sure?" And he looked at my hand. It was all red from punching, you know, the guy. And I said, "Yeah, man. I'm fine." And so he said, "Okay, well, well, hang out here for a minute." So he goes and attempts to open the door. So what I found out after the fact was Patrick, the gym owner, he went inside and called the cops. But and I I have all this on on record with Misty, the the receptionist, who he subsequently ended up firing, and her daughter. Why did he fire her? Cuz she knew the truth. She knew everything that happened. So he wanted everyone who was actually privy to the information gone. So she called me later that night and she was like, "Would you believe this [\h__\h] fired me?" And she said, "And my daughter," which had nothing to do with anything. So uh he went inside and so the cops like, "Yeah, we we can't um talk to him, so tell us what happened." So on with that whole snitching stuff, for one, he he should have let someone know he was not going to talk to the cops. Why call him if you're not going to talk to him? So, I was like, you know what? I'm not going to snitch this. I'm not going to tell this tell the cops that this guy tried to assault me. I'm just going to let it go and whatever. So, if you notice in the video, which he clipped again, he's not going to post the whole thing. Uh I told the cop, I was like, "Yeah, it's a membership thing. He's double dipping." I'm just making up something quick on the spot because, you know, I'm like, so once the guy, the other officer came and said that he locked the door and he wouldn't come out. I said, "Oh, that's probably cuz he's in there doing some shit." You know, cuz at this point, you pissed me the [\h__\h] off. You orch orchestrated this. You allowed the fight to happen. And then you went inside and called the the cops and then you it's it's kind of like, oh, so you're just going to let me take the fall for something that you started when really we could have just told them what happened. There's a disagreement, whatever. You know, that's not what he did. So, come to find out from the receptionist uh after the officer, he said, "Well, let me see your ID. I'll run your name. You can get out of here." So, he ran my name. Obviously, information came back clear. So, I went home. So I once I talked to the receptionist, she said, "Yeah, well actually he came up here and he said, "Patrick's about to come up here. I'm going to beat his ass. Do you want to watch?" Holy [\h__\h] He He's He's So he's This is in his mind already like, you know. So I noticed when I first got there, the members were coming out and I heard one member say, "Oh yeah, that must be the guy he's talking about." So he obviously had told the members like, "Hey, I'm about to fight this guy." So he he really picked the wrong guy to fight. He should have picked like a Shawn Ray or something like that, but he Well, since Arman Orman has a text message, guy who fights, you know, right? And Armen has a text messages. I told him, I said, "You picked the right one today." Like, you know, if that if that's the way you're trying to go. So all the even after all that was done, I left. Um, and I found out that that the receptionist, she said, "Yeah, he was in there cleaning his office out." Uh, she had to go get him out of the truck. He went, he locked the front doors and he ran to his truck. She said he was in his truck and he was shaking. And she told him, "The cops needed to speak with him." And, uh, she said that he replied, "Well, what do they want me for?" And he was all jittery and shaking and all that. And she said, "Well, you called him, so you need to go talk to him." Well, apparently, I don't know if he ever did because nothing ever came of it. I never got a police before, you know. I never It was like it never happened. So by the by the evening time, I'm thinking, "Okay, cool. No big deal." I wake up in the morning, I get a few phone calls, a few texts to a video that was circulating and I'm like like, "What?" So he he put the video out and then, you know, I came up to the gym. I'm just doing my normal normal day and I came up here to the gym where I normally train at only to find out that I had already seen the video. Um, but then the gym owner here, who's a guy I've known for 10 [\h__\h] years, he's great guy. He tells me, "Yeah, I I actually got a text message and um the guy sent the video here thinking that would deter me from being able to train at my gym home." but without the context of saying what all actually transpired through and through. He didn't. He left all that out and all this stuff about I've had this problem at other gyms, man. Dave, you could call every gym down here in Houston. Man, I've never had that issue. I' I've never had an issue with any gym owner, any gyms, any of that. So once that happened, I thought, okay, wow, this is crazy. So then I went ahead and posted a clip. I said, "Well, if that's the game you're playing, man, I'm gonna go ahead and put some things in motion. So, maybe you'll stop. Maybe that'll deter you." Right. Right. Because the last as after the fight, we were texting back and forth. I don't know if Arman has those messages, but all Okay. So, in those messages, I told him, I said, "You're lucky your buddy was there to pull me off because I was going to kill you." And he said, "Yeah, you're lucky he was there because you were going to catch a murder charge." Dude, I don't past a certain point. I don't want to hear any of that [\h__\h] Like, you you started this. So, I'm gonna finish it. And that's where my head was at. Like, you you have no right when I tried to deescalate a couple times. You should have just kind of let it go. It didn't have to go this far, but then you further were putting this story out like you weren't getting paid gym membership and just letting it flow. He's basically running to every outlet to tell this story. And I'm like, dude, just lick your wounds, man, and give it up. So in those text after the fight before any video he said okay Patrick well uh you got yours I wish you the best in your endeavor and with a praying hands that's the last text messages I got from this guy and this was prior to any of the videos right so I woke up to the video and the rumors and the nonsense and you you know of course you're going to answer that like it's like no don't try to skew the story with a false narrative man if you're going to put it out there make sure you put it out through and True. Let me let me ask you a question. I I got a video that that that that's out there where it's you talking to the police in the parking lot and I guess I maybe you didn't know that the audio was on and it was saying something about that this gym owner's got sell gear and and that I think that's the snitch video that that people Yeah. What what's funny what's funny is do you know the amount of people including the officer? So if you look at that video the officer kind of just shook his head. Everyone in this community already knows this is not a surprise, right? But why would you why would you bring that up at all though? Because I mean bodybuilders all the time. That's like a bro that's like a bro code thing. You don't snitch on, you know, somebody about gear. We've all sold gear. We take gear. I mean, you don't go tell the police about Guess what you also don't do. First off, I've never sold gear, but whatever. Um, you don't [\h__\h] start a fight, then call the cops and leave somebody hanging because guess what? Had you addressed the cops, then I wouldn't be out there because the cops the first their energy was like, "Hey, we're going to have to take you in." Like, what is going on? Like, you No, no, man. You don't If you're going to try to leave me hanging and [\h__\h] dude, you're you're going to go down, too. That's that's how that [\h__\h] a code. I don't give a damn about a code, man. I actually came up in the street. So all that nonsense, you shouldn't have called the cops. You shouldn't have started a fight. You felt that you felt that he he had that he he didn't he wasn't and and that's the thing. And so you see he went online and chose to post that clip and I don't sell gear, dude. So you're running a smear campaign. If you if you're going to go there, that's when I posted the text message of him trying to sell me the gear. Like [\h__\h] if you want to play that game, trust me, dude, we can play the game, but make sure it's going to go all the way. If you play with me, I'm going to take it all the way. So again, you call the officers. You should have talked to them. Don't send them. Don't go inside the building. Lock the door. But he did that because he did not want them to go in and find out. He attempted to assault me. Did you feel I I got the impression, and I'm not trying to put words in your mouth, that you felt that you fought there was there was an ending to this whole thing. you were leaving the gym and that that should have been the resolution. You didn't go in there and try to say, "Hey, he threw a first punch and I want to have arrested." So, you felt that by him calling the cops, he was like trying to like almost like sabotage you at that point? Yeah, he it wasn't almost the cop rolled up and I was getting in the car. Oh, you think he would have called the cops if he would have knocked you down? [\h__\h] no. He if And I guarantee you if I was on the ground, you think his buddy would have pulled him off of me? No. after he just told everybody he was gonna beat my ass. No, man. It What the problem is the his whole plot, his plight, it just didn't age well. And when it didn't age well, he figured, well, I'm going to try to drag Patrick in the court of public opinion as to these [\h__\h] rules. Dude, we're in the street. I boxed in the actual boxing ring where you come to the middle and a referee says no below the belt, no this, no behind the head. Yeah. I told him in the video in which he clipped out, I said, "I'm not going to fight you in the street. if you want to handle this like that, we can go inside. He chose not to. So, at that point, okay, we're going to get it on and there there are no rules. So, it's not like I grabbed a brick like this was hand to hand and once you were put down, I'm going to keep going until you're no longer a threat because I hit you three times thinking that would deter you. But I I understand I understand the fight thing. I I think that where you know where the bodybuilders lose you a little bit is on the on the gear thing because everyone's very nervous about that because we all you know everyone uses gear and then it it it's just like a knee-jerk thing where you don't say that. I think that's I think you should have just left at that point. You know, the the the officer could have taken that any kind of way because in this gym there's a TRT clinic. Like it's a where they do sell that's what they do. Like you get your peptides, you get testosterone, you get I could have went into detail and said, "Hey, let me let me talk to you. Let me tell you what this guy's really doing in there." So I said, "Well, you know, he locked the door because he's in there doing some shit." Well, yeah, he's he is doing some [\h__\h] And dude, like I said, I got people act like that. I won't speak up on that. Like, dude, yeah, but guess what? You know, there's all people always going cry after something has happened. But guess what, Dave? Like you said, there was an agreement that was made. It should have stopped there. But the fight was over. You're not even before the fight. The fight didn't have to happen. We had an agreement. I told you I would take care of you. So you didn't have to cancel the gym membership or block it on some stupid [\h__\h] Do do you think that he was trying to maybe get a raise his reputation? Hey, I knocked out Pro Bodybuild more. 100%. Yeah, cuz I I don't know how old he is, but I think he's in his late 20s. Uh, so he definitely has that energy. I mean, why would you go and tell people, "Hey, I'm I'm about to beat his ass. You want to watch?" Yeah. No, it's seems like he was trying to like make a name for himself, so to speak. Yeah. Yeah, man. And like I said, it's it's like, you know, if you don't want when you [\h__\h] guess what? If you if you if it you going to have to deal with the mud when you start the rain and that's what it is. There's no you can't start all this [\h__\h] up cuz that's a code. Period. If you if you want to get it on, man, let's get it on. Don't run inside and call the cops. Why the [\h__\h] Why the [\h__\h] you own a business? You own a business. You don't fight in your business. That That's the number one rule right there. And and and you know what's funny, Dave, is dude, I could have taken it further and contacted an attorney and said, "Hey, look, um I want to press civil charges. This is his property. He attempted to assault me. I don't know. I hurt my hand." Or some [\h__\h] like that. So, you know, I want I want to I want to file against his insurance, but I dropped it. And then I wake up the next day to this [\h__\h] that Armen got on his page, and Armen says he hit him up. I'm like, "Dude, this dude is still at it." Like, I don't like I didn't care. I don't care about the fighting. Like I don't like I'm sure he tried to make a name for himself. Oh, I I knocked out Patrick. He's a you know I like that's all cool fighting and stuff like you know I've been in street free tries going up. I don't care about that. It was like the part where you're telling the police like hey I'll have the DEA run up in here and you know he's selling beer out of here. Right. And and again so would would the cops have been there had he not called them? It don't matter bro. Why would you Why would you tell the cops about you selling gear? Why would you call the cops? It don't matter. You don't You don't sell people about selling gear. That's We're the bodybuilding industry. Like that's like a code. That's like a code. Hey, Armen. Look, I got I got into bodybuilding in my early 30s. I don't give a [\h__\h] about a bodybuilder code, dude. Bodybuilding is what I do. Where I come from, a real street code, you don't call the cops. So all that [\h__\h] he put online about stuff you do will get you killed 10 years ago or whatever, dude. That same [\h__\h] calling the cops will get the same result these days. So he should never have called the cops, especially since he initiated the fight. [\h__\h] no. Exactly. That's the [\h__\h] point. So anybody can say, "Oh, you shouldn't." No, don't [\h__\h] call the cops. If you do, I'm not taking a fall, dude. I'm getting ready for a [\h__\h] show. You [\h__\h] ran inside. You locked the door and you [\h__\h] And then again, you're recording all this [\h__\h] without anyone's knowledge just so you can control the narrative and release it how you want to put a spin on it how you want. But again, you don't come forth and say, "Hey, you know, I could have prevented this all together." And even past a certain point, I didn't have to go inside and call the cops. He called. So yeah, you going to deal with the [\h__\h] mud and and and anybody who has an issue with that, hey man, they can come find me cuz trust me, snitching, if I wanted to snitch Orman, dude, I have buddies that do work for the feds and the DEA. I could have easily called them and not said [\h__\h] but ask him has anyone investigated this place? [\h__\h] but they're they're up there for a fight. The cops could care less if the dude's selling gear out of the gym. Like so why is it an issue since since they could care less? They're up there because we don't know what they're up there. Let's get Chris talk here. The fact that the guy called the police, he fully believed that the police were going to show up and take his side and consider assault because he lost the fight. Right. Right. That's one. And then two having Patrick on obliterates King Kamali and Armen's position which was to obliterate Patrick's story. I mean Armen your what was your intention in like talking about like one side of the story. That's why I started out with like well he reached out to Patrick. I didn't I didn't I didn't I reached out to Patrick. Here's the deal. He did not reach out. Armen doesn't have a chance to talk. I'm still talking. Now that you've had Patrick here, it blows the hole in like this position that Armen was going to take like blame it on Patrick that going to take. I mean, you can't tell me it wasn't. And this idea that like listen, this code is just ridiculous. This makeshift [\h__\h] code that like, oh, we've all sold steroids. One, no, we haven't. And two, the guy had already taken the position of like, I'm gonna call the cops. It's another It's another swing. It's not a physical swing. It's a legal swing. So Patrick did the right thing by saying, "Okay, if you want to bring in thinking you're going to bring in the cops and they're going to arrest me." How about this? The guy sells juice. He did. Patrick actually did the right thing. That and that's what's crazy is even with the fight [\h__\h] people going there and say, "Oh, you shouldn't have hit him while he was down." [\h__\h] this a street fight. What? I'm confused. There are no rules. If again I the fact that this guy took a shot when my when with my back turned that lets me know that if it were reversed and I were on the ground I guarantee you he would not have pulled him off and said, "Oh, hey, let him get up." No, you had you had to neutralize him. Yeah, you had to neutralize him. Especially because he had a friend there who was willing to get get his back there, which which is dangerous. I mean, I said I said it was a street fight and I said, you know, a street fight, anything goes. If you want to kill the guy, punch his head in the concrete, anything goes. And I said it was not cool that the other guy punched Patrick in the side of the head. The fight the fight's a fight, but that you know, what the problem Armen with with that is you went ahead and aired a story without even bothering to DM me. And then once I got wind of it, cuz I someone told me after the fact. And then that's when I messaged you. I said, "Hey man, you could have actually hit me up and got both sides, but you didn't. you went ahead and said, "Hey, I'm going to air this, but now that you found out, you can come on if you want to." No, dude. If you call yourself a blogger, investigative journalist, or whatever, then you owe your listeners due diligence to get all the facts straight. But see, that's the thing with certain news outlets is, you know, you have a responsibility with information, not just to deliver it first, but to make sure that it's true and accurate. But I get it. in this world in which we live in, you guys saw something and you wanted to jump on it first because it get you clicks and get you bait or whatever. But dude, I don't that's why I didn't release anything. I didn't post any of the [\h__\h] until he did it because I thought it was a dead issue. I didn't think it was something for public opinion or public eyes because of course I get all the backlash from the members or people here in the community. They're like, "Oh man, that's violence and and you you you shouldn't promote it and so on and so forth." Well, I actually didn't. I I I was defending myself and then once it went to a certain space, well, yeah, then we already crossed the line. There's no going back. Well, you know what is you couldn't win in this situation because this guy was either going to beat you up and say I beat up Patrick or if you beat him up, he's going to call the cops on you to make and say this guy owes me money and he and and he was attacked me in the parking lot. So, precisely, you couldn't win on this. Hey, David had knocked Pat out, he would have not called the No, he wouldn't have. then he would have had bragging rights. He would have gone on the internet and said, "I knocked out Patrick Moore." He would have showed the video. That's He would have spent it. He would have spinned it a different way and he would have said, "Oh, well, actually, he came up here for a fight and I knocked him out." Right. Right. Right. Not. But I I'm telling you, Dave, he clipped the video and I sat there. I'm sure I think Yeah. I I'm getting the the the feeling that you were set up in this whole situation. Yeah. Who because who fights five weeks out from a show? Yeah. Yeah. When when the show started, you could Well, I mean, you do know. I just want to reiterate, okay, you guys call me when I didn't want because they didn't have your side of the story and going to just talk and talk and talk about text messages from the gym owner and I don't even know what's going on other than than the video you tagged in. Exactly. And I asked Armen I told Arman I said don't don't run anything. Yeah. I asked Armen because Armen said he didn't know the guy said, "Man, you don't think that's weird? Some someone's just running to you with here's some information." That that's that's not normal behavior, man. I didn't I didn't run to anyone with anything. I I text messages. I have the same information he does. I didn't go to to Dave and say, "Hey, Dave, want to run this story?" Or, "Hey, you want to run this story?" Generation Iron, they hit me up three times. You think I talked to them? No. Because I didn't think it was anybody's business but the two individuals involved. Because once everyone else puts their spin and their opinion on it, then they tend to try to make it facts when in case that's not what it is because no one bothered. Even Nick stranded power. Same thing with him. He went online and said, "Oh, I think he slipped on the ice. I think so. The parking lot was wet. It was like it was me." Well, if that's the case again, we all would have slipped. But, you know, going as far as say, "Oh, Patrick shouldn't have hit him on the ground." And that's the rules. That was a pretty solid shot. I don't I didn't I I didn't I didn't say any of that. My I didn't say that and then on the the clip I met on Instagram that was like a one minute clip. But when me and King Kamali did a YouTube a couple days later like I talked about the whole situation I said the fight's a fight whatever but the whole issue I had was the police and whoever called them or not about telling about someone and so let me ask you a question Armen. Let's say that that was never mentioned, right? And then why what what what is the big like your whole fetish is like the police? What what is the big deal? The police I want I want to know Chris if so let's say the cops went ahead and and chose their own narrative because they saw me out there. Blood on my hands. Um so what if they took me in for class A assault or felony assault or whatever. Uh who's going to come bail me out? Exactly. Not a [\h__\h] person. No one's going to say, "Oh, wait." No, he went inside. He called the cops with the intention to let me hang for knocking him out. Absolutely. So, so you you you know, you you you you physically knocked him out and then you you audibly knocked him out with, "Okay, the guy's dealing stuff in the gym. What's the point?" And then you run you run you go online and you start crying at people. Dude, just knock it off, man. Just just stop. It It's It's over. You didn't call the cops. That wouldn't be the an issue at all. Armor, did you get that? My question, Chris, to you is what's more impressive? Patrick's knockout of the gym owner at five weeks out or Jose Raymond's 400 pound squat for 30 reps at one week out from his show. Which was more impressive, Chris? Hold on. We can't hear you, Chris. I don't We can't hear you. Something's wrong with your audio. We can't hear. You can or cannot hear now. I can hear you. Yeah, we can hear you. Hold on. Someone Whose audio is that doing that? Is that Patrick's? Oh, Patrick Moore. That's Patrick's audio doing that. Okay. Okay. Can you hear me? Yeah. Yeah. Now you're better again. What you gonna say, Chris? Did you Did you hear what I said, Chris? No, I didn't. I said, "What was more impressive? Patrick Moore's uh fiveweek out knockout of the gym owner or or Jose Raymond's 30 reps with 400 pound squat at one week out from his show?" Patrick Moore's knuckle because a joke by the way. Yeah. Jose knew he was Yeah, man. It it like I said, it's an unfortunate situation and and it's it's definitely not something uh I would find I a situation I thought I'll find myself in because it's so minor um of what it escalated to and you know I would ask him I don't have any hard feelings towards a guy because I I like I said it's a fight is a fight and past that it's done and um I was under the impression we were done after the text messages but he clearly obviously still feels a certain way about it and um he kept this whole issue going online and then the next thing you know someone had contacted me and said, "Oh yeah, now he's reading books at night time and staying off social media." Dude, the damage the damage is done. I'm confused. You you've already set this into motion. And so then so I'm if you if that's where you want to go, I'm just going to continue on. I'm afraid to ask you this question, but I'm gonna ask it anyway just because I think probably other people are thinking about it, too. Are you going to pay him the 900 bucks, Joe, or is it that is that is that done? Well, per per his text, he said, "Don't worry about the little money. You're good." Okay. So, but again, if that if that satisfies him, sure thing. Like, dude, here you go. Um, reinstate the gym membership. I would never go again cuz you know what happened. Uh, consequently before because of that, uh, he's probably had maybe he's had quite a few memberships canled because the people in the community and the people at that gym, they know how I am. So when they saw him behaving in this fashion, uh the first thing they think is, "Wow, I can't support a guy like this." I mean, this is, you know, it's just it's it's crazy. So, um it just it is what I I like he said, I don't regret it. I mean, I did everything I could to try to deescalate the situation. Uh because of course I don't want to do something that I'm gonna regret, but at some point, yeah, I'm gonna defend myself and then if it goes further than that, I'm I'm 100% willing to take it there because it's me or you at that point. That that's what it came down to. It was me or him and uh I'm going to come out on top. I'm not going to this just not gonna happen, man. Yeah. Yeah. Rules of the street are a lot different than the rules of uh in the ring. And he he he text me later like, "Patrick, in the ring, do they let you beat people on the ground?" Well, no. It's a boxing ring. We actually have a referee that or that goes in and make sure that doesn't happen. But here in the street where you have on construction boots and oak coveralls and all this other [\h__\h] uh, this is what you asked for, man. So, you're going to have to see it through. I mean, that that's just fair play. I didn't And you know what's crazy, Dave, is I didn't go up there with anyone uh because I didn't think this was I was going to need anyone. Um, I am licensed to carry. I I didn't go up there with a firearm to protect myself. I was thinking, "Okay, one last shot in the dark. Maybe we can settle this and figure it out and that'll be that." But again, hindsight 2020, once I heard from everyone else what his plan was, he he was he wanted to do that. Like you said, he wanted the bragging rights. Had it went the other way, there'd be no cops. There'd be no friend helping. Uh it would just be the situation in reverse. And if you think this video is viral, imagine him having been on top that he wanted to beat you up so that he could have you could put the video up. Yeah. Yeah. And um but you know, man, I got to I I tell I'm not an aggressive person. I don't that's not you know, you you get older, you get more mature. You learn not to you pick your battles. And five weeks out from an Arnold, I you know, I had the opportunity to work back with Chris. We're on great track. I'm not trying to go do some dumb [\h__\h] and get an injury to where I can't train now. I've allowed you to mess with my livelihood and everything else I'm trying to accomplish that's positive, you know, over negative [\h__\h] Yeah, I appreciate you coming on the show, Patrick, clearing up the whole thing. And thanks, Arman, for joining us as well and Chris for bringing a semblance of uh balance to the show today. And uh it's it was a crazy it was a crazy one. I I hope you have no more drama for the next five weeks. No, man. I just tucked in and and I'm over here at Texas Republic, man. And we don't do drama over here. We just What are you weighing now? What? You're looking huge. Yeah, I was I was 245 uh before I left. And um but you know, was it's a it's a much the last the last show for the UK. At this point out, I was like 229. Um but that's because the guy I was working with I wasn't feeding me anything. I mean, I was severely depleted. Um, it just was not a good prep, you know, and and it's okay. You learn, you live and you learn. And, you know, some coaches aren't great. But I told my buddy, I said, "Man, you know what? I really regret stopped working with Chris, you know." And I said, "Uh, that was your biggest mistake. Not not the uh the fight or anything bucks. You should never have stopped working with Chris Aceto." There you go. I completely agree, man. And and uh but you know, since he he he he bought me back in, I'm I'm excited that we're able to work together again because we did some really really great work. And I'm excited, you know, to get back in the mix and and show a physique I'm capable of. Yeah. Well, we're we're excited to see you back on stage again. And thanks for clarifying all that. And uh we're going to wrap up the show now, Chris. As we say every week here at Heavy Muscle Radio with Heavy Muscle Radio, this time the truth really effing hurts. Right in the head.