I can't even believe I'm reporting this. The liver king is being arrested. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here with an RX X Muscle news update. The Liver King is being arrested. He's lost his mind. I don't know if you guys have been following this whole escapade with the Liver King. He's been going spiraling downhill ever since his Netflix documentary came out and everyone's been slamming this guy. You know, he was kind of one of the most, I felt, entertaining and creative guys on Instagram for a while with all his crazy videos he would do about eating raw testicles and eating bone marrow and livers and organ meat from uh different animals and his ancestral line of products. And then he kind of got exposed for being a fraud because he was on steroids and and growth hormone, which I didn't I don't think most people really cared about to be honest with you. But and then this documentary came out and a lot of people were criticizing him and I know the Joe Rogan was poking fun at this guy and evidently Joe Rogan and him have some kind of have a feud going on. But the Liver King has been coming out with stranger and stranger videos lately. Not creative, not tightly, you know, edited like they normally are. Just off-the cuff like rants and ramblings for like minutes and minutes. Just not his style. He looks very disheveled and he looks like he hasn't slept in a week and uh he's just he's just not looks like he's he's not doing well. Put it that way. But it really came through a crescendo and I had to do this video because I couldn't believe Alex Jones is reporting on on the liver king. All right, I've got a breaking exclusive for you that I got from our sources. The Austin Police Department, as we speak, is on their way to a hotel in downtown Austin to arrest the liver king because he's been making a lot of threats to Joe Rogan. You know, you've made it when Alex Jones is bringing up I can't even believe Alex Jones even talked about the Libert. Alex talks about like, you know, conspiracy theories and he's he's all about predicting, you know, politics and political events and giving his opinions on things. How he feels the liver king is relevant to anything going on in the world, I don't know. Unless he's just desperate for views, but Alex Jones was reporting and, you know, everyone's pointing out how crazy, including Alex, that the Liver King is. and Alex got a report that the Austin Police Department was heading to arrest the Liver King because the Liver King was making quote terrorist threats on Joe Rogan. Now, I was watching his videos. I don't know if I would consider them terrorist threats. He does seem like a guy who's a little unhinged and a guy who is definitely on some sort of drugs. I don't know what drugs he's on, but he's definitely not. He's on something. Whether it be meth or cocaine or so or opiates, I don't know. He just looks really messed up and out of it. And you know, he he's saying he wants to fight Joe Rogan, but he he's even admitting that Joe Rogan will kick his ass. He he said, "I want to be tapped out by Joe Rogan." And so I don't really see him as threatening like Joe Rogan in a sense that I'm going to go kill you or anything like that. But he wants to fight the guy. Maybe he thinks it's going to be good for publicity for him. I don't know. But maybe Joe Rogan's like, "This guy's a cuckoo bird and he's on drugs and I don't want this guy coming to my house and shooting me because he's a nut." And I'm assuming that's why, you know, Joe Rogan called the cops and why they're heading over to Libert's house. I don't know if they actually are going to arrest him or not, or if they're just going to kind of like interrogate him. I have a feeling they're going to want a baker acting this guy for for 48 hours because he's definitely not of right mind right now. And he's doing kooky And you can see even in the background some of the people who are filming him and and helping him out. His staff there are even like trying to like, you know, calm him down a little bit. Have to make videos to pretend anymore. All of this is happening. We're coming to you. I've challenged you, manto man to a fight. Honorable. And we don't have to pretend or make any videos. The world is watching. They'll make the videos for us. And uh you don't have to hold a camera. You can hold the hand of somebody that you love because what happens next to you, you're going to need to remember that feeling. It it's just not a good look for him. And uh it it sucks to see someone who's been so successful now spiraling downhill. But a lot of times with great fame and with great, you know, power, they say, you know, you have great responsibility. And some people can't handle all that pressure and it gets to them and uh they start doing drugs or drinking to try to alleviate some of the problems and take away that that that stress and pain. never works out really well when you do that because if you depend on other substances, the substances take hold of you and then you're not yourself anymore and you do stupid So, I hope the liver king gets the help he needs. Uh, you know, he probably needs a good clean out, couple good nights rest, real sleep, and I think he needs to just let go of the whole Joe Rogan thing. Rogan's Look, I most people can only wish that Joe Rogan was breaking their balls on on his show, right? I mean, to pay attention to them. Liver King always took negative publicity and turned it around on himself and made himself sell more product, more popular. I don't know why all of a sudden he's uh he's losing his mind here, but obviously the pressure has gotten to him. He's in deep right now and it looks like uh he's going to wind up getting arrested and or Baker acted for the night. We'll know more as the news comes in and progresses and we'll try to keep you updated. For now, I'm Dave Palumbo with an RX Muscle news update.