News flash, I will not be at the Masters Olympia in Tokyo. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're back for another installment of the Palumbo podcast. I'm Dave Palumbo joined by my partner in crime, John Romano. And we have special guest Jimmy Menis here. Hello guys. What's going on? Florida, the old Florida crew is back. Yeah, it seems like John's beard has gotten thicker and Jimmy's has gotten thinner. What's going on? Well, like I said, it's it's not like there's just foods that I'm trying to eat and I just couldn't eat. That delicious Greek food from the Greek truck, you know? It's the the whole jadiki sauce and on the euros my brother was making. It was just all over me. Tammy was like looking at me like do this. I'm like, it ain't happening. I've noticed that there's a lot more Greek food trucks around. I don't know if it has any if you're is that like a big thing now? Greek food trucks. All food trucks. It is. I think my brother inspired a lot of a lot of so-called Greeks. Um I took my kids to this great American umh bounce house thing like about two months ago and it was like you enormous bounce houses like and there were there were like three Greek trucks there, Greek food trucks and I ate them because I I think they got the best food. But uh yeah, the the the the Greek food trucks, the food trucks especially, the whole the whole category is just booming. My brother's got six trucks now. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. Now, you know, it is what it is. Food people. Maybe you should uh you should take over. You should get a couple trucks like as part of the fleet. Who? Me? I'll get all the profit, man. I ain't going over there. Hold on. You and you and Big Ram like Ramy has like fishing boats. Yeah. You and your brother have uh food trucks. It's like the same thing kind of, you know. I always tell him, "Not even close." Yeah. Not even close. Egyptians fish. The Egyptians fish and he the Greeks make and a Greek food truck. No, the Greeks cook food that the Egyptians and and and the Egyptians are ripping it out of the water raw. Yeah. They rip it out. They sell it to the Greeks. you know, the Greeks. Maybe they could maybe they could come together and the and the and the Egyptians could give the Greeks the fish, you know. I I do know the grind's the same, though. It's a grind. It's non-stop. My my You know, the guy who used to live next door to me, John, um that like weird guy. Yeah. He um he was a fisherman and he had his own fish store for for a while and he every morning he was like the old man of the sea. This guy would get up at 4 in the morning, rain gear if it rained, winter gear if it was winter 365 days a year. He'd be out on that boat fishing. I don't know if he loved it or if it was a labor of love or if he just did it because that was his living. But man, I I would look sometimes out my window and I'd be like, "Thank God I don't have to go out in that [\h__\h] horrible weather." Well, my dad's like that. My dad's 92 and up to two years ago, even a year ago, he would go out on this boat, this Greek like like this rowboat, like he was just like he had like 2x4s so it won't sink, you know, and he would go out 4:30 in the morning. My mom's like, "You're not going. You're not going." So my brother went on vacation last year on vacation and bought my dad a brand new boat. Oh, wow. That's nice. Basically got on the [\h__\h] my mom's [\h__\h] list because Oh, so now your father's definitely going out on the boat now that he's got a new boat. He's got a boat, but he's been doing this since he was a little kid. He loves fishing. Because your mother's thinking to herself, one day he's not coming back. Yeah. Yeah. And he goes out all by himself, right, at 4:30 in the morning. He's 90ome years old. And it's like, well, how am I going to know he's not going to come back? Well, they you got to do like the Norwegians and you got to knit the sweater with the pattern in it. That's what they So the old the old ladies used to knit the sweater for the fishermen with with a certain pattern in the weave and they would if that washed up on the shore they knew that was dead. Wow. Now nowadays you can use one of those little eye things, you know, the iPhone thing. Oh the the the air air tracker. It's like a tracker, right? Air tag. Yeah. Yeah, that'll work. Crazy, man. Your mother should air tag your father. Yeah. You guys been good? Good. I think Valentino has an air tag up his uh you know what there's a treasure trove up there. You find all kinds of I saw I saw a couple of your I saw a couple of your podcast and stuff. What's going on with Valentino? He's uh you know he's a little scenile, but he's got you know he's old Italian man. He's old grumpy Italian man. He's Look, the guy lives the life of Riley. He's his own boy. him and his girlfriend, they they go dumpster diving, they b they get old stuff, they they redo it, they you know, he's very artistic, right? His father was an artist. And they they revamp the stuff and they sell it on eBay. All they do all day long is sell stuff. So, and then he goes to the gym, what do you say, twice a week? He goes two in the morning, twice a week. Two in the morning, twice a week. He trains for Yeah. Yeah. I don't know why he goes so late, but he does. And um you know, he's got a weird schedule. I don't know. He's you know, he's a kooky old guy. He's He's got I feel bad that he's not here because we're digging on him. But no, I love No, he's got to go to the gym at two in the morning because he's got to spend the rest of the day tending to all the lawn art, you know. Yeah. Well, he's they they are in business. They're like the American Pickers, you know. He's got statues. He's got on his lawn. He's got he's got like this collection of lawn statues, you know, the pelican and the jockey and the all all of that old Long Island Italian, you know, the lawn litter, the gnomes, the gnomes, the gnomes. Is that part of the landscaping or is that for sale? I I think it's for sale ostensibly, right? Yeah. He's got no other place to put it. So, it's like Sanford and Sun. Right. Right. Right. I used to love that show me every time. Right. You can pick anything. I said I said one time a We all flute and he had one. Yeah. Yeah. Do you know that I was watching a thing with the with the who was the guy who played the son? Lamont, remember? I don't remember his name. I think it was Desmond. Whatever the actor's name was, he was doing an interview and he was saying, "You know, when we filmed that show because it was in front of a live studio audience. Uh Red Fox and I were packing heat. They had guns because they were scared, you know, because with all the it was such a controversial show. They were afraid someone was going to pull a gun in the audience and they they're like, "We were just gonna fire back at them." And we were we were packing every show. He said, "If they were scared then, imagine now." Right. Right. Right. Exactly. I I I always imagine Archie Bunker giving a commencement address at Harvard. Yeah. Yeah. You can't even do that show now. It would never go over. No. The Jeffersons are uh what? All in the family. All in the family. The Jefferson. What was one with Florida? The the the old maid from the Jeffersons. Oh, good times. Good times. Yeah. Jimmy Dynamite. Yeah. Yeah. Dynamite and uh Welcome Back Cotter. You couldn't do Welcome Back. Yeah. Yeah. That was rough. Welcome Back Cotter was rough. I mean, think about it. John Travolta became a star from that, right? Did he ever? Yeah. It's crazy when you think about it. So, why no Olympia? What? What? What? I give you guys a minute. Well, you know, I want to bring up before we go to the before Olympia, I I was watching Arty Lang. You know, Arty Lang used to be on the Howard Stern show. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And he was he was talking with um what's the guy who was on Saturday? Norm McDonald, who I think is hysterical. You know, Nor McDonald. Yeah. You know, so what what was that skit you did uh Arty? You wanted to do they wouldn't let you do on Mad TV. And Arty is saying Arty had this idea to do a skit. He was going to call it Goodw Will Smith and it was gonna like it was gonna be a takeoff on Goodwill Hunting, you know the movie, right? With Matt Damon and and Ben Affleck and he was he was going to play a janitor, Will Smith was going to play a janitor in a black all black school and there was going to be a math equation on on the blackboard that he was going to solve that no one could solve except it was going to be 2 plus two is four, you know. and and Will Will Will Smith was going to was going to solve it. And they're going to be like, "Who's the genius? We've been working on this for eight years. We couldn't figure it out. Who solved this equation?" He's Norm McDonald was dying. He thought it was so funny. He's like, "What happened? They didn't let you do the skin." He goes, "They said it was too too racist." Oh, Jesus. Good Will Smith. How funny would that have been? Here goes all the humor. Like, there's no more humor. You can't do anything funny anymore. No, offended. Everyone's offended. No, you can't be. But I I think the tides are changing actually. I think I think I think the pendulum is swung so far to the insane side that that now it's just people are realizing what the [\h__\h] what are we doing? I was I was um I was on YouTube obviously. I mean I've been on YouTube for all day and I watched these little comedy skits right from uh the comedy LA laugh or whatever. And back then, no one used to, you know, crack on the the comedian. Right now, people are fighting with them. I know. They're crazy. People are actually swearing at them and fighting them and saying, "Hey, you're racist and you're this and you're that." And it's just gotten out of hand. Well, it and and it's and it's the not it's the naivity the the ignorance not naivity. It's the ignorance of the people that are making these arguments. They say things like fascist. They have no idea what a fascism is one of the most difficult terms to describe and identify in the English language. And these people use it like for everything. It's fascist. Fascist. Fascist. Really? What's a fascist? Or what are you doing here? What are you complaining about? What are you protesting? They have no idea. They just know that the slip said to come at 10 o'clock and hand in show your ID and you're going to get a sign because George Soros is paying you. So, they have no idea what they're protesting. They have no idea what they're talking about. All of all of Just look at the news about this guy, the the father, the the Maryland father. The Maryland father is a convicted MS-13 gang member who has been identified by two separate courts as an MS-13 gang member, an active MS-13 gang member who was found in an active MS-13 environment and could only have been MS-13 because MS-13 forbids communication with anybody else other than MS-13 members. The guy is an MS-13 designated terrorist. Did he have a tattoo also? Yeah, he had the tattoos. He had the clothes with the bullhorns and the dollar signs and the eyeballs. He had everything. If you ever lose it, looks like a duck, talks like a duck, smells like a duck. This is the duck. Okay, with 100%. Yet you got these [\h__\h] retards in the media saying Maryland dad. The Maryland dad was was sent to El Sal. He's an El Salvadorian national. He's a citizen of El Salvador. Where are you gonna send him? Paris. I mean, what the [\h__\h] That's where he belongs. So, and and now you got a congressman over flew on taxpayer money down there to try to get him out of there to bring him back so that they can deport him. Yeah. Wasn't the congressman the same congressman as as the victims? The Yes. The Rachel Morren, same constituent, right? Yes. You know what I think it is? It's like, okay, we all agree freedom of speech. Get that. We agree with that. I agree with that. We all agree with that. But the thing is, you can say whatever you want, but it doesn't mean that you're not going to get punched in the face. But beyond that, it doesn't mean it doesn't give you cart blanch. You cannot yell fire in a crowded movie theater. That's that's the standard, you know, legal um expression, right? You you you cannot utilize your expression of your freedom of expression to cause trouble, danger, harm, hurt somebody else. You can't do that. So the these peaceful protest, peaceful protest with the with the police car burning in the mostly peaceful with the Well, I'm saying it's got to be peaceful protest. It's supposed to be. But these these these participants, these protesters are so ignorant and so stupid and so misdirected that they are absolutely [\h__\h] They have no idea what they're doing. They have no idea why. They have no idea of the consequences and they have no idea who's behind it. They are absolute idiots. Yeah. Well, that's that's 90% of the population. Let's switch let's switch gears for a minute um to this Masters Olympia because I'm I'm very I've been very intrigued ever since uh you know Heday kind of announced with the promoter that they're doing the uh Masters Mr. Olympia this year at the in Japan. I thought it was a great idea. Um I didn't know how they were going to make it work or how they were going to market it or who was going to be in it. But I think I don't know if John you or I speculated or maybe Chris and I speculated. I maybe even with Jimmy, we speculated earlier that, you know, it would be nice to be able to get some top names, maybe throw some money at guys like or Kai Green to try to get them in the show. Kai actually expressed interest in doing it to me when I interviewed him at the Arnold Classic. He said, "But the we'd have to make the numbers work." So that means that he was looking for um I'm assuming airfare, hotel, probably some maybe an appearance fee. I don't know what or some guaranteed money. Um, if I'm running that show and I'm paying I'm sure they're paying a pretty penny for the for the um for the sanction from Jake Wood. What's the pretty penny? I don't I don't know what the sanction is. I don't want to go. Do you know what the sanction is? The fee? I don't. Well, you usually know all that stuff, Jimmy. You're always a behind the scenes guy. Well, let's put it this way. I don't know the exact amount, but the thing is there's got to be other other components that around this, right? because this guy's a promoter. I'm thinking 100 I'm thinking they're paying 100 grand to do the show. Yeah, but he's Don't they also promote the the the amateur Olympia as well? And don't they promote some I'm saying they're probably paying a lot of money in sanction fees to get these shows. Are they going to be making money there? I hope so. Otherwise, it's a pretty bad business model. But so they get this Masters National. Okay. If I'm the promoter, I need I need I need, you know, remember when we talked about this movie before, John, the movie, I think it's called In the Air or something like that or Air or it might just be called Air. It's about how Nike landed Michael Jordan. Oh, yeah. And they were like I saw it's a great movie. And they were trying to say they were gonna try to get a couple of athletes to represent them because they were a very weak brand during this time period in the 80s. Um because the they were really a running company, a running shoe company. and they just said, you know, we're going to throw all our cards behind this one guy because this guy we I think will sell and they and they they went for it and and obviously we know the the history and the rest is history. But if I'm a promoter in Japan and I'm paying a lot of money already for the sanction, I'm going to try to get the the the number one guy I can possibly get. If I can get Phil Heath or Kai Green in this show, I know I'm I'm packing that place out. I know that I'm going to sell pay-per-views. I know everyone's gonna want to watch this show. I don't care what it costs to get these guys because look, bodybuilders are not are not, you know, Michael Jordan. It's not gonna take a lot to get them. You just have to show them a little bit of respect and say, "Hey, look, I'm willing to put some money on the table." Um, it doesn't seem that this promoter is wants to do that. Um, you got to look at it like this, right? Um, this guy wanted this guy wants to promote the Masters Olympia. I don't know what his other objectives are or what he wants to get out of this. Maybe he's a distributor for major supplement companies over there. Right. Well, you want to attract some attention, don't you? Right. Right. You know, so so you're bringing people in and I don't understand at what point that if someone's willing to pay their own way, right? Yeah. It's the Masters Olympia. If you're going to do with qualifications, which they do, right? There is a qualification thing. Yeah. Why do the invite? Well, they had they had an application, right, that you can Why why have the invite? If you're if you're doing a qualification, there's a reason why you're doing the invite, right? But the I I would think that the the the invite thing would be for guys like you who haven't competed, right? And want to get invited, right? Yeah. Guys like me, guys like Did you fill out that application by March 31st? Not only did I fill it out, I also got an email back from Alina Popa asking for a copy of my passport. Okay. So, they they were considering bringing you in or at least letting you in the show. We can go in deeper depths later on if you want. We're gonna that's what we're doing now. I want to find out exactly what's going on here because I know you were all gung-ho on doing this thing. The qualification in spite of my objections, the the qualification period starts on April 2, August of 23 and it ends August 3rd, 25. So if you you can still qualify. So top five from each division at the 2023 Masters Olympia. Uh and the winner of the 40 plus class only in each division at Masters Pro contests held during the qualification period. Uh why don't you do one of these qualification shows? I don't know if they're any close. I think there's I think there's there's only one. Doesn't uh Tim Gardner hold one? Yeah. And it's a week before the the Japan. Perfect week before. No, it's got to be he's gota it's gota be and there's another one there's another one the the same weekend as as the as masters. All right. So, you either qualify or you're a Mr. Olympia already like a Brandon Curry, right? He can he could probably do it. Um, you know, or Phil Heath for that matter. And then they have a couple extra spots. I think anybody who has graced the Olympia stage has the automatic qualification. I don't think so. No, you had him. No, it was top 10. I don't even think that's right. It used to be It used to be top 10. I thought I thought you said I thought you told me that Ronnie Raquel wanted to do it. Yes. Ronnie was top 10 at the Olympia, right? Ronnie Ronnie, from my understanding, also submitted his uh um application. Okay. And did he get accepted? He's not on the list. He's not on the list. All right. So, did did can he still qualify or is is that what he's planning on doing? I don't I don't know. I I know because there's a really good friend of mine that's Greek that lives in Germany that's really good friends with him, right? And he had told me that he was Yeah. that he was going to apply and he he was basically a shoe in. Well, he's he's a he's a the guy was phenomenal back in the day. He's I mean, this guy has won pro shows. I mean, I mean, well, who's better qualified? I mean, and he's a good good-look guy. He was a great bodybuilder. I mean, who who wouldn't want this guy on this on their Olympia Masters Olympia stand? Really? And I heard he's looking really good, too. recently you look at some of his posts his latest post he's he he looks pretty good you know so so you got so you gotta wonder what the business model right that and that's the thing and and and in a way you know I I I posted a video and I'm not here just I mean I'm on the I'm I'm on the podcast we can just shoot the [\h__\h] but I don't have any ill will towards them or whatever it's a it was a business decision am I disappointed oh yeah I'm very disappointed because so so you didn't so you did not get invited is No, I didn't. Okay. No, but but let me tell you on Thursday I was on the list. Oh, you are? And how did you find that out? I I'm going to hold All right. Yeah. Don't give your source up. Jimmy's got good sources. I I trust your sources. Yeah. On Thursday, I was on the list. All right. Here's the list of people who were invited. Odolon Batista, who I don't know who that is. Alexander Bessedin, I don't know who that is. Marcelo Pedro D Cruz. I don't know who that is. Stop me if you guys know who these guys are. Young Bum Kim, don't know him. Daniel Corman, I know. Walter Martin, I used to work with, I know him. Jung Sue Park, don't know him. Logan Robson, don't know him. Marius Tom Tomzuk and Todd Whitting, I know. But Todd, I know, too. And you know what? I think he it's a great it's a great add-on to to Yeah. the the lineup. But this is not moving the needle. No one's no buying a pay-per-view for this list of people. I got news for you. As much as I'm friends with Walter Martin, these these are the invites. These aren't this isn't the full No, I know. I know. I know. But I'm saying if you're going to invite people who are not qualified, wouldn't you think to invite like a Ronnie Raquel? Well, you I think you guys are you guys are not appreciating the fact that this is an international list. No, this is this is No, this is from all over the world and It looks a lot of it looks like there's a lot of Asian people, a lot of Asians, a lot of But so but my point is is if you think of it from a US bodybuilding perspective, there's a lot of names that we don't understand on there. But if you look at it from an international bodybuilding perspective, there's only so much room and so many people and they want to inv have as big of an international audience as they can probably to help sell the pay-per-view, right? So, um that's what happens. Um, it it's it's unfortunate because what's going to happen is you're going to get you if you're watching this show, you're going to see this flood of people in front of you. You have no idea who they are and none of them are going to be very good. Yeah. And my question is Good. I'm sorry, John. No, I'm just saying you're going to be stuck with a mediocre list of people that you don't know, right? And then it kind of takes away from the Masters Olympia because you have no names up there. You have no, you know, you you have my my All right, let's go back to Ronnie Raquel for a second, right? Why Why wouldn't Ronnie Raquel be invited? And Nuno Mubu is Ronnie's from Germany. He's not American. You want to get here's my take. Here's my take. I don't think and there's a reason why I'm saying this. Yeah, I don't think the promoter wanted anything to do with the past unless they were qualified and it is what it is. I think he wanted to keep the lineups fresh. I think he wanted to keep some kind of dignity to I don't know towards this Masters Olympia. He wanted to make sure that the Yeah, the Masters Olympia Jimmy is about nostalgia. I said that if you watch my video, I said that. It's not a it's it's a nostalgic show that we we want to see our even if we're disappointed with the nostalgia aspect of it. We we want to see Kevin Levrone up there. We want to see Flex Wheeler even if they're not at their best just so we can say we see them again on the stage. Well, that's the whole point of having a M's division is that once you've graduated into the Mast's level, you're no longer competing with the young Bucks. Well, some guy No, some guys are. I mean, that's they should have made it 40 and over. They should have done 45 and over or 50 and over, but that's another story. Details. What I'm talking about is the fact that it there's no graduation. You're seeing you're not seeing in the Masters lineup. You're not seeing the guys that used to be in the open, right? And that would be technically what you're looking for. If you're looking for a Masters show, you're looking for the guys who used to compete in the open. Now, what's this fresh new eye faces about? How do you have fresh new faces of old men? You know, it looks like they wanted to keep the active ones, you know, but nobody's ever heard of them. It should be 50 and over. Well, here's the thing. There's there's a warm and fuzzy feeling, like you said, right? I mean, look, when Kevin came back, yeah, I made sure I was at that show just so I can see him and hug him backstage. I'm like, dude, I remember Samir did the Masters Olympia a few times recently. Yeah, but he held too much water at the end. But, you know, He didn't he didn't deplete sodium, John. That's the sodium right away. But but but excuse me, Jimmy, but what what you were just saying, Dave, is there's a crew of guys Kevin Levrone, Chris Cormier, Flex. Well, not Flex anymore, but Lee Priest Lee Priest, uh, you know, you could you could pick you could probably round up eight or 10 of them off the top of your head if you thought about it for a minute. And these guys would be natural progressions from open to masters. And it's what the people want to see. Like Jimmy just said, I made sure I was there so I could see Kevin. Imagine if you if Dexter Jackson was competing or or Phil Heath or Jay Cutler. People would make a pilgrimage to see these guys. All you need, right? You needed one big star, right? Like a Kai or a Phil would have made the Once you get that and then you fill it in with guys like Brandon Curry who's over 40. I I would imagine he's going to do it. He doesn't even need to qualify. He's he's uh he's already an Olympia champ. Well, I'm shocked he's not on the list because he actually he actually posted or I think it was confirmed that he was doing the Masters Olympia. Well, he he doesn't need a he doesn't need a list. He doesn't need to be on the list because he he can just go. He's a Olympia champ, isn't he? Yeah, he's not on the list. Wouldn't Wouldn't they put him on the list to promote that he's on the list? No, the list that came out, Jimmy was only guys that they invited. They didn't No, no, there's there's there's a list on the website of who's doing it and who's qualified. All right, hold on. Let me let me see if I can find. And is Alfred Moubof Rud de la on there? I mean, I've been dying to see him for for years. Um um what what you call it? Um Phil Clahar, he's doing it. He qualified. Um Phil's good. Yeah, he's he's he's he's a guy who can who can win that easily. Yeah. Yeah. But there's no but there's no standout names on that list where you can look at and say, "Wow, I remember him from the open." Right. Just the thing is like the w the reason why I was doing it was was you know obviously when you when you compete and you get ready you go to win right but I know my reality but I was still going to give it all I had. Okay. The thing was is like don't forget I I've been with the IFB since 84. I I represented my country in European championships. I placed top three in the Balcon Champions and Mediterranean Championships. I toured the world years over years over years over years and I've created this fan base. If we had social media then forget it right covers of magazines this this and this. I thought I thought forget my competition, you know, my pro my pro things. You know me, you know me. I I treat this as a business and I competed and I and I ran for photo shoots and I did what I did. But I thought it would be nice to have guys like me, maybe two, three other guys like me with the young guys, right? to create this warm and fuzzy feeling to create a buzz, right? You know, well, your buzz wouldn't be as good as as Kai's buzz, but it would still be a buzz. But still, let me read the list of people qualified. Camalo Gardner, who Wait, wait, read the read the list of people who are in it. I already read the I already read the list of the people who are invited. Now I'm reading the list of the people who are actually qualified. Who actually complete list of people who are actually going to compete. No, you don't know who's going to compete. We don't know yet. This is who's qualified. I'm going to tell you. We don't even have the competitor list yet. Okay. Right. Because now they got to sign the contract. Now they got to dish out 10 to 15 grand to go there. We're going to talk about that in a minute. So it's Camala Garney who won the last one. Right. Yeah. Max Charles, Phil Clawar, Fred Biggie Smalls, Ken Jackson. This is the lineup sounds pretty good. Brian Garrison, Christopher Sullivan, Slavage Bedar, Brandon Hatton, Michael Eli is good, Hernand Tbach, uh, Tabaraki, Dorian Haywood who's good, Ray Short, Vladimir Agrinsky. So, those are the people who have qualified. Now, technically on that list, they should have included all the Mr. Olympia champs like Brandon Curry. Um, true. Who are I wonder why William Bonak wouldn't have put in an application to do this thing. He's got to be over He's over 40. Yes. 42. You know, when what the last Mast's Olympia I really followed was when I was helping Louie and it's a long time ago. No, it was in the 90s. But but my po but the point is still sailing. One in Virginia. I don't remember where it was. But but but the point is it was Lou Farerigno competing in the Masters Olympia with Robbie Robinson. That's why it was so popular, right? because it was a it was a it was the na it was what you would naturally think would happen after the guy got old. What's he gonna do? He can't compete in the open the masters. But now you got this list of people. I I know three people on that list. Okay. You know six and but there's 15. Who are these people? And you can't say I want new fresh faces. Let me ask you this. Let me ask Jimmy this question since Jimmy you always gone through the process. Are any of these people or does the Mast's uh Olympia promoters pay for anyone's airfare hotel or anything like that? They don't pay for anything. Okay. And what what I mean you did the research. What does it cost to go over there and stay in a hotel? Have you done the numbers? It's it's over 10 grand even if you fly coach. Okay. Well, I'm assuming Yeah, we're not big fans, right? So, what's a what's a flight to Japan cost for you? like three grand about 3500. All right. 3500. Now the hotel is how much a night? There's no host hotel. Oh, so you have to get what? An Airbnb. You know what ao is it in Tokyo? It there's like three four There's like three four hotels around. They're like between three and $400 a night at least. At least that's And you got to stay for a week. You figure, right? At least at least a week. And food. Food is like you're looking at $2,500 for the hotel. All right. So now we're up to about six grand. You're in 10 grand. Five grand for food and then spray tan and all that other stuff. Yeah. Okay. So, you're at about eight grand. Yeah. You go to McDonald's and get one hamburger. It's like $50. Do they do they throw you a free T-shirt or like a warm-up suit? Do you get any of that? No goodie bag. So, so think about now. We know body Hold on. We know bodybuilds will pay anything to compete. They don't give a [\h__\h] Yeah. Most guys, but you know what? the top top guys who are doing this as their living like Brandon Curry, William Bonack. Okay, Phil doesn't need to do this. I mean, even Kai, if he teased the idea of going in the show, these guys want to get paid. Okay, what And what's the first place prize for for the I have no clue. I don't imagine it's probably a ton of money. Do you is there any way to find this out how much how much money it is for first place? I'll bet you it's like under 50 grand. Yeah, probably. It's It's probably under 50. So, this this sounds like a mammoth loser right off the bat. I hope it's not, you know. Well, we all hope it's not, but reality is reality. I mean, you can only squeeze so many nickels out of so many dimes. Look at it. I'm looking up this thing. Hold on. See? So, so the thing is I'm looking for it, but I haven't seen it anywhere because I would have known because I would have I would have just, you know, I would have remembered it. But, you know, as you notice, the the the Masters Olympia is every two years. Yeah. There's a the total purse is supposedly 229,000, but that doesn't there's a million divisions. There's a million divisions. So, we So, they're not getting [\h__\h] We don't we don't know what they're getting. They're not getting a lot. Th this is this is the this is what happens when you sell an entity and just do that with it, you know. Well, I think I think it was very smart of Jake Wood to uh I think you should do this with the Olympia, too. Well, what you got to do is you got to put caveats in place in order to preserve the integrity of of the show. So, in other words, if you're selling a piece of property, you have to have a caveat on it. For example, if you're near the airport, you have to have a caveat on the on the uh sale contract that says you can't erect a 500 foot tower on your property. It's going to be in the flight path of the airplanes. All right? So, you even though it's your property, you own it, you bought it, you still have restrictions on it. Same goes for a for an entity like the Olympia. You have to put restrictions on it. Otherwise, you're going to diminish its value and its standing. Yeah. in in for the other people who have competed in it in the past. So you can't destroy that image by cheapening the product. So my my my question is and I I you know obviously I'm over it so I'm really not going to look look at any details but how many of these athletes all over bikini whatever whatever in any category got their pro cards under 40 years old? Are you saying a lot of them have the masters pro cards? Yeah. Right. So, so, so if they got their pro cards over as a master, it's just an old age show. You know, that's what I said before. How can you look for new fresh faces when you're into their own m I think I think that really if I was sitting down with if the three of us were going to run the Masters Olympia, I would sit down and say, "All right, listen. Is it first of all, is it viable financially?" It might not be. Okay, let's assume it is. Let's assume we're going to hold it in a country we're going to get we're going to pack that place out. Okay, we're but we're going to say to ourselves, listen, we got to sell some pay-per-views, right? Where we're not going to make money. What's going to get people to sit in those seats? Well, we we got to get someone who's going to sell this show for us. Someone who everyone wants to see. And we might have to spend a little money to do it, but we got to get some name guys in this show because if we don't do this, no one's gonna care about the results of the show. no one's going to watch the show. It's like we're just doing it to say we did it, you know, and I think that that's a mistake. Okay. What I would do is I would grab I would I would put I would do a brain flush of all the athletes that I think would would really have an influence on the pay-per-view. Okay. Right. Um and I would say it was 10. I would hit all 10 because out of 10 you might get three. No, you don't. Yeah. Well, I mean, I I don't even think you need that. I think I look I think let's let's do let's look at what Arnold did. Okay. Arnold Schwarzenegger was going to have that show two years ago, the Arnold, and and they they weren't getting any any feedback. Remember, the Olympia was held very late that year. It was in December. No one wanted to do it. And he said, "You know what? We're gonna give away $300,000 first place." All of a sudden, everyone jumped in that show. Everyone was in that show. And the show became super popular. It was a great show. Everyone still remembers it to this day. We're all talking about it still. Uh, you know, so what do we learn there? Names in the show, okay, attract people's attention to the show, which makes the show more valid and more important. What got those guys there? Money. Okay. So, the Masters Olympia, if they're going to run this thing, right, they got to make either money available as in terms of prize money to make attract people like Brandon Curry and and William Bonak and and and or maybe both get someone who is a master guy who we all want to see, we haven't seen for a bunch of years. Uh I think that, you know, Phil comes to mind, but he's a seven time Mr. Olympia. I don't know if we're going to really No one gets is going to get so jazzed up about him. But for sure we want to see Kai again. Right. I mean there's no there's not a single person if you pulled him said who would you rather see on stage who still looks good. No one's most people are gonna say Kai. Right. Right. So and Kai actually expressed interest. I would give Kai some money and a piece of the pay-per-view. I mean maybe. Yeah, maybe. But I'm just saying what I'm saying because because as as a businessman, right, I don't know how I'm going to go, right? It's like, okay, listen. We got $500,000. Okay. Are we giving it all to Kai? We can't. Yeah. You know, so the pay-per-view take would be a very would be a very novel idea because no one's done that. They did it in they do it in boxing, right? But no one's thought about to do it. You know what? If Kai really is going to pull that many pay-per-views and Kai believes pay-per-views, then you know, put your money where your mouth is. Do the show, Kai. We'll give you 10, you know, 15, 20, whatever% of the paper. There's only one problem with all of that, right? The the powers that be that produce bodybuilding shows tend to be the cheapest people in the world. And so what happens is there's and it and it's they're not cheap because they're they're cheap. They're cheap because there's no money. So, but there is an ROI on this, John. There's there's this this the basic tenant of business is you make something for 25 cents and you sell it for a dollar. In in our in our case, it costs 25 cents to put it on, you might get 24 cents back. And that's the problem. There's no money. There's no money because for whatever reasons, but Jimmy had a good idea. If they did a pay-per-view, well, they're gonna do a pay-per-view obviously, you know. So if Kai, in other words, let's say they sell with the lineup they have right now, they they'll be lucky if they sell a thou a thousand of them. But let's say they sell 10,000 with Kai Green competing. Okay. I think they could sell maybe a couple hundred thousand. 200 thou 200,000 easy. Easy. And if you give Kai, you know, a dollar on each one, give him a dollar. Yeah, give him a dollar. I mean, and then there you go. There's his appearance fee that he wants. Except the problem is that most people are just going to wait for his routine to come out on YouTube and they'll watch it there. Nah. No. People are going to want to see the live. I'll pay 25, 30, 40 bucks. I I would No, I would I would definitely too. I'm just saying Kai's never won an Olympia title. This title he never won. There seems to be a reluctance in our Robbie when Robbie beat Lou. That would be Kai. Kai's I agree. I agree 100%. But there seems to be this situation in our industry where almost everybody is afraid to reach into their pocket. So I I have never in any in my life anywhere else seen such attention paid to pennies as as as we do here. It's unbelievable. You know why? Stingiest cheapest people on earth. You know why, John? You know why, John? Because there's no money. No, no, no. No one's confident in their product. Yeah. Yeah. I guarantee you if if if we were with MD right now, John, if we still worked in muscular development and we talked black, he would have done it. If he we talked him into running the mask, he would be he would be he'd fly Kai in on a private jet. Yep. Yep. You know why? Because Steve was that guy. Yes. He knows he he gets it. He gets he got it. You know, no matter what he did and how he did things, right, he understood the game. Yeah. You know, so here the thing is but here's but again the game has changed in in our sport. The game has changed. The contests have changed. Let's go back to the history. Okay. Let's talk about the pro cards. Follow me here. Back then we created the shows and the Olympia because the final product was the magazines. because he was selling advertising. He was selling the magazines. Okay. So, he turned back to the NPC and said, "Hey, I don't want the riff and Raph. I want the good guys. So, you're going to have two, three pros a year, and basically I'm going to sign him." So, now he's got the quality. The NPC is doing their thing with the NPC cards and the promotions and this and this and this, right? So now the Olympia reader's gone. The product now is entry fees, right? So I'm not saying this is a bad business, just the game changed. Their product changed. The magazines now the NPC and the IUD have entry fees. Yeah. Right. But Jimmy, you got to remember also the guys that are doing the Masters shows now, okay, are the same guys that you and I were competing with in the 90s. How do you know? I was there's more. I mean, there's more in addition to that, but this is I see them at the Masters Nationals. I know. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Okay. My point is that we didn't 20 years ago when we were young. Yeah. There was no Masters guys competing. there was they they didn't have a lot of people but the 90s had this influx of bodybuilders into it and those guys and women are still competing now in the Masters. So, and that's the product. It's the entry fees. They open the door for everybody to come back. I guarantee you that the Masters division is 50% of the NPC in the IFBB. But that's on the amateurs. We're talking pros. I'm talking pro. the thing with we the weer thing you mentioned to me. You're you're half right. Back then Joe put on the Olympia and and whatever other involvements he had with with with shows with the NPC was to create content for his magazines, right? That was it. He could care less how many people came to the show. He could care less how many competitors. He did not care. What he cared about was what he cared about having fodder for the for the issues content for the magazines and that's be and like you said it's because he was selling advertising and he had to keep the the magazine and the sport alive and going because people relied on the magazines for their news and information about the sport because we had no internet. Okay. So the magazines were a vital part of competing. There was there was the the IFBB and the NPC competing over and there was the magazines Weider and everybody else. We were together was co-joined. One needed the other. And now you don't. You don't need it at all. You don't even need the competitors anymore because you have influencers online. So you could literally do this virtually and have no competitors if you wanted to. But the the fact is is that there is, as Dave just said, these were the guys we were competing with back then, the natural progression of competitor means that a master's show is going to have older people that used to compete that you recognize, right? And now that we have no magazines, no content filler, we don't know who these people are because unless you're following their Instagram page, you have no clue, right? I mean, that's one that's one thing. But I still think that look, I still think look, the show is far enough away. I this it's not too late at this point. I think that there has to And look, I'm I'd be willing to sit down with the with with the promoters and and and brainstorm some ideas with them. I want this thing to be successful. I like the Masters Olympia. I I used to go to all of them when they were held in the United States. I sponsored them. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think it's a great idea, but my point is that I think that they have to think about this from a business perspective. What's going to attract the most people to watch this? And look, like I said, Arnold had the Arnold out and then he changed his mind. He's like, you know what? We're going to raise the prize money, right? Like a month before he did that, it changed everything. But what you need is an equipment or a supplement company that needs a passive $10 million writeoff. No, John, that that's not going to happen right now. That's what But that's exact. What can happen is some sort of an enticement for a Kai Green, whether it be a percentage of the pay-per-view or give him a an appearance fee or whatever the case may be. Get a Kai Green in that lineup against a Brandon Curry and and and a William Bonak. Now you got a show. But that's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying about the $10 million write off. You need a huge chunk of cash to put into Brandon Curry's All You're still thinking too small. You got to You got to give away You got to give away $500,000 in first place. Wait, hear me out. You got to make this thing a gigantic spectacle. Huge. million millions of dollars in investment in this thing to get the the people to come to make the paper. You have to make the names the names. Here's the thing. I'm also disappointed because Sandy, she was she's in the in the Olympia committee, right? You think she get it? Williams. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. You think she get it? I don't you think don't you think that the promoters picked those the the competitors? I don't know. I don't know what does a promoter know any of these athletes? The promoter invites Hold on. Arnold is the one who invited the competitors. Sy's a judge, so she's not gonna she's not picking who's going there. She's just judging who's there. He's part of the Olympia the Olympia committee of the Masters. I yeah I don't Is there a committee that that selects the people? Yes. Alina Popo was on it. Uh I know supposedly you said you saw your name on the list and you then you weren't on it. So who who got you off the who kicked you off the list? Maybe that was the promoter or maybe the promoter wanted something or it certainly wasn't any of the people in the United States who who everyone knows you and likes you. So it wasn't that. I guess I I I maybe you should have maybe you should have offered your your brother's the food truck to do the catering catering. But it it to me it all boils down to money. That's what it comes down to. If you're a promoter and you have a big bunch of cash and you don't want to get any ROI, bodybuilding contest is the thing to put on if you're looking for a write off because it the thing is you got to look at it this way. You got some huge supplement company, a couple hundred million dollars a year, okay? Big protein company, big, they're out there. they they if a a several million dollar endowment to a competition like the Masters Olympia, number one is a drop in the bucket to them. Number two, it it it has goodwill written all over it to go down into the ages because they're supporting the Masters. So, it's supporting the sport and the longevity and and the and the the nostalgia of the sport like you said before. So, it makes sense to come up with a big giant pile of money, put a $500,000 first place on the Olympia, juse up everything else so it's dripping in cash, treat the athletes like gold, fly them in, put them up, travel them around, feed them, do every treat them like superstars. Then, then you got a pay-per-view that's going to attract. You're going to get them all. You're going to get everybody. Given your given your business model, what they really should have done is they should have only held the men's open Masters Olympia. They shouldn't have done any other divisions. They should have gotten the 10 best guys they can get up there and invite whatever bribe, however they had to get them up there. Put the cash up for grabs and hold it as a as a standalone. That's it. The Masters open then. That's it. But John John, here's the thing. I would put up a million dollars, but I wouldn't say I wouldn't say I want this this year only. I want for the next three years. But you know what? I don't know. For the next two years, they're going to be around. Well, they're putting up hold. They're putting up 230 grand for the total prize money. What if you just applied that all of the men's? No, just for first place. I would be I would be the the No, I'm saying if you got 230 grand total prize money for all the things if you applied it all just for the men's open, you'd have enough money to entice people there. Correct. Correct. I I I think you're stretching it. I mean, you I I think if you want to if you want to have an impactful lineup, you need an impactful prize money. I understand it, but John, this look, this is I we don't know what their what their uh capability of raising money over there is in Japan. They don't want to do the show and lose their shirts. They're probably making all their profits on the amateur show. How much money is in Japan? The other I don't think I don't think Romania was a huge help for them going into Japan. No. Well, think about it. If you The difference is if you go to Dubai, the Dubai tourism, you know, uh department that gives the money, right? Right. So it's not costing the the baiter is not taking his own personal money and putting it up for the Dubai pro show to make to give away 200 grand. Dubai, you know, tourism center is giving them the 200 grand for the first place. And so that makes it much more palatable. Bader should have held the Masters Olympia maybe next year. I think well every two years now there won't hold it every year. Yeah. I think you need to put it into perspective. Let let's say you have were holding a M's NBA basketball game, right, in Japan. Okay. Are you gonna have a $230,000 prize purse for you're also going to have it on NBC and it's gonna, you know, it's gonna Yeah. So the the the point is Netflix or someone's big is going to put up a lot of money. Someone big is going to Exactly. No one cares about it bodybuilding enough. It's certainly not Mast's bodybuilding. Exactly. So all of the bitching and moaning about the no the the lineups and who is it and every it's all relative to how much money they're putting into it. I think yeah but I think they back up the truck and shovel money out. They're going to get big names and this is going to be a big show right now. The rumor is that Brandon requested some expenses to be paid like what like airfare and hotel. I I don't know obviously you know that Brandon's a gentleman and and and and I just heard that he requested just some expense to be paid. Now what some is I don't know, right? And he's not on the list. He's I guess he's not doing it. That's really Did he say he's not doing it or or is he just is he not confirmed yet? He's Well, the the the list of competitors who are who have the right to go and compete is they have the list. Well, he he has the right to go because he's he's an Olympian. So, he should be on that list. Okay. Because I we don't know if what's his name is going to do it. I mean, I I'm watching his videos and I don't think he's going to be ready. The guy who won last year. What's his name? Um the first guy you list read off. I can't. Yeah. The first guy. So, and here's my here's my thing. Wouldn't they wouldn't they if the promoter was a true businessman, okay? And I'm not trying to, you know, him get offended here or insult him. There's a trip that that this athlete has to take and you're sending an invite out. Okay. What I would do is say, "Hey, John, we are we are thinking of You're talking about Kamal. Okay. You're talking about Kamal. We're think Yeah. We're thinking about inviting you to the Mast's Olympia. How serious are you? Have that conversation. Oh, you you tell me, Jimmy, I'm I'm really serious. Okay, check your email. There's a contract. They sent all these invites out. How do they know they're going to go? You can guarantee they're not going to go. If you're going to say, "I'm not paying for your airfare. I'm not paying for your hotel. I'm not feeding you. I'm not giving you any. You don't even get a goodie bag. You get zero." Then I can guarantee you no one's going. I have a client who qualified in women's physique. Okay. uh by via winning the Masters uh pro world championships at Gary Udit's show. And she told me they sat down and crunched the numbers like you did, Jimmy. It was she couldn't they couldn't afford to go. It was too expensive with hair, makeup, tanning, airfare, hotel, food. It was It was like It was ridiculous. She's like, "We could, you know, we could we could buy a car with that money." You know, it's that for what? get a trophy. Come on. Wouldn't the promoter be smart enough to say, "Hey, be the guys who qualified qualified. They can come. We we might not even those guys might not come because it's so far away, but the people that we are going to invite. Let's reach out to them and and and put their feet to the fire and say, "Hey, we're about to invite you." Because I expected that for them if they would come to me. Hey, Jimmy, we're about to invite you. Are you willing to sign a contract? You would you would have paid the money to go. You probably would have paid, right? Of I was ready to go. Yeah. You know, it wasn't about the money for me. That's why I didn't even know how much money it was to win, you know. But but you're you're an extreme case. Most people that are qualified to compete in this thing are not willing to pay their own way, pay their own pay for everything. That's why they should that's why it should have been 10 guys invited to do the Mast's Mr. Olympia open and everyone got their flight paid for, everyone got a hotel paid for. I agree. That's it. That give away give away 100 grand for first place. And you know what? Those are those are controlled numbers. And those are controlled numbers. Yep. Yep. It would have cost them the same thing probably. Yeah. It would have cost him the same. And and they probably would have attracted a name or two that were recognizable that would have bolstered their pay-per-view audience. And then they could have then we could have sat down if we were the promoters and said, "hm, who's going to who's going to sell this pay-per-view for us?" Well, we need we need we need Kai, you know. But you also got to think about like this, right? Even if Kai gets a million dollars, right? Let's say he gets a million. All right, let's say a million. I don't think he wants a million dollars to be honest with you. It should be a million dollars. Yeah. I think I think Kai would have gone for a hundred grand probably. Okay. So Kai gets So Kai gets a hundred grand. Okay. Yeah. All right. Kai Green we're talking about now. Yeah. The Kai Green, right? Do you think he would go put himself up on stage with this lineup? Mhm. Yeah. Yes. You think he would? Absolutely. I think he would I think he would have said inside of is down deep in his heart that he'd be wasting his time, but he's going to go for the 100 grand on the marketing side of it. But he's working for a new company now. He owns part of the company. I get that. This is a great marketing. That's what Levrone did. It doesn't even He Kai's a perfectionist. He'll go he'll be his best he could be. He'll be the most entertaining performer on the stage. He will sell that pay-per-view like no one else could. That's my point. And if you're looking forward to three years from now, it doesn't even matter if he wins or not. Right. What matters is he shows up. It's going to entice other big names to show up. Next year, next year you got Phil, you got Dexter Jackson, you got who you and the third year you got even more. So, but that's that's my point. If Kai didn't have any attachments to this Yeah. Right. He wouldn't have gone to waste his time. Even if you got 100 grand, I don't agree. I think I I I think Kai has unfinished business. I think he wants an Olympic. I think so, too. And I also think that you got to show respect to these people, to these athletes, and not just try to coax them out of the woodwork for pennies. I agree. So, you know, you got to make it respectful. You got to make it worthwhile. You got to make the numbers work. Dave, you're absolutely right. It should be limited to 10 guys. They come up with three, 400 grand total purse. They spread it out. They make first place fat as [\h__\h] And then I guarantee you, you're not only gonna get Kai. You're gonna what? What if Phil using Phil euphemistically, any top pro here, older top pro, retired top pro. Here's the Kai's coming back. Hey man, I'm going too, right? I can I can stand next to Kai. There's 300 grand here. Listen, it's it's not easy retiring. No. So, so if you've retired five years, six years, seven years, and there's that that that that still that burn in you, and then there's some money at the masters, you know what? You know, bodybuilding is just one of those things that you cannot do on the cheap. No, you just can't do it. And if and it doesn't dissuade a a neverending parade of promoters who think they can. And you just can't. Look, the ultimate business the business model at this show, John, and you said it right in the beginning, Jimmy, was the amateur Olympia that they're holding in conjunction with this show. That's the cash cow. All those people entering to try to get their pro cards are going to be paying application fees. That's what's going to fund, right, this Masters Olympia. Okay. And the and well, the pay-per-view, too. But I'm saying is the no one's paying pay-per-view to watch the but the pay-per-view could be enormous if they if you get a Kai Green it's enormous. You're not it's not not if you have a you know Joe Bosmo who's on the stage you know Alfred Mouga. So well we all know we're throwing ideas out there because we we all want to see this show super successful. Uh there's a nostalgic, you know, inside of us that wants to see these guys back on stage as fans, as guys who report on the sport and as fellow competitors. I I can't do it anymore, you know, uh because my I'm not my body's not there anymore. But there are guys in their 50s. Camala Garney is is a genetic freak. I mean, he's going to be 52 or three, I think, for this show. And you know, he'll probably win it again. And and so if you know, wouldn't you love to see Kamal stand next to Kai and Brandon Curry? Come on, man. That would be a phenomen you you gota you you you attract flies with honey. Yeah. So you got you got to have the money. And if you're not waving the money in front of these guys' faces, they're not coming. And I hate to give a Blackchman response to this, but I'm going to say it anyway. No one cares about the Masters women. I'm sorry to say. No one cares about the Masters Classic or the Masters 212. If you're a bodybuilder, as Lee Priest would say, you do the open. Kamal's a 212 guy. He's doing the open. He won last year. You get one shot to do the open, you know, and that's it. That's the Olympics. When When did all of these arguments about bodybuilding start? They started as soon as men's bodybuilding stopped being a standalone event. Right. As soon as you polluted the water, you got dead fish. It's not polluted. It these other divisions work at the Olympia level. They work at other proow levels because it's a it's a diversity type of thing. It doesn't work at a mast's level, guys. It doesn't you know, Dave, it doesn't even it's not about work to diversity. It's just more more entry fees, more pro cards. It's a business, Jimmy. Come on. It's a business. I understand that. You gota you understand that they got to make money. The Masters Olympia is a special occasion. It's a special show that focuses on the history of our sport, the legends, bringing them back. The guys that are still good. I don't want to see a legend that looks like a, you know, bag of [\h__\h] you know? I'm talking about bringing back the legends that still look good. The Kai Greens, the Brandons, the the Bonax. The these are the guys I want to see on stage. And it's not because I like them. It's just those are the best guys out there. I don't want to see guys, you know, Phil Clar is fine, too. I don't. And Kamal, those guys look great, but I'm not interested in guys that that won the Masters Nationals at 50 and over in that show that happened to be living in Japan and got an invite. I mean, don't want to see it. Sorry. When you go to AI don't want to see Joselyn Peltier on the stage. Exactly. Exactly. When you go to like a rock and roll revival concert, you know, you want you want to see and hear name bands that were around and famous back in the day. No one would see the guys who never got a record deal. Even if they even if their voices are cracking and they can't sing. Right. Right. Even if they're skinnier than they were before. Even if Even if the point the point is cover band that that opened at the Trouador in 1984 because you have no idea who the [\h__\h] you are. Sinostra at the end couldn't sing for ship and people still [\h__\h] packed those Elvis too. Elvis was fat as a cow. Couldn't move. people freaking filed in there like cattle, you know. Anyway, I look I I on Let's again, we're not ba I'm not bashing anyone. We're throwing ideas out there because we want the show to be successful. Again, you know, I don't have any ill will. It was just something that, you know, just caught me off guard because I knew I was on the list. You know what I would do? You know what I would do for people like Jimmy Mendes? And obviously I'm friends with you, but I don't want to see this done to you. I would say if if there are people that want to do this show who I don't really want to invite because it's not going to add any value to the show, I'll charge you. It's going to cost you you can pay an entry fee of $1,000 and you could do the show because that'll cover some of my expenses and then the it'll weed out the guys that are not really serious. So like you'll pay the thousand you'll to do the show just to say I was in the Masters Olympia and and most people won't. So, it'll add a few more people to the lineup and it'll it'll generate some income for them. So, I was thinking the opposite. What? Post some pictures and videos three weeks out and say, "Hey, you sure you don't want me?" Oh, well, what if they do a qualifier? They should do an Olympia. There's no qualifier. That's what I'm saying. They could do a virtual They could do a virtual qualifier. They could. It's called John. It's called It's called Only Fans. That's the I mean without the sex, but I mean you you could do that. I mean, you know, in terms of in terms of developing a list of competitors that are worthwhile that you would know that you could sell that people wanted to see. They should have hired Blechman to find all He's probably bored out of his mind right now. They should have said, "Steve, I know you don't have anything to do all day. Can you just feel the top 10 guys from the Masters for us? I got so much work. I got so much work. Dexter, I What do you want, bro? Bro, bro, I want 100 grand, Steve. All right, look. I Can we give you 75, Steve? I want I want And you can't shoot for anyone with anyone for 72 hours after the show. I I want an exclusive, right? I want a 72-hour exclusive after that. In all seriousness, he had a good eye. He did. Oh, he did. He was there was a lot a lot good about him. He he was very good with marketing. He understood marketing. It was a lot good with him. He's just unfortunately. Yeah. You need you need a they don't have a they don't really have a strategy on this show and I think that's the problem. So it's like the Democratic party. I don't want to see a show that no one cares about and everyone's like, "Oh, did the Masters take place this past weekend?" Yeah. Who won? I don't know. Uh won again. That's the thing. When you go back and you look at past Mast's Olympia winners. Yes. I mean, who who do you get? Dexter, Robbie, Taylor, you know, Robbie Robinson. You get big names. Names we recognize. That list you just read off. I barely know two of those guys. I don't know what they look like. You know, you work with them. So, I mean, you got like double what I got, but that's still not very much. It's kind of It is kind of weird. Yeah. It's It's very weird. And what my fear is for the nostalgia of the sport and its pedigree is that you're diminishing its importance by putting this out there like this to to who are these people? You know, maybe as John, maybe as part of the sanction fee, they should have a certain amount of money you have to put in escrow that they can use as a enticement like uh slush fund to get the the name guys on the stage. Well, it it's going to come down to who's got the money. Come on. What would it take to get Brandon Curry there? You throw him 10 grand to pay. But that's you're feeding the fire. That's the problem. No, there's certain guys you got to pay more to. It's still you're still doing it the cheapest way out. What's it going to take to get it? What can you think we can get him for 100 grand or maybe 98? You know, it's it's like no 500,000. You got to give him half a million bucks. Well, that that's for prize money, but not everyone's going to win. And Kai might not be so certain he's going to win, but if you give him an appearance fee, he'll show up, right? Or if you give him a cut of the pay-per-view, he'll show up. Yeah. Right. And it'll and it'll and it motivate him to promote it on his on his social media. Whoever have a better routine than Kai. No one. No one. This is this is a message to all the pros who are over 40 right now, have done the Olympia. I would call the promoter and say I will come and do the Masters Olympia. You give me a dollar for pay-per-view per every pay-per-view. And promote it. William Bon should do it. Brandon Curry should hop on there. Who else is over 40? Yeah. Well, I mean, not everyone not everyone deserves a dollar for each pay-per-view. I mean, you know what I mean? Like, some guys might only deserve 10 cents, you know? It's a gray area. It's a gray area because you can't give away the whole pay-per-view just to all the athletes, you know. Well, I would I would start at a dollar and then a dollar for the great guys. That's a lot of money. A dollar. Yeah. Especially,000 to join. That's a lot of money. Don't forget when you charge 40 bucks for a pay-per-view, it's not all profit. You got to pay taxes on that. You got there's administration fees. So, you know, it's not if you give someone a dollar, that's a lot of that's the other thing you got to factor in is that the pay-per-view price for us is not the same as India or or Pakistan. So, if we're paying 40 bucks for pay-per-view, they can't sell it for 40 bucks in India because nobody's got 40 bucks. There's a lot of people with 40 bucks. No, but then No, you do. You have to you have to diminish the the But at the at the end of the day, your goal is to get 200,000 views. The only end of the day at that at that point as a business, you don't care. You get Well, if you got to give a dollar of it to Kai Green, you do. Well, out of the 40, you're only getting three bucks and you're giving away I like how we giving away everyone's money, John. We're giving every We're giving away everyone's money. We're just kind of I'm not I'm Yeah, we're giving away other people's money because you got to give it away in order to make this successful. I I agree with you. But it's not even your money. Exact. Yeah, true that. I mean, it's not even your money. So, think about with the lineup they got now, no one's going to buy the pay-per-view. I can be I can I can guarantee that. They don't know who Alfred Moof Rudella is. You have no idea. Where'd you get that name? You've said it so many times. I combine combined three or four of the ones that were on the list. But the funny part is you keep saying the same one. Do you remember that? He's consistent. He's very consistent. I develop my characters as I go. It's like uh it's like Greg Valentino's Joe Merat, right? Right. All right. I got to wrap this up. Thank you, Jimmy. Thanks for joining us today and giving us a lowown Olympia. Much much love, man. Thank you so much. Yeah. And for all those M for the Masters Olympia guys out there who are running the show, you know, let's let's, you know, let's brainstorm, make this happen, do something exciting, get people excited about this show, and it will sell. And, you know, we'll we'll be the first guys to help you promote it because I would I would be the first to help promote, do whatever I need to do. Yeah. Stop being so [\h__\h] cheap. And on those words, we're out of time. We'll see you again next week for another installment of the Palumbo podcast. Take it easy.