 I created species nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days I believed in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the species nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations dosed for maximum results and the best flavoring symptoms. I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I He wins the Mr. Olympia. And, oh, here's coach of the year. Come here. Get over here. The coach of the night. Two wins in his second place. You've got Ramon Dino winning Classic. You've got Derek Lunsford winning the men's bodybuilding. And you almost had the triple crown of the Classic physique as well. Ali Blath is the second. And I hear you're a psychiatrist now. I'm happy for Ramon Dino because I've been his coach since he was an amateur. And my son is a professional bodybuilder. That's right. And he did that in 18 months. And the way he did it is that he was in high school and he came to my office. He was lifting weights for like a few weeks. And he said, Dad, everybody knows Chris Bumson in high school. Do you know who he is? And I swear to God, I was on my computer and I said, quote, Yeah, I have a guy who's going to beat him. And my son said, what do you mean? I said, well, he hasn't got his pro card yet, but he's going to get it. And he's going to beat Chris Bumstead. And he never did. But the full circle is stunning because, you know, that didn't come to fruition. He's here winning tonight after, you know, the disaster showing last year. After his brother-in-law left. And, you know, there was a lot of pressure on him from people to, you know, kick me aside. And, you know, come up with a new coach. And that idea never entered his mind. Ever. Ever. So, here we are one year later. Ramon Dino is the classic physique Olympia show. Yes. And it couldn't happen to a... Let's talk about Derek Lunsford because he's the first man to ever win a million dollars in prize money or more in one calendar year. He has won three shows in one year. The only guy that I know has ever done that, winning the Olympia Arnold and the Pittsburgh. I mean, he predicted it. He said he would do it. He achieved it. He's a two-time Mr. Olympia now. What won it for Derek? The good combination of size and fullness as well as conditioning. I think he brought up his legs to balance the physique out a lot more, which I think helped him tremendously. I think it was just an overall good package. I think he overpowered Hottie a bit with the muscularity. And then from the back, I think he still had that crisp conditioning enough to separate himself there as well. Hottie came back really good tonight compared to yesterday. It made it a much tougher battle, I thought. And what do you think won it for Derek? Derek? His consistency and presentation also. After a while, when I did so many rounds back to back, you saw that I did not expect, but Hardy started to fade in his presentation a little bit. His control of certain poses. Even his stomach a little bit sometimes. Where Derek stayed consistent the whole time. And that was incredible to see. That's a true champion's mindset. Derek had a little trouble backstage. What happened? Because I know you ran back there. I don't want to. He had some... I don't want to... Something happened. You're asking a question that's a private issue that is not... But you went back there as his coach and motivated him and gave him this coach's speech. It was what makes you a great coach. You can talk about that. I'd rather not. All right. You'd rather not. Let's talk about Hottie Shoupin. Yep. Wasn't as full last night. His tan wasn't the best I'd seen. And he always has great color. Yeah. He comes back tonight much more devastating in the upper body. I thought his legs were still down in size. Is that what cost him the win? Yeah. I mean, I think, you know, obviously, like I just said, in the back, I mean, Derek is very dominant. And I think that sweep on the right quad, like we talked about yesterday, is down a little bit. And then the hamstrings from the back are definitely down, you know, against someone like Derek, who's very dominant in those poses. And his legs were up tremendously. I think it definitely hurt him. But I think it was closer tonight. I wouldn't be surprised if the points had flopped a little bit over tonight. Was Derek better tonight or worse? I think he was about the same, maybe a little bit better when he first came out. I thought by the end he wasn't quite as good. Yeah. I thought his tan was better tonight, which made him look a little crisp, a little darker. But I think the fullness is really what wanted for him, because I think had he been too flat, that might have been a problem. So you had to gamble, obviously. You went with fullness, and I think it paid off. No, I asked, Dan, because, you know, the idea was after prejudging, maybe he could come in tighter. And I think he came in lighter, but I don't think it was any better. That's why I asked. I mean, on the scale, so what is the point? You know what I mean? So, obviously, roundness is what works for him. He's very aggressive on stage, though, and I think that really plays to his advantage. He doesn't let up once he's out there. You know, he is aggressive in the gym, and he's aggressive on the stage. I mean, he takes it dead serious. I mean, he would do 500 rounds. So would Hardy. Right. But Derek never ceases to surprise me in terms of, like, he fights on stage, you know, when he needs to. Right. And he doesn't give up. And, you know, that kind of reflects what you're talking about, his consistency and, you know, all the way through. Our course of the show, I don't think anyone expected Andrew Jack to finish in the third position. A lot of people say we could have seen him winning or coming in second place. Where did you have Andrew, and what did you like about him being a big guy yourself? Well, in some of the poses, I didn't even expect this, but he beat Samson. Because normally you think, okay, defending champion. First time we saw those two compared against each other ever. And I think I was like, he is bigger in almost every pose, except the side chest, where Samson overtakes him. But the moment they switch to another pose, then Andrew beat him again. And I was just surprised when I saw the size difference they actually have in favor of Andrew. What does Andrew need to do to win this thing? I mean, I think he still needs a little more muscle in certain areas. You know, I think he needs a little more detail through the hamstrings. I definitely think he needs to improve his posing. Like, you know, I think his posing was better, but there's kind of like a nonchalantness to his posing. Unconventional. Yeah, which I think is like, okay, you're trying to be like, I'm cool. Like, you know, like just like, hey, I'm hitting it. It's relaxed. But I think you want to see, especially at the Olympia, you want to see a bit more energy from the champion. And just see him like be a little more powerful and aggressive in the posing. Especially when the other three guys, like, you know, Samson's posing hard. Derek, Hottie, these guys are like attacking their posing. So I think some small tweaks in his posing. And I think, you know, the conditioning was definitely improved. Glutes were in, but I still think it couldn't be better. But I think he still needs a little more muscularity to be able to get to that condition and not look stringy like Samson kind of ended up playing. Very good insights. And I agree that his hamstrings and inner thighs need to be a little bigger to balance those legs off. You were sending me some pictures the last couple of days. And I know when you do that, it means you're excited by what you're seeing. Did you know Andrew was going to impress? Yeah. I mean, I just, it's a, he took a big leap in terms of everything, you know. And I think he's remarkably dangerous. If I was like Derek, I'd be Hottie. I'd be petrified to death of him because if you add five pounds on that structure. Deadly. Deadly. He was pretty deadly tonight in a lot of, I mean, his detail. Some of his shots were so dominant. And, you know, the odd thing is, I think of some, there's legitimate criticism of his poses. But his limbs are so long that it, I don't know if it takes him more time to like set up into the side chest. I'm dead serious. He's playing. Yeah. He's trying to take off. You know, you don't need a runway. But I think he should have the most devastating, most muscular. And he kind of doesn't really aggressively hit that most muscular. Would you agree? Yeah. He also hits it a little bit too narrowly. Yes. That loses the incredible size he has. He needs to take advantage of this. You've got to have Wesley work with him on his posing because he's a big guy. I love the most muscular. I'm a classic guy. Just imagine. You know, usually Lee Haney has a great saying, right? He says, a big man never goes to the ground. Yeah. And Andrew did the most incredible split on stage I've ever seen. It was just mind-boggling. I'm mind-boggled by his physique. I mean, I just went backstage. And I've never seen a physique up close. He's big. You know when you're like this big and he's like this tall? Up close. And I've said this before. Up close in person. I remember the first Olympia I did with him. I'd never seen him in person. I go backstage. You know at the Olympia it's like dim, dark, like shadowy. I see this guy walk out. I'm like, what the fuck is this? Creepy. You know what I mean? I'm like, I'm not in the right place. I am way out of my depth at this Olympia. What am I doing here? You know? I was like, I am not even close to this shit. So I remember that. It was like a shocking moment. When you see him in person up close, he's so much bigger, so much rounder, so much more detailed than you think. It's very impressive. Yeah. Let me ask you a question. Sam Sandana. I thought he was pretty much the same as he was yesterday. What did he do wrong here? I mean, I think it's pretty well accepted that he chased condition and it didn't work for him. And we've all done it with someone we've coached or if you've competed yourself. And, you know, to defend the guy, he's been, he won the show last year and he's been, whatever, third, two years before that. And he's lost to Hardy at the Arnold. And all he hears is just come in. Leaner. Just come in, dialed, dialed, dialed. And it just didn't work for him. This kind of happens to you. You won the Arnold in classic physique. You came to the Olympia and you were like shriveled. What, what, what's the mistake a big guy makes when he, when they keep getting, telling him, get harder, get harder. Well, you over diet pretty much. You are too soon done with your diet, which you could see at the guest posing Samson did. He looked better. He was already more conditioned than last Olympia. And I think if he didn't do the Arnold, if he didn't never last the Arnold, he would have been a lot better today. Or if he would have just maintained what he had from that guest posing. Right? Yeah. I mean, to his point is, you know, you, you come off a show as Mr. Olympia. You get beat at the Arnold. It sets a fire that like, I'm going to go into the Olympia like they've never seen. And it, you know, you, you end up, like Wesley said, you end up over dieting, trying to, you know, put your foot down and say, this is my title. I want to talk about the Martian. Yep. Martin Fitzwater. Yep. I mean, he really brought it. There was a lot of criticism. The last time we, the last time we saw him in Pittsburgh, he was not good. He, he dialed it in. He brought conditioning. He, he beat, you know, Nick Walker. He beat some really good guys in the lineup. Arguably, you know, he should have beat Samson in my mind, but what'd you think? I agree with you. I mean, I wouldn't have had any problem with him moving up and being ahead of Samson. I think, you know, this was a marketed improvement from Pittsburgh, you know, just overall detail conditioning from the back. He was one of the sharpest guys on stage. You know, his presentation I think was improved. So overall, I mean, I mean, he's probably super frigging happy he beat Nick too. Yeah. I'm sure. He's like, I don't care if I came 12th, but as long as Nick's 13th, I thought it was a good day, you know? So I'm sure he's super happy about that one. But yeah, no, I mean, hats off to him. He brought it tonight and he walked away with the top five of the Mr. Olympia, you know, what would you, and secured himself. Like last year you came that fourth and then you had like a close one to Chris, you know, it's like kind of shocks your system. People thought Chris won. Yeah. I mean, I think Chris, I thought he did. I mean, you know, and then you kind of get steamrolled in Pittsburgh by these two guys, you know, so for him to come back here and kind of just show people like, Hey, that force wasn't a mistake. It wasn't because everyone was off. Like when I'm at my best, I'm actually a top five bodybuilder in the world. It must feel great. So I'm proud of him. What would you say to Martin in terms of what he needs to work on to move into a higher position? I have no idea because he's a physique of few weaknesses. So, and that's why he is one of the best in the world. I mean, if you can be a bodybuilder with a lot of mass and he does have a lot of mass and good structure, which he has, if you have few weaknesses, you end up beating three quarters, eight of every hard lineup and almost a hundred percent of every very good lineup. There's nothing really there to criticize. What would you like to see him do? Well, it's difficult for me to say he's a classic guy, but I think size is going to matter for him. You see the 3D fullness Derek has, Hardy has in the side chest. I mean, Martin has it, but not as much as they do. And he needs to take his time putting that size up. Let's talk about Nick Walker. I mean, that's the big question mark in the room. I mean, I saw him come out. I know we all said the same thing. Alone, the guy looks amazing. He's huge. He's huge. He was in shape. He's very dominant. You put him in that lineup against guys with better structure and he just seems to fall apart. And he doesn't seem to do well when he's not getting good qualats. He doesn't hold it together mentally, it seems. No, you saw it in his posing. It's just overall demeanor was definitely diminished. Yeah, but you're right. I mean, when he came out, when I first saw him come out in prejudging, I was like, damn, Nick brought it. But then I see him in the group. I'm like, ah, you know, like it was kind of, you know, his structure, I think his waist is a problem. There's no doubt about it. I think he made a better call today, which we were actually talking about yesterday. I was like, he's doing this weird thing, like half hitting his abs. Like make your mind up, either pull it up or hit it. Like, because it looks like you're trying to hit it, but you can't. So it just looks washed out. He actually sat on it today, which I think was a bit of an improvement. But it's tough, man. Like some of these guys have such beautiful structure and such good flow. There's just some things you just can't overpower with size, you know? I thought he looked great. And, you know, I think he did as good as he can do. He's probably going to finish in the sixth position. What would you advise Nick at this point? I don't know. I just, I don't know what I would advise him because he's, he has what he has. You know, his strengths is the freakiness. He's the most popular guy in bodybuilding. Let's face it. You know. I just, at some point, when you keep getting bigger, even though you're known for your mass, it doesn't help. And here, I thought he was just too big, which is bizarre because it's bodybuilding. Was he fat? No. Was he watery? No. Was it? Yeah. I mean, so. You know, it's also. It's hard to. I mean, what do you do? What do you do? You know, I want to win the show next year. What is your advice? Yeah. But you know what the truth is? When it's Nick versus one other guy, like Derek, he looks way better because you're only comparing with one guy. When you have five guys with awesome shape and structure, he gets exposed in his lineup. He's kind of the odd man out because really no one in that group has, especially in like, you know, like you stand next to him in like a front lat, you kind of see this and you're like, eh, you know, some of these shots where there's not a lot of shape and flow to it. And he's muscular. He's kind of doesn't even, it's a bit diminished in his appearance because of the shape, you know, like the front lat. So, you know, there's a couple of shots where it's like, you're looking at him on this shot. It's good. And then you're like, eh, look away, man, look away. You know, my advice to him would be no matter what you call it is you got to keep that Nick Walker energy on stage because that's what the fans want. That's what the judges love. And you know what? Be happy you're this here. It doesn't matter what you place. It doesn't matter if Bob Chikorilla said you weren't going to make top five and you didn't. It doesn't matter. No one cares. The fans don't care. They love you. Be Nick Walker on that stage. Yeah. And that's who, who surprised you? Who was not in the top five that, that really impressed you that you thought might be a future star? Anyone want to answer that? I will. I have Brandon Curry. I mean, it's not a future star, but I'll give two. I mean, Tonyo definitely. Yes. I mean, this is like such a wildly complete, impressive physique. I mean, he's really not missing anything. His condition was awesome. His structure is incredible. He's so balanced, top to bottom, left to right, front to back. He's just a little on the smaller side, but he's been showing good, consistent improvement in that muscularity while maintaining that shape. So if I'm him, just keep doing what you're doing. Like you're getting a little better. You're placed a little higher. No need to change anything. Whatever you're doing, it's doing it right. I also thought Curry looked phenomenal. I mean, this guy's what? 44, 43 years old? Yeah, 43. I mean, this was a great Brandon. I mean, some of the shots you see him in the side chest, even next to Nick, he looked big. He looked good. He was round. His conditioning was good. So yeah, I was really impressed with both of those guys. I agree totally. What about Good Vito? What did you think of Good Vito? Good Vito brought what he could have brought. I mean, he was as good as he could have been, I think. I mean, he has some signature poses, which is the most known pose in bodybuilding, in front of a bicep. He does it in a very special way. He looks very impressive with it. He also played with the audience a little bit. So he's getting there. He's getting more confidence. Does he need more size? No, he doesn't need more size, I think. But maybe in certain places, because once you get enough size, the same thing with Nick Walker, then bodybuilding begins. Building certain body parts and not just overall size. What parts do you think he needs to work on? Well, when he, for example, does the back double bicep, you see quite a gap in between his legs, even though you think the size is there. So either it's going to be his presentation, or he's going to have to work more on the inner thighs, which from the front he seems to have, but from the back still seems to be lacking. Back lat spread is great, but back double could be worked on. Yeah, I think he needs to work on his presentation and posing. I mean, there's a lot more physique there than you see on the stage. So, and I think that's, I mean, that's practice. But you don't want to practice in shows. You know, I was going to say doing multiple shows might help, but you want to be able to present your body, what you have, when you get up there on stage. So, I mean, there could be obvious adjustments to like the side triceps, side chest. Those are two that, you know, he ends up giving them away to people who he could beat. I think Derek's walking out, I'm hearing some noise. Classic physique, let's go over that real quick. What makes Ramon Dino beat Mike Sommerfeld? Yeah, I mean, I honestly think that was really close between those two. Was it the height class that he was down a class, he had to lose 10 pounds? Did that cost him the titles more? Ramon was really good, he was really sharp. I think he, it was an amazing Ramon. And then I think Mike kind of beat himself a bit on that as well. You know, I think Mike, just because of the weight cap and the weight change, coming down that 10 pounds, he just wasn't the same Mike we saw last year. He was definitely diminished. You saw it in the legs. You kind of saw it throughout the whole physique. It wasn't the Mike that he was at the Arnold. No, so exactly. But that's coming down from 212 to 202, you know. So, I mean, I think it's, you know, you kind of see why he was really advancing in that class is because he had 10 extra pounds that he shouldn't have had, you know. So, you know, now it's what he's kind of brought back down. His legs didn't look as dominant as they normally do. Well, exactly. So, you know, I think it's kind of, he's brought back down to the playing field here. And I still think he looked incredible. His condition was excellent. But it just had that, like, you know, that look of when you see guys that have been brought down hard for a cut and then filled back up. It's not quite that same, like, crisp, polished look. You can't get that back. It's just not the same. It's like, yeah, you're not flat, but you're not full. You're just kind of like, meh, you know. And I think that's what he had. Were you suspicious of the, I mean, you could be in Classic. Were you suspicious of some of these guys and the weights that they were coming in at? Well, yeah. When I compare myself, I know I'm a pretty heavy guy. But when I even look stringy next to a guy like that, I'm like, something must be up here, you know. I said for a year and a half to him, there's no way this guy's got legs like that and he's making weight. So it was fixed and, look, Ramon Dino brought the goods tonight for sure. He might not have been as good this morning as he was tonight, but he brought it tonight and I think the right guy won. Yeah, it was just, I mean, it's a feel good. He's been at it so long and to get him to the weight in a better way is really, really hard. So when you were talking about bringing someone down and bringing them back, he's never had, like, the look that I've always wanted because I know what he looks like five or six, seven days out. You say, this is incredible, but you have to still come down. It doesn't matter what you do, eat, this and that. You can't come back. Right. So this time around, I think that he actually allowed himself to get smaller early on. And so there was just so touch and go to the weight. It was easier for you to bring him down. Yeah, so that he could just, like, glide into the show. You look great. Congratulations. Good job with him. Let's talk about men's physique. Ali Bilal versus Ryan Terry. Ryan was two-time champion, now three-time champion. What won it for Ryan? I think just overall conditioning. I mean, his midsection, he hits that straight on and the back especially. You know, the detail and depth and just overall freakiness to that back, I think, is much more impressive. I think Ali was amazing. From the front, you could make a very strong case there. And if anything, this Ryan actually looked a little bit downsized to me. So I think it was pretty damn close. But, yeah, I think that back and just that overall crispness, dryness, hardness is what put him over the edge. I would say conditioning won it for Ryan. I mean, that's the only thing I could think of because I thought Ali had a better physique. I looked at it like one wins the front, one wins the back. Exactly. Yeah. Ryan's got a tremendous back. And when I think of men's physique, I think that a distinguishing part of the contest is when you're looking at the judges. So in my mind, I would weigh standing relaxed from the front a little bit more than what you have from behind, if that makes sense. So in that context, I thought that Ali might pull out the win. He's got the best abs I've ever seen. Let's face it. Yeah. They're ridiculous, right? They're amazing. Every time he's at the way and he shows them. I'm a little jealous. It's unbelievable. Yeah, I'm very jealous. And he knows he's got good abs, so he's not afraid to say. No, he's not at all. Hardy may have the second best. Hardy may have second best, right? Behind Ali. Well, look, it was a great show. Hardy wins the People's Choice Awards, or People's Champion Award, I should say. He got a nice belt for that. And the prize money was great for Classic. Yeah. $100,000. You've got to be pretty psyched about that. I'm looking at Ian for a bit, because they didn't seem to have something to do with this. I'm not sure what the involvement, I know they spoke about it last year. Maybe they're explicit on involvement, I honestly don't know, so I won't speak on it yet. Okay. It wasn't their company giving more money? I'm not sure. Yeah, I know they had spoken about it last year, and Chris has said at the press conference, but I don't know if that was part of this or what it was. I actually have no clue. Who's ever responsible for a good move, Classic Physique, Champion gets $100,000. How much of that do you get? 10%. I don't take people's. Oh, that's right. You don't take people's money. There are a couple other coaches that do, though, right? It's just like, thievery. What thievery? Thievery. Yeah, no, we're not going to talk about that. Anyway, it was a great weekend. I want to thank Dan Solomon for giving us awesome seats, access to everything we needed. Jake Wood, phenomenal production here. I hear we're staying in Vegas next year. I don't want to reveal anything until they reveal it. How much did Derek win? $600,000. So they didn't change the price. $600,000 and $200,000 per second. Is Derek doing the Arnold? $750,000. Right now. I would not. Listen. I will $100,000. I will bet $600,000 that he will ask me tonight. Yeah, I think so, too. Because he's... What do you think? You think you'll see Derek on that stage? Well, that will be something very unique. I know we'll see. I know we'll... Oh, look who we got behind us here. Hold on. You got to come, man. Dave Palumbo with a huge crowd of people here at the Resorts Hilton. We're going to sign off for tonight. Thank you, Ian Valliere. Thank you, Chris Aceto. Thank you, Wesley. John, get over here for a second. I wasn't able to grab Romano. He was... It was so good to see you this weekend. And hang out with you. We did some very fun videos that I know people are going to really enjoy. I hope so. It was worth the suffering. Did you think Derek deserved it? In the end, yes, I did. No one really knows what a victory that really was. First of all, you have the deepest field ever in the sport. First time in history, four Mr. Olympias are on stage at one time. Everybody looks amazing, even the rest of them, okay? And, you know, as he admitted, I was backstage and I saw how he was feeling at the end. You know, the cold sweats, the jittering, you know, the anxiety. And, I mean, he's pacing back and forth. And that's a lot to deal with. I think it's harder mentally than it is. Exactly. And that is what I'm getting to. That is what I witnessed firsthand is why I'm saying nobody knows really what a victory that really was. Because he was not having it. The diametric opposition was Andrew Jack and Derek. Andrew's so laid back. Andrew was just smiling and, you know, having a good time. Derek had pressure on him, man. And Derek had the pressure on him and he ate it. And he did it, man. And that's why I'm saying that victory was way more than just a first place. That was a war he fought. He had a heart of a champion tonight. And Derek Lunsford is Mr. Olympia. I'm Dave Palumbo with John Romano. We'll see you next year.