We're live and I'm here in Newport Beach, California on my birthday weekend. Find out if I really bought that red Ferrari. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're back for another installment of Heavy Muscle Radio. Yes, I'm in a hotel room here in Newport Beach, California, my birthday weekend. And I'm here with the technician Chris Aceto. And I, you know, I didn't know this, but Chris tells me, "Oh, you're in Newport Beach. So is Jay Cutler." What a coincidence. You'll probably run into him. I know. I wonder where. I wonder where I'll run into him. That's the question. Probably at like Whole Foods or something. I, you know, I gotta tell I really like Newport Beach. I my friend Alberto who works for me you know at RX Muscle here uh and species nutrition he does my Instagram he's like you got to come out to Newport Beach you know you got to just relax you know you're burning the candle on both ends you know you got to take a break I said all right you know you're right so I fig I'll come out here for the weekend do a little uh recording with him and you know make it a kind of like a little work vacation and I'm telling you you know when I went to two months ago when I went to California with my with my client John and we went to Venice Golds I was so disappointed Ed in how Venice had become, you know, kind of like I don't want to say a [\h__\h] hole, but it's it's it's not the Venice that you and I remember. And when I came to Newport Beach, while yes, it's it's a much higher end than Venice was back in the 80s and 90s, it had a Venice vibe to me. When I walked on the beach here, when I walked on the boardwalk and just in the town eating in the clean places here, I got a Venice vibe. And so I I and and then you know I I was telling some people this that that were around here and they said, "Yeah, a lot of people from California or excuse me, from LA and and Dennis are moving to Newport Beach. This seems to be the new place everyone wants to be." Well, it's it's uh as I told you, it's spectacularly beautiful. I mean, what's about the Newport Beach area? The harbor, the beach, right? The you know, perfect weather. Like I said before on I said, you know, California to me is still the most beautiful state. There's so much to to see from, you know, top to bottom. But yeah, of course, LA's falling down. So yeah. Yeah, it's uh well, they burned it down, so now they could build it back up again. And uh well and even prior to that even prior to that look at the you know you know anyone who's been going to Venice for the last 10 years knows that every two years that you go right you see more craziness more crime more riff raffraff more it's more expensive Chris to live in Venice than it is to live in Newport Beach I the guy who works for me he's paying less rent here in Newport Beach and it's freaking g I think actually he's in Laguna Beach which is even nicer you know it's also really I said and he Venice, you know, my, you know, Leo Myaro who interviewed me paying four grand a month for a small apartment there. It's it's crazy that the prices I Why is Venice so expensive? You're the real estate mogul, you know, because LA is still the, you know, and a a big pop a bigger population, more jobs, more competition for, you know, apartments and condos, and it's the economic driver compared to Newport. Newport is like, you know, Bill Gross is up there, for example, 80-year-old bond king, you know, old money, it's quiet money, it's, you know, there's less intensity in terms of economic activity. So, it's like Manhattan, right? Economic activity and jobs, you'll find everything. our buddy Derek who used to ask us all these questions on the show and he used to ask the the technician questions. He's been you knowounding me you know to come up here right because he wants me to drive the Lucid which is the fastest electric car on the market there. They have a 1200 horsepower car. So I was in the um there's a like a the fashion island mall here and they have a Lucid dealership there. It's a small little satellite one. So he called up and he told him I was coming in. So, I went and looked at this Lucid, which is I got to tell you, for an electric car, it's pretty badass. It's got a lot of room in it. It's like a four-door sedan that's super fast. They have like different versions. I was looking at the uh there was an 800 horsepower one, and then they have a the top-of-the-line one's too expensive. I, you know, I wouldn't want to buy that one, but that one's like the 800 horsepower one's pretty pretty nice. So, he was supposed to drive down here today and meet me with the 800 horsepower one to let me test drive it, and then I don't know what happened. Something happened. So, uh, I don't know if I might see him later tonight. So, if if if you if I put up any videos of me driving a Lucid, uh, you'll know he made it. But he's beenounding me to come here, right? He's like, "If anytime you come out to this area, I'll meet you. I'm here." And and and now I did go I did go to the Ferrari dealership. I I have to go I have to put this on the record now. So, I go to the Ferrari dealership, right? Because I'm like, I got It's right across the street from my hotel. at the Balboa itself and not not the Rocky Balboa but it's the BBO and I I I go into the the Ferrari dealership and um the one of the sales guys like wait a minute I know you he goes aren't you a bodybuilder I said yeah he used to work out at Gold's Venice Chris like in the 80s this guy and he remembered me from that and not that I was there in the 80s but you know he remembered me that I was I was at at one point you know a bodybuilder and everything like that so he he was given us the uh you know the the royal treatment which was kind of nice and I was sitting in the cars and we were filming everything and pull this. You filmed the price tag. It was, you know, of course, of course I get the, you know, I made a little video and I made a little, you know, fun thing about that I was I bought the Ferrari and everyone believed me, you know. So, I'm I'm just here to say I didn't buy the Ferrari, guys. And the only reason I'm telling you that is because I'm getting too many emails and too many text messages. It's cloud clogging up my text messages. I can't I can't work anymore. But there was some pretty badass cars. Matter of fact, this whole dealership, Chris, they don't even sell new cars. They're all like a year old, two years old. They all have like a 100 miles on it, 200 miles. Because if you want a if you want a new Ferrari, you have to wait three years. That's the waiting list. So, what these people do is they buy a Ferrari because they drive it for six months and then they bring it back and they say, "We want the new one." You know, and they give the old one back, but the old one has that's old. It looks brand new. It has no has no miles on it. It's like 200 miles this thing, 300 miles. And so they sell all the pre-used ones. Um, and that's just, you know, I guess if you have Ferrari money, you don't care. You know, you'll you'll drive it for a year and then you'll give it back. And and the truth is most people don't even drive it. They take it out on the weekend for for, you know, for to go to a restaurant. They come home, they drive, you know, 10 miles on the thing. Very very cool cars. But um, hold on. I'll show you my the video I did. This is the video I did in my new Ferrari 29 GTX Ferrari. As you can see, with every option, the steering wheel's got carbon fiber on it. I'm going start it up at the end of the video. This is a bad ass car. As you can see, you get a Ferrari right take off. Dave, that's the you what? That's the smileiest I've seen you in some time in that I the reason I was actually Yeah. Yeah. It was It was nice. the the the reason I was actually in the car is because I did a motivational video there for people people who maybe need a little a little kick in the ass to diet a little harder and and go after their goals. So, it was a very the the video I thought was was good. It was very motivational and so I did that and then I just put the little kicker in there. Alberto's like, "You got to like tell people you bought the car." All right. What's it What was it what was it selling for? How much was it that that car new is like is over a million, but it was uh because it only had like 200 miles. It was pre-used. It was like480 or something like that. $5,000 a month lease if you want to lease it. You know, I was watching a video by a very rich person, and this is interesting. He's like, "If you have $500,000 or a million dollars to fork down on a car, um you'd be an idiot to buy the car for a million dollars." policies like because if you put the million in in in a in a any kind of even very conservative brokerage account, the interest you'd earn on the on the million dollars would would more than pay the the the $5,000 or whatever $8,000 a month lease payment. He goes, "So, no one who who who is got money and understands business would ever pay cash for a car like that, even if they had the money, because it's cheaper to just take your interest payment, you know, you make the interest on it and pay, which I never even thought about that. I guess if you had that much money, you know, that interest would pay the the monthly payment on the car. Or you you could keep the inter you could keep the interest money and keep your 25year-old Mercedes and just invest you and you and Warren Buffett, that's what you guys do. Yeah. Yeah. Smart. Much smarter. Warren Buffett, when you talked about that area, I his house was in he just sold it Lagona Niguel. Oh, I didn't know. Oh, he lived up here. Okay. Interesting. Well, he never probably owned it since 1965 probably, right? 747 and he paid he paid a million two in 74, which was AI think it was next to who's the guy who looked like the president but could never win as a Republican. He sounded looked like from from he lost to Obama. Oh, um what's his name? Um Doll. No, not D. He looked like the president. Dole lost because he didn't look presidential and won. I'm trying to think. Um, ask somebody. I can't think of who who was. We're getting old. Obama. He looked and then Trump came out and said he he choked like a dog versus Obama. Like a dog. That's when Trump first used that like AI think slogan. Oh my god. I I I'm happy to see that RFK Junior got approved. That was a a pleasant uh they they brutalized that guy. I felt really bad for him watching the the approval process. I I had to turn it off a couple times because these people were so brutal to them. Oh my god. So disrespectful. Well, that was a done deal that they were going to be brutal and it was a done deal that he was going to, you know, pass. Yeah. Yeah. Well, his house was next to Mitt Romneyy's. Oh, was it? Yeah. in Laguna Niguel. That's right. Oh, okay. Recently in the last three years, you can Google it uh Warren Buffett's house Laguna Niguel. It looked untouched from 74. Like the counters, the the What he sell for? He didn't put He didn't put one penny into it. What did it sell for? Oh my gosh. I don't know. Probably like 20. Oh wow. Yeah, he he he's he could say he probably makes the most profit of any human being on this earth, but I don't know if he even I don't know if the guy even enjoys his money, Chris. The guy doesn't spend a nickel on anything, this guy. No, he enjoys saving it. That's I understand. What's the purpose of life if you can't enjoy a little bit of it? Well, he's he's given given away billions, so I mean, maybe he gets that. He gets Yeah, he probably gets pleasure that way. I'll say one thing, though. You know, when I got into the Ferrari and I was looking at it, I said, you know, I said to I said to the guy, the sales guy, I said, you know what? I would have a problem driving this car. Not the fact that I can't drive it. I I love driving fast cars. It's almost too flashy. And I feel like, first of all, I would probably be getting a million t traffic tickets because it it sticks out like a s. It's like a fire engine driving around. you know, you're driving around and you know, if you go 10 miles over the speed limit, you're gonna get pulled over because you just stick out too. Matter of fact, I saw a cop pull over a Lamborghini here. There's a lot of very fancy cars in Newport Beach. And I said, you know, I would feel like it's like too flashy almost like I don't I you know, I like having a nice car. I like having a car that, you know, runs well and looks sophisticated, but a Ferrari is almost like [\h__\h] you to everyone. How about how about a blue one? Nah, because if you're gonna get a Ferrari, you got to get a red Ferrari. You can't you you almost can't buy any other color. I saw other colors there, but the the red ones are so nice. I mean, it's like I think of that movie um with the Leonard DiCaprio. What was the the one where they there was stock brokers? Oh, yeah. Yeah. What about it? Yeah. And that's what I think about. It's like it's like it's like a it's like AI feel like you're you're a fraudulent stock broker if you if you're driving a red Ferrari and it's only the red Ferrari. You could drive like a Lamborghini. You could drive a uh a Bugatti. It it doesn't have the same Rolls-Royce, but for some reason Ferrari says, "Fuck you. I'm I'm probably doing something illegal and and and I'm rubbing it in your face right now." You know, I just there's just something about the Ferrari. It it screams obnoxious success. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And there's nothing. Look, if you make the money legitimately, you should be able to drive a Ferrari. But I had this like weird Yeah. Like I don't like when people compliment me too much. I get uncomfortable. I know you're kind of like that too a little bit. And uh that it goes to it's it goes with that thing. It's it's the old Woody Allen, you know, Groucho Marks expression. I wouldn't want to belong to any any club that would have someone like me as a member. You know, that kind of Yeah. You know, it's funny you say that you get uncomfortable in compliments. I watched the Mike Tyson interview with uh yesterday with Sugar Ray Leonard, right? Sugar Ray Leonard was very uncomfortable with his success. Oh, he was I didn't know that. He looked like he was he looked like he was really comfortable with success. You would think remarkably insecure and that's what led to, you know, he was an alcoholic. He Oh, wow. smoke every single day for couple years. Really? I didn't know that. And it was all back fell back on this weird idea that he was not comfortable with his success, right? Which is strange. Yeah. Yeah. You wouldn't think that. You would absolutely not think that because I thought he was like another I thought he was another like Muhammad Ali. I watched it because someone said it was a great interview. It was sort of insightful, but Mike Tyson was so high during the whole Oh, was he was he really? Yeah, he's into the marijuana now a lot. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know how old the the interview was. I think it was in the last couple years or so, but he was like he couldn't get a word out straight. Tyson, Tyson, and George Foreman became they were like the these villainous terrible people who became the most beloved, right? Oh, yeah. In their later years. It's it's it's an amazing when you see that the transformation can occur like that. It's just really is. But hold on, I want to show you. Did you see this uh this slam dunk contest? I got I gotta show you this. Yeah, they had the NBA All-Star game and they at the All-Star weekend they always do the um the slam dunk competition. This guy's won it three years in a row now. M McClung. I don't know if I didn't even know who he was really because I really haven't followed basketball too much. But this, watch this dunk, Chris, we don't need anything else right now. Once he got right here, Patience, patience, patience, patience. Now, turn patience in the air. Turn. You're showing hang time. Look, he's hanging out. Isn't that insane? Can anyone dunk besides Phil in bodybuild? You know who else who told me they could dunk? Gunther might have been able to dunk. And Nasser would say he could dunk. I bet you I bet you Cedric probably dunk the ball if you probably if you put up enough money he would do it. He'd say that's a stereotype, Dave. Cedric was tall. I bet you Tony Freeman could probably dunk a basketball. Tony probably could still dunk today. Yeah. Yeah, he's athletic. It's amazing that Phil can do it because Phil was not tall at all. I mean, that that that tells you his, you know, his athleticism that he can do that. It's pretty impressive. Well, he did have good hamstrings, so that had to help. Yeah. You know, Jordan said the reason why his dunks were so outrageous was I don't know if you know, he has like a like a really I have a big hand, but he has he has a m hand. And even some of the other guys said his hand was so big that he not only did he palm a basketball, his like hand was like he could hold it like you know how like you would hold like a like a softball in your hand. He could hold a basketball like that. So that's why he could do all kinds of crazy stuff with the ball because it never would come out of his hand. You know, he recently his house, right? 14 million. Oh, he did. Oh, he did sell it. I think it was on the market for like 10 years. It was Yeah. A long time. We talked about that house. We already talked about like 80 million because Who bought Who bought the house though? We It hadn't been sold last time. Well, I think somebody's gonna like Airbnb it to do tours and you know, he's got some I was gonna say they should turn it into like a Michael Jordan museum is really what they should do with it. Yeah, that would be the smart thing to do. I've been, you know, I've been buying, my son's into basketball, so I've been buying him all these Jordan shirts, you know, like they have they have a whole line of like clothing, you know, and so now that I'm buying him the Jordan shirts, I'm like, "God, these shirts are pretty cool." I'm I'm buying myself Jordan shirts, too. I'm wearing I'm like, these are pretty creative. I It's in It's Nike is Nike and Jordan must be making so much [\h__\h] money with that brand. He's the smartest guy of all time. And you know what the funny thing is? Did you see that movie about where they showed how Jordan got the Nike contract? I did, but I don't want to make it a business show, Dave, but Nike's stock is at its fiveyear low. Go ahead. Is it really? Well, I'll tell you this. Jordan was brilliant because even though he didn't want to work for Nike, they they you know they they basically smooed him and said, "Look, we're going to make you a partner with us. We're gonna make the Air Jordan." And they came up with the whole the whole stick. That was the smartest thing he ever did. This guy I don't He's He's worth over a billion now, right? We did we were we talking about boats before or after the the had the show started because Dave and I were talking about boats and yachts. Yeah. Chris is telling Dave, Google Michael Jordan's yacht. Oh, he's got a crazy I think he paid three. I don't know. Three. I don't know. I was always wondering why um would anyone want to own a yacht? Like why wouldn't you just rent the yacht for the day? Because unless you're on the yacht all the time, does it really pay to have a yacht? No, not at all. But the the because you get suckered into the idea of, oh, if I had my boat down there with you, I'd fly down there every weekend and we'd go on it. We do it like two weekends in a row and then we'd never use it again. Yeah. No, I know. You're better off spending a ridiculous amount of money and just renting it for the day. It's like the ultimate more than it's 15 million. Chris, there it is. 115 million. Uh, fits 12 and six cabins. Uh, let's see what it says. 198. It's a 2018. What's the dining room engines? Does it sit 63 at the dining room table or 53 or 33 or something crazy? 115 million he paid for this thing. He bought it from Lloyd Dorfman. That's crazy. Lloyd Dorfman did not play for the Bulls. No. Yeah. Cruises at tw 12 knots. Is that fast? That sounds low. That sounds like it's not too fast. Mh. I guess for a big boat like that. Let's see if I can zoom in on this thing. 16 miles an hour. That's how how slow it is, you know. Yeah, that thing is huge. I wonder if he even goes on it. Yeah, he uses it a lot. I see him on on all the time on it smoking his cigars on there. Yeah. We know Jordan likes to to to enjoy himself. He's probably the only athlete in the history of the sport who was as good as he was and who would go, you know, who would sleep four hours a night before playing basketball. He'd play 36 holes of golf. He'd drink a a 12-pack of beer. You know, the guy was just a [\h__\h] Don't forget, bet on every sport going, right? Yeah. And guess who has the same birthday as me? Michael Jordan. So, happy birthday, Michael. Tomorrow, February 17th, will be Michael Jordan's birthday and my and my and and um Jim, we all have the same birthday. So, that'll be tomorrow. Unfortunately, I'm flying back on my birthday, but I had to get back on Monday. I couldn't stay another day, but I am enjoying myself. All right. What did I want to show you? So, did you have you followed Sam Sulac, internet social media sensation? Sam Sulak has finally gotten on the stage. Yeah, on on uh RX Muscle Instagram. I'm gonna pull him up here. Let's see. So, Sam Sulak, as you guys know, is, you know, he's got millions of followers. Uh he's probably best known for, you know, his chocolate milk and, you know, burgers and fries, you know, offseason bulking diets. that uh it's it's interesting because a lot of people criticized him for giving bad advice to to young kids and he never really to defend Sam Sulak he never gave bad advice to young kids because he never said hey this is what you should do to get big. He said, "This is what I do." And people just like following this guy. And he decided he was going to compete. And a lot of people thought it was a bad move on his part to compete because they said, "Well, you know, he's such a phenomenon. He can only he can only do bad. You know, if he doesn't do well, people going to say he was, you know, he's not really as great." I said, "But this kid doesn't give a [\h__\h] what anyone thinks about him." He said, "You know what? I'm going to do this. I'm going to do the show. I I like bodybuilding and he can want to compete. Wound up winning the overall. He's going to do the Arnold amateur in in two weeks. I see Jay Cutless congratulating him there. I see uh Arnold Sports Festival. Oh, Samir Bonoot even says great job. So, Phil Heath, Rumble, Young Men, Rumble, Seth Ferosce, Derek Lunsford, everyone's the Trent twins. Amazing, right? Matt Grego, your your guy. Dexter Jackson. I wonder if pe I wonder if all these people are saying, you know, great job because they they feel that he's he's got a lot of views and they want to they want to put their name on on his page or not or if they really believe that. I'd always I always wonder that. What do you think of his physique, Chris? Uh I think he's good for the first show, you know, really good for 23 first show. Yeah, good abs. Good midsection. Why don't the front double at the back? I mean, he looks good both ways. I think his, you know, he looks good for 23 and for a show. Yeah. You think he could win his brokart at the Arnold or you think he's jumping the gun a little? Um, it depends. Probably have um probably not simply because you know, he needs more like quad separation. Yeah. And um and the level of competition is at the Arnold it's either it depends on the Yeah. Sometimes the Arnold is like pretty good and sometimes it's like almost off the chart. Yeah. You know, depends on the level of competition. And oddly enough, sometimes I don't know if they give class wins there, but sometimes the Arnold amateur like some of the classes are crazy good and then a couple other classes you're like, "Oh, I won my my class and got my whatever. I won my class and it was a weak class." I mean, I've had people win their classes at that show in week class, if that makes sense. Yeah. Know, you never know who's going to show up. That's the whole thing, you know. and will get second in that show and first and win the overall but several times. But I've had people who uh you know who did not win their class in a in a class that was extremely deep. So good good excellent uh posing presence, you know what I mean? For someone who's Yeah. This is my take on him. What do you think? I I I almost feel like he has a like a better bodybuilding physique than he does a classic physique. I mean, he can hit the classic poses, but I feel like like in another two years or so, he's not really going to be a classic guy. He's going to be a he's going to be an open bodybuilder. Well, we don't know in two years what the classic division will look like as well. Well, I mean, I think he's going to tap out in the weight. It looks like he's he's pushing close to the weight cap already. I mean, I don't know if he is or not, but he's got like a lot of thicky thick girthy muscle, you know. I think he'd be a good open bodybuilder, you know. When was the show? This was one of the muscle contest shows. Have to be. Is that You said Jay's there. No, no, I don't think Jay's at this show. Oh, Jay comment on Okay. I was gonna say it has to be Yeah, Jay just commented on his on the victory. Yeah. You know, when someone said after the prejuding, someone said, "Oh, he's either first or second." I said, I said, "There's no way that this guy's not going to win the overall. He's got a couple million followers. I'm not saying that he didn't deserve it, but I'm saying if it's close, they're going to give it to this guy. I mean, this is, you know, this is it's good for the sport, you know, and, you know, he's he's probably one of the most talked about guys in in the sport. He's got millions and millions of followers. This guy, it's it's really incredible when you think about it. He's got this kid's got 6.2 two million followers, Chris. Crazy. I mean, think about it. This is a guy who didn't hadn't even competed. Yeah. So, I think that's why a lot of people felt like it was risky for him to compete because they're like, "Well, you know, if he competes and he doesn't do well." I said, "He's he's in his 20s, he doesn't give a [\h__\h] about anything." You know, any publicity is good publicity. So, if you have six million followers, if he had, you know, not won, there's no downside. If he did win, there's no downside. Yeah. Meaning, well, not meaning you don't have to read into it. You know, there's there's no negative when you have six million followers. Yeah. People were very Oh, there's Jay with him right there. Yeah. Jay told me gone out to Vegas. I think they trained together. People are very upset that he cut his hair. So, I think I heard he's growing it back. I I I don't I think he should just tell everyone to go [\h__\h] themselves and he should be uh It's funny. I great short because he looks he looks 20. Yeah, he looks Yeah, he looks better when it's short. I agree with this Jay training room. What's going on with Jay's hair? Is Jay receding a little bit? That perfect quaff of hair. He's got the perfect imperfect talking about that. The best kept 51y old maybe in the country. He doesn't look like he's aged since he's was like 25. Chris, it's unbelievable. This guy I probably ate more junk food this weekend than he ate. I'm telling you, I think his hairline is receding a little bit though. He still looks like he's 25 now. Yeah. Jose said, "God," which I I agree. I said, "God, he's so He was in Boston recently." Yeah. and that he's so round, you know, and lean that that sound like the 12 minutes of training a day because you don't have any time and No, no, but you know what it is and and I I give Jay props on this one because I I always say to him, I said, "Jay, you don't you don't want to have any kids." He's like, "Nah." He goes, "I got so many kids in my family already. I got nieces, nephews." Yeah. That's why he looks so young. You know that kids ages you, Chris. It's like unbelievable. Can't even I cannot add to that. They you know what someone told me the other day? They said it keeps you young. I said I still have a five and 11 year old. They keeps you young. And I I said it does. I don't may keep me on my toes. May keep me up at night, but it doesn't keep me young. No, definitely doesn't. Hey, I want speaking of investments since you're such you love investments. Did you I don't Yeah, I don't know if you saw this. Eli Manning, who was the quarterback of the Jets. Do you saw that he's looking to buy 10% of the New York Giants? Yeah. That's pretty incredible, right? Yeah. Saw that. Do you know what the Giants are worth? I I don't know. Um they're worth a lot of money. So, he's looking for 10% stake in the Giants. From what I read in this article, uh the Giants are currently valued at 7.3 billion, making them the fourth most valuable NFL franchise. They rank behind the Patriots, Rams, and the Cowboys. The Cowboys are at top of the list at 10 million 10 billion essentially. And here's a good f fun fact for you. So, the team is co-owned by John Mara and Steve Tish. Um Tim Mara, which was John's grandfather, in 1925 bought the Giants for 500 bucks. Chris, you believe that? 500 bucks they paid for the Giants. Well, um I mean you look back at what team sold for 20 years ago, they were nothing. I know. I know. So if it's worth seven billion, he's got to come up with 10% of that. That's that's I would imagine that he's investment company with him is going to get involved with that. But it's funny saying you're a minority owner of the uh you know what my pet peeve is with Dave with football teams. What? My only pet peeve with football teams, if the Giants want a new stadium, they want to like get public money to do it. Yeah, I know. I know. Everywhere team goes, they're like, "Well, we're going to, you know, we're worth seven billion, but we need to build a stadium and we need to get it subsidized by taxpayer bonds." Well, because what they'll say is we'll leave. That's all. And they they they leverage it that way. That's how Dallas gets, you know, all theirh their stuff done. But it's a lot of money. seven, you know, what's his name? Patrick Bed David owns is a minority owner of the Yankees. Very minority. Oh, it's Oh, it's a real It's very low. Like Gary, what is it like 1% Tik Tok guy Gary Vichek or whatever his name is. Yeah, I think he owns a piece of the Jets. You know, it' be like saying, you know, Yeah. I I went to the Warren Buffett annual whatever he has conference in Nebraska and I'm I'm a part owner of Birkshshire. Yeah. Of the Let me see how much uh Patrick that David owns of the Yankees. He owns uh he owns one less than 1%. You were right. Patrick David minority owner of the New York Yankees revealed that he currently owns just less than a percentage point of the Major League Baseball team which equates to a significant investment as the team is valued at 7.7 billion. What is it? So se So it's so 10% would be se So what he puts 70 million in. He owns less than 1%. So I don't even know what what less than 1% would would equate to. I'm sure. Right. He probably put Yeah. I don't even I can't even do the math because it's a billion is too much for me in my head to can comprehend. Too many zeros, Chris. Yeah, it's less than less than 70 million, but it could be seven million. Could be, right? It's interesting the Yankees and the Giants are worth the same. You would think the New York Yankees would be worth more, right? You would think so because of they've been there longer. They have a, you know, the history football's growth. But yeah, Major League Baseball viewership is in the toilet. Yeah, that's true. When you buy When you buy a team, do you get the stadium too, Chris? When you buy the team, do you get the real estate? Yeah. Um, I would say I would, my guess would be, yeah, the stadium comes with the team, I would think so, right? Yeah, it's a good Let me ask you this question. If you had a hundred billion dollars, would you buy a team? Would that be something you'd want to be doing? No, that's that's not AI don't think sport I don't think it's a great investment. What would you buy with 100 billion? Bitcoin. I'm just kidding. I don't know. I if I if I had that I would make% sure Dave that my make sure that it does not go to 99. So safety and and average growth. You only need average. You need average growth. That's all you need. Right? It's like someone It's like someone says, "Oh, my my I have a 80% return this year in in 100% return this year in Planters." Was it Planter was the hot stock right now? Planter like, "How much do you have in it? I have $2,000 in it." But if you have two billion Yeah. need is a 5% return and then you can go buy Ferraris until you collapse. Right. Well, I'm saying would you do would you do that? Would that be something you would do or would you buy? Like because I know you're such a real estate, you know, you know, phenom. So, is there like one piece of real estate that like is a dream like real estate thing that you'd be like if I had all this money and it money didn't matter, I would buy this? Well, I would probably be attracted to a trophy property in terms of real estate in a trophy city. So then you get down to like New York, right? So what would you get? What do you like in New York? Probably the Plaza Hotel which Trump used to own and he sold it to He sold it to uh Didn't he sell? He sold it to one of the princes from Saudi. Oh, that's right. He did. Yeah, I I remember seeing that. Yeah, just recently. Some I don't know. I don't know what he I know Trump like way overpaid because he was looking for you know just to tie up the one in I mean everyone knows the plaza hotel. Yeah. And uh and then he ended up losing it to uh god yachts again to the prince Saudi prince and the guy also bought his yacht. Oh that's been they you know I I I was watching some program they he bamboozled the guy. They said they were interviewing. You know who they were interviewing? The woman who's on Shark Tank. Barbara Cochran. Barbara. She worked for him at the time. She worked for No, she worked for Trump. Yeah. And she's like, I've never seen a better salesman in my life. He went in there with the Saudis and they wanted to like make him an offer. He's like, "No, no, you guys, we're not even going to talk about the plaza. I got something else. I got something on the huts and I want to sell you." And they're like, "No, we want to talk about the the plaza." He's like, "No, no, no. we're going to talk about this. And he wound up selling him that some other land along the Hudson and the Plaza. She's like, I've never seen anyone close him. He bought the boat from him, which he still has. Oh, he still has that boat. Just he just did an interview with uh Tucker Coulson the other day. Oh, he I gotta watch that. And he said, "I still he said you bought the Plaza from Trump." He said, "Yeah." He said, "You bought the boat, too?" He said, "I still have the boat. Still use it." Wow. That was that was a great vote. I didn't hear what you said. You broke up. He may not yacht as much as Michael Jordan uses. No, he's he's a little busier than Michael Jordan, you know. Name uh Telawed. Aloe Aloe. Prince Alawid. Yes. Yes, you're right. Good. Good. who if you remember when uh when power shifted in Saudi they put him in the Ritz Carlton in jail for like I think six months. Oh, they did? I didn't know. They pulled the Trump all the people who are like may have been in like had government contracts may might have been kind of sort of ripping off the country. He rounded them up and put him in the rits in jail until they like I don't know paid to get out. The Plaza's website claims Trump paid 390 million for the location. God, in those days that money adjusted for inflation. What year was that? I'll tell you what it's worth. Um, what year was that? 1990, I think. 88, sorry. So he paid probably the equivalent of today's dollars minimum 1.2 billion. Wow. Hotel. He did get a cameo though on Home Alone because That's right. You're right. He wasn't Home Alone. That movie Trump officially released ownership of the Plaza Hotel in 1995. He sold it for 325 million which means he lost around 83 million. And what what was the name of the boat? The Princess. Yeah, it was what was that boat? Uh the boat was gigantic in those days standards and he bought it from I think he bought it from Ed Nine Koshogi. It's re it was renamed the Trump princess. Yeah. Good. Good. Good. Kosigible. Do you know who Koshogi is? No. He cost 2.5 million to operate a year to operate that boat. Yeah. He bought it from Kosogi and sold it to Eloid. Wow. That's a nice That was a nice boat. That was I remember that boat back in the day. It was crazy because he wanted to take it from lower Manhattan down to the casinos down to the Taj Mahal. I don't blame him. I hate that. Was the biggest casino in the world by far. Yeah. And who do you think he had as his guest host pal around with him opening weekend of all the people? And it wasn't Steve Lechman. I mean anybody just think just think Dave if you were having a birthday party for your son 20 whatever it was 30 years ago right and wanted to invi invite just the superstar of superstar and then they said yeah but it's going to cost you like 10 million to have him there for a couple days what they they invite Tyson or something like that oh no bigger than Tyson good guess Ellie Michael Jackson of friends though He he he defended Michael Jackson through that whole Yeah. You know what he did? Crazy fiasco with the kids and stuff like that. He always defended Michael Jackson. Well, Michael Jackson got off of those. Both of them. No, I know. But but Trump was was was, you know, Trump never never turned his back on Michael Jackson. I guess he's very loyal to his friends. Was alive, he would have Michael Jackson sing the national anthem at Oh, at the at the he would have at the uh at the inauguration. You're 100% right. There's no doubt about that. No doubt. Let's I want to So, we got the Arnold coming up now in two weeks and I wanted to just get your opinion on what what we got to we got to pull up the It's like the the odds players. Like it's like we're doing like the election now. Like All right. Well, Samson Dada. These are the latest pictures. At least I've seen them. I don't know if this is latest, but it looks like it's the latest. Yeah. Monster side chest. Yeah, he's looking huge. Now, I know you're an Instagram expert. Yeah. These these pictures legit or you think these are a little uh docked up? They look like when I try to like put my ad for my condos online. All right. So, they're they're a little fixed up a little bit. According to you, is this a level of conditioning we can with fullness that we can see from Samson on stage? Oh, yeah. I think it's I mean I think I think it gives though a good representation of the condition which is looks great and the fullness which looks great. Yeah. I mean I think this is hard this is going to be very hard to beat. I don't very he's he's got a level of density about himself now that I I I don't think he had in former years. Right. He didn't he he had um when he was third he had density and condition. It looks like he's got density condition and more size and size is the impact of even more density and condition if that makes sense. Yeah. Yeah. Is that him walking on the treadmill? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That I thought he was he looked freak. I wanted He was so big and freaky there. He just he just looks like he's just gotten like he's at another level now. I don't know. It It happened to Ronnie. It happened to Dorian at one point in their career. It seems like he went from he was impressive at the Olympia, but he's it seems like he's notched it up since then. I don't know. something's happened to his physique that it's just super impressive. Like, and and like I said, I I don't I don't know if I'm exaggerating it or or or but I just I feel like his his physique has come into its own. Yeah. Pretty big dog he's got, too. Even the dogs look bigger. He I think he's he got his he got the keys to his own gym, too. Did you see this one? He's opening his own gym, which I thought was kind of cool. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. This is This is very cool that Samson has his own gem now. No one knocks on my office door. Yeah. Well, except the the king, Donald Trump. No, he got the key to the gym and now he's uh he's supposedly opening up his own training center. Let's go take a look inside here. I think that's pretty cool. I I think for a bodybuilder at his level, you know, when when I remember Levrone opened his gym when he was back in his heyday, it's got to be really exciting when you when you have enough money where you can buy your own gym and set it up the way you want. Get all the equipment that you love training, you know, with and and make it something your own. I mean, Derek Lunsford obviously set up his own gym. Flex Lewis has his own gym. There's a lot of guys that have that. Milos had his own gym back in the day, too. But this I mean, this is you can see, look how excited he looks, Chris. He's like like a little kid like who just who just got, you know, uh his parents said you could go get your own uh video game, you know, he's like, "This is cool, man. I got my own gym now." Yeah. And so I I think that's great. Congratulations. You know what? If a bodybuilder is going to get more excitement out of owning a gym than a Lamborghini, it's it's it's really the truth. Although he's bought I gotta tell you, Samson's got some pretty insane cars. I don't know if you've seen his cars. Let me see if I can pull his car up. He bought the cars before he bought the gym, Chris, which is nothing wrong with that. He earned it. He's He's made I think he's made the most prize money of any bodybuilder, right? At this point in the history of uh even more than Phil Heath at this point. Or he's got to be close to Phil. Think about the combined prize money of, you know, what did what did Ronnie win in in in in uh eight Olympias and one Arnold Classic? Probably less. Was it even a million dollars combined? I don't know. Samson made that in one year. Where's his cars? Maybe I passed him. I don't know. Yeah, if he wins the Arnold this year, he will definitely will have passed everyone on on on pri on the most prize money made, which is just a testament to how much money they're giving away nowadays compared to what they did in the past. It's like when you see what these football, baseball, basketball players are making nowadays compared to what they made, you know, 20 years ago. Yeah. It's it's it's nuts. It's nuts the difference. Anyway, so look, I take my hat off to him. It's good to But it's I got news for you. The Arnold is not going to be an easy win for him because he's got Derek who's looking at his best. You got Andrew Jack who no one's seen except you. And I have to assume that he's looking very good if you're piloting that ship. We got Carlos Thomas who's a dangerous wild card. And you know how it goes. These shows are not about everyone and what they look like at their best. That's why it's impossible to handicap these things because we know that at least 50% of the guys on that stage will not be at their best. And that is a guarantee, right? Have we ever seen a show where everyone showed up at their best or even close to everyone? Ne never happens. Never happens. Yeah. So the question is who will be at their best and that's going to dictate who's going to win these shows? Well, part of it is like who can be off and be still rewarded for being off. If that makes if you can read into that, right? Like I loved seeing Hottie Chopen show up insanely shrink wrapped and just nutty like the best he's ever been because to me that was a definitive win. wasn't like, well, we're picking the best of the people that are not at their best, you know, that kind of thing. Whereas, when I think trying to think which Olympia, which was the Olympia that when Derek won the Olympia, it was kind of like, well, everyone's a little bit off. Which is who is the best of of the guy? Hottie was a little off. Samson was, you know, not quite as hard as he needed to be. And Derek just kind of sealed the deal from behind and he won that Olympia. But when you get a show where it's a slam dunk and like or even you get a show where there's two or three guys that are that are at their absolute best and you got the judges up there, you know, pushing them for 20, 30 minutes on stage because we just don't know who's going to win because they're that close. That's a great show. And this Arnold Classic has the potential to be that show because Samson's hungry. Derek wants revenge. Andrew wants to prove that he's the real deal. Carlos Thomas wants to prove that he's a top Olympia guy now. And you know what? There's a shitload of money up for grabs, a half a million bucks. And you put all those factors together and that makes a great show. And I and I think that the Arnold, this Arnold might will probably be the best Arnold we've ever we've ever, you know, reviewed. I hope I'm right, you know. I hope I'm not wrong. I hope that everyone doesn't show up out of shape. I have but I have a feeling there's so much at stake here that I think guys are going to bring their best to the show. I think you're right. And uh that that's what makes for an exciting show. And that's I think Arnold they got the formula right. You know it's the first show of the year. Everyone's kind of ready for more bodybuilding right. It's it's been uh although the Sam Sul show is technically the first show of the year but I think people are ready for bodybuilding to start up again the on in the pro ranks. We got a lot of competitions coming up this this year. This is probably the most men's open shows we've seen in a very long time being showcased this year. It's going to be a great year for Pro Body though just because the simply, you know, between the money and new people, new faces, changing of guards, you know, different storylines, it's uh new shows, the Pittsburgh, old shows, New York, Tampa, you know, it's gonna be great. I'm excited. Like I said, I'm really this is, you know, I'm I'm I can't wait to go to the Arnold. I I you know, been booked for weeks and setting up everything, you know, all our, you know, press credentials and everything like that. And, you know, I think it's going to be a great show. And I think, uh, you guys are planning to come out. This is a this is a great show to see. And, you know what, I have to tell you because there are different experiences at different bodybuilding shows from New York Pro toh to the Olympia to the Arnold. If you've never gone to a pro show or you've never gone to a big show, the Arnold weekend is probably the most exciting and and entertaining in a sense that the expo is is this very special uh experience because it's so big and it's not just bodybuilding. There's people from all sports at the Arnold at the Arnold. The Arnold fitness weekend is is probably like like a very enjoyable thing. It's in the middle of the winter, too. nothing's going on and everything is self-contained in this one place. And if you want to just hang out with people and meet a lot of people from different walks of life, this is the place to go. The Olympia is is at a different The Olympia is like going to the Academy Awards. It's it's the pomp and circumstance is off the charts. There's not as much to do and there's not as much activity as there is at the Arnold, but it's at a higher level because obviously the Olympia title is a much more prestigious title at this point and it's always been and it's in Vegas. Okay, it's the weather's usually decent there when you go there. So, there's a lot to do there. So, there's other distractions at the Olympia. So, that's so it's a different experience. And then you have like a show like the New York Pro or the Tampa. If you wanted to go to a show that like you can get more intimate with the competitors because people are like you know are not as as um you know busy doing a million different things because there's no expose and everything that you're better off going then those are good shows to go to just if you want to like meet people and talk to people. Tampa, New York Pro. Obviously Pittsburgh is going to be a huge show this there with Manion giving away all that money. What are they giving away? 100 grand first place into a Lamborghini. Lamborghini. Don't Don't No, but that's going to be a First of all, Pittsburgh is great if you I mean Pittsburgh is the home of the IFBB and NPC. So, you want to go there. You could donate the Lamborghini. You could make paint it green and call the species Lamborghini. There you go. That's what someone said. Someone said if you're gonna get a if you're gonna get a Ferrari, you should get a green one. I'm like, I don't know if they make them, but I guess they I guess if you pay enough money, they'll build they'll make one, too. They do have Lamborghinis. You're right. That are green. You could always go with that. I want to Lamborghini at the Porsche building in Sunny Isles, Florida, where you you drive live on the 40th floor. You drive in the elevator. You take your Lamborghini up to the 40th floor. You know, Chris, you you actually have a very good idea. And I'm going to tell you why it's a good idea. Think about this. All right. Arnold and Jake are in this battle, right? Giving away more and more money every year, right? Arnold's up to 500, you know, then Jake gave 600 at the Olympia. Arnold will announce 750, right? At this show coming up. I think that Jake, and Jake's done this before at the at the uh Rising Phoenix show, he's giving away some super cars, some nice cars like those Hellcats and stuff like that. He should, you know what? If I'm a bodybuilder, okay, and some and I'm getting 600 grand to win the Olympia and they added a Ferrari, a brand new Ferrari or or even, you know, whatever. I think that would be I'm sure he can get like one of these big car companies to give some sort of sponsorship. Even if they get gave him a discount on a car or something like that as the sponsorship, that would make the title. Imagine winning a Ferrari, Chris, for for for winning the Olympia. You know how bodybuilds, they love to show off. That would be better than winning an extra hundred or $200,000, you know, in prize money to get the Ferrari. And I'm telling you, it would it would raise up, you know, what the victory meant almost like it did for the Arnold back in the day when Arnold used to give the Hummer away. But this is going to take it to another level almost. Well, Coleman won that. What was What did he win that year? Hummer. That's why he did the show. He said he wanted to win the Hummer. Olympia, Dave. Oh, the Olympia. Did he win a car at the Olympia? He won a uh not a Navigator. What's the step up from a They drove it right on stage. Oh, what? Yeah. What did he win that year? I don't remember. I don't remember what what 200. Was it an Escalade? Escalade? Yeah. He's still driving it. Well, Jay, what did what didn't Jay sell his his Hummers that he won at the Yeah, Jay saw this. No, there's not, Dave. I mean, you you there's not a there is a precedent for giving out expensive vehicles to Arnold and the winner of the Olympia. Take it to the next level. Give a Ferrari away. It probably gave the Escalade because Arnold was giving out those Hummers, right? Of of course they did that. Of course they did that. And and you know, the Escalade was a big deal back in the day. That's what everyone wanted. I'm telling you, you give away a Ferrari, oh my god, the the braggadocious rights on that. Think about that. You drive that thing on the stage, you know, it it's it's like and you're in Vegas. I mean, where better it is to have a Ferrari pull onto the stage than a ve I mean, the pomp and circumstance right there. It would be way better than raising the prize money. I'm telling you, if they can get Ferrari to like sponsor partially sponsor the Olympia, man, would that be a home run for for these guys. I that's you put you put Mr. Olympia into a Ferrari and take a picture with that. That's that's the greatest marketing for Ferrari that they could ever expect. I mean, it's like awesome. I think it would look killer on stage. Yeah, I do so. I do so in sitting in it in his new Ferrari right on stage. Right. Samson down in a Ferrari, man. Driving off. That would be [\h__\h] awesome, man. So, that's my that's my uh maybe that's why I had to go to the Ferrari dealership here in Newport Beach. I had AI had to get that idea. And you it was actually your idea. But I'm telling you, I think that would be phenomenal if they gave away a brand new Ferrari or even preused one. Who the I mean, just that no one's going to know the difference. Give away a Ferrari. Bill Phillips gave away remember Bill Phillips had that contest body for life. He gave away he was giving away his Lamborghini and then what happened was he decided at the last minute he was gonna he was rather than give one prize away he'd give away five or six prizes to people and he and he gave away Corvettes or something like that like each person got a Corvette but cars man that that's like a flashy you know bodybuilders love that you know I think that would just be stellar if someone decided to do that I think it would be you know I hope I hope it doesn't happen in the Middle East first cuz those guys, you know, they have the they love their exotic cars. I could see them giving away, but then you'd have to ship the car from freaking, you know, Dubai to uh to the United States. Telling you, Jake Wood talk to Ferrari. Remember before the in the World Cup when when the Saudis beat who? They all got Ferraris for beating Oh, they did in the World Cup soccer. I Yeah. Whoever they beat, they beat they were like complete underdogs and they beat at the most recent World Cup in Qatar. They beat Oh man, that's all. I forget which team, but they they they gave them all Ferraris when they came back or Lamborghinis. One of the two. Every player. Really? I didn't I didn't even know that. Wow. I'm surprised Kamal hasn't gotten a Ferrari from someone for well, you know, he he's won a lot of titles and he's got a lot of he got a lot of good cool stuff, right? Yeah. Over the years from the Qataris. Let me see. I'm looking for inflation. His income might have beaten uh non-pric money income might have beaten Samson. Yeah. Hold on. I'm just looking this up for a second. You're googling that. Yeah, fine. Uh, there is no evidence to suggest that the Saudi national team will receive Rolls. Oh, they were supposed to receive Rolls-Royces. Rolls. I'm sorry. Gave the water boy a Mercedes, but they but everyone else got rolls. The water boy got a Mercedes. Uh, that's funny. Trying to see evidence. There is evidence. Everyone got one. Maybe this was before Maybe this was before they they confirmed it. I'm just trying to find the uh the story here. You know, AI, they don't they don't always get it right. AI. Google it. It's it was a news story. Fact check. Were the Saudi players promised Rolls-Royces for their World Cup win? Uh, Saudi Arabia's astonishing World Cup win over the favorites Argentina has been among the most surprising results of this year's tournament with eager speculation that the team could yet move to the competition level. Oh, this is this is not the the final. So, uh, that's where they beat Argentina, the favorites. Multiple tweets claimed that they were supposed to receive the Rolls-Royces for their win. So, I don't know. I I haven't got confirmation there. I'm assuming they did because you said they did. Saudi prince has announced a Rolls-Royce Phantom to each team member having defeated Argentina. There you go. There you go. Rolls-Royce. Even better. I'm I don't think the Bodies Bills would appreciate the Rolls-Royce as much as they would the Ferrari. Give the Ferrari to the bodybuilders. The car of all time. There you go. Have you driven? Have I driven what? Rolls-Royce. No, I have not. Maybe Jay will let me drive his. You know, it feels like you're driving a a coach. Oh, is it? Yeah. It's like the old Cadillac Escalade. No. Cadillac. What was that? The the Deville or Seville? Which was the one that was like driving a couch? All of them probably doors. Doors made a steel like you know someone bangs into you with their Ferrari and they put a dent. You don't bag won't go off because Does Jay still have his Rolls-Royce? Uh, I think he has a rolls into Ferrari. Yeah, good for him. He's got a lot of money. He's got a lot of money. Maybe Jay can get put his Ferrari up for uh, you know, for grabs. Maybe he can donate it to the cause. Get a good tax write up on it. Well, we'll see. The Arnold Classic is going to be super exciting. Next week we were going to be doing our official Arnold uh preview show and I think we're going to be doing some iron debates during the week. I think Sid has set up some of them, Chris. So, we'll uh we'll make that work. We got a couple of controversial topics we want to discuss in all the divisions from classic to men's open to the men's physique division and we're going to go over all that. It's going to be an exciting weekend. I'm looking forward to seeing you and all the uh RX Muscle team and everyone in the industry. I guess we haven't seen each other since the Olympia and it'll be great. I I got to tell you though, you know, it's good to once in a while take a little break and unwind. I figured if I didn't take this vacation out, Chris, I was never going to take one. So, I got like a little work mini vacation here in Newport Beach. Back to reality tomorrow on my birthday. And then uh we got a busy year coming up in 2025. According to the uh my astrological chart, this is 25 is supposed to be a good year for us all. So a lot of uh they say a lot of money is going to pour into the economy and into people if you have an open mind. So keep an open mind, guys. Look out for my motivational video I did from the Ferrari dealership. That'll be coming up this week as well. For now, we're out of time. As we say every week, Chris with Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. We'll see you next week.