 inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf inf Dave Palumbo standing here with Chris Cicito. The Arnold Classic Men's Open just let out. As predicted, it was a four-man show. Nick Walker, Andrew Jack, Hottie Schopen, Martin Fitzwater. Who you got? Andrew. It looked like the judges were favoring Andrew for most of the prejudging. He was in the middle. He was very confident up there. He looked probably the leanest I've seen him. It looks like you brought him in a lot drier and harder than the Olympia. You must have better seats than me. I was sitting back, honestly, 20 rows, so I was seeing more like... It was hard for me to see, like, condition. But to me, he looked rounder in the quads. He looked better in the back. Some shots are just... When he hits them right, they're just zany. The side tricep, the most muscular. The ab shot, the front lat spread. I mean, the front double. There's a lot of shots where he's... He just... It's amazing that someone that tall... Someone once said to me, a judge who I really respect, when he did the show three years ago, and he came in super peeled and, like, me biased. I thought he should have won. Yeah. And the judge came up to me after and he said, what an incredible look, but he's got to be bigger. Right. And, you know, you get offended by it. You're like, what are you talking about? He was peeled and this and that. And he said, no, you go home and you'll think about it. Yeah. And he needs to be bigger. And I think it's taken this amount of time for him to get bigger. Right. And it complements that frame so much. You know, some people get bigger and the midsection falls apart. You get hold on it. It's so wide. To me, Andrew was a leaner, drier version of the Olympia. Now, some people might like a rounder look. I think you erred on the side of probably conditioning here because you knew he was going up against Hottie. You know Martin's a conditioning freak and you know Nick's a conditioning freak. Well, we know Nick was on a mission, so there was a chance that he wouldn't eat for six weeks. Right? I mean, sir... Nick Walker looked phenomenal. And Hottie is Hottie, so you have to think, you know, you're going against two guys who in their past have attained the ultimate level of condition. And so... How did Hottie look on a scale of one to ten for Hottie? This... To me, I thought he was... To me, I got a lot of flack at the Olympia when I did the pre-judging wrap-up because I thought he looked small on stage. Um... And that was just in contrast... Next to Andrew, he is small. Well, that's in contrast to other people. But here, he wasn't tight, Hottie, Chupan tight. So because he wasn't, like, blazing Chupan tight, then my mind goes back to immediately, like, smaller in the side chest and side tricep. I don't think it was that he was smaller. I just think that he has to be crazy lights out conditioned to be able to hang with, like, between... When he stayed between Nick and... Andrew. Andrew, for example. Sorry, Derek. You know, he looked smaller on the... Too small for me on the side shots only. Yeah. I thought that... I thought that Hottie shrink-wrapped around the waist was amazing. Yes. I thought he was there. And I thought his leg that I was criticizing the last two shows was better. I don't know what he did. The legs are even. They look really good. I thought where he lacked a little bit of crispness was the lower back and the glutes. I was going to say that. That's it. Yeah. It's left the door open a little bit. Yes. I think he could have taken home the win here if he would have had that. He's dangerous in any lineup to beat every single person all the time. It's not like some other guy squeaked by so-and-so. He's dangerous enough to beat all lineups at all times, which is proven, with the exception maybe, you know, if someone's better than him that day. So, yeah. And I still think it's close. I think Andrew's ahead, but I think it's very close. And I've got to say, I've got to take my hat off to Nick Walker. First of all, Guy's sitting there showed me pictures of him two days ago, Thursday night. And I was like, holy mackerel. And Guy told me, he's driving me crazy. And I said, Guy, you drove Chris and me crazy. You drove us crazy your whole career. I said, you did a good job keeping him, you know, in line. Nick Walker brought a look that we've been waiting to see from him for the last two years or two and a half years. I thought his back poses were the best poses on stage. I don't think anyone beat him from the back. What do you think will push him into that second or third place? I think he's second here, personally. That the front double... Let's start with the positives. Yeah. Tremendous condition. Yeah. Let's look from nitpicking, if you're a judge, what you're looking for. I expected the front double to look bigger. But that may be from when he's not in this type of condition that it looks like double wacky. And then the front lat spread he gives up to like Hardy and Derek. And so he's very... The first pose, he's not... I expect him to be like dominant, and he wasn't. And Hardy looked tremendous in the front double with the vacuum. He did. I thought he looked fuller. So you could arguably make the case for him being third in the front double. And on the front lat spread, you know, that's... He's weak there. He's weak. So you're moving into a comparison round where you're, you know, you're down... How's his side poses? Good. Very good. But... No, very good. Back lat and back double, especially... Back doubles, lights out. He wins those. Yes. Abs was really good, but he's going against Hardy and Andrew. He got small ways. It's the best... Well, it's the best his ab shots ever looked. Yeah. But he's going against... Those guys. Those two, which... Most muscular? Most muscular. Second or third? I would go... Yeah, second or third. Him a Hardy. I would go Andrew first. Andrew finally hit the most muscular correctly with the cramp shot. How did you get him to do that? Well, he's known how to do it, but... He just never did it before. Yeah, he's never really... He looks great in that shot, by the way. Yeah, he looks, like, full and shredded. I think he thought he was... He was channeling a little Ronnie Coleman on stage tonight, huh? With the... With the hands up. Yeah, yeah. He was channeling. He was... I didn't want to tell you on the radio, but he was... It was... Two and a... Three weeks out. I don't know what he weighs here, but two and a half weeks out, he was 320... What? 321. So he was definitely at least 300 pounds on stage, right? If not more. Yeah, he didn't drop 23 pounds. No way. So what is he, about 310? I'll ask him to weigh, because I know he's curious, because he only weighed once, twice in the prep. Two and a half weeks out, and about, like, seven weeks out. And I said, don't... Don't even weigh. You know, if you're not going to weigh all the time, just don't weigh at all. But he sent it. I had Martin... Yeah, that is funny. But I had Martin a solid fourth here. But I think he could potentially be third. Look, every single show I criticize this about him, the guy doesn't have a base tan, and because of what happens, as he sweats, he starts turning yellow. And it's hurting him. Because the guy's got an incredible physique. Yeah. I don't even have a criticism for his physique. I think he looked great. The only criticism I have is, you know, he could have been darker. Yeah. Only criticism. Could have been darker. And could have been more confident. I don't think he presented himself. I was very surprised when he came out and... He had a lot of energy. He just didn't... He didn't... That's not what Wynn chose, but I just expected him to, like, present himself as, like, I'm here to fight for the title. Right. My only knocks was that against him, and the tan, and that's it. You know, as we talked about on the radio, is his lack of weaknesses. I think he improved. I think he's better. He's definitely better. Which is amazing, because he might finish third or fourth here, but he definitely improved. He's rounded through the legs. He's rounded through the pecs. Rounded through the shoulders. I thought his back width came up. That's just since the Olympia. He's got a whole day. Let's see if he can get darker by tomorrow and see what he brings in. Obviously, fighting for fifth is going to be Brandon Curry and Raphael Mbretteo. I think Brandon's a shoe-in for fifth right now. Yeah, I think Brandon is still... I mean, that's a tough top floor. Obviously, I think... How I know my opinion that he should be fifth is... If there was a five-person call, for sure, he would have been, you know, in that call. Well, we're not going to find out what happens, but we have another whole day to go. I'd like to see Andrew fill up a little bit more. I think he needs a cheeseburger and fries tonight. Chris, what do you think? Will he do it? Yeah, he'll do it. He'll do it. He'll do it. He'll do it. And Nick Walker, you know what? You redeemed yourself. I think you should feel very proud of what you brought to the stage. Smile a little bit more tomorrow. Show a little more confidence on stage. I think you're a solid second here right now, but we'll see what the judges have. And right now, it looks like Hottie was in the middle with Andrew, so we won't know. But this is what makes it exciting. We'll be back tomorrow night to wrap up the finals. I'm Dave Palumbo with Chris Isito for rxmuscle.com.