I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations dosed for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Good veto Vitali Galnikov completing the job at the 2025 Arnold South America. Not only winning, but slamming the door shut. and in the process establishing himself, announcing to the bodybuilding world that he is for real and that he is going to be a major force come October at the 2025 Olympia. But the good news is as we get a look at the final comparison, shout out to Bodybuilding News. They do great work. If you have are not already following them, give them a follow. They are plugged in with the bodybuilding scene in Brazil. But good veto the story of today as we thought coming into today. But I think he delivered in even more emphatic fashion and certainly showing the bodybuilding world that he is going to be a force in five weeks when he goes up against the likes of Derek Lunsford, Nick Walker, Martin Fitzwwater, Kriso, and obviously the man he's standing next to right there in Leandro Perez. But good vito making a statement today certainly um coming absolutely as advertised. It's been a long road for him as well documented suffering the big injury jumping off the stage um about about 18 months ago and then last year narrowly missing out on Olympia qualification against an absolutely on fire Martin Fitzwater at the Detroit Pro. But coming back here and absolutely delivering the goods, showing a complete look, a complete package. Again, you get a look at this is from earlier today at prejudging. And not only were there no gaps anywhere to be found, but again, you look at those legs. Those are those are top five Olympia legs. And I say that conservatively. This is someone that's going to be a real threat come October. But here's the real test, and I think this is what it really sets up for. How's he going to fare against the likes of a Derek Lunsford, against the likes of a Martin Fitzwwater, against the likes of a Nick Walker? He has the flashy body parts, the showy body parts. He has the tie-ins. He brings a good level of conditioning, thickness, mass, the proportions. It's all there. It's all there for the taking for good veto. And I think this sets up for what should be a very very exciting 2025 Pittsburgh Pro because that's where we're going to get his our first look at GVito against some of the best the absolute best in the world. Dave Palomo and Chris are going to have a full breakdown of this 2025 Arnold South America tomorrow night on Heavy Muscle Radio.