At Med School Insiders, we recommend applying to at least 25 medical schools, which means that applying to outofstate schools isn't just likely, it's a guarantee. Even if you live in California, New York, or Texas, which each have 16 or more med schools, the reality is you need to apply to outofstate schools. Dr. Jubal, medchoolinsiders.com. But every school is different. Some schools cater almost exclusively to in-state students, whereas others encourage outofstate applicants. It's up to you to put in the research to determine which schools make the most sense to apply to based on acceptance data, school fit, and your own preferences. We've helped thousands of students get into medical school, and we can't tell you how much a strategic school list is underappreciated. which schools you apply to will directly impact the number of acceptances you receive and whether you are accepted at all. So, what do you need to know about applying out of state? Let's dive in. First, determine which schools are available in your state and if they favor instate applicants. Some states have over a dozen medical schools while others have none. And it's essential that you understand which schools favor instate applicants. For example, Texas medical schools heavily favor instate applicants, and tuition is much lower for residents. In fact, Texas schools only reserve about 10% of each year's seats for outofstate applicants. That doesn't mean you shouldn't apply if you're out of state. But you do need to accurately assess the acceptance odds involved in applying to outofstate schools that strongly favor instate applicants. If most of your schools heavily favor instate applicants, but you're out of state, you're significantly decreasing your chances of acceptance. Texas schools also use a separate application service called TMDS or the Texas Medical and Dental School Application Service. This means that if you want to apply to schools in Texas as well as schools in New York, for example, you'll need to submit an additional application through AMCAST, the main application service for US medical schools. Second, crunch the numbers. To make informed decisions about where to apply, you need reliable data. Assess how many in-state and outofstate applicants schools accept each year to craft a balanced school list. A good rule of thumb is that state funded medical schools usually prefer in-state applicants, while private schools tend to not have a preference for in-state or outofstate applicants. For example, Harvard, Stanford, and Emory accept both in-state and outofstate applicants in equal measure. Some schools nearly exclusively prioritize in-state applicants. And in these cases, it can be a waste of your time to apply unless you have a specific reason that you're drawn to that school in particular. Usually, schools that heavily favor instate applicants still accept a handful of outofstate metriculants. Determine your risk preference for applying to outofstate schools with a preference for in-state applicants. While MSAR provides basic statistics, the Med School Insiders Chance Predictor offers more comprehensive insights. The predictor compares your specific stats to comprehensive admission data from all US medical schools. Based on multiple factors, our tool determines where you're most likely to be a strong fit. You'll easily identify which outofstate schools are most receptive to your application profile. Instead of just raw statistics, you get personalized recommendations tailored to your profile, saving you time by focusing your application efforts on schools where you have the best chances. This invaluable tool is completely free and available at medschoolinsiders.com/schools. The next critical consideration is how far you are prepared to move. Do you actually want to live in the state where the school is located? This is an extremely important consideration for several reasons, including how close or far you're willing to go from friends and family. Medical school is at least 4 years of your life. Are you prepared to leave behind everything and everyone you know for that long? If you are prepared to move for medical school, which is usually a requirement rather than an option, how far are you willing to be from your home state? A 3-hour drive is much different than relocating to the other side of the country. Plus, there's the climate to consider. If you live in a southern state and don't have many or any personal experiences with snow, you're in for a chilly surprise. The novelty of a snowfall and below freezing weather can be very short-lived when you have to trudge through it every morning for your 8 a.m. class. Next, while the idea of moving away from your family might be intimidating, there is tremendous value in stepping outside of your comfort zone and getting comfortable with being uncomfortable. Medical school will challenge your resilience, social skills, time management, and intellect in ways they have not been challenged before. Intentionally exposing yourself to the unfamiliar helps build your resilience and expand your mind. Playing it safe and sticking with the familiar does not help you grow as a medical student or as a person. As a practicing physician, you'll be meeting new people every day. It's crucial to start developing your people skills, problem solving abilities, and independence early on. A good way to do that is by moving to a completely different city and immersing yourself in all the sights, sounds, and smells that come with it. Moving away from your family and the familiar might be scary at first, but that's the whole point. You're stepping outside of what's comfortable and pushing your limits to build confidence, resilience, and inner strength. Next, consider the costs. Tuition and cost of living vary significantly from one state to the next and from one school to another. These are factors to keep in mind when planning, but these factors shouldn't limit your school list initially. Tuition for medical school will be expensive regardless of where you choose to study, but some schools are much more expensive than others. For example, the yearly tuition for outofstate students at Baylor College of Medicine in Texas is $35,900. Whereas the tuition for outofstate students at Stanford School of Medicine in California is nearly double that at 64,900. If you live in Texas, it may be tough to turn down the lower cost of tuition available to you compared to the cost of outofstate schools. The cost of living also varies dramatically from stateto state. For example, if you're from Georgia and considering moving to New York for medical school, Georgia ranks 47th for cost of living by state and New York ranks fifth. This means your everyday expenses will skyrocket and that can be tough to sustain for 4 years of medical school. That said, your financial aid options won't be known until you secure an acceptance. So, don't avoid applying to a school you're excited to attend based on costs alone. There are plenty of opportunities to gain financial aid and scholarships, especially if you are a competitive applicant. For example, you can earn merit-based scholarships that completely cover the cost of tuition. This is what I did by leveraging multiple acceptances with a near-perfect GPA and MCAT score as well as soft components like research, clinical experience, and hobbies. Apply broadly and only assess your financial situation once you start receiving acceptances. And number six, balance school fit. Every medical school has its own unique mission, priorities, and goals. Admissions committees are looking for students who most closely align with their mission and values. For example, does the school emphasize primary care or scientific innovation and research? And more importantly, where do your passions lie? If you don't identify with a school's mission, you likely won't be happy there, which means you should search for schools that better align with your own goals. You will be asked directly and extensively why you are a good fit for a specific school in both your secondary essays and on the interview trail. Do you share the school's values? It's up to you to convince the admissions committee that you fully believe in and are committed to helping them advance their mission. There are many different aspects to consider when choosing which medical schools to apply to, including location, tuition, cost of living, school ranking, teaching methods, and more. If you don't apply in an intelligent and strategic way, you'll be lucky to get one medical school acceptance, which is great because you'll become a doctor, but it removes all choice from the matter. It's worth it to be in a position where you have multiple options and can afford the luxury of choosing the best fit program for you. Start your research as soon as possible and give yourself all the time you can to research each program thoroughly. For some, this may even include visiting the city where the school is located to see if you would truly enjoy living there. Take advantage of our free medical school chance predictor to craft a personalized school list in minutes by visiting medschoolinsiders.com/schools.