Every doctor says their specialty is one of the most competitive, but obviously that can't be the case. Most of these doctors are lying to you. But here's the truth. Dr. Jubal, medschoolinssiders.com. People are quick to say that their own specialty is competitive, and even ostensibly reputable sources will make claims about competitiveness based solely on one variable because it's easier. It takes far more effort to create a comprehensive and objective assessment of specialty competitiveness. That's why we painstakingly designed the Med School Insiders competitiveness index with no opinions and no bias. It's just the facts. Today, we're breaking down all 22 medical specialties by competitiveness using our proprietary competitiveness index built from the latest 2024 NRMP match data. The index uses five key factors with weightings based on how important each factor is to competitiveness. Step two CK scores weighted at 30%, match rate weighted at 30%, research items weighted at 25%, top 40 NIH funded medical school attendance weighted at 10%, and AOA status weighted at 5%. For longtime viewers, you'll remember our detailed breakdowns of the top five most competitive and bottom five least competitive specialties in previous videos. We update these every two years when new data is released. So, be sure to subscribe to the channel to hear about these videos first. Today, we're going comprehensive and covering all 22 specialties in one definitive ranking. Let's dive straight into the countdown from least competitive to most competitive. First, family medicine consistently ranks as the least competitive specialty. This year, it has only 7.3 points. FM physicians provide broad comprehensive care for patients of all ages, genders, and conditions. With a near-perfect match rate of 98.8%, the lowest average step two score at 244, and minimal research requirements of only 4.2 items, family medicine primarily focuses on addressing the primary care physician shortage. The next least competitive specialty is pediatrics at 13.4 points. Pediatricians provide comprehensive care for infants, children, and adolescence with the highest match rate of 99.7%, an average step two score of 247, and an average of 6.9 research items. Next, emergency medicine scores 15 points. These physicians provide immediate care for acute illnesses and injuries in emergency settings. With a high match rate of 98%, an average step two score of 248, and only 5.7 research items on average, EM remains accessible despite its high intensity environment. Emergency medicine has moved down the competitiveness ladder from 18th in 2020 to 19th in 2022 to now 20th in 2024. This is due to two main factors, something I discuss in my 2025 match data analysis over on the Kevin Jubal MD channel. Link in the description. The fourth least competitive specialty is psychiatry, which scores 25.2 points. Psychiatrists focus on understanding and treating psychological disorders and distress. It has a match rate of 89.1%, the second lowest step two score at 246 and an average of 7 and a half research items, making it a more accessible option for applicants. Next up is pathology with 28 points. Pathologists examine tissues and fluids to diagnose disease, most often behind the scenes without much patient interaction. Pathology has a match rate of 93.5%, an average step two score of 247, and an average of 8.4 research items. We explore the five least competitive specialties in much more detail in our five least competitive medical specialties video linked in the description. Now, let's continue with the remaining specialties, which often aren't covered since they don't fall into the top or bottom lists. Neurology comes next with a score of 33.6 points. Neurologists diagnose and treat disorders of the brain, spinal cord, and nervous system. With a match rate of 93.8%, an average step two score of 250, and an average of 8.8 research items, neurology offers lower barriers to entry than many specialties. A step two score of 250 puts applicants right at the 50th percentile among test takers, marking the dividing line between the less competitive and more competitive specialties. Next is child neurology with 34.3 points. Child neurologists diagnose and treat neurological conditions in infants, children, and adolescence. With a match rate of 97.1%, step two score of 248, and 9.8 8 research items. Child neurology represents a specialized niche with low to moderate competitiveness. Interestingly, child neurology requires much more research items than adult neurology despite having a lower step two score requirement. Next comes internal medicine with a score of 35 points. Internists provide primary and specialty care for adults. IM has one of the highest match rates at 97.8%, a step two score of 251, and an average of 8.7 research items. In 2025, internal medicine filled an impressive 11,379 positions, more than double the next most popular specialty, making it by far the largest specialty in the match. PMR, or physical medicine and rehabilitation, scores 37.3 points. These physicians focus on restoring function and quality of life to patients with physical impairments or disabilities with a match rate of 84.8%, an average step two score of 248, and an average of 8.6. 6 research items. PMNR has moved up significantly in competitiveness over the last four years, climbing a whopping seven spots. Next with a score of 49.1 points is MedPeds. This combined specialty trains physicians in both adult and pediatric medicine. Med Pedes has a match rate of 86%, an average step two score of 253, and fewer research items than most specialties above it at only 6.9. Notably, MedPED's matched applicants have a higher average step two score than either pediatrics, which has 247, or internal medicine, which has 251, despite having the same research requirements as regular pediatrics. OBGYN also comes in at 49.1 points. OBGYN's focus on women's reproductive health, pregnancy, and childirth. With an 85.7% match rate, a step two score of 252, and nine research items, OBGYN sits in the middle in terms of competitiveness. OBGYN also ties with anesthesiology and radiation oncology for its step two score requirement. Next up is radiation oncology with a score of 49.5 points. These specialists use radiation therapy to treat cancer and other disorders. Despite having one of the highest match rates at 97.5%, radiation oncology still requires substantial research credentials, 15.9 items on average, and maintains a step two score of 252. This specialty shows that a high match rate doesn't always indicate low competitiveness since the research requirement for radiation oncology is the sixth highest among all specialties. Next is anesthesiology which scores 53.2 points. Anesthesiologists administer anesthetics during surgery and to manage pain. It has a step two score of 252, a match rate of 85.2% and an average of nine research items. Its step two score ties with obigine and radiation oncology, placing it squarely in the middle tier when it comes to academic metrics. Next at 59.1 points is vascular surgery. Vascular surgeons treat diseases of the vascular system, including arteries, veins, and lymphatic circulation. With a match rate of 88.5%, a step two score of 253, and an average of 12.8 research items, vascular surgery represents the beginning of the higher tier of competitiveness. It shares its step two score requirement with general surgery, interventional radiology, and med pedes, but demands more research than many specialties with similar step two scores. Diagnostic radiology comes in at 62.3 points. Diagnostic radiologists interpret imaging studies like X-rays, CT scans, MRIs, and ultrasounds to diagnose diseases. Diagnostic radiology has an average of 12 research items and one of the highest average step two scores at 256. But despite having a step two score that ties with plastic surgery and otoarangology, which is the second highest of all specialties, diagnostic radiology ranks as only the eighth most competitive specialty thanks to a moderate match rate of 86.4% and lower research demands. Next up is general surgery, which ranks at 62.7 points. These surgeons manage a broad spectrum of surgical conditions affecting the abdomen, breast, head and neck, blood vessels, and digestive tract. With a match rate of 81.8%, an average step two score of 253, and an average of 10.9 research items, general surgery can serve as a pathway to several surgical subsp specialties, much like internal medicine does for medical subsp specialties. Notably, general surgery was ranked 11th on the competitive index just 2 years ago, squarely in the middle of the pack. and now just makes the top third of the list. The sixth most competitive specialty is interventional radiology which sits at 65.7 points. These specialists use imaging guidance to perform minimally invasive procedures. The average IR applicant has 15.8 research items, a number that's dramatically increased from 10.3 in 2020. That's a 53% increase in only 4 years. Rising research requirements are a trend that's not slowing down. It's also something that most premeds and medical students struggle with. I was no different. I worked tirelessly for only a handful of research items before medical school, and I saw firsthand how inefficient this was for myself and so many peers. That's why I developed a system that focused on results without eating up so much valuable time, ultimately accumulating over 60 research items by the time I applied to residency. Together with Dr. Sha Anderson and Dr. Dr. Depal Patel, who also have over 60 publications, abstracts, and presentations each. We created the ultimate research course for premed and medical students to help you skip the years of frustration and immediately implement strategies that actually work. The students who've taken the course have dramatically increase their research output and matched into specialties they previously thought were out of reach. For the next 30 days, use code specialty rank 20 for 20% off at medschoolinsiders.com/ressearch. Now, back to our countdown. Next, we're on to the top five most competitive specialties, which shuffle around with each assessment. Currently, otoarangology or ENT is in fifth place with 80.7 points. In 2022, ENT placed second, and in 2020, it claimed the fourth place spot. ENT's managed conditions of the ears, nose, throat, and related structures of the head and neck. With an average step two score of 256, 81.9% match rate, and 20 research items per applicant. ENT remains highly competitive as we enter the top five. It requires the fifth highest number of research items and ties for the second highest step two score at 256, making it quite a challenging specialty to match into. At 88.4 points, orthopedic surgery focuses on the muscularkeeletal system, including bones, joints, ligaments, tendons, and muscles. Ortho demands a stellar step two score of 257 with a 73.1% match rate and an average of 23.8 8 research items. Over a third of successful applicants are AOA members, which shows just how fierce the competition is. It ties with dermatology for the highest step two score of any specialty at 257, placing successful applicants above the 63rd percentile of test takers. Next, plastic surgery ranks third with 88.6 points. In 2020 and 2022, plastics claimed the top spot, but was recently dethroned. Plastic surgeons restore, reconstruct, and alter human body tissues with both reconstructive and aesthetic operations. Applicants need an average of 34.7 research items, a step two score of 256, and they face a 74.3% match rate. The bar is set exceptionally high with nearly 36% of successful applicants being AOA. Plastic surgery has also seen the most dramatic increase in research requirements, jumping from 19.1 items in 2020 to 34.7 in 2024, which is an increase of over 15 items in just 4 years. Just missing the top spot is neurosurgery at 92.3 points. In 2022, neurosurgery was the fifth most competitive, but it's leapt forward to second based on 2024 data. Neurosurgeons surgically treat disorders of the brain, spine, and peripheral nerves. Neurosurgery boasts the highest research requirement with an average of 37.4 items per applicant, which is more than nine items per year during medical school, assuming you don't do gap years or go the PhD route, which is common in neurosurgery. With the lowest match rate at 68.7% and one of the highest step two scores at 255, neurosurgery demands nothing short of excellence. Neurosurgeons also command the highest average salary in medicine at over $760,000 annually, though they have little time to enjoy their earnings due to their extremely demanding schedules. At the top of our list with 94.1 points stands dermatology, the current most competitive specialty in medicine. Dermatologists diagnose and treat conditions affecting the skin, hair, and nails. Dermatology was second in 2020, third in 2022, and now holds the top spot for the most competitive medical specialty with the highest average step 2 CK score of 257, which is tied with orthopedic surgery, a challenging match rate of just 70.5%, and an average of 27.7 research items per applicant. Dermaty's position is no surprise. Plus, over 41% of matched applicants are AOA, which is the highest of any specialty. Dermatology offers the rare combination of high compensation, which is nearly $500,000 annually, and an exceptional work life balance, making it perennially competitive. Want to explore this data yourself? Download our interactive specialty competitiveness index by clicking right up