So, your child wants to be a doctor. Together with what's sure to be immense pride, you probably have a number of questions. Dr. Jubal, medschoolinssiders.com. So, how hard is it to get into medical school? What are the first steps? How much does it cost? And most importantly, how can you set your child up for success? First, let's cover what's involved in applying to medical school. Getting into medical school is incredibly difficult. It's not a simple matter of getting good grades, although that's a key aspect. There are several different components that come together to make a medical school application. A primary application, a secondary application, and interviews. To go to medical school, you need a bachelor's degree and must complete a list of prerequisite courses such as biology, chemistry, and physics. The prerequisites have more overlap with certain majors such as biological sciences, but a student can apply to medical school with any college degree so long as the prerequisites are met. We'll cover premed major options later in this video. To apply to medical school, first comes the primary application, which consists of several elements: a high GPA, a strong MCAT score, an engaging personal statement, glowing letters of recommendation, and a variety of extracurriculars and work experience. Applicants only submit one set of application materials to AMCASS, which stands for the American Medical College Admission Service. The service distributes the primary application to every medical school your child wants to apply to. If all of this wasn't confusing enough already, AmCast is the main application service for most alopathic or MD medical schools in the US. However, medical schools in Texas use their own application service, the Texas Medical and Dental School Application Service, or TMDSAS. And if your child is thinking of applying to osteopathic schools to earn a DOU, they also have their own service called the American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine Application Service or DA KOMAS. We have additional videos on this channel and guides on the Med School Insiders website that cover these topics in more detail. Find links in the video description. Next comes the secondary application. Assuming your child meets a school's basic minimum criteria, they're likely to receive a secondary application request 2 to 4 weeks after submitting their primary application. Medical schools charge a fee of $30 to $200 for each secondary application submission. So, it's in their best interest to request them from as many students as possible. Secondaries are widely distributed and aren't necessarily a sign of being selected as a highinterest candidate. Generally, secondaries are made up of two to eight essay questions that are unique to each school. Unlike the primary application, secondaries are submitted directly to the schools the applicant receives them from. If your child impresses an admissions committee with their application, they will then receive an interview invitation. Interviews are the final step in the admissions process. Invites could start to arrive as early as August and will continue into the spring of the following year. Since CO forced medical schools to create a virtual process for conducting interviews, many schools kept the virtual option or only conduct virtual interviews. This varies by school and yeartoyear. If an interview takes place in person and on campus, the travel costs can quickly add up. We cover the cost of applying to medical school later in this video. While virtual interviews are certainly cheaper and save time, the downside is that your child won't get to explore the school campus, meet as many people, or get a feel of whether or not the city is a good fit. This step will be critical as they approach admissions decisions. But by far the most important thing to understand about applying to medical school is the need to apply early, as soon as applications open. do not follow the technical deadlines outlined by a school as they are deeply misleading. This is due to rolling admissions. Admissions committees don't wait until they receive every application before they start to make decisions. They review applications as they receive them on a continuous rolling basis. The first students to apply are the first to receive secondary applications. The first to submit their secondaries receive the first interview invitations and the first applicants to interview receive the first acceptances. We cannot stress this enough. Applying early is one of the most essential medical school admission strategies. AMCAST typically opens during the first week of May for the following year's medical school class. For example, if your child wants to begin medical school in the fall of 2026, they'll need to start the application process in the spring of 2025. But while the applications open in May, most students will start working on their personal statement and other components of their application many months in advance. Often as soon as January or February, applicants have about a month to prepare the application before submissions open at the end of May or early June. Secondary applications will arrive throughout the summer. Assuming your child stays on top of submitting them, interview invites could come as early as August and continue throughout the fall and into the following year. Medical schools start sending acceptance letters mid-occtober. Applicants can hold multiple acceptances until the end of April when they are required to choose one acceptance offer. If your child does not receive an acceptance, they may be put on a wait list. Since applicants are turning down offers leading up to the April deadline, it's possible to get off a wait list and receive an acceptance throughout the summer before medical school begins. The medical school application process is as complicated as it is tedious, and this video only scratches the surface. To learn more, including a detailed breakdown of application costs and how your child can succeed at each component of the medical school application, check out our course that's designed for parents. Sign up using the link in the description. Now that you understand what the application process entails, let's cover just how long it takes to become a licensed doctor. Medical school lasts four years. Generally speaking, the first two years are pre-clinical and focus more on classroom work and lecture. The second two years are clinical involving clinical rotations, also known as clerkships, where students rotate through different medical specialties and learn practical skills under the supervision of residents and attending physicians in the hospital. After medical school, there are 3 to 7 years of residency depending on your child's chosen specialty. Plastic surgery, pediatrics, or family medicine, for example. This brings the total to 7 to 11 years to become a doctor after college. Additionally, your child may choose to further specialize with a fellowship. This can take anywhere from 1 to 3 years, bringing the total to 8 to 14 years. The college degree that your child needs in order to apply to medical school adds on another four years of schooling before med school for a total of up to 12 to 18 years after high school. This also doesn't factor in any breaks or gap years your son or daughter may want to take. There are BSMD programs that combine college and medical school together to reduce the time it takes to become a doctor by 1 to two years. Learn more about the pros and cons of the BSMD option from our video linked in the description. Now, the question on every parent's mind. How much does medical school cost? As you likely already know, medical school costs a tremendous amount of money. While some schools are certainly more expensive than others, the average yearly cost of medical school tuition is nearly $60,000. Tuition at public schools is cheaper for in-state applicants. For example, UCLA charges about $36,000 a year for in-state students and almost $49,000 a year for outofstate students. Florida Atlantic University College of Medicine charges almost $32,000 a year for in-state students and almost $68,000 a year for outofstate students. And all of these numbers are yearly tuition alone. There's also the cost of applying to medical school, which includes exam costs, application fees, interview travel expenses, and more, as well as living expenses wherever your child attends medical school, which varies significantly from city to city. Parents, brace yourselves. Most medical students graduate with over $250,000 in debt. While they will be paid during residency, residents make an average of $67,000 a year. This may sound like quite a bit, but it's tough to make a dent in that debt with a resident salary. But before you can pay for medical school, your child first needs to get in, which is no small feat. So, what can your child focus on to ensure an acceptance? First, they must take a step back and determine if medicine is actually the right fit for them. High school and early college students still have so much to learn about the medical profession and day-to-day experience of being a doctor. You and your child can begin your research from the comfort of your own home by watching our day in the life series which follows attending doctors on the job and our so you want to be series which breaks down what it's actually like to pursue various different medical career paths such as surgery, psychiatry or dermatology. These series are linked in the video description. Additionally, it's important to get involved in a clinical setting by volunteering at a hospital and shadowing physicians. This provides students with a firstirhand view of what it's like to work in a clinical setting, as well as what to expect in a physician's day-to-day life. The last thing you want to do is invest tens of thousands of dollars into something your son or daughter isn't actually passionate about. So, start this research as early as possible. Next, consider premed major options. In order to apply to medical school, students must complete several prerequisite courses, but the specific major they choose is up to them. A student can major in film studies and still be a PMED as long as they fulfill their prerequisites. While the most common and straightforward path is biological sciences, what's most important is that your son or daughter chooses something they're truly passionate about. That said, biology is a major component of medicine. So, if your child doesn't like the subject, they should strongly consider why they want to be a doctor. However, your child has the rest of their education and career to study biology. So, if they have another passion, such as history or computer science, college is the time to pursue it, as they won't have time to do so in medical school or residency. Plus, admissions committees see thousands of biological science majors, so your child's application will stand out if they have a unique major they're truly passionate about. We cover how to choose the ideal premed major in this video up here. Next, it's imperative for students to start building relationships and honing their interpersonal skills as soon as possible. So many opportunities come down to who you know. Having the right connections and a wide variety of strong relationships will be a massive help to your child as they pursue medical education and a future career. Your child will need four to five strong letters of recommendation to earn acceptance to medical school. And to earn those letters, they need to build relationships, which takes a great deal of time. Fortunately, standing out as a student isn't complicated. It just takes hard work. They need to show up every day, put in the effort, be proactive, show enthusiasm, and provide value. That could mean taking on more responsibility at work, starting a club to bring people together, or actively participating in class. Lastly, your son or daughter can skyrocket their scholastic success by honing active study strategies. The amount of content your child will need to commit to memory in medical school is nothing short of astounding. Think of trying to drink water from a fire hydrant. While still a ways off, focusing on active learning strategies now will make them a more competitive medical school applicant and also make the transition to medical school easier. Passively reading and memorizing information won't work in medical school. There's simply too much information to take in and not nearly enough time. Active study techniques provide the biggest bang for your buck, so to speak. This means studying as efficiently and effectively as possible by using active recall, summarizing information, recreating tables and diagrams, and trying to teach what you've learned to others. In short, better grades and less time and more time for other extracurriculars or hobbies. We've covered effective study strategies at length on our study strategies YouTube playlist as well as on the Med School Insiders website linked below. Applying to medical school is an incredibly complex process. It's also very competitive with only a little over 1/3 of medical school applicants receiving an acceptance. There are so many moving parts that med school applicants need to be working on at any given time. And it's not only about whether or not you receive an acceptance. Ideally, you want your child to receive multiple acceptances, including one from their top choice school. Having multiple acceptances gives you peace of mind as well as leverage for scholarships to reduce your child's student loan burden and even save hundreds of thousands of dollars. What's most important is your child starts as early as possible. including having a clear road map of every step involved. At Med School Insiders, our team of physicians can help your child create a tailored plan designed to get them accepted at their top choice schools. Whether your child is applying this application season or in a future year, our strategic advising services can help them pinpoint exactly what to work on and when. Unlike other companies that are not run by medical doctors, but rather PhDs or others who never went to medical school, the Med School Insiders team is made up of top performing physicians who aced their own exams and gained multiple acceptances at the best medical schools across the country. We've been there before, and we know exactly what it takes to not only get accepted, but to be fought over by admissions committees as a standout applicant. This is a key secret to leveraging massive six-figure scholarships. When choosing a company to guide your child's doctor journey, look for one led by MDs who actually went to medical school, not those calling themselves doctors because they have a PhD. And beyond that, just being a doctor isn't enough. The people guiding your child need to have demonstrated excellent results themselves and have consistently replicated that success in other students. Our satisfaction ratings and student success speak for themselves. But please do your research, learn more about our process, read our reviews, and make use of our massive database of resources at medschoolinsiders.com. Don't forget to take advantage of our course designed for parents, which is linked right up here.