If you think you don't need to prepare for Casper, you're sorely mistaken. Dr. Jubal, medschoolinsiders.com. The Casper test is a unique and fast-paced exam, which means the more familiar and experienced with the format you are, the better you will perform. While you may not be able to study for it in the traditional sense, you certainly can and should prepare for it. Stay tuned for our sample questions and answers later in this video. Casper stands for computer-based assessment for sampling personal characteristics. True to its name, Casper is a computer-based test for aspiring doctors designed to measure the kind of person you are beyond your grades and hard skills. It's an assessment of your professionalism, social intelligence, empathy, and bedside manner. Here are six prep tips that will make Casper a breeze. The first step is to familiarize yourself with the test format. Casper is made up of 14 real world scenarios, some word-based and some video-based, where an ethical dilemma is presented, and you're asked to explain what you would do. The test is divided into two response sections, a video response section, and a typed response section. The video response section asks you to record yourself responding verbally to two word-based scenarios, and four video-based scenarios. After being presented with a scenario, you will be asked two questions and you have one minute to record a video response to each question. After the one minute is up, your response is automatically uploaded, and you are not able to review or change your answer. The typed response section asks you to type your responses to three word-based scenarios and five video-based scenarios. After being presented with a scenario, you will be asked three questions. You have five minutes in total to respond to all three questions before you are automatically advanced to the next scenario. If your timer runs out or you submit your answers before your 5 minutes are up, your responses are automatically saved. You cannot go back and change your answers. It's vital that you understand the exact amount of time you have to answer questions as well as the order in which the test is completed. There are two optional breaks to be aware of. one 10-minute break after the video response section and another five minute break in the middle of the typed section. Take advantage of these breaks to reset your focus. Second, practice using if then conditional statements. Casper is designed to gauge your professionalism and common sense decision-making by asking what you would do in ethically murky hypothetical scenarios. Therefore, there isn't an exact correct answer to Casper questions. If then, conditional statements work like this. If this is the case, then I would respond this way. However, if this is the case, then I would respond this way. Answering Casper questions like this demonstrates your ability to understand both sides of a situation, think ahead, and consider the possible consequences of your actions. It also allows you to reframe the problem by adding essential context that's not supplied by the intentionally vague scenario. For example, say you're in a classroom taking a test. You notice that your friend Melvin is cheating. What do you do? A possible answer could be, I would confront Melvin after class and ask him to admit to the teacher that he cheated. If Melvin refuses, then I would go to the teacher myself. However, if Melvin admits that he cheated, but says it's because a family member recently passed away, then I would offer to help Melvin study and encourage him to let the professor know about his family situation. Next, go through the painful but necessary experience of recording yourself and viewing it back. For the video response section, you need to practice getting your answers across clearly and articulately within the 1 minute time limit. If you use a Mac, use photo booth. And if you use a PC, use camera to record yourself responding to each question within 1 minute. Watch the recording back to see how you performed. Are you speaking too fast or too slow? Are you speaking clearly? Do you look confident? Are you making consistent eye contact with the camera? Are you able to provide a comprehensive response within the one minute limit? If you find you're mumbling or appear too stiff, perform vocal exercises and do face yoga to warm up and appear more animated. Think of it like dynamic stretching before going for a jog or hitting the gym. Speaking too fast, slurring your speech, and getting tongue-tied will make it more difficult for the Casper raiders to understand what you're saying. Warm up your mouth by quickly repeating tongue twisters. Focus on enunciating every syllable of the word. Exaggerate the movements of your mouth and make them way bigger than they need to be. Next, stretch your face by opening your mouth and eyes as wide as possible. And then doing the opposite by shrinking everything inward and pinching your lips and eyes. Repeating these movements will loosen up your face, making you appear engaged and confident instead of remote and robotic. This will also help with annunciation. Record yourself again and see the difference. Make adjustments where you feel you need them and ask for feedback from trusted friends, family members, or tutors. Continue practicing until you're happy with the results. Since the video response section comes first, be sure to perform vocal warm-ups and stretch your face on test day before you begin. Next, having strong typing skills will allow you to focus on your answers rather than your keyboard in the typed response section. Practice typing out your responses as quickly as possible while maintaining the quality of your answer. You only have 5 minutes to respond to three different questions in the typed response section, so being able to type quickly and legibly is to your advantage. You won't have time to go back and fix mistakes, and the Casper raiders will easily understand your answers. While raiders are trained not to penalize you for spelling and grammatical errors, you still need to communicate your point effectively. If your response is filled with errors, it may be tough for your raiders to decipher what you're trying to say. And if you take a long time to type out your answers, you may not be able to respond to all three questions in time. You can use typing practice apps online, but they don't zero in on the nuances of Casper language. Our Casper course helps you improve your typing speed as you simultaneously master essential Casper vocabulary. The typing tool is offered to everyone, including free users, and utilizes AI to generate unlimited typing content that focuses on Casper terminology. Link in the description. Next, taking a practice test will give you a sense of the pace and timing of Casper, as well as how you perform under pressure. Be sure to simulate the real circumstances of the test by setting your own timer and responding within the time limits. For video responses, read or watch the scenario and then read the first question. Set a 1 minute timer and see how quickly and comprehensively you can respond verbally. Once the timer is up, move on to the next question and reset the timer. For the typed responses, read or watch the scenario and then set a timer for five minutes. Type your answers to the three questions as quickly and comprehensively as possible within the allotted time. Move on to the next scenario after the 5 minutes are up and reset the timer. As you get closer to the exam date, begin studying at the same time you will take the exam in the same location and using the same technology so that you are completely comfortable with all variables on exam day. Use your own judgment based on how comfortable you are with the practice questions to determine whether or not you need more preparation or additional tutoring. You can access sample questions and a practice test on the Acuity Insights website for free, but they only offer a limited number of sample questions with no feedback on their sample test. For additional prep, the Med School Insiders Casper course includes instant feedback and unlimited practice problems, which means you'll have endless opportunities to refine your skills, adapt to various scenarios, and truly understand the nuances of the Casper exam. And lastly, do all you can to remove distractions on the big day. Remember, Casper is timed, so if you're thrown off of your game by a notification or roommate knocking on your door, pets and parents included, it could seriously hinder your performance. You need a quiet and distraction-free environment when you take the test, and you can't afford to be interrupted. Turn off your phone or leave it in another room. If you live with other people, let them know what Casper is and when you will be taking the test. Life is noisy. If a roommate decides to make a meal while you're recording your timed verbal answer, and they set off the smoke detector, your recording could be ruined, and you won't get a second chance at it. Ask them to stay in their respective rooms or better yet to leave the space entirely for a couple of hours during your important exam. Maintaining your focus is critical. Do whatever you can to preserve it. Before we end this video, let's review a couple sample questions, including how to approach your answer. Here's the prompt. You and three of your friends are working on a group project. One group member, Ellen, has become increasingly irritable. She refuses the suggestions of others while never contributing ideas of her own. The assignment is due in two days and now the group is behind. The assignment is worth 30% of everyone's grade in the class and everyone in the group receives the same grade. After reading or watching the scenario, you will have 5 minutes to answer three questions. Number one, two members of the group already express their frustration with Ellen to the group. What would you say to the group to improve the situation? For this question, you want to demonstrate to the Casper Raiders that you are diplomatic with all team members and empathetic toward Ellen, who may have her own individual struggles you and the other team members are unaware of. Rather than being reactive, show that you have an open mind and are not quick to judge or condemn. Number two, how would you discuss the situation with Ellen? Next, explain how you would approach speaking to Ellen with empathy and understanding. Casper raiders want to see that you are able to listen and consider other people's point of view. At the same time, you should demonstrate to Ellen the importance of respect and mutual understanding among all team members. How has her behavior made you and the rest of the team feel? What can the team do to make her more comfortable and what can she do to make the team more comfortable? Number three, what steps would you take in order to ensure a fair solution for everyone? If Ellen is amendable, the next step is to bring her concerns to the rest of the team so that everyone can understand where Ellen is coming from. This way, concerns can be addressed and everyone can move forward on an equal and equitable footing. Let's look at another question. The prompt is as follows. Candidates for admission have increasingly impressive experiences and accomplishments. The following questions will be related to how you see your accomplishments. The questions for this prompt are number one, what is your biggest achievement to date? Why? Number two, what did you learn by achieving that goal? And number three, what factors in your life helped you reach that goal or achieve what you did? This is a personal prompt that is focused on understanding your own growth. Describe an achievement and how you made it work. What impact did you have as an individual after describing the situation and the role you played, zero in on the specific actions you took to realize the goal. Be sure to say I instead of we and always show don't tell. What did you do? And what were the results? What did the experience teach you? For example, let's say you participated in a marathon. How did you stay disciplined and motivated specifically? Did you get up every morning and go for a jog, rain or shine? Did you sacrifice social events? Did you jog to school or a part-time job instead of taking the bus? Having reached your goal, did you learn how much you can accomplish by creating a plan and sticking to it? Did you learn the value of being accountable to yourself? What's most important is that your answer is personalized and incorporates specific examples from your life, background, and experiences. Just because you can't study for Casper doesn't mean you can't prepare for it. Comprehensive Casper test preparation will give you the confidence you need to answer clearly and effectively during both the typed and video response sections of the test. The all-new Med School Insiders Casper course leverages cuttingedge AI technology combined with in-depth video tutorials. Get instant feedback on both the typed and video response sections, including immediate personalized evaluation and even emotion detection analysis. Since it's not just what you say, but also how you say it that matters. The course includes unlimited practice problems, giving you endless opportunities to refine your skills and truly understand the nuances of the Casper exam. It's the most comprehensive prep resource for Casper out