

=== FILE: 3 Habits of Top 1% MCAT Scorers... (Steal These) [wToC3cVkUyA].txt ===

 The MCAT is the most crucial test for becoming a doctor and the most critical objective metric in your application. Let's be clear about why this matters so much. Many medical schools use MCAT scores as an initial filter and cutoff. They can afford to be selective because they receive thousands of applications from the country's highest achieving students. Dr. Jubbal, medschoolinsiders.com, High MCAT scores give you options. Students with strong scores have more choices and often get into top schools like Harvard, Stanford, and Yale. The average MCAT score for Johns Hopkins and Harvard is 521, while it's 522 at Yale and the Mayo Clinic. Keep in mind that this is just the average. Many applicants score above this and they're the ones who receive scholarships and have multiple options for what school they want to choose. While premeds do get into schools with lower scores, you absolutely need a high score to get into the most competitive schools. Plain and simple, a high score opens doors and creates opportunities that just aren't available to lower scores. That said, while your MCAT needs to be exceptional to get your foot in the door at elite schools, it's still just one piece of the puzzle. Strong applicants must also demonstrate breath and depth across extracurriculars, secure stellar letters of recommendation, clearly articulate why they're the ideal fit for a school's mission, and tie it all together with a compelling and cohesive narrative. The key is strategic balance. Don't sacrifice everything chasing marginal score improvements, but understand that scoring well below your target school's cutoffs will eliminate you before they even read your essays. We've covered MCAT tactics in previous videos, but success comes down to three key elements, the right study plan, the right resources, and the right study strategies. You don't achieve a high score based solely on intelligence or even hard work. It's a combination of strategy and precise planning. The traditional MCAT study approach focuses too heavily on passively reading content. Most students are afraid to waste their practice materials too early and feel they should save them for later when they better understand the content. But this could not be further from the truth. In reality, practice questions are key tools to understanding the content and they should be implemented from the very beginning. We know this works because this is how medical students study for USMLE, the next standardized test you'll take after the MCAT. Practice questions are heavily utilized as a study resource, not just an assessment or practice tool in the final weeks leading up to the exam. The scientific literature is clear. Testing is not only a way to assess knowledge, but also a highly effective tool to accelerate learning. At the beginning of your study period, you'll need to balance three separate domains. Number one, content review focusing on comprehension. Number two, space repetition with active recall focusing on memory consolidation. And number three, practice questions focusing on a mix of application, comprehension, and consolidation. As your study period progresses, spend less time on content review and more time on intermittent review for specific facts or concepts you need clarification on. This is more targeted and efficient than reviewing all of the content a second time. Do not expect yourself to be a master of the material after studying content review resources. Simultaneously, gradually spend more time on flashcards and practice questions as these are two active learning methods that, particularly when combined, will most rapidly improve your scores. Some foundation level of comprehension is useful, but remember that having this foundation is different than having everything down cold. Some students think they need to use half a dozen different resources to get the best score possible, but they are actually spreading themselves too thin. Again, take a page from the strategy of medical students. They only focus on the highest yield resources and ring them out for all their worth rather than superficially going through multiple resources of varying quality. You're bound to hear conflicting strategies when it comes to MCAT advice. If you're seeking optimal performance on your MCAT, look to scientific literature for evidence-based study strategies and to experts who have not only achieved top scores themselves, but helped others do the same as well. How you mentally approach an exam significantly impacts your performance on it. Instead of allowing anxiety to get in the way and cause you to freak out, adopt a mindset that empowers you. The pressure to do well is massive and the stress can easily get the better of you if you let it. So instead, reframe the surge you feel to enhance your focus. When you're about to take an exam and the stakes are high, your sympathetic nervous system kicks in, pumping you with various hormones like cortisol and adrenaline. Your physiology changes, you feel stressed, overwhelmed, and under pressure. But when you reframe that, it can enhance your focus. I used to think of every exam as a challenge, a game designed to test your limits. Instead of focusing on what could go wrong, I embraced the opportunity to push myself and see what I was capable of. I reframed it as a challenge I wanted to stand up to and I got hyped. I found that the stress actually sharpened my concentration, consistently leading to better results on actual exams compared to practice tests. The heightened stakes acted as a catalyst, allowing me to perform optimally under pressure. When you're feeling stressed and your sympathetic nervous system takes the wheel, remind yourself it's there to heighten your senses and sharpen your focus. It's telling you that you've got this. For more MCAT prep tips from those who scored in the 100th percentile, check out our MCAT study playlist.

=== FILE: Competitiveness of Med School vs Pharmacy vs Dental vs PA vs Business vs Law [liHdPYaMkaU].txt ===

 Sure, medical school is competitive, but so are other professional schools like physician assistant, veterinarian, nurse practitioner, law school, business school, and others. But how do they compare to one another, and which is most competitive? Let's find out. Dr. Jubbal, MedSchoolInsiders.com I got the idea for this video from a viewer. If you'd like to suggest a future video topic, leave a comment down below. To assess how competitive a training path is, we'll look at a few matriculant factors. Average GPA, average percentile in standardized tests, and overall acceptance rate. No single factor in isolation tells a full story, which is why we're looking at multiple components. In the United States, there are two distinct pathways and degrees to become a physician. The MD, or allopathic path, is more common and likely the one you're more familiar with, but the DO path, where you train in osteopathic medicine, is also a valid option. I cover the differences between allopathic and osteopathic medical school paths in a previous video, including the pros and cons of each. In terms of competitiveness, allopathic medical school is substantially more competitive than osteopathic medical school. MD matriculants have an average undergraduate GPA of 3.7 and MCAT of 5.11, which is an 88th percentile score. DO matriculants, on the other hand, have an average GPA of 3.5 and an average MCAT of 503, which is a 61st percentile score. Last year, 53,342 applied to MD schools and 28,869 students matriculated, meaning 40.9% of those who applied were accepted by a medical school. The average applicant applies to 15 to 20 schools. Note that some schools have incredibly low acceptance rates, some even below 2%. The majority of doctors in the US go through the MD path, and since 2017, women have been the majority of matriculating classes each year, averaging around 51%. DO classes have consistently had lower rates of women entering osteopathic medical schools, and while it has consistently risen in recent years, just as allopathic medical schools, most recently women constituted 49% of first year enrollees. In the US, there's a strong push to increase female representation in the field of medicine. However, in other countries, such as the UK, some argue that there are too many female medical graduates. In this 2008 article, Brian McKinstry argues too many female graduates are bad for medicine, just as too many male ones have been in the past. The number of men and women entering medical school should roughly reflect the numbers in society. The case for this is simply on grounds of equal opportunity. While an interesting read, he doesn't understand the difference between equal opportunity and equal outcome, which is a dangerous, albeit common mistake, but that's not the topic of this video. If you're interested in pharmacy school, there's good news. Acceptance rates are steadily rising year after year, with an overall acceptance rate of 82.7% in 2018. At the same time, the average composite PCAT score of accepted applicants has steadily been declining, down to the 59th percentile. The average undergraduate GPA for accepted students is 3.3, and some are now saying that it is quote, dangerously easy to get into pharmacy school. But why is that? It seems that the growth rate of pharmacy jobs has not kept up with the growth in number of pharmacy students graduating each year. As a result, there's a supply and demand issue, with many pharmacists finding it difficult to secure a job, and fewer are now interested in pursuing the field. In terms of gender mix, pharmacy enrollment has been majority female, with 55 to 60% of women accounting for entering classes for the last several years. Unlike pharmacy school, dental school is becoming slightly more competitive with time, not less. The average dental school matriculant has a GPA of 3.5 and a composite DAT score up to 20, which is around the 75th percentile. Of all the students that apply to dental school, approximately 50% matriculate. So why is dental school becoming more competitive? Put simply, more people are applying to dental school, which is the result of a variety of factors. Dentistry has a favorable work-life balance, more autonomy than pharmacy and P&PA paths, and a shorter training period of four years compared to four plus three to seven years for medical school. Some say that dentistry being more widespread on social media is also contributing to increased interest. In terms of gender split, dental school is close to 50-50, with 50.7% of matriculants in last year's cycle women, and 49.7% the year before that. There are only 30 accredited veterinary schools in the US, meaning the supply of open seats is quite limited. However, the number of people wanting to become a veterinarian is also much lower, in large part due to an unfavorable debt-to-income ratio. Lots of debt, but not lots of income, therefore lower demand and lower competition to get into vet school. Most recent numbers point to around 7,000 applicants for around 4,000 seats, yielding an overall acceptance rate of 58.2%. In terms of stats, the average matriculant has a GPA of 3.5 and GRE performance as follows. 58th percentile in writing, 60th percentile in quantitative, and 72nd percentile in verbal. The overwhelming majority of veterinary students are women, with most recent classes around 82%. Similar to medical school, however, your application requires much more than just numbers. Extracurriculars, such as research, volunteer, and clinical experience are highly recommended to be seriously considered by schools. The numbers to get into PA school seem daunting at first, and I've had PA students tell me that getting into PA school is more competitive than getting into medical school. It's easy to see why. Of the close to 27,000 applicants that applied, only about 9,000 got accepted to a school, yielding 33% of applicants obtaining a seat. That's lower than the 40% for medical school in the US. But that's obviously not painting a complete picture. Don't be discouraged. It's definitely attainable and less competitive than medical school. The average GPA for PA matriculants is 3.5, and in terms of GRE performance, they score on average in the 42nd percentile on math, 53rd percentile on verbal, and 54th percentile on analytical. The field is female dominated, with women accounting for close to 3 quarters of first year PA students. NP schools usually require some nursing experience. The minimum for many programs is 1 to 2 years, but some don't require any previous nursing experience. Regardless, GPA isn't highlighted. Minimum GPA cutoffs are around 3.0, but this isn't a hard rule. Middle Tennessee State University, for example, is reported to generally accept applicants with a GPA of 2.9 or greater. There isn't a centralized source for data, but the key in getting into NP school is work experience. Grades are of secondary importance, and extracurriculars are even less important. The NP path is most heavily female skewed of all these paths, with fewer than 15% men. Law school admissions is more dependent based on the tier of law school you're looking at. Over the past few years, between 61 to 66% of applicants were accepted to a law school with an average GPA of 3.4 and LSAT score in the 63rd to 67th percentile. Some top 10 law schools have average GPAs of 3.7, mid-tier programs are around 3.4, and other schools even have average GPAs of 2.9. Historically, there have been more men than women entering law school, but since 2015, entering classes are more heavily female, between 51 and 53% depending on the year. Despite some law schools moving toward more holistic application review processes, there's still a heavy emphasis on GPA and LSAT score in determining your competitiveness, as schools want to make sure you can excel academically in a challenging environment. Extracurriculars, which certainly have their place, particularly at some institutions, have less relevance compared to something like medical school. Business school, where you earn an MBA, is a different animal from the rest. According to my colleagues who have gone to B school, you want to be at a top 10 program for your degree to be most meaningful to your career advancement. In comparison, medical school ranking is somewhat important, but much less so. For this reason, business school also has a widespread in competitiveness, similar to law school. There are two main factors contributing to business school competitiveness. First, there's a limited number of seats at highly desirable institutions. In the business school circles, they point to the M7 schools as those with the greatest prestige and benefit to your resume. Second, there's a low barrier to entry, as there are fewer requirements to apply to business school. The average GMAT score for business school matriculants at top 50 schools is 703, translating to an 80th percentile on the test. For top 20 schools, the average GPA is 3.5, but some top institutions like Harvard and Stanford have average GPAs of 3.7. But just like medical school, it's much more than just test scores. Business schools care about work and leadership experience, your essays, and letters of recommendation. At top institutions, they want to see applicants with a track record of high performance and impact, who can add value and bring diversity to a well-rounded class. Over the years, I've had individuals on these various healthcare paths tell me their paths are all more competitive than medical school, despite me never asking them. Initially, I thought this was strange, but it makes sense. It's not uncommon for egos to be deeply intertwined with one's professional work. But remember, whether or not your graduate school path is more or less competitive than something else doesn't make you worth more or less as a person. And plus, we're all on the same team, trying to help our patients. Based on the current data, medical school is the most competitive of all listed professional schools. But I anticipate medical school will decrease in competitiveness at some point in the coming years. As I have spoken about in some previous videos, many are drawn to medicine for reasons that are not in line with reality, and rates for burnout and depression are at all time highs. However, as the public perception of medicine catches up to reality, there will be fewer people applying to medical school, driving down competition to more reasonable levels. If you enjoyed this video, you'll like my video called Should Medical School Be This Competitive? Much love, and I'll see you guys in that next one.

=== FILE: Highest Paid Doctors by HOURLY Rate (in 2026) [SIvW3e4PMTQ].txt ===

 Neurosurgeons make $750,000 a year, the highest average salary in medicine, but after accounting for the number of hours worked per week, do neurosurgeons still come out on top? When you factor in a doctor's work hours, which for some specialties is up to 70 per week, the rankings completely change, and some specialties you'd never expect end up near the top. Dr. Jubbal, MedSchoolInsiders.com, let's start with number 5, Dermatology at $235 per hour. Dermatologists diagnose and treat conditions of the skin, hair, and nails. The specialty blends medical dermatology, thanks psoriasis, eczema, and skin cancer screenings with cosmetic procedures like Botox and laser treatments. At $508,000 annually, with an average of just 44 hours per week, dermatology offers one of the best combinations of compensation and lifestyle in all of medicine. Plus, training is only a four-year residency, which is one of the shorter paths in medicine for this level of compensation. But here's the catch, dermatology is currently the most competitive specialty to match into. It tops our competitiveness index with a 70.5% match rate and the highest average step 2C K score tied with orthopedics at $257. By the way, all of this data is available for free at specialtyrank.com. At number 4 is Radiology. It's essentially tied with dermatology at $235 per hour. Diagnostic radiologists interpret imaging studies like x-rays, CT scans, MRIs, and ultrasounds to diagnose disease. They're the doctors other doctors rely on to figure out what's actually going on inside a patient. At $572,000 annually, with around 50 hours per week, radiology offers strong compensation with a predictable lifestyle. Most radiologists work regular daytime hours with limited call responsibilities. Training is a five-year residency, during which many radiologists subspecialize in areas such as neuroradiology, musculoskeletal imaging, or breast imaging. One thing worth noting is that interventional radiology pays almost identically at $573,000 but requires significantly more hours and overnight call. It didn't make this list because the hourly rate drops considerably. At number 3 is Plastic Surgery at $243 per hour. Plastic surgeons perform both reconstructive and aesthetic procedures, everything from cleft palate repairs to breast augmentations and facelifts. Aesthetic focused surgeons typically out-earn their reconstructive colleagues. At $621,000 annually, with around 52 hours per week, plastic surgery offers elite compensation without the grueling hours of some other surgical fields. Call isn't bad for aesthetics, but reconstruction can be more demanding. Most procedures are scheduled rather than emergent. But matching into plastic surgery is another story. It consistently ranks among the top three most competitive specialties and across the past decade of match data, it comes out as the single most competitive specialty in all of medicine. We'll be covering the decade ranking of all specialties soon in a future video and if you want to see it, make sure you subscribe. Successful applicants in plastics now average nearly 35 research items and increase of over 15 in just four years. Residency is six years for the more competitive and desirable integrated path which includes dedicated plastic surgery training, but there is a backup option of going into general surgery residency first for five years and then doing a plastic surgery fellowship afterward for three years totaling eight years. If you're serious about matching into competitive specialties like plastic surgery or dermatology, go to specialtypredictor.com. It uses the most up to date NRMP match data to show you exactly where you stand and what you need to improve. At number two is neurosurgery at about $247 per hour. Neurosurgeons operate on the brain, spinal cord, and peripheral nerves. The work is technically demanding and the stakes couldn't be higher. At $749,000 annually, the highest gross salary in medicine, you'd expect neurosurgery to dominate this list, but neurosurgeons are notorious for brutal schedules. They work 60-70 hours per week which significantly lowers their hourly rate. Using a conservative estimate of 62 hours per week, neurosurgery lands at roughly $247 per hour, impressive but not number one. Neurosurgery also has the longest residency at seven years and is currently the second most competitive specialty to match into, with applicants averaging 37 research items the highest of any specialty. And at the top of our list is orthopedic surgery at $262 per hour. Orthopedic surgeons treat the musculoskeletal system, including bones, joints, ligaments, tendons, and muscles. Whether it's sports injuries, joint replacements, or trauma, ortho covers it all. At $680,000 annually, with around 53 hours per week, orthopedics offers the rare combination of top-tier pay without the extreme hours of neurosurgery or thoracic surgery. The ortho lifestyle varies by subspecialty. Sports medicine and joint replacement tend to be more predictable while trauma call can be demanding. Training is a five-year residency and ortho consistently ranks among the top five most competitive specialties. For a deep dive into these specialties, as well as dozens of other doctor career paths, check out our So You Want to Be playlist right up here.

=== FILE: How I Set the Curve at a Top Medical School ｜ Advanced Test Taking Skills [UDnALyupYkk].txt ===

 In the world of study strategies and student optimization, we often focus on acquiring the proper knowledge for high test scores. Space repetition, active recall, all that fun stuff. But have you noticed that when you and your study partner study the same material using the same study strategies, one of you can score much higher than the other? This often comes down to test-taking strategies. Here's how you can improve your own test-taking skills. Dr. Jubbal, MedSchoolInsiders.com. As I've spoken about in a previous video, there are three domains that determine your student performance. Memorization, critical thinking, and test-taking skills. No single factor in isolation will earn you stellar grades in class. But by assessing and addressing your weaknesses across these domains, you'll be in a much better position. Let's focus on test-taking skills. The first step in improving your test-taking strategies is assessing your strengths and weaknesses academically. If you find yourself forgetting what you studied on test day, then this likely points to deficits in your study strategies, which we've discussed extensively on my study strategy playlist. Alternatively, if you find yourself blanking out or freezing during tests, this can point to mismanaged test-taking anxiety. Understand, per the stress response curve, some amount of stress is actually helpful in your performance on the test. However, if your self-talk is not serving you, the elevated sympathetic nervous system response can be interpreted in a limiting rather than empowering frame. If you find yourself running out of time on tests, then you need to use practice questions to dial in your pacing and become more adept at thinking clearly and decisively with time constraints. If you're missing more multiple choice or essay-based or problem-solving questions, see if you can understand the pattern as to why. Here's how this helped me. In college, I majored in neuroscience. And in NeuroM145 with Dr. Chandler, we spent the entire course covering all the nuances and forms of action potentials. Nothing else, just action potentials. I had already been accepted into my top choice medical school, and senioritis had set in hard. So I barely studied for the test. But to my surprise, I still scored the second highest on our midterm. One of the questions worth several points that most people missed was a question where we had to use our understanding of previous concepts to synthesize principles to a novel situation. I also took Psych 118, comparative psychobiology, known to be one of the easiest classes that fulfilled my major requirements. And because of senioritis, again, I hadn't studied much. No worries, it's supposed to be an easy class. But on my midterm, I got a B. Unlike the neuroscience essay-based test, this test was almost purely memorization. This helped me identify weaknesses and guide my studying moving forward in medical school. I understood that memorization didn't come naturally to me, and it required a more targeted approach. On the other hand, novel problem-solving was something I could spend less time on. Any time you receive your prior quizzes or tests back, don't simply focus on what your score is. Rather, go through the test and see what you got wrong and understand why you got it wrong. Are there patterns of what you tend to get correct or incorrect? What about when you miss a question? Is it a silly mistake in you not reading the question stem properly? Maybe you missed a key modifier, like accept or not. Identify your problem areas related to content, types of questions, timing, memory, and problem-solving to guide your future studies. When approaching a test, I don't have a simple to learn and easy to digest formula that helps me navigate each question. The strategies I employ are the culmination of two decades of schooling, and it's all a bit interconnected and jumbled. First and most fundamentally is my self-talk. If I approach a test with confidence and a positive mindset, believing I'll do well, then I'm much more likely to score highly. On the other hand, if I have a bad feeling about it and am worried about my performance, my score usually suffers. If you struggle with your self-talk, there are three strategies to consider. First, improve your preparation. If you're better prepared and know you've put in the time and effort, it's much more natural to transition to positive self-talk. Second, approach the test as a game or challenge for you to prove yourself. It can be adversarial, meaning you versus the test, or it can be a fun game where you see how well you can do. Maybe even a bit of friendly competition with your friends to see who can do best. And third, when you catch yourself in limiting self-talk, challenge it directly and ask yourself some simple questions. Is this self-talk serving me? Do I believe that I can do well on this test? Does this test even know who I am or what I have in store for it? When approaching a multiple-choice question, there are a few strategies to consider. First, if it's a long question stem, such as what you'd find on USMLE Step 1, I'll go to the last sentence of the question stem and then read the answer choices. This helps guide me with regards to what to focus on and buzzwords to be on the lookout for. After reading the question and answer choices, I cross out answers that I know are wrong. It's important here to only cross out choices I can truly rule out. When I get stuck between two answer choices, and I acknowledge either can be correct, I ask myself which is more true? Which answer choice has a stronger case for it, and which can I imagine the professor explaining to be the right answer? I will also ask myself, for this answer choice to be true, what else must be true? For any given answer choice to be true, a series of assumptions must be made that are congruent with that answer choice. This helps me narrow down the correct choice based on the plausibility of its associated assumptions. Another useful tactic is to extrapolate the extremes. This strategy is usually most appropriate for science questions such as math, physics, cardiology, and the like. Let's say I'm between two answer choices with one answer choice saying, factor X causes a 10% increase in cardiac output, and the other saying factor X causes a 10% decrease in cardiac output. If the relationship between factor X and cardiac output isn't readily apparent, I'll extrapolate the extremes. In other words, if factor X was blown up in magnitude, would it be more likely to cause a 1000% increase or decrease in cardiac output? This helps me more clearly identify the directional relationship. For your science tests, the professor will often give you at least partial credit when you show your work. In these instances, err on the side of showing too much work rather than not enough. If you see a question that was similar to a practice question, let's say you're using the same equation in projectile motion, in physics, then think back to what mistakes or traps you have fallen for. Maybe you forgot to convert units in the past. Don't make that same mistake now on test day. In fact, you may even find it helpful to write out a reminder on your piece of paper saying, do not forget to convert units. Some say to always go with your gut, and to never change answers unless you are 100% sure that the new answer choice is the correct one. I don't necessarily agree with this. If I come back to a question and I remember something new or have a different way of thinking about the problem, then I'll reassess my answer choices and go with what I feel is the best choice in that moment, regardless of what I had chosen previously. More often than not, this results in me changing to the correct answer. What you should not do, however, is change your answer without having a good reason to change it. This often results in you choosing an incorrect response. For standardized exams, you should have done hundreds, if not thousands, of practice problems before test day. This will give you an idea of what the key concepts are on the test, the way the test makers will ask you questions, and the possible ways that they can trap you. Sometimes, students get too trigger happy in calling something a trap. Sure, their professor may have used that tactic as a trap on a class exam, but it would be incredibly unlikely to occur on the MCAT. Being able to accurately assess this will come from experience, most readily through a high volume of practice questions and practice tests. A simple yet shockingly effective tactic I used was trying to think like the test maker. I'd ask myself, if I made this test, what would I be testing here? This helped me align to the mindset of the test and more clearly see what I was being tested on and what was expected of me. This tactic alone propelled my standardized scores dramatically. Distilling the various test-taking strategies I've used over the years for this video was surprisingly difficult, and the result wasn't as cleanly cut and organized as my other videos. Part of it is because we don't explicitly talk about or describe these strategies, and part of it is we aren't taught these things. We learn them over time through intuition, experimentation, and feel. What I have found most helpful in teaching effective test-taking strategies is to work with my students one-on-one with individualized tutoring. That way we can go over questions together and we can go through their thought process step by step and I can precisely point to where they went astray and how their thought process could be tightened up. If you want to work with me or another top-scoring physician who crushed the MCAT, USMLE, and other tests, visit MedSchoolInsiders.com. If you enjoyed this video, check out my video on how to properly use practice problems and practice tests, or check out my video on the good, bad, and useless of study strategies. Much love, and I will see you guys in that next one.

=== FILE: Lowest Paid Doctor Specialties in 2026 [UxTjzbSqi2E].txt ===

 a neurosurgeon makes over $749,000 a year. The lowest-paid doctor? Less than $260,000. Both are doctors, but one makes nearly $500,000 more a year. Here are the 10 lowest-paid medical specialties in 2026. Dr. Jubbal, MedSchoolInsiders.com. Quick note, before we begin, we're excluding pediatric subspecialties. Otherwise, 7 out of our 10 lowest-paid specialties would be pediatric subspecialties. We'll explain why shortly. Starting us off at number 10 is rheumatology at $325,000 a year. Rheumatologists treat diseases of the joints, musculoskeletal system, and connective tissue. Think rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, and osteoporosis. The lifestyle is solid, with few emergencies and no middle-of-the-night calls. But here's the catch. After a three-year internal medicine residency plus a two-year fellowship, rheumatologists actually make less than general internists who choose not to specialize. In other words, you don't get into rheumatology for the money. At number 9 is infectious disease at $321,000. ID physicians diagnose and treat complex infections, whether bacterial, viral, fungal, or parasitic. Training is a three-year internal medicine residency followed by a two-year fellowship. Similar to rheumatology, despite doing a fellowship after an internal medicine residency, you make less than if you went straight into practice after finishing your IM training. Work-life balance is generally good, though outbreak situations can quickly change that. Coming in at number 8 is family medicine at $319,000 a year. Family medicine doctors treat the broadest range of patients, from newborns to seniors, across every organ system and every condition. It's a three-year residency with excellent work-life balance and minimal call. Family medicine is also consistently the least competitive medical specialty. By looking at specialtyrank.com, we can see it at the bottom of the list across every year for the last decade. You can also check other specialties too with both current and historic data, plus you can customize the weightings of each variable. A new set of official data is being released this summer, and I'm super curious to see how things shake up. Subscribe if you want to see those updates on the latest competitiveness rankings. At number 7 is preventive medicine at $310,000. Preventive medicine focuses on disease prevention and population health. Think screenings, lifestyle interventions, and public health initiatives. Training typically lasts three years, and emergencies are essentially non-existent. Next at number 6 is allergy and immunology at $309,000. These positions treat allergies, asthma, and immune disorders. Training requires a three-year residency in internal medicine or pediatrics, followed by a two-year fellowship. The lifestyle is excellent with very few emergencies and predictable hours. Want to learn more about this specialty? Check out our So You Want to Be episode, which takes a deep dive into this career path, link in the description. At number 5 is medicine pediatrics, also known as med-peds at $297,000. Med-peds is a combined four-year residency that trains you in both adult and pediatric medicine. You're board certified in both, giving you flexibility to see patients of all ages. Interestingly, applicants who match into med-peds have higher average step two scores than those in either pediatrics or internal medicine alone, ranking 13th in competitiveness. That's middle of the pack. Coming in at number 4 is geriatrics at $292,000. Geriatricians focus on the unique medical needs of elderly patients. Training consists of a three-year family medicine or internal medicine residency, followed by a one-year fellowship. This is another case where subspecializing actually means earning less than staying a generalist. But with the US population aging rapidly, demand for geriatricians continues to grow, which may increase compensation. In the number 3 spot is endocrinology at $291,000. Endocrinologists treat hormonal disorders like diabetes, thyroid conditions, and metabolic diseases. Training takes 5 to 6 years, a three-year internal medicine residency, plus a two- to three-year fellowship. It offers a good lifestyle with few emergencies. But again, it also means more training than a general internist for less pay. At number 2 is pediatrics at $265,000 a year. Pediatricians provide care for patients from birth through age 25, since that's how long the brain is in development. It's a three-year residency with numerous fellowship options. So why does pediatric medicine pay less? Reimbursement rates. Many children are covered by Medicaid, which reimburses at a lower rate than commercial insurance. And since the US healthcare system runs on a fee-for-service model, fewer interventions means less revenue. The frustrating part is that subspecializing in pediatrics often means earning even less than general pediatricians. Pediatric endocrinologists, for example, make around $230,000. That's $35,000 less than general pediatricians despite years of additional training. But this isn't true for every specialty. Pediatric surgery is among the highest-paying specialties in medicine, although that comes as a fellowship after general surgery. If you haven't seen that video, check the link in the description. And in the number one spot for lowest-paid medical specialty is medical genetics at $260,000 a year. Medical geneticists diagnose, manage, and counsel patients with hereditary disorders. They work with patients of all ages from preconception counseling to adult-onset genetic conditions. Training is among the shortest at three years, and the lifestyle offers a good variety of direct patient care, research, teaching, and counseling. The field continues to grow as genomic medicine advances, but compensation hasn't caught up. Find out if you have the stats to be competitive at specialtyrank.com and explore what these specialties are really like in hours so you want to be series right up here.

=== FILE: So You Want to Be a PHYSICIAN ASSISTANT [Ep. 17] [IyZCMcq4zVY].txt ===

 so you want to become a physician assistant. You want to work in healthcare, but being a doctor seems like overkill. Why not get most of the benefit without all the crazy competition, super long training, and unnecessary stress? Here's how you can decide if becoming a PA is a good career for you. Dr. Jubbal, MedSchoolInsiders.com. Welcome to our next installment in So You Want to Be. In this series, we highlight a specific specialty or profession within medicine, such as physician assistant, and help you decide if it's a good fit for you. You can find the other videos on our So You Want to Be playlist, and make sure you're subscribed if you want to vote for future videos. As my PA colleague says, being a physician assistant is like being a doctor light. PAs do many of the same things as doctors, including history and physicals, diagnosis, interpreting labs, and even some basic procedures. But they're clearly a distinct and separate entity from being a doctor. To better understand the practice of physician assistants, it helps to review the history of the profession. In the mid-1960s, Dr. Eugene Stead from Duke put together the first class of PAs to help address the shortage of primary care physicians. The curriculum was based on the fast-track training of doctors during World War II. Two years later, in 1967, the first PA class graduated, and the concept quickly gained federal backing in the early 1970s as a novel approach in addressing the physician shortage. But since then, the role of the PA has expanded. PAs don't just work in primary care, but can work in any department where physicians work, such as cardiology, plastic surgery, neurosurgery, psychiatry, emergency medicine, and many other specialties. One of the big perks to being a PA is the variety and flexibility in your type of practice. As a physician, you'll complete medical school, then residency in your desired specialty, and then be board certified in only that specific specialty. But as a PA, you can more easily move to another specialty without going through several years of formal training. While certainly a perk, this benefit shouldn't be overstated. The reason PAs can flexibly move from specialty to specialty is because the depth of their work is more superficial in nature. Sure, a PA can move from neurosurgery to plastic surgery to orthopedic surgery, but they'll forever be first assist, meaning they help retract, suture, and assist the surgeon. These are supporting roles that don't vary as widely between specialties. The PA, however, is never doing any part of the actual surgery. PAs can be trained to independently perform certain procedures, such as central lines, intubations, dialysis line insertions, and arterial lines to name a few. While they can do bedside ultrasound, they aren't able to do comprehensive echocardiograms. PAs don't replace doctors or take away their work. Rather, they work in tandem with physician supervision and help to decrease routine work for doctors and ease their load. There's a broad range of myths that confuse pre-health students considering a career in healthcare. Let's set the record straight. First, the title physician assistant can be misleading. They do much more than a scribe or a medical assistant and have a far broader scope in what they can do. PAs can see their own patients, do their own workups, do their own simple procedures, and interpret their own labs. However, if their supervising physician disagrees on any step in the diagnosis or management, it's the physician making the final decision, not you, and as a PA, you'll have to be okay with that. Second, the inter-specialty flexibility benefit is often overstated, particularly for those interested in surgical fields. PAs working in the operating room do not have autonomy. In terms of operating room responsibility, think of them as forever being a fourth-year medical student or first-year resident. There are a few exceptions, but this is the general rule. Third, the training between PA and physician is not the same. PAs can easily handle the simple bread and butter like straightforward diabetes management, but when it comes to more obscure conditions or complex and nuanced management, PAs are not trained to that level. If you're ever unsure about something, you'll always be able to reach out to your supervising physician for help, which brings us to the PA training system. In college, the PA prerequisites are less standardized than they are for pre-medical students, but there's a good amount of overlap. Most programs require one year of chemistry with lab, human anatomy and physiology, microbiology, statistics, and psychology. Other frequently recommended courses include general biology, genetics, organic chemistry, biochemistry, social and behavioral sciences, and medical terminology. Don't think that it'll be a walk in the park to get into PA school, as it's still a competitive process. PA school matriculants have an average GPA of 3.5. Most schools require the GRE, with the average PA matriculant having GRE performance in the 40th to 50th percentile, but more are moving to a new standardized test, the PA CAT, specifically designed for PA school admissions. Your time in school is much shorter, usually two to two and a half years in length. The first year is primarily didactics, with lecture for six to eight hours per day, and you may even be attending the same classes as medical students in some instances. During your second year of PA school, you'll be clinical, on service with medical students, residents, and the rest of the health care team. While medical students have more academic knowledge, after all, they're spending several more years studying the human body in greater depth, PA students tend to have more clinical experience by the time they start rotating. This is because in order to apply to PA school, many programs require anywhere from 1000 to 4000 hours of direct patient health care experience. In terms of cost, the entirety of PA school tuition comes out to around 80 to 90 thousand dollars in most instances. Once you're done with PA school, you can start practicing immediately. You'll pick up your role and responsibilities with on-the-job training, with oversight either from your supervising physician or by other mid-levels, meaning nurse practitioners and physician assistants. My PA colleague describes it as throwing you into the fire in a rapid crash course, whereas a residency for newly minted doctors is more structured, rigorous, and longer in duration. Median compensation is around 95 to 100 thousand dollars per year, depending on the specialty. In terms of specialties, PAs are trained as generalists first and foremost, meaning primary care. However, some PA programs have a greater focus in surgical specialties if you want to assist in the operating room. If there is a specialty that has physicians, then it's likely that specialty has room for a PA as well, from orthopedics to neurosurgery, interventional radiology to emergency medicine, and many more. The specialties where you won't find PAs tend to be highly specialized and advanced like cardiac electrophysiology or pediatric oncology. There's a lot to love about being a physician assistant. The human aspect can be tremendously rewarding, and you'll have direct patient contact and make a difference in people's lives. Training is much shorter than becoming a physician, lasting only two to two and a half years compared to four years of medical school plus three to seven years of residency. The cost is much lower too, so you'll likely graduate with less debt than if you went the MD or DO route. As a PA, you also won't have to take work home with you, keep track of patients longitudinally, or deal with things like overnight call. These are all factors that come with the added responsibility of being a physician. And because you're not the person on the line, there's less stress about malpractice or things going sideways. For physician assistants, hours are much more regular and predictable. While it depends on the specialty, you can expect to work around 40 hours per week. And lastly, you can change specialties if you get burned out or want to Some PAs even work in multiple different specialties concurrently. But while you can change specialties, that comes with a cost. As a PA, you don't have the same level of autonomy in patient management and decisions. You're working underneath a supervising physician, not as a physician. Right out of school, your autonomy is quite limited, but as you develop working relationships with your supervising physicians, your scope of practice and autonomy for clinical decision making expands and is dependent on two main factors. First, state and hospital regulations. And second, the trust and relationship with your supervising MD. And while you can change specialties, your roles and responsibilities will always be limited. For example, surgery has a strong appeal, but you won't be a surgeon. You'll be first assist, helping to retract, suction, and close at the end. Some PAs in surgical specialties don't even go in the operating room and instead help the team by rounding on patients and handling the floorwork pertaining to the preoperative and postoperative patients. Consider it being a lifelong resident, but with better hours and better pay. But keep in mind, the pay is substantially less than what attending physicians make, around one half to one third in comparison. There's also less prestige and respect than what you would receive as an MD or DO. My PA colleague says this can present as a barrier to trust in dealing with certain patients. On the other hand, if you're able to put your ego aside and understand your role on the team, including your responsibilities and scope of practice, you may not mind at all. While the training is only a couple years long, the intensity is quite high. You'll be learning a large amount of information incredibly quickly, so don't think it's going to be a walk in the park. During your training, you'll be missing weddings and other personal events to prioritize your future career. If you want to be on a medical team and see your own patients, but ultimately answer to a physician for guidance, then consider being a PA. There's shorter training to get out into the real world and a more relaxed lifestyle with shift work rather than being always on. If you are currently on the nursing tract and want to go to the next level, consider becoming an NP which we'll cover in a future video. If you want more control, autonomy and depth, knowing the ins and outs of various diseases, including the obscure ones, be at the pinnacle of patient care and research, or be a high level educator, go to medical school and become a physician. These are all trade-offs and there's no right or wrong here. You have to figure out what type of life you want. Look at the future paths of each and see which is better suited to your personality, values, and long-term desires. Big shout out to Stephen Benton, pulmonology, and critical care PA for helping me in the creation of this video. Be sure to check out his Instagram to explore the PA profession and the humanistic side of healthcare. Link in the description. If you enjoyed this video, check out my video comparing the competitiveness of PA school to NP school to medical school or my so you want to be video on being a doctor. What should I cover in the next so you want to be? Let me know with a comment down below. Much love and I will see you guys in that next one.

=== FILE: So You Want to Be a PULMONOLOGIST [Ep. 53] [o3xepc0fWlA].txt ===

 so you want to be a pulmonologist, ridding the world of asthma one patient at a time? Well, not quite. Let's debunk the myths and misconceptions. This is the reality of pulmonology. For this installment in So You Want to Be, we're bringing our insider expert to you. Pulmonologist Dr. Sahil Chopra will join me to give you a glimpse into the world of pulmonology. He's quadruple board certified in internal medicine, critical care, pulmonary medicine, and sleep medicine. Let's get started. Pulmonology is a specialty focused on the respiratory system and diseases of the airway, lungs, and chest wall, such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, interstitial lung disease, pneumonia, and lung cancers. Pulmonologists also manage patients who require mechanical ventilation and other forms of life support. Pulmonary medicine can be categorized in at least three different ways by practice setting, practice type, and by subspecialty. Pulmonologists can work in a variety of practice settings, such as inpatient, outpatient, and research. With inpatient, pulmonologists focus on treating patients admitted to the hospital. Most pulmonologists are trained in critical care, so they round in the ICU, managing critically ill patients suffering from severe respiratory failure, including acute lung injury, acute respiratory distress syndrome, or ARDS, severe pneumonia, COPD exacerbations, and those on mechanical ventilation. If on the general floor and not in the ICU, they consult on patients admitted to the hospital who have developed respiratory complications, such as asthma, pneumonia, or COPD. They could also be involved in pre and post lung transplant care for hospitals that offer these programs. Outpatient focuses on managing patients in an office or clinic setting for chronic diseases such as asthma, COPD, cystic fibrosis, bronchiectasis, and interstitial lung diseases like pulmonary fibrosis and sarcoidosis. They evaluate patients with persistent respiratory symptoms of normal chest images, such as masses or nodules, and unexplained shortness of breath. Pulmonologists may also screen for and manage lung cancer, coordinating with oncologists and thoracic surgeons to take biopsies and develop treatment plans. Additionally, there are research and collaboration opportunities with startups, including companies that focus on health optimization, such as those that aim to improve breathing to enhance overall well-being. Next, pulmonologists can work in community, academic, or private practices. In the community, pulmonologists with training in critical care medicine serve as intensivists leading the care of critically ill patients. They may also be called to consult on hospitalized patients with breathing concerns. Generally, in academic settings, day to day work involves a combination of patient care, teaching, and research, typically at a university hospital. In private practice, pulmonologists focus primarily on clinical patient care outside of a university setting. Sub-specialization also distinguishes a pulmonologist. After completing general pulmonary training of two to three years, which is itself a fellowship that follows three years of internal medicine, there are several sub-fellowships that a pulmonologist can pursue. Each requires an additional year of training, with the exception of allergy and immunology, which is two to three years. Interventional pulmonology focuses on performing procedures. These specialists perform complex, minimally invasive procedures such as stent placements and bronchoscopies, where they use a camera to go into the airways to take samples or biopsies. They also collaborate with other specialists to develop treatment plans. Sleep medicine is an outpatient focused specialty involving sleep testing and managing patients with sleep disorders. Sleep medicine is the subspecialty that I chose to pursue because of my exposure to a breathing condition during sleep called sleep apnea. Now I run my own sleep clinic called Empower Sleep. Contrary to the popular belief, sleep medicine is not about just a sleep study or a sleep test. It's about understanding the process of human physiology during a state of sleep, understanding the intricate rhythms of different organ systems, and the profound impact that sleep has on our physical, emotional, and cognitive health. On a technical level, sleep medicine experts explore the nuances of various different sleep disorders from insomnia all the way to sleep apnea. Pulmonologists can also specialize in treating sleep-related breathing conditions. Pulmonary hypertension is a highly specialized area that focuses on this specific and complex lung condition, which is a disorder of the lung's blood vessels. These specialists perform numerous procedures related to the lung's blood vessels or pulmonary vasculature and care for critically ill patients. Lung transplant involves caring for lung transplant patients and is a busy and demanding specialty. Patients are typically very ill, have a limited life expectancy, and are frequently in and out of the hospital and ICU. Cystic fibrosis focuses on caring for patients with this congenital condition. It often involves pediatric pulmonologists who manage children until they transition to adult care, a transition that is becoming more common as new medications extend patients' lifespans. Occupational and environmental lung disease is characterized as a research-centric field. Specialists often collaborate with large government organizations, such as the CDC or NIH. Allergy and immunology means the pulmonologist is specialized in both pulmonary medicine and allergy immunology, allowing them to diagnose and treat a unique set of complex conditions where the respiratory system and the immune system significantly overlap. Pulmonology isn't the only path to allergy immunology. We took a deep dive into this career path in a previous video. Check it out to determine whether becoming an allergist immunologist is a good fit for you on our So You Want to Be playlist that now covers over 50 medical career paths. Let's clear up some common misconceptions about pulmonology. First off, there's a misconception that pulmonologists don't do procedures. In fact, we perform several different outpatient elective and inpatient emergent procedures, such as bronchoscopy. In this procedure, using a thin tube with a camera that's inserted through the mouth of the nose, we can examine the airways and even obtain biopsies. There's also endobrolkyl ultrasound, or E-Bus, where an ultrasound is used to perform a needle aspiration of a lymph node or lung tissue. Additionally, there is a thoracentesis, a medical procedure in which fluid is removed from a thin space between the chest wall and the lungs, known as a pleural space, using a needle. Another misconception is that they only treat breathing disorders like asthma and COPD. In fact, they also treat conditions like bronchiectasis, cystic fibrosis, pulmonary embolism, sleep apnea, and different forms of lung cancer. That being said, the COVID pandemic increased public awareness of pulmonologists and pulmonary conditions, so that there are fewer misconceptions than there were before 2020. There are a few different ways to become a pulmonologist. The most common is completing a three-year internal medicine residency, followed by a three-year combined pulmonology and critical care fellowship, which provides additional intensive care unit training. The less common path is three years of internal medicine, followed by a two-year general pulmonology fellowship. However, after fellowship, physicians are not required to practice both pulmonology and critical care. If you're interested in the pediatric route, you would complete a three-year pediatric residency followed by a three-year pediatric pulmonology fellowship. And as far as compensation goes, pulmonology is at the higher end of the mid-pack at $411,000 a year. However, this will vary depending on the specific career path you take. Before we dig into what's to love and not love about pulmonology, if you have a request for our next So You Want to Be topic, leave a comment. We collect every request and take it into consideration when choosing our topics. There's a lot to love about pulmonology. First off, pulmonology offers a blend of inpatient and outpatient medicine, allowing doctors to care for patients across a wide spectrum of illness severity, ranging from stable outpatients to critically ill patients in the ICU. The lifestyle is diverse. Working within patients means longer hours, whereas outpatient work typically follows an 8-5 schedule with minimal call. Many pulmonologists combine both. However, it is generally a busy specialty, not a lifestyle field like dermatology. Most pulmonologists are also trained in critical care and often split their time between the ICU and general pulmonology duties. This work is also quite fulfilling and gratifying. Relieving a debilitating symptom like shortness of breath brings a great deal of gratitude from patients. Pulmonologists also have the opportunity to use advanced cutting-edge technology to perform complex and precise procedures. For example, CT-guided navigational bronchoscopy utilizes a patient's CT scan to create a GPS-like system that guides a camera to a specific tiny lobe of the lung for biopsy. I love pulmonary medicine because it allows me to practice both inpatient and outpatient medicine. There is a mix of both elective and emergent procedures. When a pulmonologist works in the ICU, it allows him to take care of critically ill patients who have very complex physiology. If you're interested in learning more from Dr. Chopra, he's helping me improve my sleep over on the Kevin Jubbal MD channel. We're comparing the data from the most popular sleep trackers, like Aura and Ultrahuman, against my onerar results, a clinical-grade PSG sleep monitor. Of course, pulmonology is not for everyone and does come with its downsides. First, your patients will often frustrate you as you'll be treating patients with chronic pulmonary conditions like COPD or emphysema, conditions that are caused or worsened by ongoing behaviors, such as smoking. The challenge of helping your patients change these addictive, self-destructive behaviors cannot be overstated. You'll also be dealing with many incurable chronic diseases. COPD and interstitial lung disease cause permanent scarring and damage to the lungs that cannot be reversed. As a result, the focus of treatment is often on managing the disease and its symptoms rather than curing it. That said, on the positive side, managing a patient's chronic decline allows you to build a strong, long-term relationship with them, which can be quite rewarding depending on your interest in patient interaction. Another downside is the length of training, with residency plus fellowship lasting 5 to 6 years. While there are many other specialties with this length of training, pulmonologists make anywhere from 100 to 300 thousand dollars less than specialties with comparable training lengths, such as vascular surgery at 550k or plastic surgery at 620k. So, should you become a pulmonologist? I like to think of it as pulmonary and critical care internal medicine on steroids. If you're someone who loves working with your brain, enjoys doing procedures with your hands and is fascinated by the specialty of internal medicine, then you should consider becoming a pulmonologist. But if you hate being the detective internist and don't like doing procedures with your hands or you don't want to be in a high-acuity workplace setting, then pulmonology is likely not a good fit for you. Dive into our complete So You Want to Be playlist for over 50 medical career paths or my sleep tracker video with Dr. Chopra right up here.

=== FILE: So You Want to Be a RADIOLOGIST [Ep. 16] [DzpjRBLnKEM].txt ===

 So you want to be a radiologist. You like the idea of sitting in a dark room, looking at x-rays, and steering clear of patient contact? Let's debunk the public perception myths of what it means to be a radiologist, and give it to you straight. This is the reality of radiology. Dr. Jubbal, MedSchoolInsiders.com. Welcome to our next installment in So You Want to Be. In this series, we highlight a specific specialty within medicine, such as radiology, and help you decide if it's a good fit for you. You can find the other specialties on our So You Want to Be playlist. If you want to vote in upcoming polls to decide what future specialties we cover, make sure you are subscribed. If you'd like to see what being a radiologist looks like, check out my second channel, Kevin Jubbal MD, where I do a second series in parallel called A Day in the Life. We'll be doing A Day in the Life of a Radiologist soon. When a patient comes in with a specific complaint, unless that problem is skin deep, you can't actually see what the problem is with your own eyes. For example, only a few causes of the commonly presenting complaint of abdominal pain can be diagnosed with just history, physical exam, and lab tests. Fortunately, the field of diagnostic radiology exists whereby we can use powerful machines to visualize what is occurring inside the body. Radiologists are experts in interpreting these images and leverage the power of these machines to both diagnose and treat disease. Imaging modalities are used by most physicians in most specialties. Anytime a non-radiologist physician orders an imaging study, a radiologist will analyze the images and provide their assessment, which helps the ordering provider guide the appropriate care to the patient. But radiology isn't just about reading images. Some radiologists use these imaging technologies to improve the precision of certain procedures. For example, a suspicious mass in a patient's kidney can be sampled through an ultrasound-guided needle biopsy rather than surgical excision. And while the common stereotypes suggest radiologists are shy, socially awkward, don't like talking to people, and just sit in a dark room all day, that's far from the truth. Radiologists aren't isolated sitting by themselves in reading rooms. While not as high energy as the hospital floor or operating room, physicians regularly visit or call the reading rooms for assistance with their patients. And because radiology is a comparatively low-acuity field compared to other specialties, reading rooms are often laid back and jovial in nature. But radiologists work isn't confined to just reading rooms. While most spend their time in reading rooms, they can also perform several procedures, ranging from life-saving procedures such as embolizing or ablating cancers with radiation-infused particles, to management-defining procedures such as taking a biopsy of a mass in deep areas of the body that no scalpel can safely reach. There are a few ways to categorize radiology. Thanks to a flexible job market, radiologists can choose to be more reading room focused or patient-facing. Non-procedural radiologists choose to spend the large majority, if not all, of their time in the reading room. On the other hand, you can choose to be heavily procedural, as every subspecialty within radiology involves procedures and provides the opportunity to be patient-facing either in the procedure suite, at the bedside, or in clinic. Procedures are particularly common amongst breast radiologists, interventional radiologists, and musculoskeletal radiologists. As an academic radiologist, your responsibilities will include a combination of reading films, teaching residents, and conducting radiology-related research. Many academic radiologists also have their own clinic where they evaluate and manage patients. Your clinical duties will generally be at a slower pace compared to private practice to accommodate time for teaching, research, and clinic. In private practice or community-based practices, the large majority of your time will be spent in the reading room, and your primary responsibility will be in completing reads of imaging films in an accurate and timely manner. You'll be spending less time performing procedures related to your subspecialty training. After four years of medical school, radiology residency is a total of five years. The first year, or intern year, is either a preliminary or transition year whereby you obtain clinical training focused on various internal medicine or surgical rotations. This internship is often performed at a different institution. The subsequent four years are dedicated to your radiology training. This means as a PGY1, or postgraduate year one, you'll be an intern, and as a PGY2, you'll be in your second year out of medical school, but in your first year of radiology training, or R1. We call these advanced programs as they provide training beginning with your PGY2 year. Other specialties that include advanced programs are anesthesiology, ophthalmology, radiation oncology, and dermatology. Most other specialties include categorical residency programs whereby you spend your entire training period at one institution and begin training in your intended specialty in the first year. For example, when I was in plastic surgery residency, it was a six-year program all at one institution, and I had plastic surgery exposure even in my first month. Diagnostic radiology is middle of the pack in terms of competitiveness with an average step one in recent years around 240 and an average step two CK in the mid to high 240s. From our competitiveness comparison table, radiology ranks at 14 out of 22. If you go directly to an interventional radiology residency program, it's a bit more competitive with average step one in the mid 240s and an average step two CK in the mid 250s. Considering board scores and other factors from the NRMP official data, this places interventional radiology at seven out of 22 in terms of competitiveness. Medical students that typically apply to radiology are friendly, laid-back, and humble individuals who understand the importance of work-life balance. These are also often the intellectual and curious students, as diagnostic radiology is heavy on thinking and light on the clinical application of medicine. If you enjoyed your preclinical years of medical school more than your clinical years, you may prefer the intellectual aspect of medicine. After radiology residency, you can subspecialize further with fellowship, all of which are one year in duration except for IR. Interventional radiology, or IR for short, is the most procedure heavy radiology subspecialty. Procedures are minimally invasive, performed using wires and catheters. You can cure cancers, stop life-threatening hemorrhage, salvage critical limbs, and reverse disabling genitourinary conditions through an incision merely centimeters long. This is the busiest and fastest pace of the radiology subspecialties. While you can do this as a two-year fellowship after completing your radiology residency, you can also go directly into an integrated interventional radiology residency after medical school, which is a six-year path. Neuro radiology is for those who are highly intellectual, have a passion for learning, and are driven by curiosity. The job of a neuroradiologist is to diagnose pathologies involving the brain and spinal cord and guide clinical decision-making. Diagnosing strokes is one of the most important responsibilities. You can additionally pursue a neuro-interventional fellowship afterwards if you're interested in more procedural interventions with the brain and spinal cord. Breast radiology is heavily patient facing, whereby you'll hold clinic-performing mammograms and biopsies on primarily female patients. If you find a cancerous lesion, you'll refer to hematology, oncology, or surgical oncology for the next steps depending on the type of cancer. This has the best lifestyle of all the radiology subspecialties, as there are no breast emergencies requiring overnight call. Pediatric radiology is for those who enjoy the pathology of pediatrics, but not necessarily the clinical aspect. The pathology in this patient population is unique, including intiseception, whereby the colon telescopes on itself and as a pediatric radiologist, you'll be administering the air enema for treatment. You'll also see manifestations of rare congenital diseases, more so than just about any other field. With MSK radiology, your responsibilities will revolve around sports medicine and orthopedics in both diagnosis and management. As a result, you'll be working side by side with the orthopods. It's a highly procedural field with joint injections for pain, joint aspirations for diagnosis, and kyphoplasty to treat vertebral fractures. Body imaging and MRI is the workhorse of radiology and the backbone of the hospital. These are the experts in cross-sectional imaging, meaning CT, MRI, and ultrasound, to diagnose diseases found in the chest, abdomen, and pelvis. This is a procedure-heavy subspecialty with biopsies, drainages, aspirations, cancer cryoablations, and cancer radiofrequency ablations. There's a lot to love about radiology. Radiology is one of the road lifestyle specialties standing for radiology, ophthalmology, anesthesiology, and dermatology. It's not hard to maintain a good work-life balance, and you'll be well compensated for your work, making an average of $427,000 per year. As more specialties are relying less on the physical exam and more heavily on imaging to make a diagnosis or monitor a disease, your input is crucial, and you'll know you're making a difference in that your voice is being heard. Given the lower acuity work environment, the atmosphere is lower stress, and colleagues are more amicable and collegial compared to higher stress specialties. You may not appreciate this now, but you certainly will the farther along you are in training. There's less nonsense and bureaucratic sludge to work through. Your daily task as a radiologist has a direct impact on patient outcomes, whether it's helping to diagnose a disease or provide an intervention. As a consultant, you won't have to deal with the difficulties of healthcare delivery, such as arguing with insurance, sorting out patient disposition, meaning where they go after they are discharged from the hospital, dealing with non-compliant patients, or pleading with consultants to evaluate your patient. Lastly, radiology is an innovative field, and you'll be able to play with new toys and gadgets. While some are afraid of artificial intelligence replacing the job of radiologists, it will likely augment and make their job easier rather than outright replace them. While radiology is a great field, it is far from perfect. You won't be on the receiving end of gratitude from patients after making the critical diagnosis that allows the primary physician to best manage them. This is because as a radiologist, you are less commonly seeing patients in person, but rather remotely through images. If you crave patient interaction or continuity, radiology will not be able to provide these elements. Just like its name implies, diagnostic radiology is all about identifying the problem. Much less often, are you the one fixing the problem, as that's the ordering physician's responsibility, unless you're in interventional radiology. If you like the satisfaction of being the one to solve the problems or treat the disease, diagnostic radiology may not be able to provide that for you. And while the stereotypes that radiologists are introverted and awkward are not necessarily true, they're unfortunately pervasive in the public eye. How can you decide if radiology is a good field for you? Those who thrive and are happiest in the field tend to be curious and enjoy the intellectual aspect of medicine. If you like puzzles, radiology is essentially that. The diagnosis is right in front of you and you simply have to piece together the information to find it. If you value work-life balance with time outside the hospital and high compensation, you can have your cake and eat it too with radiology. But make sure you enjoy the day-to-day of what radiologists deal with, namely reading images which may leave some of the more outgoing or adrenaline-fueled individuals feeling unfulfilled. If you have a big ego, radiology may not be for you. You have to be okay knowing that you'll often be underappreciated, with many patients not necessarily knowing you're involved in their care, but your non-radiology physician colleagues will find your help indispensable. Big shout out to the radiologists at MedSchoolInsiders that helped me in the creation of this video. If you'd like to work with one of them one-on-one and bolster your application as a future medical student or radiologist, visit medschoolinsiders.com to learn more. Thank you all so much for watching. If you enjoyed this video, check out our So You Want to Be playlist where you can find the other three road specialties, namely ophthalmology, anesthesiology, and dermatology. Much love, and I will see you guys in that next one.

=== FILE: So You Want to Be a SPORTS MEDICINE DOCTOR [Ep. 15] [I0nGb4srcrA].txt ===

 So you want to be a sports medicine physician. You like the idea of working with top athletes and helping them heal from their injuries. Let's debunk the public perception myths of what it means to be a sports medicine doctor and give it to you straight. This is the reality of sports medicine. Dr. Jubbal, MedSchoolInsiders.com, welcome to our next installment in So You Want to Be. In this series, we highlight a specific specialty within medicine, such as sports medicine, and help you decide if it's a good fit for you. You can find the other specialties on our So You Want to Be playlist. You guys voted for it, so here it is. Make sure you're subscribed if you want to vote for future episodes. Sports medicine doctors are the non-surgical, musculoskeletal specialists, taking care of MSK injuries for athletes and active patients. Think of them as doing everything an orthopedic surgeon does without any surgery, but with procedural skills. While orthopedic surgeons who undergo an ortho sports medicine fellowship are the experts on surgical management of MSK injuries, they are less able to address other realms of the patient's needs. Since most sports medicine doctors have a primary care background, most commonly family medicine, they're also well-suited in addressing the full spectrum of patient and athlete needs. They serve as a single hub and point person in the patient's management, including and extending beyond their MSK injuries. Sports medicine physicians provide the full spectrum of care for anyone that wants to be active, whether an athlete or couch to 5k jogger. For example, they'll work up a young type 1 diabetic patient who is interested in playing sports, or determine when an adolescent can return to contact sports after a bout of mononucleosis as to minimize splenic rupture risk. The age range of patients is wide from school age to the elderly. Younger patients often break bones and experience concussions, while older patients often develop arthritis and other degenerative conditions which you'll help manage. Compared to other specialties, in clinic there's less continuity and a larger turnover of new patients. Sports medicine doctors see a high number of new patients who have acute MSK injuries rather than chronic repeat customers. As their sports medicine physician, your job is to diagnose, treat, and have them back to normal or self-managing long term. The main exception to this rule is arthritis. While not surgical, sports medicine physicians still perform plenty of procedures, including diagnostic ultrasound and ultrasound guided injections for joints, tendons, nerves, etc. There are a few ways to categorize sports medicine. A team physician is the sports medicine doctor who is the provider for the athletes on a sports team. For example, you could be the team doctor for a high school basketball team watching from the sidelines and taking care of any injuries that happen in the game. Outside of game time, you'll be helping manage their acute and chronic injuries. This is not viable as a standalone business practice, and you'll also be seeing patients in clinic. In clinic, you'll work either for yourself in a private practice or a larger health entity. Regardless, patients will be sent your way through referrals or you'll create a patient population where you're taking care of athlete-related problems, most of which are musculoskeletal in nature. If you want to do strictly sports medicine without much primary care, you can work within an orthopedic practice, seeing the non-operative patients. You'll be employed by the orthopedics group or department, working alongside the surgeons and handling all the cases that don't require surgical management, or acting as the gatekeeper who sees all new patients to determine whether their issue is operative or non-operative. You'll be an essential part of the team, helping boost everyone's productivity. After four years of medical school, there are a few different routes to become a sports medicine physician. The overwhelming majority of sports medicine physicians first complete a family medicine residency, but you can also go through emergency medicine, pediatrics, internal medicine, or PM&R. The specialty you come from is important, as your practice will likely be a blend of sports medicine and your primary specialty. Fellowship is generally one year, although some are two-year programs which are more research or leadership focused. In fellowship, sideline coverage of team games is required, as is training room time, meaning clinic for the team. This can be done on site for the affiliated college or nearby sports teams. Some fellowships will provide opportunities to be the team doctor for higher level athletes, including Division I college, Olympic, or professional sports, while others will have limited exposure to higher level athletes. Almost all fellowships work with some kind of college athletics. You'll also be spending the majority of your time rotating in primary care sports medicine clinic, but also rotating with orthopedic surgery sports clinic to understand their patients recovery process and complications to be mindful of. Note that as a medical student, you probably won't get exposure to the specialty unless you actively seek it out. It's not a core rotation, although you may be able to secure elective time on primary care sports medicine, not to be confused with surgical sports medicine with the orthopods. As a pre-med, see if you can shadow a sports medicine physician and as a medical student, see if there are any preceptor opportunities with a sports med doc. Explore the specialty and shadow physicians doing sideline coverage of games. There is a lot to love about sports medicine. Because being mobile and physically active is central to people enjoying their lives, your job is incredibly rewarding. You'll take patients who are injured and help them get back to living a fulfilling and active life. You're generally seeing patients that have favorable outcomes and experience wins every day. It's quite satisfying to have a patient with knee pain secondary to arthritis, limp it to clinic and then watch them walk out pain free after you perform an injection. And speaking of favorable outcomes, another underappreciated aspect is that the vast majority of patients are generally healthier and highly motivated to get better. In some other specialties, you may experience frustration with a non-adherent patient whose condition could improve but has more difficulty following the treatment plan. If you're a big sports fan, you'll love that you get paid to attend sports games and tend to the athletes. And if you're lucky, you can even work with high level athletes who are at the top of their game and are the epitome of peak human performance. It's fun and inspiring to be a part of that. If you're the type of person that enjoys working with your hands but doesn't want to go all in with surgery, then sports medicine provides a procedural mix that makes for a great middle ground. And unlike surgery, family medicine has a fantastic lifestyle with regular 9-5 hours and minimal overnight call for most. For those who have broad interests, you'll get to do two specialties in one. As a primary care sports medicine physician, you'll always have the option to fall back on your primary specialty, whether that be family medicine, emergency medicine, Peds, internal medicine or PM&R. Depending on your interests, lifestyle and practice preferences, you can adjust the balance to be more heavily sports medicine or more heavily your primary care specialty. And finally, it's an accessible specialty to most medical students as it doesn't require supremely competitive board scores to get into one of the feeder primary care specialties. Additionally, fellowships are readily available to those interested in the specialty. While sports medicine is an awesome specialty, it is not for everyone. Many hopeful students are drawn to the specialty, imagining an exciting career working with top professional athletes. The reality is that getting a job with a professional sports team is very rare and requires a lot of work to secure. And while most people assume that team docs are paid handsomely, the truth is that most are either on a volunteer basis or the compensation is far lower than what you'd be making in clinic. It makes sense, sports docs are willing to take a pay cut for the opportunity and prestige to work with such elite athletes. Sometimes, healthcare systems will even pay the team for advertising and provide free healthcare for the athletes. While the lifestyle is generally favorable, if you want to do sideline coverage with high level teams, your hours will be far less predictable and you'll often be on the road depending on where games are located. The line between being on and being off is blurred and it becomes harder to lead a normal 9-5 life or even take vacation. Compensation for sports medicine is also on the lower end compared to other specialties, with an average of $235,000 per year. And if you're working with teams, you'll likely be taking an additional pay cut or volunteering additional hours outside of clinic. As a younger specialty, it can be frustrating that sports medicine doesn't have a robust body of scientific evidence to guide management. For something like cardiology, there's a double-blinded randomized control trial for just about everything, but for sports medicine, the body of evidence is far less developed. Last, for those who know that they only want to do sports medicine in their future career, it can feel frustrating to do 3 years of a primary care specialty that you may not use much before getting to do a 1-year fellowship in the specialized area of medicine you want to practice. How can you decide if sports medicine is the right field for you? The stereotype is that if you're active, enjoyed playing sports, but aren't a huge jock, primary care sports medicine may be for you. Think of sports medicine as attracting the orthobroses who don't identify with bro culture, but in all seriousness, anyone can find joy in sports medicine. If you enjoy musculoskeletal medicine but don't enjoy the operating room, primary care sports medicine may be a good fit. If you enjoy working with your hands with clinic-based procedures and value lifestyle, sports medicine has a fantastic balance. Sports medicine is also unique in that the physical exam truly remains the cornerstone of diagnostic approach. Whereas some other specialties are moving more towards imaging and lab tests, sports medicine has a heavy emphasis on the physical exam. If you're the student that took pleasure in learning the nuances and intricacies of the anterior drawer test versus a lochman's test, look no further. In short, if you love sports, MSK, and working with athletes but don't want to dedicate your life to the operating room, primary care sports medicine may be for you. Big shout out to Dr. Jean-Pierre Vallette, current attending sports medicine physician and my good friend from medical school. You can find two papers in the description, one on the financial implications of being a team doctor, and one on factors associated with sports medicine fellowship selection. For anyone who wants to take their medical school or residency application to the next level, MedSchool Insiders has your back. Thousands of students have used our services and courses, and we have over a 95% success rate for our comprehensive packages. But don't just take our word for it, our customers have left hundreds of glowing reviews, and we have an industry-leading 99% satisfaction rating. Visit medschoolinsiders.com to learn more. Thank you all so much for watching. If you enjoyed this episode, you'll also enjoy our orthopedic surgery video, which covers surgical sports medicine. Much love, and I will see you guys in that next one.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.492412Z ===
