 g rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout rout about individual placement and support. We are very happy to have Bob Drake, who is a retired psychiatrist, but still works full time, here to talk about a personal reflection that he had in the journal that was entitled An Employer's View of Recovery. So Bob, thank you so much for joining us. It's a real honor. My pleasure. So this is a personal reflection that you wrote that starts out with a little bit of like a description of your research team at Dartmouth in the 90s. And I thought it would be helpful if you could kind of set that stage for us a little bit. Where were you in your career at that point? Where was the research team or the state of research that you were looking into? And also like what had kind of led you down that path to get to that point? So I moved up from Boston to Dartmouth in the early 80s. Dartmouth's kind of a backwoods, tiny college and medical school. And when I got here, there was no research going on at all. But I was interested always in documenting what we're doing and trying to figure out how to make services better for people with mental illness. That's been the theme of my long life, I guess. I've been trying to do something helpful for about 60 years that way. And mostly failures along the line. But when I came here, I- Hey Bob, can I just say something? Yeah. You can have mostly failures and have just one success and that could be really defining. Yeah. That's sort of true for me. And, you know, serendipity that got to that. When I was in Boston and when I first came here, I got some of the people in different departments together here who were interested in thinking about mental health services. And for many years, I was studying traditional mental health things like psychotherapy, like medications, like case management and so on. Initially, we were studying assertive community treatment because that had been what we worked on in Boston. And then when we came to New Hampshire, we got a grant to establish the assertive community treatment teams in all of the mental health centers. And then along the lines, we had an opportunity to think more about social determinants of health, especially employment. And that came from several different directions. One was the director of mental health in New Hampshire, was this brilliant young social worker, came to us and said, okay, look, now you guys are the researchers in New Hampshire. You know, New Hampshire is kind of a dead end place for research. And so he said, I want you to help us solve a problem. The problem is that every year when we do a survey of people in the mental health system, they say that their greatest interest, what they want most from the mental health system is jobs. And we don't have a clue how to help them find jobs. So we've never, you know, really paid attention to that. And I didn't know anything about it either, but I tried to pull together some people who had experience with employment and, you know, just called people around the country who were working on this area. And then we had this surprising opportunity. This was really the greatest serendipity of my life, which was that the director again asked, was planning to close some of our day treatment centers for financial reasons. They, the state had to do that. And so he asked me if I would study that. And he actually, the first center to close, he promised them, look, if everything goes to hell, like everyone believes that it's going to, I'll refund it and we'll start it back up again. So that was a nice opportunity, you know, and we studied this one mental health center, you know, New Hampshire's just small towns mostly. And so we had this one mental health center with about a hundred clients in day treatment. And we found another center that was exactly the same size and had a similar day treatment center as a comparison group, right? And so we interviewed everybody at the beginning, right before the closure, you know, the clients and their families and the clinicians and so on. And everybody told us about all the horrible things that were going to happen. You know, people were going to drop out of care, go back to the hospital, commit suicide, et cetera, et cetera. And so we recorded all that stuff. And then we came back a year later after the closure. And the surprising finding was that the people who had been in the center that closed a year later were all doing much better. Whereas the people who have been in the center that didn't close, they were all doing exactly the same. No progress that we could really detect. And I didn't believe that could possibly be true, that everybody was doing better. So we went back and interviewed them a second time, you know, and we really grilled them. You know, how in the world is this possible kind of questions? And what we found was that, well, when they closed the center, they sold the building, they transferred all the staff, but they didn't get rid of the employment specialist. And when we interviewed the clients, the main reason that they were all doing better is that 60% of them were working. They had a job and they loved the job and they felt like they were doing something important and, you know, they were getting money and they just felt like they were becoming independent and so on. And the other 40%, remarkably, had also found something that they preferred rather than going to day treatment. Some of them were going to a drop-in center. Some of them were going to, you know, card club. Some of them were going to a local gym where they got them free memberships and so on like that. But they all preferred what they were doing. Nobody felt like we should go back to having a day treatment center, right? That is so impressive. That is just so impressive. Yeah. I mean, it blew my mind, literally. I thought about this and thought about it. And finally, I realized two things, you know, that I hadn't known before. I never heard about in training, really. One was that these day centers are mostly involved in socializing people into disability, just like our psychiatric hospitals. You know, they're teaching them to have other people take care of them and feel like that they're dependent and incompetent and so on. And once the employment specialists, you know, got free reign to get them out there in the real world, they pretty much all went for it. And then the second thing I learned was that, you know, employment is really a powerful treatment because these people look totally different after a year of work than they looked when they were in the day treatments. And I mean, you know, they were they had a little money. They were dressing better. They were, you know, obviously feeling better about themselves. Some of them had already gotten promoted in their jobs, you know. So at that point, you know, we all said, well, employment seems to be helping these folks much more than all the things we were doing treatment wise. Maybe we should study this employment in more detail. Oh, and one of the first things we did was we went to the comparison group center and because we said, you know, they deserve a debriefing about all this. And so we showed them, you know, what happened in their center and what happened in the center that closed and they all decided, well, let's do day treatment in the morning and we'll try this support employment in the afternoon. Then so they set it up that way. Within six months, every person had dropped out of day treatment in the morning and they were also getting great rate of employment, just like the first center. And, you know, we and we've gone on to replicate that several times. So was this a pivot point for you? Were you do you think your career is kind of headed off or your research program was headed off in a different direction? And then this finding and maybe other ones similarly, like it really did kind of swivel your head a little bit and make you focus on this? Oh, yeah. And for all of us, I mean, there were several young people here that I had recruited to be part of our team, you know, an anthropologist and a statistician and a psychologist and so on. And we were all just stunned by, you know, witnessing this and then seeing it happen again and again in other places. So one of the first things we did was to say, OK, well, we should do a randomized controlled trial about this. And so we did a trial in New Hampshire and in the two urban areas of New Hampshire, which are Manchester and Concord, there was a Choose, Get, Keep program that had been developed at BU, which was the most popular employment program at that time, besides, you know, these day treatment skills training programs. And so we wrote this grant, NIMH, you know, that compared supported employment with Choose, Get, Keep. And that was kind of a stunning finding, too, because people did so much better in the support employment program than they did in the Choose, Get, Keep program. I mean, in fact, our statistician said, well, you know, it'd be unethical to even finish this trial. The differences are so superior. But we went ahead and finished it anyway, because, you know, statisticians don't really understand anything about clinical work. And we've lost our entire New Hampshire listenership and now we're all statistician listenership. So I don't know who's next on the chopping block. Yeah. Lisa knows I offend a lot of people as I go. So I think this would also be a good opportunity to just step back and talk about what you and your colleagues developed out of some of this research program. Then we'll get back to the personal reflection about the young employees. Could you talk about what it is that you and your colleagues developed individual placement and supports and what was different about it, what the main principles are for those of our listeners who don't know? So right at the beginning, we decided that we should, you know, manualize this because that's what we have been doing with ACT, Assertive Community Treatment Program. So we developed a manual and then we developed a fidelity scale so we could really tell if people were following what they're supposed to do in the manual. And the manual is simple. You know, it all revolves around eight principles. And the eight principles all came directly from the clients themselves. This is what they said they wanted. You know, most of the people wanted a real job. So we just focused on real jobs that paid regular wages. Most of the people said they hated these training programs. They found them infantilizing. And so they really wanted to go to work rather than have more training before they went to work. And so the support employment kind of builds on the principle that rather than train people and then place them, you actually place them in a job that they want right away. And then you provide whatever support they need to succeed in that job. And that came from Paul Wayman and the support employment people at VCU who had been doing this kind of work with people with intellectual and developmental disabilities, but not with people who had mental illness. So anyway, we got that principle. Everything was designed to be as client-centered as possible. One of the greatest compliments we've ever gotten is from clients at state conferences who say, well, you know, IPS is the most client-centered intervention we have in the mental health field. That's nice because that's what it was designed to be. You know, we really start by asking people, what, you know, what would you really like to do? What's your dream job? And then figuring out how to get them a job that if it's not the dream job, it's on the pathway to the dream job. I'm going to just try to think what people who don't know about IPS might be thinking. What do you do when someone says, oh, I want to be the chair of Procter & Gamble? Yeah, that's a great one. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, that's a typical issue. And the employment specialists have to be creative about that. You know, like I had this client who was a real baseball fan, as I am, and I took him to a minor league baseball game over in Manchester. And what I was hoping was he would want to join the crew that cleans up after the baseball games. They hired a crew of young people that go around and get the cups and the, you know, hot dogs and all that stuff cleaned up. But I, you know, went all around the stadium with him and showed him different things. And I said, well, Jed, you've seen all the jobs around this baseball. What do you think you would like? And he said, well, I think I'd like to be a pitcher. He was, you know, overweight and older and played baseball. But that's, and I said, okay, well, you know, that's a place to dream about. And, you know, let's work on getting there. But maybe a better starting job would be to, you know, work in one of the booths where they sell, sell things around the baseball stadium. And so, you know, and so we went around and really talked to people in the booths and he picked out, you know, a place which I can't remember whether it was selling shirts and caps or it was selling, you know, hot dogs and beer. But anyway, he picked out a place like that. He loved working there, you know, worked there for a long time. And before he went into retail sales, a much higher job, you know. But he always had his eye on, you know, baseball. And he became much more realistic thinking about what he could do in the baseball stadium. It was nice. But I hear about those stories all the time. You know, a guy wants to be an airline pilot at the Manchester airport. And they, well, let's find out what it takes to be an airline pilot. What kind of training would you have to have? And is there something about around the airport that we could, you know, find a job to get you started? And yeah, you know, putting baggage on the airplane would be a good way to get a first look at what the pilots are doing. So let me take it from the other direction. There's no job that I can do. I'm not really good enough to, I'm too sick. Oh, yeah, yeah. Well, occasionally, especially with young people, you know, been ill since they were young, they say, I really don't know what I would like to do. You know, I've never worked. I couldn't finish high school. I'm just not sure. And so, you know, then what we do is try to spend time with them and walk around with them and see what they really like and talk to their family about, you know, what gives them joy and pleasure and so on. So, you know, like I remember a guy that I worked with who developed schizophrenia at a young age and really hadn't been able to function very well. But the employment specialist spent a couple of days with them and she said, oh, no problem. This guy's got all kinds of skills to take care of his dog and he'll be fab in any kind of animal setting. And so, you know, and the way we develop jobs is, you know, we have a team. There's the mental health people and vocational people and so on. And so we went around in our meeting and, you know, one guy said, well, you know, I live on a farm. I'll talk to the farm owner. You know, another one says, I well, a lady says, I have a buddy who runs his pet store. I'll talk to her. And several people said, well, I have pets and I'll talk to the vet to see if they need anybody. And so then we presented these different jobs to the guy and he said, oh, yeah, I'd like to work at the vets. And so, you know, we talked to the vet and he said, well, what we really need is for somebody to come in on the weekend. This guy, by the way, was very paranoid and didn't want to be around people. And dogs were OK, but people were kind of too much. And so the vet said, we really need somebody to come in on the weekend and, you know, wash the dogs, feed the dogs, take them for a walk. And this guy loved that idea. And so he started working Saturday and Sunday, taking care of the dogs that were housed because they were ill. And that just evolved over time. It was amazing. He became friends with some of the other, you know, vet techs and young people that worked there. And before long, the vet said, well, you know, we'd really like Billy to work days. You know, it seems like he's getting along fine with people. And so before we knew it, he had a full time job working at the vet clinic and was, you know, sort of training to be a vet tech. And he was changing bandages and helping with surgery. It was kind of amazing. So I think people are, have at least gotten the flavor of IPS. Is there any other kind of technical aspect of it, of the model that you think? It's really important. Yeah. You know, one is that we follow people along, you know, the vocational rehab services in this country usually discharge people, even if they're very successful after 90 days and a lot sooner than that, if they don't show much promise. And we try to stay with people as long as it makes sense. And even if we sort of turn the supports over to the case manager after a year, our team's available to come back in if the guy, you know, decides he wants to change jobs or something like that. And we try to teach people whatever they need on the job. Sometimes it's computer skills. Sometimes it's social skills. Sometimes it's, you know, other technical things where they're working. And also just, just to give people a sense, how, how big is IPS right now? Like how many, do you have, do you know how widely utilized it is across the country and internationally? Yeah. So we have about a thousand programs in the U.S. and we reach about a hundred thousand people a year. And internationally, we're not totally sure, but we have, you know, there are IPS programs in about 30 countries and we help all of them. And so, you know, maybe there are another thousand or 500 to a thousand programs, but, you know, it keeps growing in these other places. Most countries, you know, really aren't quite sure that this will work in their country because they have different economic systems and hiring systems and insurance systems and everything. But actually it works better in some of these other countries because they have a real healthcare system. You know, the biggest problem we have usually is trying to keep the healthcare system functioning so that we can build a team. And, you know, from one state to another, there are all kinds of fluctuations and keeping staff and keeping their healthcare centers going. So I wanted to talk a little bit about the personal reflection, but why did you write this? What made you want to share this experience with people? Oh, you know, it's been my habit since graduate school. I got a PhD on the side and then they really helped me develop the habit of writing down what I was thinking about every day. And so I've got a giant folder of unused essays that are really just, you know, thoughts about something. A lot of them don't make any sense at all when I look at them in the light of day. But I like doing it, you know, because it gets me thinking about, well, you know, what's really going on and what do we need to do to improve things? And when we started studying employment, all these amazing things happened to us, you know, that surprised me. After we did the study in New Hampshire, by the way, we got lots of criticism about, you know, well, of course that worked in New Hampshire. You know, it's all white and it's all rural and you don't have drugs in New Hampshire and all these other core American experiences. And so we did the second trial in Southeast DC and we recruited people who were in homeless shelters and they were pretty much all, you know, African-American and all had mental health and drug problems. And, you know, I wasn't sure at all that it would work in that kind of setting because, but anyway. So, you know, in my K award way back when, many years ago, I spent some time in DC. Yeah. Helping to analyze that program. Anyway, things work great in that program, you know, pretty much just like they worked in New Hampshire. You know, I mean, we, we worked with a program, fortunately, that was good at helping people find housing as soon as they had an income, but we just got great results there. And across all of our studies, a background of homelessness or severe symptoms or substance abuse and all those things don't have any impact on the outcomes of IPS. You know, people generally, in fact, it's hard for us to understand. Well, some people just don't get committed to trying, you know, they hear about this and they think, oh, I think I'd rather be on disability. That sounds like, you know, hard work or something like that. So, and we're, we're really trying. One of the things I think about a lot now are, you know, what, who are those third of the people and why do they drop out and decide they don't want to work? And I mean, you know, I've known a few of them over the years. I remember one guy who, he loved playing his guitar for the children in the children's hospital. And he didn't get paid for doing that, but he just decided he'd rather do that than work. He did fine in his paid job, but he just loved doing his volunteer job so much that he decided to go for that. Sort of. And I had the same experience, you know, at some point in my career, I was working for a private company that I didn't think was doing quality work and decided, well, you know, I think I'd really prefer to just volunteer and do things that I want to do. And that's been wonderful for me, as is true for a lot of my neighbors who are retired people, you know. So if you have money and you don't, you're not starving to death, volunteer jobs can be extremely rewarding and supportive and everything. So I do want to get back to the reflection a little bit, because I think it's quite lovely. So maybe you could just tell people what it is and what you reflected on. Yeah. So, you know, as we built the center here, the research center, we did everything wrong in terms of the current day's values of, you know, developing a totally antiseptic work environment. We were all friends and, you know, we went out for a drink together every Friday night and we knew each other and our families were friends. And then at some point, one of the doctors in the hospital called me and said, well, Bob, I know about what you guys do. And I just got remarried to a young woman who's really smart, but she has bipolar illness and alcoholism. And I wonder if you have any job that she could do. And so I said, well, you know, that sounds like a good idea. We were starting to study employment and we should hire people who are like the people we're trying to get jobs for. And so we hired this lady and she was very smart and she, you know, got sober. I think she worked for us for 15 years and she became over time the head interviewer for all of our research studies. She was really a lovely person. And then after that, she, this friend of mine died. She got remarried and moved to Florida and started her own business, you know, doing interviewing stuff. And so then we said, well, we, you know, we should try this a little bit more. And we told the mental health center that's in the same building as we were, you know, we'd like to hire a couple more people if you know people who want to work and need a job and so on. And so we hired a couple of people that way. And then I think word of mouth among families, you know, since we're in a small area sort of, so I would get these calls from family members, parents, you know, I have a child, you know, who's having this and that problem. And I've heard that you guys do great with hiring people. Is there any way you could take my child on? And so, you know, we took them all, we took as many people as we could find places for. And I think it was just a great experience for all of us because we, of course, you know, since we're trying to be antithetical to the antiseptic environment model, we became friends with these folks and, you know, they would go out with us on Friday nights and we would, they would work with us on projects. And we followed the usual IPS principles, you know, so we tried to find them jobs that they were interested in and that they could do. And so one guy who was kind of scholarly, he loved, you know, doing literature searches for us and, you know, synopsizing articles and so on. A lady who was, with this, I can tell you about this lady, she was great. They were all great, but this lady came to us because her mom worked with us, right? And she had dropped out of high school and, you know, because of drug problems. And she was in the, what do they call it, where they dress completely in black and black lipstick and all of that. Yeah, right. So she was in that, she was heavily into that movement and, you know, piercings everywhere and tattoos everywhere and all black and all that. Well, we got a kick out of her and she, she gradually fit in, although she refused to take any orders from her mother. And she was, she had this great sarcastic personality, you know, she was constantly giving me grief. And another guy in the office kind of took her on as a big brother and helped her get her GED and then helped her get a two-year college, you know, certificate. And, and she ended up being, you know, the sort of hostess and event planner and everything else for our office and just did a great job. And, you know, she still is now. I know she got married and moved somewhere else and she has two young kids and she works in the elementary school doing similar kinds of stuff, you know, she's just a fabulous kid. And I see her once in a while because her mother still lives here and she comes to visit. Well, this is one of the things that I really loved about the article was just that you've kept in touch with all of these people who you, you hired back in the nineties. Oh yeah. And it really developed, like it really comes through that you've really developed relationships with people. And I wonder if the, I wonder if there's something to that, right? That like, if you're the thing that was successful about this for you and them was in that less antiseptic, more interpersonal realm, like maybe that's the secret sauce. Well, maybe so. I mean, you know, we just treated them the same way we treat all of the faculty and the students and the RAs in our office and, you know, we keep up with most of them too. We were really lucky to have a bunch of bright young people come, come through the office and they're now professors all around and we came up with all of them. And actually we had a dinner last night with Debbie and I, with three of our old colleagues and it was great. We were just laughing and laughing the whole time. I mean, honestly, I was kind of a failure at most of my early jobs and it just, they weren't good fit for me. And somehow though, I liked being a child psychologist, which I did for a while and having personal relationships with the families and the kids. And that's kind of how we've always run the center. And all these people have remained friends with us as, you know, as Lisa knows, researchers are pretty eccentric characters. And Debbie always says, well, the only thing Bob does well is to form bonds with all these eccentric people so they can work together because they would never figure it out on their own. They usually fight about things. Wow, Bob, this has been such a fascinating conversation. And I feel like I've learned so much about the soul and the heart of IPS, but I was curious, one of the things I've seen is the growth of IPS to be kind of useful, relevant, tested in a variety of different populations. Can you share, am I correct in that observation? Well, I think the principles of finding a good job match apply across populations much more than any diagnoses or symptoms or severity of symptoms. So, you know, now IPS is being used pretty widely with people who have substance use disorder and people who have autism and people who have been homeless. And there are even studies of people with spinal cord injuries. I mean, really the same principles apply. You want to help people find something where they really feel useful and they feel like it's a good fit and you want to find employers. You know, I mean, not all employers are going to be psychiatrists who want to find out how people are managing their illness. Most of them just want to have a good employee, but there are lots of good employers out there. And, you know, when I spent three years doing job development and, you know, what I always wanted to hear was, oh yeah, I have somebody in my family who's got mental illness, or I have a best friend who developed, you know, bipolar illness or something like that. And I would really like to learn how to employ and help somebody who's got a condition like that. So, you know, that's part of the good match. It's what people want to do. It's a setting that's supportive and it's, you know, the amount of time people want to work is really important. You know, like most people with a serious mental illness want to work half time or less at the beginning because just managing the rest of their life, it takes a lot of energy. And then over time, as they start to mature and feel more in control of things, they gradually expand the amount of work they do. And do you have any advice for an employer who might be interested, but not really sure how to kind of dip their toe into the water or what, how to get started? Maybe not so much in terms of signing up for a course, but in terms of like philosophically what they need to be oriented towards or what they should be thinking about to know if this is the right thing for them. Yeah. Well, you know, the employment specialists are really good at talking with the family because families usually are ambivalent about having their child go to work and maybe lose their disability payment, you know, and employers are, you know, ambivalent about this. We don't want to work with the third of employers who just say, I'm not interested, but we want to work with the, you know, third who are very interested in the third that want to learn about it because it sounds like something they'd like to do. You know, there has been, I gather it's being dismissed along with a lot of other things by the new government, but there has been a strong pressure in HR, on HR departments and companies to hire people with disabilities. And, and in many countries, it's a requirement. You know, you have to prove to the government that 10% of your employees are people with disabilities. I mean, we haven't gotten there in this country, but I think would make good sense if we did. Honestly, it's pretty rare for somebody to really not work out or be a problem case, you know, in, in which case we try to help them find a different job. But in most cases, employers say, oh, geez, send us some more people. This guy's doing a great job and we like having him around. He's got a better attitude than my other employees. You know, he really appreciates working here. Well, there are plenty of people without disabilities who don't work out. Yeah, right. Right. That's for sure. Well, we'll leave it there for today. And I just wanted to thank you so much for writing the reflection and coming on and talking with us today. It was a real treat. Honestly, it was just great to hear about all this. And I've left feeling better about our field. And just a real, a real pleasure having you on the podcast today. Oh, well, thanks so much. It's been my pleasure too. That's it for today. Thanks to Aaron Van Dorn for mixing and editing and Demry Jackson for additional production support. We invite you to visit our website, ps.psychiatryonline.org to read the article we discussed in this episode, as well as other great research and exposition. We welcome your feedback. Please email us at psjournal at psych.org. I'm Lisa Dixon. I'm Josh Berezin. Thank you for listening. We will talk to you next time. The views and opinions expressed in this podcast are those of the individual speakers only and do not necessarily represent the views of the American Psychiatric Association. The content of this podcast is provided for general information purposes only and does not offer medical or any other type of professional advice. If you're having a medical emergency, please contact your local emergency response number.