 rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin, rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejoin rejo Katherine Rideout about measurement-based care. We're very happy to have Dr. Katherine Rideout, who is a senior physician with the Permanente Medical Group and a research scientist with Kaiser Permanente Northern California Division of Research, here to talk about her and her co-author's article, Considerations for Implementation of Measurement-Based Care, Focus on Solo and Small Group Practitioners. Welcome, Katherine. Thanks for being here. Thanks so much for having me. Pleasure to be here. And we're also welcoming Dr. Matt Herstritt, who's going to be joining Lisa and I in some upcoming episodes. And for this one, we'll chime in at the end for a couple of follow-ups. Katherine, we'll start with you. When I'm preparing for these podcasts, I'll sometimes just like sort of glance through people's research. I'll just check out what they've been up to on PubMed. And a lot of them are, you know, you'll see like the same kind of article with like a different order of words and all of them. And like, okay, this is this person's thing. Like this is the one thing that they do. And I was looking through your like research articles and I was like, oh, oh, okay. So, oh no. So I was just like so curious. We always, I start off the podcast with the same question every time about telling us a little bit about your career path, but I'm particularly interested in yours, just given how diverse your research interests seem to be from what you've published. Yeah. So, and I think it does parallel my career journey from really basic science and academia into now, you know, the largest integrated healthcare system. I think my focus has always been to improve patient care. It sounds kind of, you know, singularly minded, maybe simple, but I started doing that, you know, and had a lot of advice during my PhD, you know, oh, learn the basic science techniques and that's going to be the future. You'll get to make new therapeutics for patients. That'll be great. You'll find biomarkers. And I tried that line of research for quite a while and find it really interesting and fulfilling. But part of the reason I went into the MD-PhD is really to bridge that gap from discovery to bedside. And when I took my position at the Permanente Medical Group and being in that real world setting, I was shocked to see how many simple interventions we have that we could just implement at a broad, scale and what an impact that would have on patient care. So that's been kind of my personal journey and career journey. And I think my research has followed that journey. Well, this paper though is on measurement-based care. So maybe you can tell us a little bit about why that's one of your particular interests. And then also just to give our listeners who aren't totally familiar with the term or the concepts, just a little bit of background. Absolutely. So measurement-based care, let's just start with the definition. It's a structured process of repeatedly assessing patient-reported outcomes using a validated tool to both inform the process of care and treatment decision-making in a collaborative effort with the patient. And the reason that we published this article and that I co-chair the measurement-based care work group for the American Psychiatric Association is measurement-based care or measurement-informed care, whichever term you prefer, is the most evidence-based strategy we have with large effect sizes on patient outcomes, but yet one of the least implemented in real world settings. So we know that patients who are delivered care with measurement-based care have far superior outcomes, right? You know, a hundred percent, you know, superior to not measurement-based care. Yet only about 20% of physicians utilize it in routine practice and even less therapists. So being able to really have this evidence-based and simple intervention be translated into the clinic could really make a broad and meaningful impact on our patients' outcomes. And so you work in Kaiser, which is sort of like the prototypical large managed care organization, like the ones that people think of when they think about managing care. But this article is about different settings, right? It's about group and solo practitioners. So I'm a little bit curious about that sort of difference, about what implementing measurement-based care is like in Kaiser versus small and solo groups, but also why you chose to focus on the small and solo practitioners in this article and why they're kind of unique here. Yeah, absolutely. So, and as you pointed out, you know, Kaiser Permanente is a large integrated system. We certainly focus on value-based care. And in mental health, we actually implemented, well, we've been doing measurement-based care for a long time, but we did some innovative stuff with computerized adaptive testing in 2018 and have been carrying that forward. And that helps support things like the merit-based incentive payment system and also HEDIS reporting and quality measures there. Even in our system, there are barriers and challenges towards implementing and acting on the measurements and measurement-based care. But the literature really supports, and when we were working on the APA's measurement-based care work group, that the place where measurement-based care is least adopted is really in that solo or small group practitioner space. And there's a lot of reasons for that, you know, both that you could see in the literature and just when you talk to your colleagues that seem kind of obvious. One might be the tools that they're using for their charting and for tracking their patients. You know, measurement-based care is hard to track without like an electronic infrastructure. And some of it just has to do with their fee structure. And then some of it has to do with culture and what we value, you know, at that level of provider. So we really want to focus on making measurement-based care accessible for all systems, right? So the large healthcare delivery system that's very tied to HEDIS metrics, but also for the solo practitioner to really bring this evidence-based intervention to all patients. You've talked a little bit here and also in the paper about the evidence-based for measurement-based care. So what is some of that evidence? Maybe you can walk our listeners through what the evidence is behind it. And then you mentioned also one of those, the barriers you think of, but like, what are the other barriers? Why isn't everybody doing this all the time? There's been multiple clinical trials and randomized controlled trials, real-world studies and meta-analyses that repeatedly show the benefits of measurement-based care. It's been shown to improve treatment outcomes for a variety of conditions from your, you know, standard depression, anxiety, PTSD, even, you know, schizophrenia or psychotic disorders. It leads to higher rates of response and remission and lower rates of relapse. And it's thought that measurement-based care is really the bridge between some of the clinical outcomes we see in things like randomized controlled trials or even in like the STAR-D dataset, you know, and translating that to the real world. We don't always see the same response rates. Well, it's thought that that gap might be due to a lack of measurement-based care and acting on those measurements. It's also been shown to improve communication and engagement between clinicians and patients so that patients are more adherent to whatever treatments they're undergoing, whether it be therapy or medication. I have to jump in for a minute and say, I think that is a really important characteristic that people don't understand. They think it's going to turn people off, but in fact, it's the opposite, right? So anyway, I just wanted to underline that. Yeah, and I'm glad you're underlining that because I think that skits down to fundamentally answering your other question, Josh, about why isn't this everywhere, right? Like, I mean, it's, I probably shouldn't reference this, but why isn't it as popular as K-pop demon hunters? Everyone's humming these songs right now, right? Like, why, if measurement-based care is this wonderful, why isn't everyone doing it in their practice? I think it's because of a fundamental misunderstanding where, you know, I think a lot of us psychiatrists and our colleagues, our therapy colleagues, go into psychiatry because it's one of the last branches of medicine that has a sense of an art and a connection with their patient. And I think people don't want to, and I hear this from colleagues, right? At the APA annual meetings, we'll have, you know, symposiums about measurement-based care, and people will bring this information that they don't want to lose that connection, right? They really believe that they have a great connection with their patients. They don't want to lose that. The measurements are supposed to add on to that, right? And I always kind of make a joke, but it's also true. You know, in my own practice, I wasn't taught measurement. I went to a great residency, but I was not taught measurement-based care in residency. It wasn't really until I came to Kaiser Permanente that I started to routinely incorporate it in my practice and see the value. And, you know, I would joke that, you know, I'd spend the first 10 minutes catching up with the patient, asking about, you know, how's their cat doing? You know, how's this family relationship? Or, you know, and as you're in that conversation, can kind of get wrapped up in this social graces, right? And having that connection. And the patient wants to perform for you, right? They want to be well. But when you come back to the measurement and really have those measurements tack on to symptoms in the DSM, you can really track the outcomes with the patient and make it meaningful. Still have that connection with them, but at least have the conversation grounded in what they're there for, which is making sure that whatever psychiatric disorder, they're seeking care for, that the symptoms are decreasing and improving over time. I think, but I think, Dr. Dixon, Lisa, that's exactly right. I think that that might be kind of a disconnect. People don't just want to be driven by metrics and numbers. But when we can really root the measurements into the experience of knowing the patient and where they are on their care journey. And it also helps a patient engage, right? Because they're able to track their symptoms and how they're improving or not improving over time so that they can make informed decisions about their treatment. One of the things that I wonder about measurement-based care is when you have somebody who doesn't quite fit into the DSM, which is a common occurrence, I think, for a lot of practitioners, where you might be treating them with an antidepressant, but they're not quite hitting all of the depression categories. Or same thing with schizoaffective disorder or something along those lines as well. Is measurement-based care only as good as your diagnosis or how well they fit into kind of a more traditional definition of a particular diagnosis? Or is it broadly helpful even when somebody is not quite fitting into the box that we've constructed in the DSM? Right. And I love that question. There are so many parts to that question. So I think maybe, you know, when we think about measurement-based care and we think about diagnosis, right? You're right. Sometimes it's very clear. And we do need diagnoses, right? Because when it comes down to it, unless you're doing pay-out-of-pocket private practice, you're going to be grounded in diagnostic codes, right? And certainly that can be helpful for patients, right, as well to kind of understand, okay, this is the condition I'm dealing with, right? So often as I hear patients, but also friends talk about this, right, and family members and their healthcare journey, like, I just wanted to know what it was, right? I just want to put a name to it. So I think there is something very valuable from that perspective to both the DSM, but also having a name to what condition we're treating, right? And you're right. Sometimes patients have multiple comorbidities or sometimes it's not quite fitting into the perfect box of a DSM. So that also gets to our measurement tools, right? So the great thing, particularly if you're in a small or solo group, you can kind of pick the measures that are useful for you, right? So there are certainly symptom-based measures and there's value to those. You know, if you are in a group or part of a healthcare system where you really want to go after, let's say, reimbursement or track your own quality outcomes and align with things like KEDIS or MIPS, or even go after some of those CPT codes that you can add on to a visit, you know, having symptom-based measurements that also might be tied to outcomes can be really helpful. But there are also more, you know, broad kind of patient-centered measurements. And I've seen people use, let's say, the C, clinical global impressions and people like that. There are promise measures, measures of just kind of global health. So, you know, finding ways to track something so that you and the patient can kind of say, okay, in between visits over these three months, where have things gone? What direction have we gone? Can bring some of that clarity to the diagnostic picture and also help direct the care. And, you know, again, if you're in a large integrated healthcare system, sometimes the tools that are available to you or if you're using an electronic health record, you're kind of constrained by what's allowed in your EHR or what your system's going to use. But, again, if you're a solo or a small group practitioner, you have a lot more freedom to kind of choose your measures. So I think that, like, it's a great question and there's a lot of parts to it. But, you know, it's bringing in measurement in different ways can really help clarify the picture, both for you and then also for the patient. I think one of the things that I liked about the article is also just seeing the lists of different measurement tools and just expanding my mind beyond the PHQ-9. I think everybody, probably everybody knows the PHQ-9 and has administered the PHQ-9 or worked with patients who have done the PHQ-9. But just thinking through that there's more to the universe, a lot more, that can be helpful is one of the features of the article that I really liked. Yeah. And, you know, what do you want to find in a measure? You know, I think it was last year or it was this year. I'm sorry. We did this APA workshop where it's like build your measurement tool, like almost like build a bear, make your own, right? Build your own adventure. And there's value to that. You do want to pick a measurement tool that is validated, though, and so that when you're using it, you actually know what a change, you know, in that measurement means and that it actually tracks to something. So that's what's nice. The PHQ-9, you know, I really like the PHQ-9 because it's freely available. It basically tracks with the DSM. I know that, you know, other people prefer things like the PROMS metrics for depression, but there are so many options out there that you really can pick a measure. As long as it's validated, that that works for you. So just to jump in for a moment, one of the things that I find appealing is to move beyond the measure of symptoms per se. Yeah. And to say something like recovery or, you know, sense of empowerment or, you know, because you can all then can really reframe the treatment to match something that's a more forward thinking positive. Absolutely. That's a, yeah, right. Some of those patient-centered outcomes, right? They're meaningful to the patient. And, you know, a patient might always have insomnia, right? And that, you know, could make your PHQ look a certain way. But maybe their depression overall is doing well. What you really care, like you're saying, is about their, how are they functioning in their day-to-day life? Are they able to enjoy things? Are they finding joy and meaning in their everyday activities? So absolutely. And, you know, there are some great measures out there that are validated that more track towards functioning and quality of life. Absolutely. What are some of the other things that providers should be on the lookout for when they're picking and choosing which of these measures might be appropriate for their practice? Yeah. You know, we have in the paper a framework of different things you might want to consider. The cost associated with the measure, right? That can limit access. You might have to ask the person who made the measure for access to it. Knowing if it's in your electronic health record, if you do use electronic health records, is it integrated in there? Is this something you're going to have to keep in, let's say, an Excel document or somewhere else? Because that certainly can impact your clerical burden and might not be really as easy to integrate into your day-to-day practice. You know, being able to have a tool where the results, and this gets back to it being validated and being tied to some form of outcomes, being able to present the results to patients and use it as a way to discuss the treatment and where things are going and how the patient is functioning in their everyday life. You know, these are kind of different parts of framework that we think about when you're thinking about measure selection. You also want to make sure that whatever measure you pick is reliable, right? So that it has repeated rater and inter-rater reliability across different populations. So those are some of the considerations for when you're looking at a measure for your practice. Maybe somewhat relatedly, you talk a little bit about computerized adaptive testing, which I thought was really interesting. It's something that I hadn't heard about. So tell me more about what that is and how that fits into the measurement landscape. So one of the barriers that's commonly reported by providers in particular, and sometimes patients, is, you know, measurement-based care takes too long, right? So computerized adaptive testing is a strategy to personalize the measurement to an individual patient and also streamline the process. So it's delivered in different formats, but in general, it's usually sent asynchronously to the patient. And they're able to answer a couple of questions from different scales. And based on either their diagnosis or their answers, it'll use things like skip logic to, you know, make the questionnaire shorter or longer based on the patient's answers. So, for example, take the PHQ-9 again, right? We know that the PHQ-9 has the PHQ-2, right, which is really just the first two questions. And if you're below a certain score on the PHQ-2, you know, three, you don't need to really do the PHQ-9 because on the screener, you're negative. So computerized adaptive testing might present the first two questions, see what the score is, and then skip the rest of the PHQ-9, right? So that can be a strategy to facilitate measurement-based care with reducing kind of the clerical and time burden related to it. Or for, again, on the PHQ-9, question nine is about suicidality. If it's positive, you might, you know, default to something like the Columbia Suicide Scale, right, where it's not every patient needs to fill that out if they're negative to that answer. So that's the spirit behind computerized adaptive testing. So my mind immediately jumped artificial intelligence. Sure. And, you know, I was listening to a podcast last night about how it's going to wipe out humanity. But assuming that that does not happen, do you think that, like, is there a role for AI in measurement or is that something that people in the measurement world are kind of talking about how AI may upend or augment or change things? Yes, it's absolutely something people are talking about in the measurement-based world. There's some great use cases and, you know, emerging companies that are using these technologies and trying to integrate it into clinical practice. You know, I think one of the easiest ways to adopt it is to really think about ambient listening technologies, right? One of the big barriers to measurement-based care is people say, well, I don't just want to spend the whole visit saying a, you know, symptom on the scale to a patient, them telling me a number. I want to have it be conversational and create that connection. Well, within that, what if, as AI was listening to your conversation, they were able to capture, to actually quantify some of the, you know, measure what's going on with your patient using some of these scales? So that's one use case. And certainly it could also prompt you to be like, hey, you know, you covered these eight criteria in your measurement. Why don't, you know, but you didn't cover this one, right? And so, again, prompting to kind of improve the quality of the visit. So I think there's a lot of opportunity for AI technologies to really both facilitate the actual implementation without the time burden of the extra measurement and also help keep the spirit of the psychiatric or, you know, psychotherapy visit. I think is really important to some main providers. So it sounds like overall you're optimistic about how AI might be able to contribute to measurement in the field. And there's other opportunities for AI that people are exploring. You know, AI might be able to detect subtle differences in patient vocal cues or, you know, latency between words so that it's able to measure and detect disorders before we are able to or even our current measurement tools, right? There's been talk about using AI with video to measure things like abnormal movements, which are important for schizophrenia and kind of measurement-based care related to, you know, extrapyramidal symptoms. And I think the way that we measure as AI technologies and as AI matures in our field might change in how we interact with measurement-based tools, right? So if we start to have more personalized medicine strategies, really having measurement be integral to those recommendations would be helpful because pretty much every personalized medicine strategy to date is based on measurement-based outcomes, right? So we need to be able to integrate that into our practice to make those tools facile in our systems. So it sounds to me like AI really escalates the potential value and importance of measurement-based care. Yes, I would agree with that. So as with every discussion of AI, I leave mostly excited and a tiny bit terrified, but mostly excited, mostly excited. So Matt, I was hoping you could jump in and see what questions you have for Catherine. Yeah, thanks, Catherine. As always, this is a really interesting conversation. You and I are colleagues, so I get to benefit from learning from you for years now. My question is just in terms of our clinical practice, when you and I use standardized scales and we address maybe a trend that we're seeing in the scores that may go in one direction, let's say just for this vignette, it's going in a negative direction. The PHQ-9 score seems to be going up, which is worst depressive symptoms. And during this interaction, the patient is saying, you know what, Doc, I'm feeling so much better. You know, I really thank you so much. I really feel like we've made so much progress here and things are really going in an upwards direction for me. And you're thinking to yourself, yeah, they're going upward in the wrong way. Any thoughts? I mean, there's no right answer here and it's not really addressed by the paper and it shouldn't be. But just thoughts about how to make use of this information, especially when there seems to be some sort of discrepancy between the patient is reporting or what the patient's reporting and what the scales or increasingly digital phenotypes are indicating. Yeah. And, you know, I'm probably going to turn this question back to you as well to hear from your expertise. But, you know, I think this gets back to Dr. Dixon's point about how to integrate measurement-based care in daily practice, right? This is where measurement-based care really can become integral to the conversation between the clinician and the patient, right? So it's a way to facilitate honest conversation, right? So just putting it out there like, hey, you're reporting that you're doing better. And, you know, here on this question, you know, looking at your symptoms of depression, you're reporting there actually got worse from, you know, the last visit. What's going on? Does that make sense to you? Or let's look at it together. And I, at least in my own practice, I found that can be really helpful to understand, well, you know, maybe it was a bad day, right? So it was a blip, okay? Maybe it's, they're really struggling with something like sleep or appetite or a change in their energy level, right? And we can, that facilitates a symptom-based conversation where we can make a meaningful difference in their quality of life. And they leave that visit with tools to help address that symptom. That's why, you know, some people prefer the term measurement-informed care, right? So it's certainly, you take the measurement, you look at it, you make treatment decisions based on it. But so much of that depends on the context of your visit and your, the context of the patient in front of you. So really using it as a, I find it helpful to use as a tool to really facilitate some of those conversations. Because, you know, it's so easy. All of our default, when we say, hey, how are you? It's like, oh, I'm doing great today, right? But we really were, you know, because no one wants to know the truth, right? Not usually. And I think we take that default social grace into even clinical interactions, right? So it's easy to not break below that surface, especially if it's a little painful. So that's where I found it helpful if there's a mismatch. But, you know, Matt or anyone, you know, Josh or Lisa, if you have thoughts and examples where you've used it as well in that mismatch, I'd love to hear it. I really like that response, Catherine, because it brings out two elements here that I'm hearing. One is that I like that term. I've never heard of it before, measurement informed care, that this is just one set of data or these are one set of data that are going to inform a conversation. And it's going to maybe advance the conversation and add a little bit of tension that could be productive in helping align you with the patient and allow the patient maybe to express some things that they'd otherwise not be comfortable sharing with you. So I think that that's important. And that's one set of data. And the truth is somewhere out there. It's, you know, how the patient is doing in that given moment is somewhere in between what the patient is reporting at that time, how they're internally feeling, what these scores are saying. And this just gives one more piece of information that advances the conversation. So it's not this boogeyman that's going to take over our jobs, but rather it's assistive intelligence, maybe not artificial intelligence. Right. Yeah. Adapted intelligence, right, to our visit. I think I've enjoyed measurement based care when it can facilitate truthful conversations with me and the patient. Right. So I think when we draw analogies to measurement based care to something like hemoglobin A1c for diabetes or blood pressure for hypertension, I think, you know, half of the field goes, oh, God, I don't want to just be driven by metrics like that. And then, you know, the other half is like, yes, please give me data. And I think, you know, in psychiatry, you know, we're taking a snapshot of subjective symptoms when we're asking the question. And so certainly taking that number just as ground truth without any other context loses the other, you know, valuable clinical data that we need. Right. For example, you wouldn't take a blood pressure if you have someone in your office and they are obviously like sweating bullets, they're nervous and they're, you know, hypertensive. You wouldn't, you know, you'd probably follow up with the question of, hey, do you have like white coat hypertension? Are you like worried? Are you scared when you come to the doctor? Right. And then you do a repeat measurement maybe outside of the health care setting. Similarly for, you know, for a diabetic, if you're, you know, taking hemoglobin A1c and they've been doing well and all of a sudden there's a blip. Well, you know, what time of year have there been changes in their diet? You know, so really these measurements always have to be taken in the clinical content of the visit and the relationship of you and the patient. And I really like it as well, thinking about it in terms of also incorporating motivational interviewing. And what I mean by that is sometimes it really gives you kind of a flavor of kind of getting back to your point, Matt. You know, you're talking with the patient. They might be saying one thing to you. They're reporting something else on the questionnaire. And then kind of understanding where are they in their therapeutic journey? Are they willing to address certain issues that are driving certain symptoms, either therapeutically or with medications? Are they even willing to address that as an issue in their life? Or, you know, and so are they pre-contemplative? Are they contemplative? Are they ready for change? So I think we can really use measurement-based care in our current practice to facilitate some of these harder conversations and really, you know, that can drive adherence and really improve outcomes. Well said. So I think we'll probably wrap it up there. But before we do, Catherine, is there anything else that you wanted to highlight from the article? I'm really hoping that this article resonates with individuals on a, you know, invigorating the passion that brought us to psychiatry in the first place. That measurement doesn't have to just be a number and become artificial in a way to separate us from the patient, but it can just be another tool in our toolbox to help deepen the relationship and the therapeutic strategy for patients. And if you want to, you can also use it to increase your reimbursement and demonstrate your value to healthcare systems. But, you know, I think sometimes in academic articles or in symposiums or other settings that aren't like a podcast where it's conversational, it's hard to communicate that. But, you know, the reason I'm passionate about measurement-based care is it improves patient outcomes and it can deepen the relationship with the patient while staying true to the spirit of our practice of psychiatry. So I hope that it comes through in the article and that people can find ways to implement it in a way that's meaningful to their practice. Well, it certainly came through loud and clear and it was just such a pleasure to hear about that. And I think really does take this topic and make it just so much richer and deeper. I'm definitely leaving with both a better understanding, but also I think an expanded understanding of just what you're talking about, about how it can really deepen the experience between providers and patients. So I want to thank you so much for coming on during your, what I understand is your fourth maternity leave. Extra points for that. And also our first K-pop Demon Hunters reference on the podcast. So thank you for both of those and truly for all the passion that you're bringing to your work and with us today. It was a pleasure. And Matt, thanks for joining us as well. Thank you very much. Thanks for having me. It was a pleasure. Thank you, Catherine. That's it for today. It was great to have you on, Matt. Thanks to Aaron Van Dorn for mixing and editing and Demri Jackson for additional production support. We invite you to visit our website, ps.psychiatryonline.org to read the article we discussed in this episode, as well as other great research. We also welcome your feedback. Please email us at psjournal at psych.org. I'm Lisa Dixon. I'm Josh Berzen. Thank you for listening. We'll talk with you next time. The views and opinions expressed in this podcast are those of the individual speakers only and do not necessarily represent the views of the American Psychiatric Association. The content of this podcast is provided for general information purposes only and does not offer medical or any other type of professional advice. If you're having a medical emergency, please contact your local emergency response number. From the view of the Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal Normal