 l-starstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstarstar different. I'm going to take a back seat and we're going to welcome back Dr. Matt Herstrit, who's going to lead our conversation with our guests. So I'll turn it over to Matt. Thanks so much, Josh. Today, we're exploring a powerful and timely article in Psychiatric Services from the November issue titled Promoting Youth Mental Health Through Equity-Centered Trauma-Informed Educational Initiatives in Schools. We're lucky enough to be joined today by the article's co-authors. Dr. Ruth Shim is a clinical psychiatrist and professor at the University of California, Davis. And Alex Chevron-Vanette is an educator, learning facilitator, and founder of Unconditional Learning, whose work centers on trauma-informed and equity-focused education. This article is part of the Think Bigger, Do Good series. It's a collection of bold ideas aimed at transforming behavioral health systems. Ruth and Alex bring together their distinct perspectives to address the youth mental health crisis by reimagining how schools can be places of healing rather than harm. We'll talk about how they connected across disciplines, what equity-centered trauma-informed education, or ECTIE, really means, and how this framework holds the promise of reshaping both education and mental health care for youth. Ruth and Alex, welcome. Thanks so much for having us. Great to be here. So just to start off, why don't you tell us a little bit about how the both of you connected with each other? Specifically, what drew you together and what was it like to collaborate between these two distinct but overlapping fields of psychiatry and education? I can share a little bit about how I came to know Alex and her incredible work. I previously, in my role at UC Davis, I was Associate Dean of Diverse and Inclusive Education. And we were spending a lot of time in thinking about medical students that come from diverse backgrounds, kind of contemplating how they experienced a lot of challenges in their educational process. And I kept seeing a lot of the same challenges that we often see around people with mental health challenges show up in students of disadvantaged backgrounds. And in trying to understand this phenomenon more, one of my colleagues here at UC Davis, a nurse by the name of Dr. Peary Ackerman Barger had told me she was reading this really great book called Equity Center Trauma-Informed Education by Alex Vanette. I thought, oh, this might be something that can help with this context that I'm working on. I got a copy of the book, and I basically read it cover to cover and found it to be just, it put to words exactly my understanding of the challenges that I was seeing. And it really just transformed the way I think about how trauma impacts young people and specifically young people in their educational process. What's interesting about the book is that Alex is writing from the perspective of people, usually young people and children, but I found that it applied to my medical students and their educational process as well. And so I reached out to Alex, and we've been working together since then on ways to think about improving equity-centered trauma-informed education in medical education. And in the process, we talked about how it would be important to also write an article that highlights these issues in the K-12 sector and how it relates to mental health overall. That's great. And, you know, Ruth, that really highlights how if there's an excellent idea like ECTIE that is, you know, Alex, I'll speak for you for a moment. It sounds like that's something that you were thinking of for K-12 that it is so applicable that it could be extended to students in postgraduate fields like medicine. Yeah. You know, I wrote this book really focusing on K-12, but I also have taught at the community college level and in graduate school. And so I knew that these ideas also applied to adults, also applied to older learners. And so it wasn't a huge shock to me to hear that this was resonating in medical school. But what was really interesting and surprising as we went through our collaboration was just how parallel so many of the issues were that I would be talking to an elementary school principal and almost the same things that that principal was saying were what the deans at this medical school were also saying were challenging. And so it was really interesting seeing these parallels and really recognizing that so many of our education systems really mirror similar challenges and similar successes. Well, let's launch into it. For those who may have read your article a while ago, and just to refresh their memory, can you walk us through, Alex, Equity Centered Trauma-Informed Education, which I'm abbreviating ECTIE, the five core components that you described? There's predictability, flexibility, empowerment, connection, and unconditional positive regard. It's a lot to keep in mind. Maybe you can help sort of synthesize those for us. Well, I'll tell you first where this framework came from so that we can kind of situate within that. I'm a teacher by training. I went to school to become a high school English teacher, and I ended up working at an alternative therapeutic school. And what this meant was that we had students with various social, emotional, behavioral challenges who really were going to benefit from greater wraparound support during the school day. And so we had a really high ratio of adults to students. We had a lot of adults for the students. We had many clinical social workers embedded into the school. And then really interestingly, all of the folks coming from a teaching background were then cross-trained by the clinical social workers. And so we were given therapeutic tools to integrate as part of our teaching. As I worked there for many years, we were really doing what is now called trauma-informed education kind of before this was a huge buzzword. And then I went to grad school. I started going to more teacher conferences, and I started talking to folks in other settings that were really surprised by what we were doing and really hadn't heard of some of these strategies. And I got really interested in how do we take these things that are working for these kids who really need these practices in these small little corners and pockets and bring it out to the mainstream. So I started training teachers. I started really digging more into the literature about trauma-informed education. And as I did that literature review, I started noticing something that was really concerning to me, which was that when folks would talk about trauma in schools, it was in this way of saying, kids have trauma from out there, and they put it in their backpack and they bring it to school. And our role as teachers is to really help them, you know, enjoy this safe and loving place that is school. And, you know, oh, that bad trauma is out over there. And I was thinking about all the students I had built relationships with over the years and all of their stories. And I started thinking about the harms that they experienced at school. And I started thinking about the teachers that they would tell me about they'd had in the past who were awful to them or were harmful to them. I started thinking about the curriculum that they had experienced that was exclusionary or that was inaccurate around their identities and their communities. And I was just really feeling like I don't want to align with this version of trauma-informed education that really is creating this divide where we say school is this warm, fluffy place where nothing bad ever happens. Of course it's not. School is full of people and people harm each other. And so harm happens at school as well. And so that's what really drove me to create this framework of equity-centered trauma-informed education, recognizing that inequity causes trauma and that once you experience trauma, you then face inequities in how you are treated and how you can access learning at school. And so it's articulated in a bunch of different ways in my work. One is that, you know, I talked about some of the larger principles of making sure that we center equity and justice in our trauma-informed work. But in this particular paper, we really focused on what I call the four priorities and then unconditional positive regard, making up that fifth piece. So the four priorities are really a way to think about creating safety, felt safety for all students. So that's those four of predictability, flexibility, connection, and empowerment. And then unconditional positive regard really infuses everything. And that's about that relational safety and really coming from a place where every student has value. We are not making that value contingent on certain accomplishments or certain ways of fitting, you know, white heteropatriarchal norms, right? But instead saying everybody has value in their own way and that schools have a responsibility to really lift up that value. I just wanted to jump in if I could just to say that the clarity and coherence of your description is just very powerful and it really, really resonates. So thank you. Lisa, this is why I love working with Alex. Like it is honestly one of the favorite things I have done in my entire career is to work with Alex because she is so brilliant at talking about these things in this way. So, so I, I, I thank you for pointing out what I know. Thank you. I couldn't agree more. And one thing I'm wondering here is I'm hearing all of this and I'm imagining my own K through 12 education. And I think to myself, Oh my God, I wish that, you know, our school had embraced these concepts and had language for this. I'm wondering what reception, and I'm sure it's been varied that you've gotten from school administrators and from individual teachers who are exposed to ECTIE and trying to figure out how to take these concepts and apply them to their own classrooms. It's a huge range. It's a huge range. I personally, just as a personal way I approach my career, I try to put my biggest energy into the people who already are picking up what I'm putting down, who already are on board and who want the skills to go further, who want support and solidarity and strategies. And so I largely try to focus on connecting with the teachers for whom they hear this description and they go, that's what I was already doing. Now I have language for it. Can you help me to go deeper? That being said, of course, I work with all kinds of people beyond that core group. And so I also hear things like, well, you know, trauma-informed education, doesn't that just mean that we're coddling students? We have to be harsh with them because the world is harsh. I hear that. And of course I have my own response to that about how that does or doesn't align with what we know about child development, as I'm sure all you can speak to. I also hear from folks who, you know, maybe are on the fence really want to try something different, but they teach in our current political context. And so they say, well, I want to deviate from the scripted curriculum, or I don't want to use this really harsh discipline practice, but my hands are tied. I don't have a lot of wiggle room here. And so I do a lot of work with educators about finding small places that they can shift practice, even within some of those confines. So it's really a huge range, but I really try to support as best I can, the folks who really want to take this and run with it. It does sound like there's an audience that can be receptive to this, which is heartening, given that, you know, there's probably a large body of educators who this sounds very foreign to, and maybe even scary, the idea of unconditional positive regard, even for behavior that can be deemed unacceptable in a classroom setting, and trying to wrap your mind around that, even for me as a non-educator, I can imagine might be challenging. But it's great. Yes. And the way that I help people move through that is that I explain unconditional positive regard doesn't mean you can just do whatever you want, and there's no consequences, right? What it does mean is that when you do something harmful, I don't write you off. I don't say you don't belong here in this community anymore. I don't say you're a bad person because you did a bad thing. Instead, I like to say that unconditional positive regard is about high expectations. Because if I really believe that you inherently have value, you can do better than this, you are a good person at your heart, then I can hold you to account. We can move through an accountability process, a repair process together, because I have that core belief in you. I'm not going to write you off. I'm not going to have the low expectation that actually you couldn't have done any better than this. And so to me, it's not about, you know, coddling or handholding any of those kind of things. It's about, I really believe that you can rise to the level that we need in our community. With that in mind, Ruth, I'm wondering if we could turn back to you and the original way that you were connected with Alex. How do you see this concept, ECTIE, playing out in the postgraduate setting, in terms of these four core principles, and then the overarching concept of unconditional positive regard? How has that played out since your connection with Alex and the integration of ECTIE into your work with UC Davis? It really was kind of mind-blowing for me, because what I saw in this work is kind of a lot of connections and through lines to all of the work that I do, including work around mental health equity and structural racism and thinking about social determinants of mental health and how that affects outcomes. Because, you know, as Alex was talking about how the fundamental shift in thinking about equity-centered trauma-informed education relates to recognizing that the school itself could be a place and is a place where trauma is inflicted. And I think that revelation, that medical school and medical education is a place where trauma is inflicted, resonated so deeply with me, because what happens is if in our medical education environment, we're inflicting trauma on people that are going out to be doctors, the impact of that trauma means that they then turn around and inflict further harm on their patients, on the members of the healthcare team. If this is perpetuated, there's a risk there that this is almost like an infection that spreads in which more people are traumatizing more people. One of my mentor, psychologist mentors in when I was in residency training always used to say, hurt people, hurt people. And I started to see how we have gotten to a place in medicine where much of the work that we do and much of the care that we provide for people is not necessarily the best we can do because so many people are hurt. And so many hurt people are going around hurting people instead of helping people. Understanding that was really key for me because I started to think that if we could transform medical education and this totally also applies for mental health education in every form, but if we could transform that by not harming people as they seek to learn how to provide care for people that are in need of care of healthcare, we could make a huge change. I actually think it would lead to less health inequities. I think it could lead to a transformation of how the healthcare system operates. So for me, this became very significant work, not just for thinking about how this works in educational settings, but also the implications that it has on mental health and healthcare broadly. I can feel that impact that it could have in rippling across different settings, having been a medical student education that has on mental health and mental health and mental health and mental health. And I think that that is implicit in medical education, I, again, find myself wishing that these concepts were integrated. I love my medical school is amazing. And there's such incredible educators. And at the same time, there's something implicit in the current medical education environment that lends itself to sort of a more aggressive way of teaching that that doesn't necessarily have inclusivity as its primary core. While you're talking, it makes me think we're not just I mean, medical school is just one little teeny tiny portion of the healthcare system. Right? What about nursing? What about social work? What about psychology? What about peer support? And I think we really need to think about this in the multiple, the multiple levels and layers of healthcare delivery, because I'm sure it's there. And I would just add that, you know, trauma informed care as a concept, right before there was offshoots into trauma informed education, it came from the psychology realm, right? It was a group of survivors who were really, you know, seeking services and saying, we need a transformation of how these services are being provided. We need more autonomy, we need agency and dignity within our services. And so, you know, it started there. But then when I started my collaboration, with Ruth, and we were looking at how this all applies to medical education, I was really surprised when I started searching for literature, that there was a lot about teaching medical students about trauma informed care, or teaching nursing students about trauma informed care, but there was almost nothing about actually using trauma informed care or trauma informed education, in this educational setting. And so I think that's really the gap that we were looking to bridge together. And then we're looking to bridge together. And then we're looking to bridge together. And then we're really looking for ways to pick up that work and carry it forward. Students have gotten involved in some of the ongoing implementation work. Students asked me for advice about how they could advocate for themselves. Students wanted to learn more. I ended up co-presenting at the Innovations in Medical Education Conference last year with one of the students about these concepts. And so that was really heartening to me, how much collaboration we had. That's great to hear. And I ask that because I think that it really can be bi-directional that students and learners can advocate for their own education as well, and for changes in the way that their educational structure is formatted. It's great to hear that that's happening as well, that you're getting interest from the learners themselves. And I would just add one other piece or layer to that, which is that another concept I talk about in the larger equity-centered trauma informed education framework is using an asset-based lens instead of a lens of saviorism. Another thing that I really noticed in the literature around trauma and education and kids is this sort of saviory vibe that was happening sometimes of, oh, these poor kids with trauma, we have to rescue them. We have to save them. You know, the cover of half the books I would read about this. There was like a crying child on the cover. It was really, you know, again, I would think of the students that I worked with who are funny and sarcastic and self-advocates and just, you know, full-dimensional children, right? Full-dimensional teens. And that really inspired me to articulate this piece of working alongside students and their families and their caregivers to help them reach the goals that they're setting, to help be there as a resource, to help provide a connected web of support, as opposed to coming in with a, you know, I can fix it and you'll just sit there and take my fixing kind of attitude. And so I think that's a huge layer to this as well. I would just like to add to that, that I so appreciate and it really did resonate with me, this piece around saviorism that Alex writes about beautifully, because I'm thinking about medical education and I do mean all of the types of medical education that exist. There is this kind of hierarchical notion in education that, you know, you're learning how to help people, but that like you are the person that's there to help people in almost depending on the population you're working with and how you're trained, almost in a saviorist kind of way. And so that there is this fear, I think, or concern that I had and I've seen around, you know, what is sometimes referred to as the hidden curriculum, all of those things that aren't part of the educational process and is not written down in the syllabus, but the things that students look around and observe among their teachers, among the people that are in that setting, they observe how they interact. And so, you know, if we work in teams in healthcare settings and we're watching and observing, if students are watching and observing nurses and doctors interact with each other in not positive ways, if we're observing people speaking down to each other on teams, it's hard not to absorb that. And so we have to be thinking about what is being taught, but also kind of what's underlying and what are like the motivations behind what people are actually taking away from their educational experiences. This has been really interesting. And just like reading your article has been mind expanding for me, hearing the context is even better. I'm wondering now coming to the end of our episode here, if I could turn to both of you, Alex and Ruth, what you feel like are really the take-home points that you want listeners to be able to grasp about this concept, which I'm sure is going to become more of a household name in the coming years. What do you want listeners to really be able to grasp? Maybe first I'll turn to you, Alex. Something that's been really special to me since the development of this framework is seeing how many places and settings it can resonate. And I think that when you look at these four principles of predictability, flexibility, connection, empowerment, when you look at unconditional positive regard, what's really nice is that anybody in any role can think about how to apply those in their setting. A classroom teacher can look at how they dial in those four pieces and they can really think about how am I communicating unconditional positive regard. A school principal can think about how am I creating the conditions for the teacher to do that? And also, how am I applying these to my work with the teachers, right? Clinicians within a school setting, clinicians in the community, right? Everyone can apply these things wherever they are. And it's something I say often to teachers who are facing structural barriers to bigger changes or who are really unsure where to start is that you can't do everything, right? For us to really transform our education system and more broadly to transform outcomes for children, we need change from every single place, right? We need it from healthcare. We need it from education. We need it from entertainment and technology and literally everything. And so it's a big project. It's one that I hope that in this lifetime I've, you know, made a little progress on, but I know the work continues longer. But I don't let the bigness of it keep me from participating, right? Instead, I ask in my role, in my sphere of influence, how can I move this forward? What can I do? And so I really encourage every person to engage with these topics, to think about how our students experiencing trauma need us now to take action and figure out what is that action for me going to be. And if we are each pulling at our little corner, we are collectively making progress. And from my perspective, I totally wholeheartedly agree with everything that Alex said. And I would say that, you know, our goals in writing this article was really to just raise awareness, to contribute to the literature that just doesn't really exist in this space and really start and open up a dialogue around this. So we put policy recommendations into this article. But just as Alex said, there are individual things that people can do, as well as thinking about how do we take this and move it into a structural intervention kind of framework, so that it impacts many, many more people, children, adolescents, and our future health professional workforce, as well as the entire workforce. I do think it's got incredible reach. If people are able to really adopt these practices and these policies, we could have a huge impact. Thank you both. And I just wanted to say thank you so much, Alex and Ruth, for joining us today. This has been a really interesting conversation. And I hope our listeners are able to take away some of these key points into the work that they do, given the wide reach of ECTIE. For those who would like to read about it more, I encourage them to visit Alex's website, and at the very least, to read their piece in the November issue of Psychiatric Services. In the meantime, we wish you the best in terms of your continued work and collaboration together. And we hope to hear from you again on a future episode. Thanks, everybody. Bye. That's it for today. Thanks to Ruth and Alex for sharing their vision, which is so compelling and inspiring. Thanks to Aaron Van Dorn for mixing and editing, and Demery Jackson for additional production support. We invite you to visit our website, ps.psychiatryonline.org, to read the article we discussed in this episode, as well as other great research. We also welcome your feedback. Please email us at psjournal at psych.org. I'm Lisa Dixon. I'm Josh Berzen. And I'm Matt Herstrup. Thank you for listening. We will talk to you next time. The views and opinions expressed in this podcast are those of the individual speakers only and do not necessarily represent the views of the American Psychiatric Association. The content of this podcast is provided for general information purposes only and does not offer medical or any other type of professional advice. If you're having a medical emergency, please contact your local emergency response number.