 ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren ren person or via telehealth. Following that, Dr. Ned Kalin will again join us to go over the rest of the August issue, which features more on telehealth, along with more of the best psychiatry has to offer. Dr. Rao, your study looked at the risks of a purely telehealth-based prescription of stimulants for the treatment of ADHD, as well as its associated risks with later development of stimulant and substance use disorders. What did you find? So we examined whether receiving an initial stimulant prescription for ADHD through telehealth changes the risk of developing a stimulant use disorder or another substance use disorder. In our sample, we had nearly 8,000 patients across a large academic health system, and we found that after correcting for a lot of potential confounders, telehealth prescribing didn't increase the risk of developing a general substance use disorder. What we mean by that is when patients received their initial prescription for a stimulant, whether that occurred based on an in-person visit or a telehealth-based visit did not influence the risk of developing a substance use disorder down the road. There had been this hypothesis that patients who are engaging only in telehealth care may not be as well connected to the provider and may be less well evaluated, and the provider might be missing the signs that there might be a higher risk for substance use disorder. At least in our sample, we do not see any evidence for that. As you mentioned, your study didn't find any indication that after an initial telehealth visit alters the risk for development of a later substance use disorder, but it did find limited evidence for a risk to develop a stimulant use disorder. Now, was that something that you broke out initially when you were looking at it, the distinction between a broader substance use disorder and a more limited stimulant use disorder, or is that something that emerged out of your data as you were looking at it? That's a great question. That was, in fact, an a priori comparison that we wanted to ask separately. As we know, the first-line treatment for ADHD are stimulants, and so it's a very natural question whether a stimulant use disorder may emerge through prescribing of stimulants for the treatment of ADHD. And so we did look at that a priori. One of the, we do want to encourage some caution in the interpretation of the finding for stimulant use disorder risk, because although we had a fairly large sample, there were few people that actually were diagnosed with a stimulant use disorder. And so the precision around those estimates aren't as great as we would like them to be. Was it the kind of level you would expect from the size of the cohort that you were looking at, or is it kind of limited by the limited amount of time that you were looking at the people? About three and a half years, I believe your sample encompassed. Both are relevant. Thankfully, substance use disorders in general are not as common as they could be, and stimulant use disorders in particular are not as common as it might be. So it is a relatively rare phenomenon for people to actually develop it. And so in order to really robustly generate precise estimates, we need an even larger sample. Sure. But the point remains that the fact that it's, we need such a large sample in order to robustly see it suggests that it's not the kind of phenomenon that should necessarily keep providers up at night worrying about it. People should be vigilant about signs and concerns for substance use, including stimulant use disorder in particular. But we would encourage people to be a little bit more measured in their caution. So the incidence level of it is low enough that you don't think that there's overwhelming concern that the method of first introduction between a practitioner and patient is going to have an impact on that long-term. That's right, based on the data that we have. We recognize that one of the limitations is that we're a not-for-profit hospital system, and there have been information in the media that's concerned about other modalities, particularly for-profit models. And we acknowledge that our data cannot directly describe those situations. But... Do you have any data on how long clinicians working in a non-profit system like yours would spend with a patient before making an evaluation versus people who you would assume in a for-profit system would feel more pressure to limit the time that's spent in making an evaluation before making a determination? Yeah, I don't have the numbers off the top of my head what the median number of visits would be or time would be between establishment of some kind of relationship with the provider and the ultimate prescribing of the ADHD medication. But that certainly, there were plenty of patients that were prescribed at the first encounter because they had a known historical diagnosis. ADHD very significantly impacts people's experience. Sure. Their functionality, their anxiety. And so it behooves us to treat appropriately when it's when it's clear that we need to. Half of your sample was drawn from patients older than 26. Did you see any significant differences between the older and younger cohorts you examined? Yeah, that's a great question. For the individuals who are greater than 26 years old, we're actually at a lower risk overall for developing substance use disorders. They have a 64% lower risk of developing a substance use disorder at any time. We did not see any interactions between the age and the development of substance use disorder by virtue of the modality of the initial stimulant prescription, whether that occurred during a telehealth visit or an in-person visit. And your cohort, you were looking at people who had not previously been diagnosed with ADHD and were kind of stepping into this for the first time? At least insofar as we could tell from the EHR data that we had. Okay. One of the limitations with the EHR data is that you don't get the entirety of the history. It's only what is documented and particularly in particularly structured ways. You went to your study expecting not to see a substantial difference between an initial telehealth visit versus an in-person visit, which is what you found. But what were the differing mechanisms that you thought could potentially lead to a difference in outcome between the two interactions? Is there a broader disjunction between the two practices in time spent with the patient, for example? Yeah. So that's a really important question. I think there has been this concern that for-profit models are really emphasizing the need to get people prescriptions quickly. That said, and so the idea could be that shorter visits, shorter durations of treatment could be part of why people are getting stimulants more easily or without a thorough evaluation. It could also be that there's reduced use of tools like toxicology screens that can be helpful in terms of monitoring and assessing the risk for developing substance use. There's also the concern that there may be biases in terms of who is accessing in-person care versus telehealth care. It may be that patients with particular barriers to in-person care, transportation issues, more severe symptoms, might preferentially use telehealth, and that could be a marker of risk in and of itself. We try to control for some of these differences, but there is of course always the risk of unmeasured compound that's impacting the data. Your study largely supports the use of telehealth prescribing for stimulant therapy. It's their current standard of care for adolescents with an ADHD diagnosis. The current DEA waiver that has allowed telehealth was put in place during the COVID-19 pandemic is set to expire in December. What does that mean for adolescent stimulant therapy going forward? So the standard of care is really defined by how practice is being disseminated and what we're certainly seeing in our system, and I understand that to be pretty representative, is that patients are receiving plenty of their care in telehealth environments. And by and large, whether we're talking about mental health care more broadly or ADHD in particular, there has been data that has suggested that telehealth-based care can be viable models for delivering that care. So I think the preponderance of experience that we've gathered with telehealth care since the pandemic in these approaching five years has been teaching us that this is an avenue towards acceptable standard of care. And I imagine that will be considered when the DEA is determining new regulations regarding how telehealth will be delivered. What were the limitations of your study? There were several limitations to our study, just like any study. Sure. Stimulant use disorders were rare in our sample. We totaled about 19 cases altogether. Out of about 8,000, right? Yes. And so that produces limits in terms of how precise our estimates might be. Mm-hmm. We rely on electronic health record data, which may under-detect substance use. It only exists if it's captured in there. And although people have expressed concerns that Mass General Brigham represents a high-quality healthcare organization, that said, the people that are providing the care are not necessarily addiction or ADHD experts. Mm-hmm. The care is being delivered by primary care without using standardized instruments. And so there may have been gaps in terms of who are being identified as having substance use care. As mentioned earlier, we studied a not-for-profit academic health system, and that may or may not generalize to other models of care. Mm-hmm. And we excluded patients with a prior SUD diagnosis. But that doesn't mean that people with previous substance use disorder don't have ADHD. Sure. And they may need treatment. And this won't be very helpful in terms of informing how patients might, with previous substance use disorders, should or shouldn't receive their ADHD treatment. What's next for your research? So we're exploring a few things. One of the narratives that has been developing is that it really is important in children to treat the ADHD because exposure to stimulants doesn't increase the risk of developing a substance use disorder. If anything, it decreases the risk of subsequently developing substance use disorder. Now, there's a little bit of nuance there that if you delay that treatment, there can be an increased risk of developing a substance use disorder. But that question remains largely on the answer in adults. And so one of the studies that I'm working on right now is asking the question, does treatment of ADHD with stimulants in adults increase the risk of subsequent development of a substance use disorder in general, or a stimulant use disorder more specifically? There are implications on this on policy regarding how stimulants are being managed and some of the risks that we think are associated with it. Also, we want to go back and answer the question regarding people with preexisting substance use disorder. These individuals do need care for ADHD commonly, and we need to figure out appropriate ways of delivering that care. Well, Dr. Rao, thank you for taking the time to speak with us today. Thanks so much. Up next, Dr. Ned Kalin. Dr. Kalin, welcome back to AJP Audio for August, 2025. Thank you, Aaron. It's a pleasure to be here. This month on the podcast, I spoke with Dr. Vinod Rao. Dr. Rao and colleagues have a paper in the August issue taking a look at the potential for increased risk of developing a substance or stimulant use disorder being associated with telehealth prescribing for ADHD patients. What can you tell us about it? Dr. David Rao This is an interesting and potentially important paper, Aaron. It gets at perhaps the double edge of using telehealth. This is, as you know, the COVID-19 pandemic was something that facilitated the use of telehealth because of the difficulty of people coming in in real time. During that time, the FDA or the DEA allowed for the prescription of controlled substances via telehealth, which has continued to date. Dr. David Rao The positive side of this is that this enhances access for many people that otherwise couldn't have access. But the question that was asked by Rao and colleagues in this issue of the journal is whether or not this also had detrimental effects and was related to increased incidences of overusing or misusing the stimulants that are prescribed or developing other substance use types of problems. Dr. David Rao The data that they used was from about 8,000 ADHD individuals that were at least 12 years old that were treated at the Mass General Brigham Hospital or that system from 2020 to 2023. Ninety-one percent of these individuals actually met in person with their prescriber on the same day or before they received their first stimulant prescription, which left 46 percent of the of the ADHD patients actually met with their prescriber on the day of receiving their first prescription. And it turns out that that's important because that is what looks like is what may be associated with the decreased risk. I'll say a little bit more about that as we move forward. Of the 91 percent of patients that met with a prescriber on the day of or prior to their prescription, 5.4 percent developed a substance use disorder and 0.2 percent developed a stimulant use disorder. So the numbers were quite low. The remaining 9 percent of treated patients, as I mentioned, never saw the prescriber in person. They're completely treated by telehealth. What was interesting is that the findings basically showed that the incident use of stimulant use disorders was significantly greater in individuals that received their first stimulant prescription via telehealth as compared to those that received their first stimulant prescription on the day of their in-person visit. So when you got your first stimulant prescription, whether it was via telehealth or in-person, seemed to matter. And the odds ratio or the difference between the groups was quite high. It was about six times greater incidence in those individuals that received their first prescription by telehealth. Now, also what's important to note is that while there was an increase in stimulant use disorders, there was not an overall increase in substance use disorders associated with this. This is an important finding. We have a really nice editorial from Drs. Brooke Molina and Francis Levin, Dr. Molina from Pittsburgh and Dr. Levin from Columbia University. And they talk about this, but they also talk about some of the issues in the study and caution clinicians not to overreact to this finding, that there are real advantages as well of having opportunities for access for individuals that are suffering and struggling that otherwise don't get treatment. So it's something to be aware of. Certainly, it looks like there's increased risk with telehealth prescribing, but also there can be a downside of, I think, that is pointed out in the editorial, if providers are too literal about this. With the expansion of telehealth prescribing set to expire in December, it's been extended a number of times previously. Is this something that clinicians are going to want to push to extend? Or is this something that maybe the actual initial need for it has kind of expired with the ending of the pandemic? Dr. Dr. Michael McClendon You know, I think that, you know, the editorialists that I mentioned really emphasize the importance of having this opportunity and they're experts in the field. So I think, as I said, I think if done judiciously and being aware of these increased risks, I think is important. In my view, this is something that is of value because it prescribes more opportunity for more patients to get treated. On the other hand, I think clinicians really need to be mindful of the possibility of having this increased risk and monitoring that. Dr. Michael McClendon Next in staying with ADHD, we have a paper by Manjani and colleagues looking at the role of maternal genetic nurture and the risk architecture of ADHD. Dr. Michael McClendon This is an interesting paper and it's a little bit complicated. But basically, the idea here is that we know that the genetic risk or the heritable risk to develop ADHD is very high. It's somewhere between 70 and 80 percent heritability. We also know that maternal environmental factors seem to play a role in increasing the risk and many of these are thought to be related to things that happen during pregnancy, early environmental risks and so on. What the authors of this paper did was to try to understand what accounts for that increased risk that mothers confer environmentally. What they found was is that they could attribute this in so-called environmental effect that's conferred by mothers as increasing the risk to develop ADHD to a genetic phenomena. And they thought they really found out and believe the data supports what's called maternal genetic nurture. Now, let me explain this in a little more detail. If one looks at the genetic risk that is conferred by moms, there is a direct effect of passing your genes on that are related to the direct risk to develop ADHD. But what these authors found and have support for is that the genetics that a mother has that affects the way she behaves and the choices that she makes also confer risk on offspring's developing ADHD. So it is an environmental additive effect to the genetics, but it appears that this environmental effect that the mother confers appears to be mediated by genetics that shape her behavior that are not directly influencing ADHD, but indirectly have this environmental influence. So the way that they did this is that they used a very large sample from the Swedish National Register. It was almost a million individuals that were born between 1992 and 2000 to roughly a 10 year period. They identified about 66,000 or 67,000 individuals from this large sample that actually received the diagnosis of ADHD. This was 7% of the sample. And what they did is they then looked at the likelihood of developing ADHD. If you're a sibling, if you're a half sibling, if you're a cousin, and they even got more in more depth to see if you're a cousin of your mother's sister versus a cousin of your father's brother. And the reason for that is that then allows them to sort out not sort of the increased risk that mother's genetics may have, and also sort out this more complicated issue related to genetics indirectly affecting a mother's phenotype. And the bottom line is the following. They found that if you're a full sibling where you share 50% of the genetic material between each other, your risk of developing ADHD if one of the sibs has it is about five times greater. So this is very consistent with this 80% heritable risk that we know about. If you're a half sib where you share about 25% of the genetics, the risk is about 2.2 greater. So that makes sense in relation to how much of the genetics are shared. But what they found was when they looked at this more complicated issue related to cousins, whether you're a parallel cousin on your mother's side or a parallel cousin on your father's side, and as I described before, that would mean that your mother's sister's offspring would be your cousins or your father's brother's offspring would be your cousins. They found that the risk was greater for the so-called maternal parallel cousins, which again, without getting into a lot of detail, suggests that there's something else going on here just besides the genetic risk that the mother confers directly. And what they found was they estimated that the direct effects, genetic effects or heritable effects from mom were about 66%. And when you look at this maternal genetic nurture effect, this indirect effect, it adds about 14% of the variance. So it's a bit complicated, but it helps us understand how the maternal environmental effect that was thought of before as being important is actually mediated by genetics affecting mom's behavior, as well as the other genetics that are directly related to the risk to develop ADHD. Zhang and colleagues have a paper looking at how polygenic interactions in the anticholinergic burden of impact cognition and brain structure in patients with psychosis spectrum disorders. This is a bit complicated as well. This paper looks at how genes or genetics interact with anticholinergic burden in individuals with schizophrenia spectrum disorder or psychosis spectrum disorders to confer difficulties with cognition and also changes in brain structure, in this case, total gray matter. Mm-hmm . So we've known, and we've had a number of papers in the journal that demonstrate that anticholinergic drugs impact cognition in a negative way. And these are drugs that are frequently used in patients that suffer from psychiatric illnesses, especially psychotic illnesses. The anticholinergic burden metric has been a metric that's been proposed that adds up all of the anticholinergic effects of all the different drugs one's taking, and that then is predictive of impairment in cognition. But we also know that the illnesses themselves have effects on cognition. What this is about is trying to sort out how the genetics of the illnesses may interact with this anticholinergic burden to result in more or less alterations in cognition. So an interaction between the drugs you take and the genes that you have that are related to your illness or related to your cognition, and how do they interact in influencing outcomes related to a reduction or decreases in cognition. And so what they found was is that, as they expected, that the anticholinergic burden that patients had, in this case, they looked at about 1700 patients with psychosis spectrum disorder. Anticholinergic burden predicted reductions in cognition. We've known this. This is a replication that's important. They also found that your genetics for psychiatric illnesses, the polygenic risk scores, for example, for schizophrenia, depression, or whatever, did not seem to have a big impact on your cognition per se. However, when you looked at the genetic risk or the genetic influences on cognition themselves, independent of psychiatric illnesses, the polygenic risk scores for cognition were highly predictive or predictive of cognition aspects in the patients. Not surprisingly, because this is a genetic score for cognition itself. And also, anticholinergic burden was predictive of reductions in gray matter volume in certain areas. What's interesting is that they found some interesting interactions. So if you have a higher polygenic risk score or higher polygenic risk score for cognition, which means you have a likelihood of having more effective cognition, you are actually more impacted by anticholinergic burden if you have psychotic spectrum disorder. So the thing that confers better cognition genetically, that is a cognition polygenic risk score, interacts with your anticholinergic burden score to actually give you more of an impairment from the anticholinergic burden. Okay. When they looked at brain structure, they actually found an interaction between the psychiatric polygenic risk scores. And what they found there was that people that had lower psychiatric polygenic risk scores had increased effects of anticholinergic burden on brain structure. So it's again, complicated, but this is the way our real world works. These interacting forces, medications that one is taking that affects how one thinks, impairing actually cognition being really important, an illness that is associated with reductions in cognition and that is also somewhat determined by genetics and also the way we think in our cognition determined by genetics. And you throw it all together and you ask, how do these different factors interact? And we find that, okay, if you have genes that are associated with better cognition and you have this illness and you are also taking anticholinergic medications, you're more likely to have a negative impact from those medicines. And by the same token, if you've got genes related, more genes related to having the illness, there are interactions with anticholinergic burden of the drug you're taking and actually your brain structure that may be a result of all of that. So these are important interactions that are complicated, but really form a basis for further research. And again, when we start thinking about personalized medicine, taking into account the medicines, the genetics, genetics for cognition, genetics for the illness, put it all together, this is going to give us some indicators of what we can expect in individual patients. Well, this is obviously opening up a lot of new avenues for research. Is this something that clinicians should be taking a look at currently? Dr. I think that it's really important for clinicians to understand. But I think that, you know, since we're not on a regular basis measuring genes or genetic risk, it's hard to put that into play. But for sure, this is a reminder that anticholinergic burden is really critical for clinicians to be looking at in relation to trying to reduce that burden at the same time maintaining optimal treatment effects for patients with the medicines that we use. Dr. Following that, there's a paper from Shaw and colleagues looking at copy number variant architecture in child psychopathology and cognitive development at a large cohort. Dr. So this is looking now at the ABCD cohort. This is the Adolescent Brain Cognitive Development Study. And this is a study that has been an invaluable addition to the field that's been funded through the National Institute of Health. It's been looking at a large cohort of youth and following them longitudinally on a variety of normal developmental factors, cognitive factors, factors related to psychiatric illness, and also doing longitudinal repeated brain imaging, as well as genetics. So this is an attempt to get at how all these different factors interact and influence development in a population of youth that is not selected to have psychopathology. This is just across the board. And in this case, they studied about almost 8,500 youth. The average age was nine, about 10 years old, nine to 10 years old. And they looked at what we call whether or not this group had copy number variants, genetic alterations in their genes in this population, the sample. Now, copy number of variants we've talked about before, these are large genetic alterations that have to do with large insertions or duplications or deletions of parts of the genome, parts of a chromosome. They're not like what we look at when we do GWAS studies, which are single nucleotide variations that can confer risk. This is large sort of chunks of a chromosome that may be altered. Now, these are common in the population, but also we know that some of these alterations confer risk for the development of neurodevelopmental disorders like autism, involved with schizophrenia, involved with OCD, and even ADHD to some extent. So what they first did is they asked the question in this population of just youth that was not selected for psychopathology, what's the incidence of seeing these types of genetic variations in this group? And they found that actually about half of the kids had a copy number variant. Now, that's not surprising because I already mentioned to you that these are rather commonly found in the population. Some of the children actually had more than one of these. Now, they went on to ask, are these copy number variants then associated with alterations in cognition or affecting cognition? And are they also related to psychopathology in this group that was not selected for psychopathology? And what they found was when they did all the appropriate statistical analyses, even though some of these copy number variants were variants that are associated with neurodevelopmental problems. They did not account for any of the psychopathology indices or cognitive factors that they looked at in this population. However, when they were less stringent and they said, okay, let's not be as sort of tight about the statistics and loosen up a bit and not use what we call a multiple comparison correction, which is a way to correct for the probability of something happening with a multiple tests that we do. When we drop that, what do we see? And when they drop that, they actually did see and they could identify 16 of these copy number variants out of the thousands that were identified that seemed to be associated with developing psychopathology. And they also identified some that were already associated with neurodevelopmental disorders. And those that were previously associated with neurodevelopmental disorders seemed to impact individuals in the sample even more. So the bottom line here is that, you know, while when statistically being very stringent and appropriate, we didn't see anything, if you loosen up a little bit, you start to see things, which suggests that these copy number variants may have a role in normally developing populations in children as they develop, and to some extent may confer the direction or the risk that they may have for developing psychopathology or perhaps developing issues related to cognition. So this is basically beginning to show that these large genetic variations are found rather commonly, not surprising that we sort of knew that, but also may confer some risks for developing traits that are associated with psychopathology in a sample that's unselected for psychopathology and unselected for neurodevelopmental or cognitive problems. Dr. Michael Hicks Finally, we have a priority data letter from Gao and colleagues, once again looking at the intersection of telehealth and prescribing, this time comparing prescription opioid benzodiazepine and stimulant misuse. Dr. Michael Hicks This is, you know, coming back full circle to what we started with, again, looking at telehealth and asking the question whether the use of telehealth is associated with more use of controlled substances in individuals where these are prescribed for medical reasons. Dr. Michael Hicks So if you are using telehealth or being treated by telehealth, are you more likely by self-report, this is self-report, more likely to misuse such things as opiates, benzodiazepines or stimulants that were prescribed to you for appropriate reasons by a provider. Dr. Michael Hicks This is from a sample called the National Survey of Drug Use and Health. Dr. Michael Hicks It was collected over a two-year period, 2021 to 2022, and data from about 64,000 patients were analyzed. Now, when they looked at these patients, roughly 40% of these patients, 43% actually reported engaging in at least one telehealth visit during the previous year. So roughly 60% did not, 43% did. Now, what's interesting about this one observation from this was that the individuals that actually engaged in telehealth visits were more likely to have lifetime histories of opiate misuse, benzodiazepine use or stimulant misuse, more likely to have more mental health visits, and probably more lifetime histories of psychiatric issues. So we don't know why this is, but it's important to note that individuals that were being treated with telehealth in this sample, which is supposedly a representative sample, were more likely to have a history of misuse of substances, more likely to have a history of more complicated psychiatric problems and mental health visits. So already, for whatever reasons, we need to be aware that, at least in this population, people being treated with telehealth may have more of these issues. They went on to then ask whether was there a greater risk for people that were engaged in telehealth visits. And what they found was, is that in fact, there was a significantly greater risk for those that engage in telehealth visits for reporting misuse of these substances. It's important to note that while there was a greater risk, when the factor was controlled for of a history of more misuse, that completely wiped out the risk that was associated with the telehealth visit per se. Now, there are a number of issues with this paper. It's an interesting paper, but there are also some limitations. And Dr. Kathleen Brady, who's one of our deputy editors at AJP, wrote a really nice editorial on this. And she talks about a number of issues, including one of the limitations was the number of telehealth visits that an individual had were not documented in this particular paper. She also talks about, again, the pros and cons of using telehealth and emphasizes, while there may be a downside, there also is a big upside from the standpoint of access issues. So just to summarize this, there was appear to be an increased risk of misuse in people that had telehealth visits. But when you control for their past history of having more misuse, and for whatever regions selecting or being selected to have telehealth, that risk went away. Well, Dr. Kaelin, thank you for taking the time to speak with us today. You're welcome. Thank you. That's all for this episode, but be sure to check out the other podcasts the APA has to offer. Over on the Medical Mind podcast, host Aaron Connors has a conversation with former NFL star Marcus Smith II about how athletes and the public view mental health and sports. That and plenty more at psychiatryonline.org or wherever you get podcasts. The views and opinions expressed in this podcast are those of the individual speakers only, and do not necessarily represent those of the American Psychiatric Association. The content of this podcast is provided for general information purposes only and does not offer medical or any other type of professional advice. If you're having a medical emergency, please contact your local emergency response number.