 naringin, This episode of AGP-audio is brought to you by Headway. Headway partners with licensed clinicians to simplify every step of accepting insurance, from credentialing to billing, so you can focus on providing quality care while we handle the rest. Visit provider.headway.co to learn more. Welcome to AGP-audio for December 2025. I'm Aaron Van Dorn. the podcast, I spoke with Dr. Suresh Durgam, Chief Medical Officer and Executive Vice President of Intracellular Therapies, a Johnson & Johnson company. Dr. Durgam and co-authors have a paper in this issue of the journal looking at the impact of lumoteperone as an adjunctive therapy for the treatment of major depressive disorder. Afterwards, Dr. Ned Galen will help us round out the end of the year with a look at the rest of the December issue of AJP. Dr. Durgam, major depressive disorder is a significant illness with an increasing prevalence and with relatively low rates of remission for current first-line treatments. Your paper reports the findings of a Phase 3 randomized controlled trial that looked at the impact of adding a novel antipsychotic medication, lumoteperone, to standard treatments for MDD. What did you find? Dr. So this study is a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study that evaluated lumoteperone 42 milligrams as an add-on therapy to antidepressants and comparing it with placebo in patients who had inadequate response to antidepressants. That means patients who had less than 50% response to their ongoing either SSRIs or SNRIs or other antidepressants, those patients who had less than 50% response were randomized into either adding lumoteperone or placebo on top of the existing antidepressant. And in our study, we found that at the end of six weeks, there was a significant separation between placebo and drug, meaning that the drug did better. Patients who are on the drug did lumoteperone 40 milligrams, did better than patients on placebo plus antidepressants. We also used the rating scale called Madras total score, which is a depression rating scale, and also used a global impression severity scales and other scales. So in both the primary, which is the Madras total score and secondary, key secondary, that is the CGIS, called the clinical global impression severity scale, we have seen separation at end of week six, that is the primary and secondary endpoints. We also have seen in this particular study efficacy separation as early as week two and continued all until end of week six. Also in terms of safety, the most common adverse events defined as five percent on luma and twice placebo were dizziness, somnolence, dry mouth, nausea, diarrhea, and fatigue. In terms of the most common events that are the liabilities for antipsychotics, that is extraperimental symptoms, cardiometabolic abnormalities, weight gain, we saw them to be similar to placebo, and also the emergence of suicidal ideation was very low. Luke Luke Luke! Luke Luke Luke!!!!!!!!! measure like a diagnostic questionnaire or other clinical measurement instruments? Yeah. In terms of the inclusion of patients in this particular study, we have included a patient reported outcome. And it has also been increasingly recognized that in clinical trials to have the patient voice into the clinical trials. So we have thought at the designing of the study, not only to include the rating scales that are typically what we have mentioned about is the Madras and CGI as the clinician rated ones. We thought we'll also do a patient rated scale. In this particular study, a patient rated scale called Quids SR16, Quick Depression Inventory Scale was used in this. And what we have seen is not only in the rating scales of Madras and CGI, we also have seen consistent efficacy within the Quids scale also. That indicates that the patients are able to appreciate the improvement, what they have from the baseline when they come into the study towards the end of the study, they are also able to see the improvement. That gives us strong indication also from a patient perspective that in making treatment decisions for the patient, that there is comfort that this particular study has demonstrated improvement in all three aspects. That is the rating scale, the clinician is able to appreciate that as well as the patient. Is including patient reported outcomes something you plan to continue with your clinical trials going forward? So it depends on the indication. This one is a validated scale, Quids validated scale for wherever it's available. We will try to implement that. Yes. For example, this was the first time we have done in MDT studies and we will continue to do that. Are there immediate clinical implications for the findings of your trial or is further research needed? Immediate implications. I would say that mainly this will be an additional tool in the prescriber's toolbox and especially for patients with inadequate response. There are only a few drugs that are available for MDT and this will be an additional tool and especially lumetepirone 42 milligrams has demonstrated robust efficacy with good effect sizes. And also the drug placebo difference was very strong. And the fact that it showed separation in Madras total score, CGIS and Quids the patient-rated scale will be a welcome. On top of that, also the side effect profile is very benign in terms of the metabolic parameters, prolactin, EPS, which is a very major issue for some of the antipsychotics we have been and weight gain. So since there is less liability for that and they were similar to placebo, with the good efficacy would be a welcome option for patients and for the prescribers. What were the limitations of your study? In terms of the limitations, since this is an outpatient study, we excluded patients who had treatment-resistant illness and also patients who had imminent risk of suicide because they would require hospitalization. We excluded patients with that. And also we had to exclude some of the patients with comorbidities because we wanted to focus mainly on depression if they had other comorbid illnesses that may sometimes interfere with the detection of a signal. So we had to exclude patients who had other comorbidities within the psychiatric diagnosis. What's next for your research? So right now we have shown that lumetepirone 42 milligrams as an add-on therapy was efficacious at six weeks. We are planning on doing studies much longer term to show maintenance of effect for a longer period of time. And also recently, since we have been talking about this study, we have also completed a six-month open-label study in that we have seen that whatever efficacy we have seen in this particular has continued throughout the six months. And also the safety profile was consistent even at six months. One of the interesting findings from that particular study was the long-term extension study was that we had about 80% of patients considered responders. Responders meaning more than 50% improvement in MADRA's total score. And then also the remission, we had almost 65% patients who have remitted. Remitted means MADRA's total score less than or equal to 10. So that means for every three patients, two patients went into remission. So that's a very good finding. So we want to do that again in a much longer study, in a maintenance study. So that will be our next follow-up. Well, Dr. Dergum, thank you for taking the time to speak with us today. Thank you. Up next, Dr. Ned Kalin. Dr. Kalin, welcome to the final AJP audio for 2025. Thank you, Aaron. It's a pleasure to be with you. Earlier, I spoke with Dr. Suresh Dergum about their study looking at adjunctive lumetepirone as a treatment for major depressive disorder. What can you add? Aaron, this is an important study that further provides evidence of the efficacy of this atypical antipsychotic, which is relatively new, lumetepirone, in relation to treating as an add-on therapy patients who have major depression that haven't gotten better with their current treatments. This is not new from the standpoint of other atypical antipsychotics have been approved by the FDA for this purpose. They include eripiprazole, quetiapine, extended release, rexpiprazole, caripraxine, and the combination medication olanzapine and phloxine. So we do have other agents in this class of drugs that are already shown and are approved by FDA to help people with depression. But this is another medicine, and it's really helpful for us because it's not identical to the other medications. This particular medication has effects that work at a variety of different receptor systems. The 5H2T2A receptor is antagonized by this drug. It's got moderate potency at D2 and D1 receptors and the serotonin transporter, and importantly, very low affinities at some of the receptors that give us side effects like histamine and cholinergic receptors. In this particular study, it was a six-week, phase three, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. In the study, patients either received 42 milligrams of lumateperone or placebo, and this was added on to the current antidepressant that they were taking. To be enrolled in the study, patients had to have had inadequate responses to at least one and up to two other or one or two other antidepressants. So they weren't totally treatment-resistant necessarily, but they were not getting better on earlier treatments. And the primary outcome measure was the Montgomery-Azberg depression rating scale that was assessed six weeks down the road after the trial. And as predicted, the addition of lumateperone showed a statistically significant greater reduction in depression scores in the madras as compared to those that were receiving adjunctive placebo. The remission rate in the lumateperone group was 40% roughly compared to 25% in the placebo group. And the number needed to treat, which is the number of patients that you need to expose to this treatment to see one individual benefiting from it, was nine, which is pretty good. This study supports an earlier study that was published along the same lines and adds to the evidence of the efficacy of this drug as an add-on to other antidepressants in the treatment of major depression in patients that haven't been getting better. Now, as expected, there were more side effects with this drug added on than placebo. And overall, there was a report of 78% mild to moderate adverse events with the drug as compared to about 44% with placebo. Most common side effects were dizziness, tiredness, dry mouth, and some GI symptoms. And also, not surprisingly, as you see with the other medications in this class, there was an increase in reports of extrapyramidal-like side effects, 5.4% in the group that received the active drug and 4.4% in the placebo group. I should point out that this drug, along with other medications, has also been approved already as a monotherapy for treating bipolar I and bipolar II depression. Next, we have a paper from Lynn and colleagues looking at the impacts of treatment discontinuation in opioid use disorder patients who become pregnant. So this is an important study and is accompanied by an overview in the issue that talks about the importance of treating all substance use disorders during pregnancy and how to do that. And this particular paper that we're talking about now is looking at opioid use disorder in women that are pregnant. And it looks at adherence rates of different opioid use disorder medication treatments that is either buprenorphine, with or without naltrexone, and methadone. And the idea here is that an adherence rate is also sort of related to for sure how long somebody will be taking the medication and the success of treatment. I want to point out that opioid use disorder is continuing to increase during pregnancy. And also, there is significant maternal morbidity and infant morbidity associated with opiate use disorder during pregnancy. This is really critical from the standpoint of thinking about how we manage individuals who have opiate use disorder and are pregnant. And the important thing to keep in mind is that it's important not to be discontinuing opiates during pregnancy because of the risk of withdrawal, which in and of itself can have very significant negative effects for moms and babies. In this particular study, the sample that was used was a Medicaid database from 2003 to 2018 over about a 15-year period. And in that database, the researchers identified pregnant women that started medical treatment for opioid use disorder with either buprenorphine or methadone sometime between their last menstrual period and 90 days after that into being pregnant. The major outcome measure was looking at the time after they started treatment until they discontinued treatment. So the time until discontinuation was the major outcome. And this was defined in this particular study as a lack of evidence of treatment 60 days after the last documented prescription was written. So the idea here was to compare whether or not there was a difference between treatment with buprenorphine or methadone from a standpoint of adherence rates, trying to provide some insight into which of these treatments might be better and more tolerated by women that are pregnant. Now, also the investigators look up to one year after pregnancy. So during that first postnatal year, which also is a critical period for mom and baby. Out of the sample, they identified 698 women that were pregnant that had started methadone and about 1500 pregnant women that had started buprenorphine with or without naloxone added into that. They found, importantly, that the risk to discontinue both medications was very high. So that these are not medications that women continued a lot during pregnancy, which is unfortunate. It's something that I think the field needs to think about. But it was higher for buprenorphine compared to methadone during pregnancy. So for example, for buprenorphine, the discontinuation rate was about 33% during pregnancy, whereas it was about 25% for methadone. So not big differences, but significant differences. And as I pointed out, the discontinuation rate was high for both medicines. After one year, we're looking at one year, the discontinuation rates were even higher. Same trend, 58.8% for buprenorphine and about 49% for methadone. So the bottom line here is that, A, it's important to keep women on opiate use disorder treatment for during pregnancy and after for the reasons that we talked about. And B, in this study that was looking into their Medicaid records, the likelihood of discontinuation was high for both drugs, but it was higher for buprenorphine than methadone, suggesting that methadone is a treatment that may be better tolerated by women during pregnancy. And probably ought to be a treatment that people are thinking of first in relation to treatment during pregnancy and during the first postnatal year. Finally, we have a paper from Brodsky and colleagues comparing dialectical behavioral therapy with serotonin reuptake inhibitor treatment for the treatment of suicidal behavior in patients with borderline personality disorder. So this is an interesting and important study. As we know, individuals that have borderline personality disorder have a high rate of engaging in self-harm behaviors. Some of these are suicidal in nature. Others of them are non-suicidal, but are still self-harm directed behaviors like cutting behaviors and other things like that. Also, we know that borderline personality disorder is highly comorbid with depression. And so the combination of borderline personality disorder and depression further increases the risk for suicidality or suicide behaviors for completed suicides. We also know that dialectical behavioral therapy is a very effective treatment for borderline personality disorder. And SSRIs can be helpful for borderline personality disorder. And also, certainly, we know that they're quite effective for depression. So what this particular study did was compared six months of treatment of patients that had self-injurious behavior or suicidal behavior compared them in basically a prospective study for the effects of DBT, dialectical behavioral therapy, versus SSRIs for these behaviors. To get into the study, individuals had to basically have engaged in these behaviors over the six-month period prior to getting into the study. And the week before, they had to have significant suicidal ideation for some of these behaviors as well. It's a relatively small study. After randomization, there were 39 participants that were treated with DBT over six months. And this was compared to 38 individuals that received SSRIs. 94% of the individuals were females. And 68% of the individuals had comorbid major depression. Over the six-month treatment period, it was found that four individuals in the DBT group engaged in suicide-related behaviors. And there were about three times as many or 12 individuals in the SSRI treatment group. So this was a significant effect demonstrating that DBT appeared to be related to significantly less suicide-related events during this six-month period of treatment, which is really interesting. However, when the individuals are followed for an additional six months after treatment, it turned out that these differences between the treatments no longer held. There was also fewer suicide attempts, not just suicide-related behaviors. And this was significantly less in the DBT group as compared to the SSRI group. And also, there were significantly less episodes of non-suicidal self-injurious behavior also in the DBT group compared to the SSRI. So taken together, during this six-month period, it looks like the dialectical behavioral therapy intervention was more effective than the SSRIs in reducing these impulsive or planned suicidal and non-suicidal-related behaviors. Interestingly, during the six-month follow-up period, there was less depression in the SSRI treated group than the DBT. And so, for example, 26% of the DBT group met criteria for major depression at that point and only 3% of the SSRI group. So it looked like both treatments had different sort of positive effects as compared to the other. In summary, the DBT group looked like it reduced more over the treatment period, more of the self-injurious suicidal behaviors. And over the longer haul, it looked like the SSRI treatment group actually significantly reduced more depression than the DBT group. So it's an interesting study. There's a really interesting editorial by Dr. Barbara Milrod from Albert Einstein College of Medicine that talks about the implications of the study and future studies. But by and large, I think my takeaway clinically is that the combination of these treatments probably is the best in clinical practice. DBT to get at some of these impulsive and emotion regulation behaviors that are related to suicide and self-injury and SSRIs to get at the core depression that is so frequently comorbid in this illness. Well, Dr. Kalen, thank you once again for joining us. You're welcome. It's a pleasure to be with you. That's all for this month and this year of AJP Audio. I hope you'll join us again bright and early in January, 2026. In the meantime, be sure to check out the rest of the podcasts on offer from the APA, including the Medical Mind podcast, featuring an episode of Breaking the Silence, addressing youth suicide, looking at how depression affects teen girls and young women. That and much more can be found at psychiatryonline.org or wherever you get podcasts. The views and opinions expressed in this podcast are those of the individual speakers only and do not necessarily represent those of the American Psychiatric Association. The content of this podcast is provided for general information purposes only and does not offer medical or any other type of professional advice. If you're having a medical emergency, please contact your local emergency response number.