 theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically Editor-in-Chief Dr. Ned Kalin again joins us to discuss that, an investigation into the side effects profiles of first and second generation antipsychotics and the impacts of cannabis use on alcohol use and craving. Dr. Kelleher, a diagnosis of schizophrenia or other psychotic disorders can be devastated, not just for an individual patient, but for family and community and have long lasting impacts on both physical and mental health, but on social educational occupational health as well. It has long been an ambition of psychiatry to be able to target individuals with elevated risk for developing these disorders with preventative interventions, but as yet no clear evidence has favoured any particular treatment. Your paper in the most recent issue of AJP takes a look at whether treatment with doxycycline, an antibiotic, might lower the risks of developing schizophrenia in a cohort of adolescent patients in Finland who had attended psychiatric services. What did you find? Well, something we previously showed in our research is that even though schizophrenia is usually diagnosed in adulthood, most commonly in your 20s, up to half of all people who were diagnosed with schizophrenia had come to child and adolescent psychiatry services at some stage in their childhood. And that's because as we know, there are often mental health problems that precede the development of schizophrenia. And what our research showed was that these individuals are already coming to child and adolescent mental health services in substantial numbers. Like I said, as many as as half of future cases. So that means that there are great opportunities for schizophrenia, prediction in child and adolescent psychiatry services. And it begs the question, is there something we can do to reduce that risk? One common hypothesis or assumption is that treating earlier mental disorders in itself might help to reduce the risk of schizophrenia. That's called the intervention as prevention hypothesis. And while that's an appealing idea, there's very little clear evidence to support that. Some research suggested, for example, that antidepressants or SSRI treatment might reduce schizophrenia risk. But we recently tested that in adolescent psychiatry patients and found that antidepressant treatment is not associated with the reduced risk of going on to develop schizophrenia. It also was not associated with an increased risk to be clear, it just didn't seem to have an impact on schizophrenia risk at all. The current study looks beyond mental health treatment. Specifically, we were interested in whether a medication that is known to cross the blood brain barrier and have a range of potential anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory effects might impact on schizophrenia. And that medication, as you said, is doxycycline. Doxycycline, as you also said, is predominantly known as an antibiotic. It's used to treat range of infections and also as a treatment for acne. But lots of research has suggested potential neuroprotective effects as well for a wide variety of brain disorders. Parkinson disease, multiple sclerosis, multiple sclerosis, multiple sclerosis, stroke, but there's also been some research in the general population suggesting that the theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically theoretically medical sample who we know are at increased risk of schizophrenia, doxycycline might be associated with a reduced risk of later schizophrenia. What we found was that patients of adolescent psychiatry services who were treated with doxycycline had about a 30% lower risk of going on to be diagnosed with schizophrenia. That was comparing them to other individuals who also attended adolescent psychiatry services and who also were treated with antibiotics, just not doxycycline. Why did you choose to adopt an emulated target trial rather than an observational study or a randomized controlled trial? Observational studies bring in large cohorts but lack the kind of rigor that an RCT might provide, but what were the benefits of the approach that you took of this emulated target trial? And were there limitations compared to the other approaches? Right. So we used data from the fantastic national healthcare registers that they have in Finland to conduct this emulated target trial. An emulated target trial essentially is a robust or stringent approach to analyzing observational data to emulate as closely as possible the ideal trial that you would do if it were feasible to do a randomized controlled trial or an RCT. There are a number of reasons that make it very difficult to test our research question in a randomized controlled trial. Even though the risk for schizophrenia is elevated in adolescent psychiatry patients, it's still an outcome only for a small minority of those patients. So in order to have sufficient power, you'd need to recruit extremely high numbers of patients. And then as opposed to the usual six week or six month follow-up of a clinical trial, you'd have to follow those patients for a very long time, maybe 10 or 15 years, because at the time of coming to adolescent psychiatry services, they're typically still years away from developing schizophrenia. So where a randomized controlled trial is infeasible, it can be very helpful to apply the target trial and the nation framework to observational data to ensure you're looking at it as robustly as possible, give you more confidence that the findings are causal and not caused by the time of the time of the time. So the study included what we call an active comparator design. So comparing against not the general population, but against other adolescents psychiatry patients who had also been treated with antibiotics, just not docencyclin, and using a sophisticated method called the G formula to account for time varying exposure and a range of other factors. And it also involves a range of sensitivity analysis, which tests alternative explanations, such as whether the difference in risk for schizophrenia might have been driven by the fact that many of the individuals treated with docencyclin would have been treated for acne rather than infections per se. Of course, in any observational analysis, including ones using these robust target trial emulation methods, you can never be fully sure that you're identifying something that is definitive of causal. But the stronger your study designs, the less likely it is that the findings are caused by convulging factors. And that's the point of the target trial emulation framework. As you mentioned earlier, you found that adolescent exposure to docencyclin was associated with lower risk of developing schizophrenia in a population that is at elevated risk of developing this disorder. Do you have any theories of the method of action that may have caused this? Yeah, a lot of research suggests that doxycycline has anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory effects, a key pathological process that thought to underlie schizophrenia is aberrant or excessive synaptic pruning in late adolescence and early adulthood. So overactive pruning of brain connections in that developmental period. So research has shown that docencyclin or the similar medication minocycline may reduce the amount of synaptic pruning. And so that's one potential key mechanism that could be responsible for reduced schizophrenia risk. There's also research showing that docencyclin exposure, even at low doses, can have long-term effects on how the immune system behaves, including decreasing the activity of T cells and the shift away from pro-inflammatory T helper subtypes, all of which may mean reduced inflammation, including in the central nervous system. Other researchers have also noted that docencyclin could directly target infectious agents that play a role in the development of schizophrenia. One notable hypothesis is around toxoplasmic gondii, and there is some evidence that docencyclin may be effective against toxoplasmic gondii, so that's one potential way that it could act. There could also be effects on the gut, brain axis, and the microbiome. So there's still a lot more important work to be done to figure out the potential underlying mechanisms. Your paper notes that the observational nature of your approach cannot prove a causal link between doxycycline exposure and a lower risk of developing schizophrenia. What would further research building on your results aim to establish that link if it really exists? Would you be looking at another emulated target trial, further observational trials, or are we looking at more closely focused RCTs? So ideally you would do a randomized controlled trial if you want to prove cause and effect to the image of it. But feasibility issues make that very difficult to do. So we need to make the best use of alternative methods, including rigorous assessments of observational data. What I think is needed now in the context of these findings is more research from laboratory science to understand how doxycycline affects brain development in terms of psychosis risk. Are there critical windows in terms of age of exposure? How long does exposure need to last? With even short treatment durations, obesity patients, I think those are going to be really important next steps for this research. You mentioned earlier that doxycycline is used as an acne medication. How long is that as a course for something like that usually run? Obviously sometimes for antibiotics you might receive it for 10 days, 14 days, something like that. But how long does someone taking it for acne use it? Yeah, I mean it could be given for a month or several months in the course of treatment of acne. So there's a really wide window for doxycycline for some of these kids who might be taking it that they might have exposure to it. So hard to say. Exactly. So some young people would have had very long periods of exposure, some short durations of treatment. An interesting point about the acne treatment is we did a sensitivity analysis to understand if there was something systematically different about people seeking treatment for acne that could explain the relationship. That was one of our sensitive analyses which showed that no, being treatment seeking for acne doesn't explain your findings. With the caveat, obviously more further research is definitely required in this field. Are there potential immediate clinical implications for your results? Should clinicians consider a prescription of doxycycline in the treatment of infections for patients who have had other unrelated psychiatric treatments? So this is the first study to look at doxycycline treatment in this clinical population. So individuals who attend adolescent psychiatry services. So I don't think that that is sufficient to change current clinical practice and I have not in my own clinical practice begun to prescribe doxycycline. The results are promising and exciting but we need further studies and triangulation of evidence before we could recommend that as standard practice. So we've already mentioned that there are some limitations just forced upon you by the nature of the cohort and the condition that you're looking at with the trial design that you use but are there other limitations to your research? The main limitation with this type of work is that even with advanced statistical methods this is still an observational study and so you can never be certain that the effect you're finding is causal. You need to remain skeptical and humble to the potential that it is to our confounders and you need to continue to build on that evidence based with additional studies but crucially with studies that are are similarly robust. So what's next for your own research? Well this research highlights the potential role of inflammation in the development of schizophrenia and highlighting potential interventions in adolescent psychiatry services where I work which is exciting but there's perhaps an even stronger role for inflammation in the development of depression and therefore potential benefits that doctors I can could have in terms of the risk of developing depression in patients who come to adolescent psychiatry services so we want to apply similarly robust methods to investigate the relationship between doctors like in treatment in adolescent psychiatry patients and subsequent risk of depression more broadly we're interested in how treatments delivered to patients attending child and adolescent psychiatry services impact on their long-term outcomes including their risk of developing severe mental illnesses like schizophrenia we deliver a lot of treatments in adolescent psychiatry services so we need clear evidence about the long-term effects of those treatments on clinical and functional outcomes not just at six weeks or six months follow-up but all the way to adulthood. Well Dr Keller thank you for taking the time to speak with us today. My pleasure. Up next Dr Ned Kalin. Dr Kalin welcome back to AJP audio for February 2026. Thank you Aaron it's a pleasure to be here. Earlier in this podcast I spoke with Dr Ian Kelleher looking at the antibiotic doxycycline and its potential impact on the risk to develop schizophrenia in adolescent psychiatric patients in Finland. What can you tell us about it? Yes Aaron this is a really very interesting study and gets at the idea that we can begin to identify perhaps early factors in life that are either increasing risk or are protective for patients that go on to develop psychiatric illnesses. In this particular case the researchers were very interested in whether or not the antibiotic doxycycline would actually be associated with a reduced likelihood of developing schizophrenia. Now this sort of sounds like an outlandish idea when you initially think about it but it's important to keep in mind that doxycycline is a tetracycline antibiotic along with minocycline and both of these have their you know well-known antibiotic effects antimicrobial effects but also we now know from a variety of studies that they have anti-inflammatory effects and this class of antibiotics also has effects that may be neuroprotective in the brain in relation to some of the insults and stresses the brain may experience. There's other data that suggests from other studies that these two antibiotics may be associated with brain mechanisms that are related to schizophrenia. So for example in a study using cell cultures from schizophrenic individuals actually demonstrated that when minocycline was put on the neurons in culture that it reduced synaptic pruning which is one of the things that has stopped to occur in the brains of schizophrenics. So what this was was a study of a large Finnish population from the Finnish health database as you already alluded to and the study involved a number of youth that was up to I think over 60,000 youth actually more than that. 56,000 it's looking at the paper. Well 56,000 youth were identified to have been using doxycycline but but anyway what what they did was that they selected youth from the ages of 13 to 18 who first had an appointment at a psychiatric clinic or had psychiatric services and they considered this an at-risk group if they're already showing up to get some help early in life and then secondly they further screened down the sample to look at those kids that not only had received psychiatric services but also had been on an antibiotic and what they then did is they compared the outcomes in relation to schizophrenia in youth that had been had exposure to minocycline which is this tetracyclic antibiotic that has these neural protective effects presumably versus children who had gone to a psychiatric clinic who were on a different antibiotic or a different antibiotic exposure. What they looked at was over the roughly the 10-year period from when they received the antibiotic until for follow-up. You know that I'm saying roughly because it varied a bit. What they found was is that the incidence of developing schizophrenia over that 10-year follow-up period was 1.4 percent in the kids that received a low dose of this antibiotic doxycycline and it was roughly the same 1.5 percent in those that received a higher dose. The incidence of developing schizophrenia in the youth that already had gone to a psychiatric clinic but got we're on a different antibiotic was 2.1 percent and so when you do the statistics this is statistically different. What this suggests then is that having been on this type of antibiotic early in life is associated appears to be associated with a lower risk of developing schizophrenia. Now again this is really interesting and there may be other reasons why this might be the case but I want to point out that these findings do not tell us in any way nor should they be interpreted that this antibiotic exposure actually was causal. That there was a mechanism by which this reduced the risk to develop schizophrenia. It could also be an association for various reasons that we don't understand. Kids that got this antibiotic early in life may have other protective factors and somehow these just came together in that regard. So it's a really interesting finding. It's consistent with some other studies and it's consistent with basic science studies from a standpoint of minocycline and doxycycline having these neuroprotective effects and anti-inflammatory effects. But again we shouldn't get over excited about drawing conclusions about causality. So the idea here is not to recommend and I'm underlying not that children get put on this antibiotic to reduce the risk of developing schizophrenia. Again the percents are very low anyways. It's roughly 1.5% risk versus 2.1% risk. You know I think it's a very intriguing finding. As you mentioned this paper was an emulated target trial not a randomized controlled trial. It looked at a huge cohort over a long period of time. How would you go about even trying to replicate these findings with a randomized controlled trial just due to the the expense and the time frames looking at it are going to be much much smaller in scope than this paper? Yeah I mean I think that's a really important point that you're making. This is basically retrospectively going into chart data and then selecting out different subgroups of children and emulating or sort of doing the thought experiment in a way if you will that by comparing these two groups that's it's as if you're doing a controlled prospective study which you're not. To do a controlled prospective study ideally you would have to select all kids that went to a psychiatric clinic break them into two groups and then in a double blind way administer one group this antibiotic another group a different class antibiotic and follow them for 10 years and see what happened. Now the problem with that is first of all it's highly impractical. Second is as you're pointing out because these percents are so small you need a huge sample to detect the effect and thirdly there's the ethical issue about putting kids on different antibiotics and trying to see what happens. So I think it's probably almost impossible to do this in a controlled prospective gold standard kind of way when we think about clinical trials but this is as good as it gets I think from the standpoint we have a large database and trying to put these groups together retrospectively and then you know with the data go back into the records follow them for 10 years and understand what happened to them and I think as we already mentioned there were roughly in this database 56,000 of the youth were you know in this trial that they identified you know I think roughly 20 28 percent of them were on this drug. Next we have a randomized control trial from Zhao and colleagues exploring the efficacy and tolerability of antipsychotic drugs in patients with acute schizophrenia. So this is always a topic of great interest you know us understanding better which of the medicines that we have are most effective which have the greatest side effect profiles and particularly in relation to schizophrenia. This is an interesting study it was done in individuals of Han Chinese ancestry it was done in China and so there are very few studies that have looked at this and the population of individuals with this ancestry. So that in and of itself makes it interesting. The second thing is that it's a relatively large sample that's used it's in the 3,000 range and it's a trial where the different antipsychotics were randomly assigned to different groups members however it was not a double blind trial the individuals that were doing the ratings were blind the outcome measures to the treatments but the clinicians and the patients were not. Now just to give a little historical perspective the classic study that was done regarding the relative efficacy of antipsychotic medications was the CATE study that was performed in the United States. It was a double blind study to look at the relative efficacy of different antipsychotics and in that case the primary outcome measure was the time to discontinuation of treatment and that was sort of used as a proxy for efficacy and what the individuals found in this study where patients were followed up for 18 months most of these patients were not were probably less acutely ill they found that olanzapine had the lowest discontinuation rate suggesting that it was the most tolerated and probably the most efficacious drug. The current study is a large sample and it's in a population of individuals that are in the hospital in China and so presumably they had a more acute presentation than the CATE study and also unlike the CATE study which followed patients for eight months this only looked at a six-week response so those are the differences. Now the drugs that were compared were olanzapine, risperidone, quetiapine, aripiprazole, zaprazidone, perfentazine and halperidol. So the second generation antipsychotics as well as two first generation antipsychotics perfentazine and halidol. And the doses, I won't go into the doses now but the dose ranges are in the paper. This was all done enrollment began in April of 2010 and ended in November 2011. So these are data from a long time ago and one of the caveats about the conclusions is that some of the newer antipsychotics that have come out and been approved since then were not included in this comparative trial. So as I mentioned the study wasn't blinded but the people that did the assessments, the raters were unaware of the treatment conditions. There were roughly 3,000 individuals that were enrolled, a large sample and 82 percent of those patients actually completed the study. One of the things that I want to point out is when they compared the efficacy across all these different antidepressants, there were some significant differences but the differences were relatively small. The two medications that stood out that had the greatest effect by reducing scores on the PANS scale, which is the classic scale that's used for assessment, the positive and negative syndrome scale. Two medications that were most effective were olanzapine and risperidone. And so this is basically quite consistent with the findings from the Cady study. When looking at these differences, olanzapine and risperidone had effects that were significantly better than aripiprazole, quetiapine and zaprazidone, but they weren't significantly better than profentacine and halperidol. When looking at the adverse effects, this is where I think some of the bigger differences came out. The newer second generation drugs were associated with significantly less extrapyramidal side effects compared to profentazine and halperidol, which is something that we would expect. Overall, again, olanzapine and risperidone had the least amount of extrapyramidal side effects. Risperidone was associated with the greatest elevation of prolactin levels, which we know from its effects of the dopamine receptor. And eripiprazole, again, which we've known from other studies, had the least effects in elevating prolactin. And as we know from other work, olanzapine had the greatest effect on weight gain. And also zaprazidone and eripiprazole had the least effects on weight gain. So this is a useful study. It's different than the Cady study from the standpoint of a shorter period of time, probably patients that were acutely ill, but also generally comes up with the same types of conclusions. Olanzapine stands out and risperidone. The drawbacks of olanzapine are the weight gain and risperidone, the increases in prolactin levels. Two really good editorials that accompany this paper, one by Dr. Scott Stroop from Columbia University. And he basically reviews the findings and also comments on them not including medications that are more current. And also a editorial by Dr. Stephen Marder from UCLA and Dr. Susan Essock from Columbia, who talk about the real value or from the findings or the differences in side effects, and also make some methodological comments about how the study was done, talking about the idea that it's really important to take into consideration what medication someone is on before they get randomized to another medicine. Because if they're on the same medicine as before, and if they were doing well, there may be expectations that they will do better with that medicine. And for reasons we don't understand, they may do better. Finally, we have a paper from Metric and colleagues taking a look at the effects of cannabis use on alcohol consumption. So this is a really interesting study as well. It's a study that has, I think, received some interesting public attention. And what it does is, in a laboratory setting, tries to understand whether or not using both THC or cannabis and alcohol has an interactive effect. Many people would think, based on other work, that using THC and alcohol might facilitate the use of both of them. And as we know, in the real world out there, that would not be unexpected that people would be, you know, smoking some marijuana and having some alcohol and so on. So it's a really interesting study to try and understand how one influences the other. Basically, the researchers hypothesized, based on other work, that using THC would actually increase alcohol consumption and craving, that the two together. And so they tested that hypothesis. And the setup was really interesting. They used participants that were not seeking treatment, but that had a history of relatively heavy alcohol use, and also a history of recent cannabis use. And the criteria that they used for heavy alcohol use was that at least once a week over the prior six months, individuals had to have a history of binge drinking. And they defined that as five drinks per an episode of drinking in men and four in women. And so this had to go on, have to happen once a week for a number of months. And then from the standpoint of cannabis use, individuals had to have a history of using cannabis at least two times per week in the last month, and at least one time per week over the prior six years. So these were not individuals that were naive to these, to alcohol and to cannabis. What they did is they set up a laboratory setting where each individual underwent three different sessions. And this was double blind, and it was also the order was mixed up, it was counterbalanced, so that there wouldn't be any order effects. The session began by the participants smoking one of three cigarettes. They were containing various doses of one of the active compounds related to cannabis, which is THC. The lowest dose was considered the placebo dose, and this was 0.03% of THC. And this was compared then to later sessions or other sessions where THC was administered at 3% or 7.2%. So increasing levels. So first, the session began by the participants would smoke a cigarette, marijuana or cannabis cigarette that contained these different concentrations of THC. And then this was followed by the individuals were exposed to cues that were either neutral or were related to their own alcohol consumption. And then after that, they were asked to rate on an alcohol craving questionnaire how much they desired to have alcohol after seeing these cues and after smoking these cannabis-related cigarettes. And then finally, they also then were brought into a little mini bar and had a two-hour alcohol choice test where they could drink up to eight mini drinks if they wanted to over this time, or in exchange for each drink, they would receive $12. And what the investigators measured was how many mini drinks the individuals consumed depending on whether or not they smoked the placebo and quotes-related dose of THC or that had the higher concentrations. And what they found from the 138 participants that were in this study was that surprisingly THC did not increase the craving ratings or alcohol consumption. In fact, it significantly decreased the ratings on the questionnaire and also it reduced alcohol consumption. This was a bit of a surprise but really, really interesting and suggests that the interaction between using these two substances can be complicated. But in this particular setting, the one use of marijuana actually reduced the internal sense of wanting to use alcohol and actually how much alcohol was used. Dr. Kalen, thank you for taking the time to speak with us. Dr. Kalen, you're welcome. It's a pleasure. Dr. Kalen, that's all for this episode of AJP Audio. But join us again next month when we'll be a little bit warmer out, but we'll still have more on the best research that psychiatry has to offer. The views and opinions expressed in this podcast are those of the individual speakers only and do not necessarily represent those of the American Psychiatric Association. The content of this podcast is provided for general information purposes only and does not offer medical or any other type of professional advice. If you're having a medical emergency, please contact your local emergency response number.