 XL-lululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululu Editor-in-Chief, Dr. Ned Kalin. Dr. Linke, your study looked at neuroefficiency as a potential biomarker for pediatric anxiety disorders, which are both common in youth and can confer risk for adult psychopathology. Yet the current standard of care, cognitive behavioral therapy, leads to remission in less than half of patients. What did you find? Yeah, as you said, cognitive behavioral therapy, or actually any treatment, right, we can currently offer for any mental disorder will not be successful in any given patient, right? So there is no one size fits all. So what motivated our research is kind of more the question, what works for whom? And as you mentioned, we studied neuroefficiency, which you can think of as the ease with which the brain transitions between states to meet environmental demands. So if less reconfiguration of functional networks is needed, it means it's easier and less energy consuming process. And particularly in adolescence, it's very important for the brain not to waste energy because it needs the energy to basically tackle all the developmental tasks and also to enable the major developmental changes that are happening in this time. And so, but you said, like you asked what we, what we found. And so what we saw was that for more anxious youth, it might be like they might need more energy to have their brain transition from one state to another. What we saw is their efficiency is lower. So it is more difficult or energy consuming to transition from one state to another compared to the healthy volunteers that were also part of our study. So that was the first thing we found. Then we kind of asked, okay, this neuroefficiency, is this more a state or is it more a trait? And so we looked for its stability in the healthy volunteers. And we found that it's moderately stable for a four month interval. So we can think of it more as a, as a trait. It's not a state. And so the next question we were then wondering about, okay, if it's, if it's a trait, does it change during therapy? Does it predict therapy success? And so we looked at the participants that underwent cognitive behavioral therapy. And what we saw was that no, it did not change in response to cognitive behavioral therapy, but the anxious youth that had higher neural efficiency, though, whose brains kind of functioned more like the brains of the healthy volunteers, those were the ones that responded better to the cognitive behavioral therapy. Now, the effect was not huge. It was a small to modest effect, but it was very robust, right? We kind of checked, okay, could it be maybe the symptom severity that's explaining it to begin with? Could it be that it's like the older kids who also happen to have a higher neural efficiency? Are these the kids that have a higher IQ? But none of those variables could explain this effect, which prompted me to say it's, it's pretty, pretty robust. And maybe it's also interesting because you might wonder, right, what kind of behavior this, this relates to. So we also looked at behavior correlates of the neural efficiency. And what we found was that it was related to how quick participants arrive at a correct decision in a very simple decision-making task. So it's really kind of, you can think of it as an efficiency of information processing as well. So you mentioned that patients who had a lower neural efficiency didn't necessarily respond to CBT. And then patients that you saw who had neural efficiency that was more similar to healthy controls were more likely to respond to CBT. But what does that suggest for patients who have a lower neural efficiency level, but don't respond to CBT as far as potential treatments for their anxiety disorders? Well, first, I want to say that these findings need to be replicated before we kind of jump to any clinical implications truly. But it might mean that CBT is just not the best treatment for these patients, that it would need to be augmented by some form of training. Like you could think maybe of a cognitive training that could kind of enhance the efficiency of their information processing. You might also think about like, you know, pharmaceutical interventions, or you could think of things like TMS, right? Neurostimulation that kind of helps the brain networks to switch quicker or easier between states. So I think that that's essentially what it could mean. As you mentioned previously, research has defined neural efficiency as the ability to take on competing demands with minimal changes in the functional connectivity patterns of the brain. What led you to focus on neural efficiency as a potential biomarker? And what did you use to test it? Yeah, so there has been prior work that was led by Anita Harwin. And that suggested already that neural efficiency might be relevant in the context of youth anxiety disorders. So in our study that was ongoing at this time, we were acquiring data akin to the data that was used in her study. So she also had resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging data and task-based fMRI data. And we had the same. So we thought, and plus we knew that our kids also underwent treatment. So we thought that's like a golden opportunity to kind of study this effect in more depth. And so we measured is, so we took the brain network configuration or the pattern on the functional pattern addressed. And we also looked at the pattern during the task, which was a task you could maybe think of as a mildly threatening environment. And then we basically compared how similar the neural patterns are when the children are addressed or kind of in a safe environment versus when they are in this slightly threatening environment. And how this similarity basically is the measure of the neural efficiency. Because you would think that it's really beneficial to your brain if it doesn't need to reconfigure itself a lot in order to meet different task demands, right? If it's already set up in a way that it can easily accommodate different demands and doesn't need to change a whole lot about its setup. You measured patient-rated and parent-rated anxiety, but found the neural efficiency was only associated with the latter, parent-rated anxiety. What did you take from that? Well, that's not totally clear, but informant discrepancies are very common in pediatric psychiatry. And it's generally assumed that those discrepancies are not nice, right? That they are meaningful. Oftentimes, people argue that the child actually might be the more reliable reporter because the child experiences themselves across various situations, across time. On the other hand, right, talking about your symptoms requires a certain level of introspection. And it might be that certain processes are just not so accessible for introspection and that the parents, when rating the child's anxiety, actually pick up more on aspects of the neural efficiency than the child themselves. So that's kind of how we explain this discrepancy. And of course, it would be nice if the ratings were aligned, but we're also not terribly concerned because it's actually quite common that this happens. You mentioned this a little bit earlier, but does your study have immediate clinical implications for practitioners working with patients with anxiety disorders? Well, the short answer is no. We are working with kids, right? So we want to be super, super careful. And I think the findings need to be replicated before we think about clinical implications. I think the findings also need to be extended, right? We currently only looked at cognitive behavioral therapy and we do not know if this effect would also be present with other treatments, right? If these kids generally respond less well to intervention or if it's like an effect that's specific to CBT. So those are things that need to be studied. However, I think if you're a practitioner, you probably also know these cases that are just like a hard nut to crack, right? Just like we tried already a lot of things you, you know, that would be kind of the first line treatment and still like kids are not getting better. And I think just knowing about this concept might be helpful in, you know, thinking about the case and maybe thinking how the assumption that there is a brain that takes a long time to arrive at a correct decision, how this could interact with the therapy you're currently offering, right? More in terms of like maybe along the line of the case study, right? That you would kind of think, okay, I've tried a lot of things. This is not working. I know this could be a factor. Like what could I do assuming this could be the case? So I think that's the only thing I would, I would see right now. What were the limitations of your research? Well, first of all, the usual, we would have liked a larger sample, right? I think the sample size was modest, but it could have been larger. We also would have liked a more diverse sample, but it was difficult to recruit such a sample. So we do not really know if these findings apply essentially to everyone. It would also have been nice to have more information about the therapeutic process, right? So we do not know in great detail what happened in the course of these therapy. I mean, there were manualized cognitive behavioral therapies, right? So we have a fair idea of what the therapist did with the kids. But there are a lot of little things and allegiance to treatment and so on, which would have been nice to assess in more depth to maybe understand the differential effects. So what's next for your research? Well, I would like to better understand the neuroefficiency. I want to understand better how it relates to treatment on success. I also want to understand better how it relates to development, right? Because right now we are looking at low neuroefficiency as something that maybe prevents CBT from, you know, unfolding its full effect. But I think we could also flip it around and think of like high neuroefficiency maybe as a resilience marker, something that's very beneficial. And think about like how we could foster that already outside the context of anxiety. And yeah, we also have like some preliminary data that suggests that this metric might also play a role in other conditions. So I'm very interested and excited to find out more about this metric and how it could help us understand psychopathology better. Well, Dr. Lenka, thank you for taking the time to speak with us today. You're welcome. Up next, Dr. Ned Kalin. Dr. Kalin, welcome to the first AJP Audio of 2026. Well, it's great to be with you, Aaron. This month on the podcast, I spoke with Dr. Julia Lenka about their article looking at neural efficiency as a potential biomarker in the treatment of children with anxiety disorders. What can you add? Aaron, this is a really interesting paper and is important in a number of respects. One is that I think it's important to recognize that anxiety disorders almost always start early in life, early childhood, during adolescence. And this is a study of some of the biological markers that are associated with anxiety disorders in children and also looks at this in relation to treatment outcomes. And so this is a study in 103 unmedicated youth with anxiety disorders comparing neural function to another 103 children who do not have any psychiatric illness. What the measure is that the investigators looked at is a measure that has been termed neural efficiency. And what this is, is it represents a correlation across an individual's resting state functional connectivity, which is sort of how the brain is working at rest and how that links up with or is related to within the same person, how their brain activates when they're confronted with a specific task. And the general idea is that the less changes from resting state to the activated state is associated with the idea of having more efficiency in neural function. Now, this is a concept that, you know, is interesting, but I don't know that it's completely accepted in the literature. It is, has been associated with better performance. So people with higher neural efficiency, for example, have better performance in different ways. Nonetheless, this was the measure that was used and looked at in the study by Linke et al., again, comparing 103 unmedicated youth with anxiety disorders to 103 youth with psychiatric illnesses. And what they found was that there was a small but significant effect such that youth with anxiety disorders appear to have less neural efficiency than their comparators who were youth of the same age that did not have anxiety disorders. And just to reiterate, the idea of neural efficiency is that your resting state brain function, as measured by MRI or a bold signal, is correlated with your task-activated state. And in this case, it was a task that involved a threat. So the resting state functional activity was correlated then with the threat-related brain activity. And the correlation was stronger in youth without anxiety disorders than it was in youth with anxiety disorders, suggesting that youth with anxiety disorders have less, quote-unquote, neural efficiency. Now, what's also important in this study is that the investigators also looked at, within the sample, there were 80 youth with anxiety disorders that underwent exposure-based cognitive behavioral therapy for treatment. And what they found was that the level of neural efficiency, that is, those with higher levels of neural efficiency, were likely to have a more rapid rate of getting better in this exposure-based cognitive behavioral therapy treatment. So in sum, this measure of neural efficiency looks like it has some utility, perhaps, as we move forward in thinking about a biomarker and also a biomarker of treatment response, but also to remember that this is a relatively small effect and considerably more work needs to be done with this measure. Next, we have a paper from Dr. Mallard and colleagues looking at pleiotropic architecture of impulsivity. Dr. Michael Kahn This is an interesting paper as well. And this paper gets at the idea that impulsivity is not one thing. And, you know, I think investigators in the field have been aware of this over time, that there are many facets to being impulsive. And what these investigators did is that they looked at GWAS data from a large sample of individuals in which they also had impulsivity behavioral ratings, and then asked the question whether or not the genetic makeup of the different impulsivity ratings was different for each one, or whether or not all these different impulsivity ratings shared the same genetic underpinnings. And this gets at the idea of heterogeneity in relation to impulsivity and the phenotypic traits associated with impulsivity. So more specifically, they looked at about 134,000 individuals using GWAS data and also phenotypic measurements, assessing eight types of impulsivity. These are from two different rating scales. The types of impulsivity scales included attentional issues, motor impulsivity, and non-planning impulsivity. Also, lack of urgency, issues related to premeditation, perseverance, sensation-seeking, and positive urgency. So these are the phenotypic impulsive traits that were broken down into forming one concept of impulsivity. What they found was when they looked at genetic overlap, they found that there was moderate genetic overlap across all these different impulsive measures, suggesting that to some extent there are similar genetic underpinnings. But more importantly, and I think more consistently, they found that the different impulsive traits tended to have different genetic underpinnings. So there was some shared genetics and also some separate genetics. Overall, they found 93 genes that were associated with impulsive measures. And again, as I said, the statistical models supported the idea that different impulsivity traits were associated with different genetic underpinnings. This was most robust for the traits such as sensation-seeking and perseverance, where there was distinct genetics. Many of the gene-related pathways that were identified were related to neurodevelopment, which in a way is consistent with the idea that impulsivity and ADHD are neurodevelopmental traits or neurodevelopmental illness. One of the interesting genes that was found was FOXP2. This is a gene that's associated with neurodevelopment, and it's especially related to sleep, language, and externalizing disorders. This gene was found to be associated across all the impulsive traits. So the take-home message here is that the genetic underpinnings of impulsivity sort out into different genes related to different traits. And then there also is some consistency in genetic underpinnings across traits. Following that, we have an imaging study from Naples et al., looking at glutamate receptors for neural activity in patients with autism. Yeah, so this is using a positron emission tomography study, which allows us to use radioreceptor ligands, which are radioactively labeled, to envision different receptor subsystems in the brain or different receptor systems. And so this is a great in vitro technique to image the brain. Autism spectrum disorder was the illness of interest. Autism spectrum disorder, as we all know, is, again, another neurodevelopmental illness. And considerable research, both preclinical and clinical research, has suggested that there are alterations in glutamatergic excitatory neurotransmission that may contribute to ASD, and also that this may also contribute to what has been thought to be an excitatory inhibitory imbalance in neurotransmission in these individuals. Now, this has been thought to be related to some of the symptoms, as well as the development of autism spectrum disorder. More specifically, glutamate receptors have been suggested to be altered in relation to ASD. This has included the metabotropic glutamate receptor, MGLU-R5, which has been implicated in various neurodevelopmental disorders. It's a G-coupled receptor membrane protein, one of the many glutamate receptors involved in excitatory neurotransmission and synaptic elasticity. And this particular receptor is found in high concentrations in dendritic spines, which is a site of neuroplasticity. Now, there's been some prior work using measures to assess these receptors in individuals with autism. They've been done in small samples, and in general, the findings have suggested that there are actual increases in the numbers of receptors and increases in what we call this excitatory inhibitory imbalance. This study used somewhat of a larger sample, although it was still a relatively small sample, 16 individuals with autism spectrum disorder compared to 16 neurotypical control participants. The measure of interest, which was called volume of distribution of the MGLU-R5 receptor, that you can think about this as a reflection of MGLU-R5 in the brain as this measure assesses the amount of binding of the radioactive substance, the radioligand that was given to the receptors. What they found was is that there actually was a decrease of about 15% in these receptors in the brains of ASD participants, particularly in the cerebral cortex and other subcritical brain regions such as the amygdala and hippocampus. They also had EEG measures in these subjects, and what they found was that the ASD subjects, contrary to prior work, had a decreased level of excitatory neurotransmission as noted by a decrease in the excitatory inhibitory imbalance. So this is now suggesting a finding that there's decreased MGLU-R5 receptors and decreased excitatory inhibitory balance in individuals that have autism spectrum disorder. So this is an important study. It's a relatively small sample, although it's bigger than samples in other studies. And actually, the finding is in the opposite direction of other studies. So it leaves us with a bit of a question as to what we really believe here. But I would say that this is the best study that's been done to date and suggests that there are lower numbers of receptors and decreased excitatory inhibitory imbalance in individuals with autism spectrum disorder. And finally, we have a paper from McGillibwee and colleagues with a systematic review and meta-analysis of trials looking at the impact of anti-inflammatory treatments on depression symptoms. Another really relevant study to clinical practice, this is a large review, systemic, systematic review and meta-analysis looking at prior clinical trials that have looked at individuals that have high levels or relatively high levels of inflammation who are depressed, who do not have other reasons, other medical reasons to have increased inflammation. So as we all know, a lot of rheumatological disorders frequently have high levels of inflammation and people may have depression who have those problems. This is not that. This is looking at higher levels of inflammation in individuals where there's no diagnosed medical reason to have the inflammation. Now we've known for a long time that inflammation is important in various psychiatric illnesses, especially identified to be important in depression. And many people have suggested that we should think about an inflammatory subtype of depression. That is one that is mostly related pathophysiologically to increased inflammation. This meta-analysis got together all the studies that have looked at this issue. They used selection criteria across the studies where individuals had to have an inflammatory marker called C-reactive protein or CRP with a level that was somewhat abnormal, greater than two milligrams per liter. Now the reason they were interested in this is because this measure is an acute measure of inflammation. It's also been identified with depressive illness when it's higher. There were some other studies included where other markers were used, but for now we'll just focus on the higher levels of C-reactive protein. What they found was is that there were 11 studies that used this marker as a criterion to determine, you know, whether or not the participants were included based on their inflammation. And anti-inflammatory treatments were used in those studies, and they could have been by themselves, or they could have been added into current antidepressant regimens. The anti-inflammatory treatments that were used included such things as interleukin-6 inhibitors, mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitors, the antibiotic minocycline, which also has anti-inflammatory properties, non-steroidal anti-inflammatories, recombinant interleukin-2, necrosis factor inhibitors. So these are all currently used for various illnesses, these anti-inflammatory treatments. In these cases, they were added in to an antidepressant regimen or were used by themselves in individuals that had depression, elevated levels of CRP, and no other medical illness that could account for that. These anti-inflammatory drugs, when compared to placebo, were more effective in decreasing depressive symptoms, and also the specific symptom anhedonia in individuals that had major depression. Now, why anhedonia? They looked at anhedonia because anhedonia is frequently associated with inflammatory processes. Importantly, they did not find that when they looked at remission rates or response rates for depression, that any of these drugs were greater than placebo in relation to response or remission. However, again, to emphasize what they did find was a significantly greater reduction in depressive symptoms and a reduction in anhedonic symptoms. Also importantly, the anti-inflammatory treatments were not associated with any increase in serious adverse events. So this is data that supports the idea that there is an inflammatory subtype of depression and suggests that in individuals that have high levels of C-reactive protein and are also depressed, that anti-inflammatory treatments may be very helpful for them in treating their depression. Dr. Kalen, thank you once again for joining us. You're welcome. It's my pleasure. That's all for the first AJP Audio of 2026. I hope you'll join us again next month when we continue to explore the latest in psychiatric research. In the meantime, be sure to check out the other podcasts on offer from the APA at psychiatryonline.org or wherever you get podcasts. The views and opinions expressed in this podcast are those of the individual speakers only and do not necessarily represent those of the American Psychiatric Association. The content of this podcast is provided for general information purposes only and does not offer medical or any other type of professional advice. If you're having a medical emergency, please contact your local emergency response number. Thank you. Thank you.