 m России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России, России России, России, России, России России, России, России, России России, России, России России, России, России России, России России, России России, России России, России России, России России, России России, России России, России России России, России России России, России России России России России России России России России России России России России России России России России России России России России России России России России России России России for November 2025. I'm Aaron Van Dorn. Today on the podcast, I spoke with Dr. Lara Coughlin, Associate Professor at the University of Michigan in the Department of Psychiatry and the Addiction Center. Dr. Coughlin and colleagues have a paper in the new issue of AJP, looking at the impact of contingency management therapy on all-cause mortality in patients with stimulant use disorder in a large VA health system cohort. Afterwards, Dr. Ned Kalin will join us to discuss the rest of the November issue of AJP. Dr. Coughlin, your study is a retrospective cohort study looking at the outcomes of patients with stimulant use disorder who did and did not receive contingency management. Before we get into your results, can you tell us about contingency management, how it works, and why it has been found to be an effective method of treatment for stimulant use disorder in particular? That's a really good question. So contingency management is a behavioral treatment that delivers frequent tangible rewards for objective health-aligned behaviors. So here you can think about things like drug negative tests or treatment engagement. It leverages basic learning principles to make the desired behavior immediately rewarding, consistently reinforced, and clearly linked to an objective measure. So for stimulant use disorder in particular, this is important because we don't have any FDA-approved medications, and contingency management is really the most effective treatment. It's recommended as the first-line treatment by multiple professional organizations such as ASAM. And mechanistically, contingency management helps to sort of bridge the now versus later gap that we see in substance use disorders, such that stimulants typically provide this immediate reinforcement, and contingency management can restore immediate reinforcement for what we think of as recovery-aligned behaviors, which really is a big part of why it reliably improves substance-related outcomes. So your study looked at mortality related to stimulant use disorder, which, as you mentioned, in comparison to opioid use disorder, does not have an FDA-approved medical treatment. Your article mentions that while overdose deaths linked to opioids have been trending down in recent years, deaths due to stimulant use disorder are on the rise, along with other comorbid conditions such as HIV, psychosis, and depression. What did you find? Yeah, so you're exactly right. Stimulant-involved overdoses are increasing along with stimulant-related medical and psychiatric conditions. And so this is where it's really good news that we have an effective treatment here with contingency management that we can help to sort of fight these trends with. Yet, some of our prior work has shown that fewer than 2% of people with a stimulant use disorder actually receive contingency management. So this is unlike opioid use disorder, where we have medications that we've done a lot to really make sure that those treatments are getting to the people with opioid use disorder because it provides life-saving care. So sometimes I say that contingency management is this most effective treatment that you may never have heard of and likely have never received. So the goal of this current study was to understand just how important contingency management is to deliver to those with stimulant use disorder. So we did a retrospective cohort study in the National Veterans Administration by linking electronic health records to national death index records. And we had 1,481 people who had received contingency management. And then we spent a good deal of time matching them to that same number of people who had a stimulant use disorder but did not receive contingency management. And the primary outcome that we were looking at was one year all-cause mortality. And what we found was that those with stimulant use disorder who received contingency management were about 40% less likely to die over the following year than those in the control cohort who also had a stimulant use disorder but did not receive this first-line treatment. And really importantly here is that that mortality benefit being about 40% less likely to die, that is about the same level of effect that we see when people who have an opioid use disorder receive medication for their opioid use disorder, which we've done a ton of work in the VA and in the country to make that a reality. And then the other thing I'll note that we found that it was that those in the contingency management cohort had somewhat higher psychiatric hospitalization admissions. And this we really were intrigued by and we think might reflect that higher engagement for those who are receiving contingency management, they were receiving care more frequently, actually led to greater detection of symptoms that warranted psychiatric hospitalization. Why did you choose to look at mortality as an indicator? Yes, we looked at mortality because at the end of the day, this is sort of the downstream effect that oftentimes when people were looking at contingency management trials, people would point to like, yes, it improves substance use outcomes in the short term or even in the longer term after contingency management treatment has ended. But people always want to know, but does it actually reduce those who are going to actually ultimately die? And so this is for a long time and some we wanted to do and really, the VA being the leaders that they are bringing contingency management on such a large, large scale to their national health system created the opportunity to do a study of this size. While researchers indicated that contingency management is an effective clinical tool, it might be argued that contingency management, where a patient, as you mentioned, is provided with prizes, vouchers or small sums of money to refrain from substance use or to seek medical treatment offers something of a moral hazard for patients. And indeed, your paper indicates that the low level of payments offered, often less than $600 an entire calendar year, are an impediment to effective utilization of contingency management. Is there any validity to these concerns? I'm so glad you asked that. I'm so glad because really, that's something that comes up all the time. So this concern and how I sort of think about this is that there's this concern that often comes up that contingency management undermines people's intrinsic motivation. And it really is not supported by the evidence. But this misconception stems from what we sometimes call in psychology the over-justification effect, or the idea that external rewards then reduce someone's intrinsic motivation. But this just repeatedly has not been shown to be the case when it comes to substance use treatment outcomes. Multiple studies now have demonstrated that patients receiving contingency management show equal to or greater intrinsic motivations, their own internal desire to change their substance use compared to those in control conditions. And the incentives really strengthen, as opposed to replace, personal investment in recovery. And then one other thing I like to note is there was a really lovely meta-analysis done a few years back by Ginley et al. that we talk about in this paper too, that shows that the contingency management benefit often persists well after incentives end. So a concern that folks sometimes have is that if we provide people with incentives for not using substances, for example, then when those incentives, those external motivators go away, someone's going to resume use. And it really finds that, no, this is not the case, that substance use benefits persist at least a year out. And that's sort of a typical timeline that studies look at. So really showing this durable behavior change. One thing I did want to comment on that you noted here is that there is this real barrier in low incentive caps that historically, as you said, have been about $600 a year limiting the effectiveness of contingency management. And I will say that earlier this year, we had a really great breakthrough when SAMHSA changed the cap that they have for contingency management programs funded through SAMHSA and increased it to up to $750 per year per patient, which is definitely a step in the right direction. But I will say that there is further to go and that we really need to remember that when we're talking about reducing deaths or saving lives, this price tag of a few hundred dollars is something that when we think about other medical treatment, the cost of medicine, for example, we really tend not to bat an eye at in this country. It's interesting because people who are provided with contingency management had a higher usage of medical care and services, which would also increase obviously the cost. But the reverse side is obviously they're not dying as much. Yeah. And I think there's more work to be done there just to like state on that fact really quickly, because we really do see that we want people to be engaging in care that's actually really protective against adverse outcomes like death and overdose as one type of death there. And to understand what is the ultimate like the cost effectiveness of contingency management and at what point in contingency management treatment is the cost really worth it from like a health system perspective. And there's some really great work going on right now looking at that across some different states in the US. So if the research has indicated that this is an effective and safe treatment, what do you think is the stumbling block of preventing a wider adoption of contingency management as a paradigm for treatment of substance use disorders? There's a multi levels of sort of barriers that we're doing a lot of work to reduce. I think the biggest one that I'll mention today is that contingency management sometimes faces barriers in that it's hard for patients to engage in a treatment that sort of by design, ask people to come into a clinic multiple times a week to provide drug tests and to meet with a provider. And it really hasn't had much uptake to remote care, despite that we've seen a lot of other SUD treatment move to remote care. And so there's a lot of work being done to try to understand how we could lower the threshold of care for contingency management so that we would see that more people with a stimulant use disorder. As I mentioned, we found that about 2% of people with a stimulant use disorder receive contingency management. And we really, really need to do work to increase that number so that we can see the public health impact of contingency management at scale. So contingency management has proven to be an effective treatment for substance use disorder, but does it have a broader applicability to other psychiatric disorders? Yeah, so CM is a flexible behavioral platform and the reinforcement logic that supports it can support many health goals from you could imagine things like medication adherence, appointment attendance and recovery supported activities. That said, I will say that at this point, the most robust evidence remains for stimulant use disorder, where CM is the clear gold standard behavioral treatment. And we don't have nearly enough people receiving it. So while there is really exciting work adapting CM that I'm really, really quite jazzed about, we really need to make sure that we see the stimulant use disorder space through and we face, especially in the face of rising overdose and mortality risk that we're seeing right now in this country. And then once that foundation is in place, and we're really seeing that population health impact for stimulant use disorder, I really believe then will be the time to focus on how we can leverage contingency management and incentives more broadly to enhance outcomes across psychiatric conditions. What were the limitations of your study? Yes. So first off, this uses an observational design. So it is possible that there is residual confounding despite our careful matching that we did in this study. There's also some limited ability to measure severity of comorbidities and social determinants from electronic health records. And so we sort of know what we are able to see through the health records, but we weren't meeting or doing interviews or detailed surveys with individual patients for this study. I'll also note that this study was done in the COVID-19 era and following. And so data may have been influenced by COVID-19 mortality trends, though we did do sensitivity analyses to guard against this and to look at COVID-specific causes of death and found that those weren't really a driving factor from what we could tell. Also, this, as I mentioned, both, I'd say, a strength, but also a generalizability limitation is that we did this in the VA, which is our largest health system in the country. But it also is predominantly serving individuals who identify as male. And so I would say that replication of this in larger systems and states that are implementing contingency management will be really exciting to see. What's next for your research? I just can't stop thinking about how we need to make sure that we're getting contingency management to more people. And a big area in my research that is going to continue to move forward is that thinking about how we can think about contingency management from a low threshold of care model, whether that be tele-CM, whether that be making sure that it is really well suited to individuals who may not at this point be ready to completely stop use, but may be interested in using less frequently. How we can fit CM into those models of care, not so unlike we've done over the last decade and a half for medications for opioid use disorder to make sure that we are not trying to create a treatment that only fits for sort of the quote unquote perfect patient, but really have a treatment that is helpful and health promoting for the many people that have a substance use disorder. Well, Dr. Coughlin, thank you for taking the time to speak with us today. I really appreciate it. Thanks so much for having me. Up next, Dr. Ned Kalin. Dr. Coughlin, welcome back to AJP Audio for November 2025. Thank you, Aaron. It's good to be here. This month on the podcast, I spoke with Dr. Laura Coughlin. Dr. Coughlin and colleagues have a paper looking at the association of mortality and stimulant use disorder with the use of contingency management. What can you tell us about this study? This is a really interesting and important study, Aaron. And this study basically looks at a method for treatment of substance use disorders, in this case, stimulant use disorders, which is called contingency management, which I'm sure as was described is an effective treatment for substance use disorders. It's a behavioral therapy that uses positive reinforcers and rewards to shape behaviors of individuals that have substance use disorders to reinforce their abstinence and for them to keep, you know, not only being abstinent, but to demonstrate negative drug screens. Stimulant use disorders are becoming more and more common. And what's important to note about them is that overdoses with stimulants account for over half of overdose deaths. And this was documented in 2021. So we're not only dealing with a problem that is common, that can be disabling, but also can be associated with mortality. In this particular study, the investigators used electronic medical records from the VA from July of 2018 to December 2020 over about a two-year period to look at patients that have been treated with contingency management who had stimulant use disorders and compare their outcomes as far as mortality goes to those individuals that were not receiving contingency management treatment. Now, the VA system has recognized the value of using this treatment, and actually this has become a systematic treatment in their program. And so what they found was is that of all the patients, they selected about 1,500 individuals that had received contingency management therapy, and they compared their outcomes to the same number of stimulus use disorder patients that did not receive contingency management therapy. The results demonstrated that treatment with contingency management therapy was actually associated with a significant reduction of deaths, even when they control for other factors like medical illnesses and other psychiatric comorbidities. So, for example, to get really specific, within one year of starting this treatment, 27 patients out of this large number that received contingency management therapy died. And 10 of those deaths were due to overdose. Roughly twice as many of 46 individuals died with 15 due to overdose in a group that did not receive this intervention. So this is really markedly reducing the risk of mortality in this population, suggesting that this approach is not only useful for reducing the intake of stimulants, but also is useful in the longer term from the standpoint of reducing lethality or mortality associated with them. And accompanying this paper is a really good editorial by Dr. Stephen Higgins and Tyler Erath from the University of Vermont. They basically asked the question, if this treatment works so well and reduces mortality, why isn't it more systematically used throughout the United States for the treatment of other substance use disorders, which is a great question. So all in all, an important paper highlighting the lethality of stimulant use disorders and also highlighting a behavioral treatment that not only is helpful for reducing use, but also for decreasing mortality. So if the research has attested that contingency management is an effective treatment for substance use disorder, what is standing in the way of the broader adoption of it clinically? I mean, that's a great question. I think that, you know, our systems for mental health care are frequently fragmented and not as organized as we like. One of the nice things about the VA system is that's a coherent, unified system. You know, whether or not there are people to train to do this in other systems, perhaps the cost related to doing this, although this should not be particularly expensive. And finally, the lack of recognition that this is a really useful approach and, you know, can have really positive outcomes. Next, we have an article from Yelchenbusch and colleagues looking at transcriptonomic analysis of the human hadbinula in schizophrenia. So this also is a very important study and obviously is at a very different level of analysis than the paper we just talked about. This is at the molecular analysis in postmortem brains for individuals with schizophrenia. Postmortem brains have been really important as we've pursued trying to understand what's going on at a biological and molecular level in individuals that suffer from various psychiatric illnesses. And this particular study that was done by investigators at the Lieber Institute, the investigators focused on this brain region that you mentioned called the habanula. Now, this is a brain region that a lot of people haven't heard about. It's a brain region that's sort of in the back of the brain behind the thalamus. It links various cortical regions with subcortical regions. And it also links up to regions that have a lot to do with monoamines, norepinephrine, serotonin, and dopamine, the chemicals that are important modulatory chemicals in the brain and also target strictly of some of our treatments. And at a behavioral level, this brain region is associated with reward types of behaviors and also aversion behaviors. In addition to all that about the physiology and biology and behavior of this region, we also know that a number of studies have found that this region has been implicated in various types of pathophysiology, including substance use disorders, depression, and schizophrenia. So the investigators in this study took tissue from brains of individuals with schizophrenia that died and compared the results from those tissues to individuals that did not have schizophrenia, that were sort of control individuals that also passed away. And what they did is they used a technique called RNA sequencing. And what this does is it allows us to understand different levels of RNA in a specific brain region. Now, why is RNA important? RNA is important because it's the intermediate molecules that are between our structural DNA, which is what we inherit from our parents, and the proteins that are critical for function. So this is the way that the structural variation in our genetic material is translated from the DNA to the protein via RNA. And RNA levels are basically a reflection of not only our genetic variation, but also our experience. And so gene function can be modulated by experience. And so the RNA is the readout of all that. And then when we get even in more depth, there's different types of ways of looking at the RNA. We can look at RNA in a bulk way. And now we have really incredible techniques where we can look into individual neurons or cells in the brain and understand what their gene expression pattern looks like. So we can get down at the very specific cell type level, which is just a remarkable advance. So what these investigators found in doing all this work was first they characterized all the different cell types and the gene expression patterns within those different cell types in this particular brain region that had been in normal people. And after they did that, they then took the brains, as I mentioned already, from individuals with schizophrenia that had died and compared the RNA from individuals that were control individuals. And they identified in those brains a number of genes that were associated with schizophrenia that were differentially expressed at different levels of RNA. So in the 35 schizophrenic brains as compared to the 34 control brains, they found 173 differentially expressed genes that were associated with schizophrenia. When they looked at that, they also asked questions about how many of these genes or the expression of these genes the alterations are unique to this brain region versus work that's been done in other brain regions in relation to schizophrenia. And they found that a high number of these genes that were altered were specific to this brain region, about 129 of them. So this suggests that in this particular brain region, there's a number of genes that are seeming to be altered in the way they're working or they're malfunctioning related to schizophrenia. One of those genes that they found was related to neurodevelopment. Another gene that they found was related to the dopamine receptor system. Both of these areas are areas that have been well established to be associated with the development and the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. They did a bunch of other work to show that some of these genes were related to structural variation that individuals inherited and some were not. And I won't go into those details. But the bottom line here is that this is a new window of information looking into a brain structure that has been relatively ignored and now coming up with some genetic leads and maybe even new drug targets that may be helpful for thinking about understanding and treating schizophrenia. Now, one of the caveats in the study is that all of the brains that were used were collected from Caucasian individuals. And I just point that out because that is a potential limitation from the standpoint of how generalizable these findings are to individuals of other ancestries or other ethnic and racial backgrounds. But by and large, this is a really important study. It uses cutting edge molecular biology techniques to look at a brain region that we haven't thought a lot about in an illness that we know a lot about, but haven't yet been able to have a huge impact from the standpoint of treatment. And finally, we have a paper from non-colleagues looking at environmental, psychiatric, and genetic predictors of alcohol use disorder in large cohorts of people with African and European ancestry. So unlike the study that I just talked about, this study focuses on not only individuals of European ancestry, but also individuals of African ancestry. And so this now allows us to understand more about diversity, diverse populations, and whether or not there are differences or similarities between different populations with different ancestries. Alcohol use disorder is unfortunately incredibly common. It's estimated that roughly 10 or 11 percent of the population in the United States currently has an alcohol use disorder. This is, you know, high levels of use of alcohol that are associated with disability and addiction. In addition to that, we know a lot about the heritability of alcohol use disorder. There have been many studies that suggest that roughly 50 percent of your likelihood to develop alcohol use disorder is a heritable influence, leaving the other 50 percent related to your environmental experience or other environmental factors that may actually affect the fetus in utero or other types of things like that. So the sample that was used was about 11,000 individuals. Roughly half of these individuals were African ancestry and the other half of European ancestry. From these individuals, genetic data was available so that investigators could look at alterations in gene structure or SNPs in this population. And what they found was quite interesting. They basically found that when they looked at all the genetic alterations and formed what we call a polygenic risk score, they found that that polygenic risk score for alcohol use only predicted a very small amount of the heritability. It was only between around one to two percent. So that highlights something that we've known for a while now. That is that when we look, use our current tools to look at the genes that are involved, we're not finding enough genes that account for how we understand the magnitude of heritability, which means that there's something missing that we're not picking up yet. That's a whole nother story. But as importantly, they also found that roughly 60 to 70 percent of the variability in developing or likelihood of developing alcohol use disorder could be attributed in this study to environmental factors. So this really highlights the importance of environmental factors. By and large, these environmental factors were similar across both groups. They were related to such things as education, substance use in the household, income. Males were more likely to be at risk and so on. When they looked at the psychiatric illnesses that were most likely related to contributing to the alcohol use disorder, what came out was that post-traumatic stress disorder was the most likely to be associated with this. And it was accounting for about 10 percent of the variance in both groups. Now, one of the differences that they did find across individuals of African ancestry and European ancestry were the protective factors. So they asked the question, what factors in the environment looked like they were helping people not develop alcohol use disorder? And what they found was that in individuals of European descent, some of the protective factors were things like being married, having a higher income or higher education, and also the quality of the relationship with when the child was growing up with their parents or their primary caregiver. In the individuals of African ancestry, the protective factors, again, were education level and income level. But also one of the things that came out in this particular study was whether or not individuals and how much they attended religious services. I think that this highlights overall that there's a lot of commonality across these two ancestries as far as environmental risk factors go and the likelihood of environmental risk being related to alcohol use disorder, but also highlighting some minor differences in protective factors. A really important study, mostly because it gets at looking at individuals of African ancestry and trying to understand differences and similarities to individuals of European ancestry, which is something that we haven't seen a lot of in some of our previous, in many of our previous studies. Well, Dr. Kaelin, thank you once again for speaking with us. You're welcome, Aaron. It's a pleasure. That's all for this month's episode of HAP Audio, but I hope you'll check out the other podcasts on offer from the APA. In the most recent episode of Psychiatric Services, From Pages to Practice, Dr. Dixon and Dr. Bereson speak with Dr. Katherine Rideout to discuss measurement-based care and psychiatric practice. That and more can be found at psychiatryonline.org or wherever you get podcasts. The views and opinions expressed in this podcast are those of the individual speakers only and do not necessarily represent the views of the American Psychiatric Association. The content of this podcast is provided for general information purposes only and does not offer medical or any other type of professional advice. If you're having a medical emergency, please contact your local emergency response number.