 aromasin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, narin, nar Kalen, the American Journal of Psychiatry's editor-in-chief about the rest of the October issue. Dr. Wei, your present study looks at your group's previous work on the impact of hormone suppression in women with premenstrual dysphoric disorder, or PMDD. PMDD is a condition prevalent in women of reproductive age and causes mood and behavioral symptoms during the menstrual cycle, including irritability, anxiety, sadness, and mood swings, along with physiological symptoms such as bloating and breast pain. Can you tell us about your earlier findings and how your study, which aimed to replicate and expand on those earlier findings, differed? Dr. Wei, in both of our studies, we used the same hormone manipulation protocol, where women with PMDD and healthy control women received luprolite injections once a month to suppress the production of ovarian hormones, estradiol, and progesterone. After three months of being on luprolite alone, where hormones were fully suppressed, we added back physiologic levels of estradiol and progesterone in a double-blind crossover design separately. This approach allowed us to explore behavioral changes, both in their absence of ovarian hormones and during isolated exposure to estradiol and progesterone separately, which otherwise could not be achieved in natural menstrual cycles where both hormones are always present simultaneously. In our original study, we found that suppressing ovarian hormones with luprolite eliminated PMDD symptoms, and that symptoms came back when we reintroduced either estradiol or progesterone, while the same hormone exposure did not have any effects in the healthy control woman. However, this original study had a very small sample with 10 women with PMDD and 15 healthy control women. So we weren't exactly sure how generalizable these findings were. Many years later, we were able to expand the sample in the current study to 34 women with PMDD and 76 healthy control women. We were able to replicate the main findings of symptom suppression with luprolite eliminating PMDD symptoms, and we were able to expand the work in several domains. One is that we were able to compare estradiol versus progesterone effects separately and compare them to one another. We were able to examine the physical symptoms, including food cravings and breast pain, in a larger sample. We were able to characterize how many women with PMDD had their symptoms recur during one hormone versus both, or the symptoms did not recur at all. And four, we were able to test whether the magnitude of the hormonal changes predicted any symptom severity. Current evidence suggests that PMDD is caused by changes in ovarian steroid secretion during the menstrual cycle, and it's been proposed that the same mechanism of action may contribute to postpartum depression and perimenopausal depression. Dr. So the current evidence points to PMDD being about sensitivity to otherwise normal hormonal changes. And it's not a response to abnormal hormonal levels. So women with PMDD actually have the same hormonal levels as healthy control women. So it's not a typical endocrinopathy. It's really about the sensitivity to these cyclic changes of hormones. Dr. So the same idea plausibly could extend to postpartum and perimenopausal depression, because those conditions also involve major hormonal transitions. Dr. Mm-hmm. Dr. But the data outside of PMDD are still building. So some studies have emphasized hormonal exposure effects, such as reintroducing estradiol and progesterone. Dr. So we really need more replication and other mechanistic work to know how broadly the model applies. But the underlying mechanism could be similar. Dr. So for women who are experiencing PMDD, you said their hormone levels are at a normal level of other women who don't experience the condition. But are there potential negative side effects to suppressing hormone levels for women who experience this? Dr. Evidence from our group, as well as others, support the notion that ovarian suppression can be an effective treatment option for many women with PMDD. Dr. As generally speaking, about 70% of women with PMDD would respond to luprolide as a treatment. Dr. However, luprolide injections have some side effects, including one hallmark example is bone loss. Dr. And because with ovarian suppression, it comes with menopausal sort of state. So women who are on luprolide injections would also experience menopausal symptoms like hot flushes. Dr. Mm-hmm. Dr. So it's not generally a first line of treatment for PMDD. SSRIs and oral contraceptives remain standard for most patients. Dr. There are also several clinical trials currently exploring oral GnRH antagonists like alagolix as a potential treatment option for women with severe PMDD. The main clinical implications, though, is that women with severe PMDD who do not respond to first line treatments might benefit from ovarian suppression. But we really need better predictors, including biomarkers or clinical features, to know who those women are and identify them. Dr. So more research is needed before changing any routine practice. Dr. Your study found that for women with PMDD, the second phase add back of the hormones estradiol and progesterone contributed significantly to the symptom severity, a result that wasn't seen in the healthy comparator group. Dr. What were the differences between those two add back hormones? And is there anything to be taken from the fact that the two hormones had different symptom effect profiles? Dr. Both hormones can trigger core effective symptoms in PMDD, but the patterns differ. Dr. So in our sample of 34 women with PMDD, 38% of women with PMDD had their symptoms recurred to both estradiol and progesterone. 21% only had their symptoms recurred on progesterone only, 12% on two estradiol only, and 29% showed no symptom recurrence with either hormone. Progesterone was more likely to drive irritability and mood swings out of the four core effective symptoms, while sadness and anxiety rose with both estradiol and progesterone. For physical symptoms, breast pain tended to increase with estradiol. And overall, these differences suggest heterogeneity in some women with PMDD seem selectively sensitive to progesterone only, or possibly its newer active metabolite, such as allopregnanone. And some women are more sensitive to estradiol and some to both. And these results point to multiple biological biotypes of PMDD and possibly different treatment targets. As you mentioned earlier, your previous study had a small sample size and the present study added to that sample, including some of the same people, but were there other limitations to your research? Dr. Yes, we do have a few important caveats in the current study. So one, even with this much larger expanded sample, we still lack power for detailed subgroup analysis. And that's something that we would like to be able to do somewhere in the future. Additionally, our design isolated estradiol and progesterone separately that allowed us to test the effects of each of these hormones separately. This is a very useful experimental design, but it's not fully realistic because it doesn't mimic the natural cycle with both hormones. I think one final note, we examined the women across three time points during the six month hormone manipulation protocol. But our sampling frequency may have missed very fast hormone dynamics that could occur within days of changes with hormones. The missing of these hormone dynamics could explain why we did not see any association between the changes in hormones and symptom severity. So we are currently writing one new protocol so we can examine the course of PMDD across the menstrual cycle on a more dense sampling frequency. Well, since you brought it up, what's next for your research? All right. Actually, a lot is going on. We're very excited about some of the new experimental approaches. So first one is we would like to try to understand the differential sensitivity in women to hormones in women with PMDD on a molecular cellular basis and to examine whether their response to this otherwise normal hormonal changes differ in cell signaling. We would like to be able to define biological substrates that mediate differential hormone sensitivity using genetics and epigenetics mechanism. We have previously published a finding that women with PMDD using their induced pluripotum stem cells do respond to estradiol and progesterone differently. So we would like to be able to replicate some of these findings. We also would like to explore epigenetic mechanisms and also changes in the cell stress response that could be related to calcium signaling in women with PMDD. And that those studies are in collaboration with Dr. David Goldman and NIAAA. And in collaboration with Dr. Karen Berman, we would like to use multimodal neuroimaging methods to map circle level changes in the brain that are triggered by hormonal transitions. We've previously identified a region called the subgenital cingulate that showed a differential hormone sensitivity in women with PMDD, and we would like to continue to pursue that. We would also like to refine phenotypes or biotypes of PMDD that could predict treatment response. Methodologically, we want denser hormonal sampling and studies that examine rate of change and, for example, cumulative exposure and not just steady state level of women with PMDD. And we're trying to do a lot of these studies in our new protocol where we would sample the menstrual cycle every five days in women with PMDD. Dr. Wei, thank you for taking the time to speak with us today. Thank you so much. Up next, Dr. Ned Kalin. Dr. Kalin, welcome back to AJP Audio for October 2025. Thank you, Aaron. It's good to be with you. This month on the podcast, I spoke with Dr. Wei regarding a replication study of previous work looking at ovarian hormone suppression in the treatment of women with premenstrual dysphoric disorder or PMDD. What can you add? Aaron, this is an interesting and important contribution to the literature and I believe to the field. It is in part a replication of an earlier study, so it's really good to see a replication, but it also extends those findings. And the bottom line here, and I'll get into the details in a minute, is that in women that suffer from premenstrual dysphoric disorder, that it appears that the evidence from this study suggests that they are particularly sensitive to sex hormones and that that may actually trigger some of their symptoms. Let me tell you a little bit more about how the authors got there. First of all, premenstrual dysphoric disorder is a fairly common illness in women during their reproductive years. You know, it has physiological and psychological symptoms. The physical symptoms frequently are related to breast teterness and bloating and fatigue. The psychological symptoms are related to mood changes, depression, anxiety, irritability. And what's important to keep in mind is that this occurs during the late luteal phase of the menstrual cycle and usually goes away sometime after the onset of menses in women. The current study had three conditions. It's basically what we call an ADBAX study, and I'll describe this in a moment. All the women with this disorder were first treated with Lupron. Lupron is a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist, which reduces actually symptoms in general in women with premenstrual dysphoric disorder. Not all women, but in many. And it does so because Lupron has, after it's given, actually down-regulates the release of the hormones that release and turn on the sex steroids. So you have an overall reduction in sex steroids with Lupron treatment. Not all patients respond to this. And what the authors did is they capitalized on this and they took women that had premenstrual dysphoric disorder, treated with M-Lupron, and then took those women that had hormonal suppression and symptom remission, both, and then entered them into the study where they tested the effects of adding back either an estrogen-like compound, estradiol, or a progesterone compound, in this case progesterone and vaginally. So what they did is they had two five-week phases where they had these two different add-back treatments in women that already had responded to Lupron. And this was done in a double-blind fashion. And they then looked at what happened to women when they had these hormones added back. And basically what they found was is that in the women that received these treatments as compared to a control treatment, that they had an exacerbation of their symptoms. And mostly they were psychological symptoms. Many of the women actually went on to meet criteria for the disorder itself. Interestingly enough, there was not so much of an exacerbation of the physical symptoms. So for the psychological symptoms, such things as negative affect, anxiety, sadness, irritability, mood swings came back. But for the physical symptoms, only breast tenderness was one of those that came back. And this was in women that really had exposure to estradiol and not progesterone. So the long and the short of this is that this study is basically strongly supporting the idea that one of the issues that's critical in women that have this tendency is that they are very sensitive to the sex steroids that are in their bodies, that are related to their menstrual cycle and ovulation. And this heightened sensitivity is likely what creates and mediates many of the symptoms that these women have. So is this a paradigm that clinicians working with these women who have this condition can begin using currently? Or is this something that's still waiting on further research to be able to really roll out? Well, I mean, what this shows is that, you know, that women are highly sensitive to these hormones. And one way of actually helping women is by using Lupron, which is this way of reducing these hormones. So that is a clinically useful thing to know about. But also, I think in educating women who suffer from this problem, it's very helpful to describe to them the results of this study, because this study gives them a framework to understand why they have sort of all of a sudden this exacerbation of, you know, fairly intense and sometimes disabling symptoms. Up next, we have a paper from Sancora and colleagues looking at the real world safety of the relatively recently FDA approved S-ketamine nasal spray. You know, our field has been revolutionized by the idea of rapid acting antidepressants. You know, this has really been spurred on by ketamine, IV ketamine, which we now use for people that are severely depressed to get rapid responses within 24 hours. Prior to ketamine, you know, we were looking at responses that took two to six weeks with typically antidepressants on average four weeks. And S-ketamine is a compound that is part of the racemic mixture that is used for IV ketamine. IV ketamine has S and also the other enantomer, the D enantomer. And these are mirror images of each other in molecules. This S-ketamine is just the S enantomer and it's been approved to be given intranasally, which makes it easy as compared to IV ketamine. In 2019, S-ketamine administered intranasally was approved for treatment of adults with treatment resistant depression added on to another antidepressant. And then in 2020 was approved for the treatment of major depression in adults that had suicidal ideation or behavior. And then more recently, in January of 2025, the FDA approved S-ketamine by itself for treatment in adults with treatment resistant depression. So what this current study did that was lead author was Jerry Santacora was to use the data that's been collected since 2019, its initial approval over the last five years. And this is data that was obligatorily collected. The FDA made sure that when this drug was approved that there was a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy called REMS, which is a way to collect data and register data so that they can understand more about potential side effects. So by using that data and another data set that Janssen, who manufactures this drug also had collected. The question that was asked by this group of researchers was whether or not there were additional new side effects or new things to be concerned about other than what was in the initial approval of the drug and that everybody knows about. So they used data that was from roughly 58 or 59,000 patients. All these patients have received a total of 1.5, roughly 1.5 million doses of drug. And on average, each individual received about 25 doses. And they used the standard guidelines for treatment and dosing and so on and so forth in general. So this is a huge database that really can be leveraged and exploited. What the investigators found was that at least one adverse event occurred in roughly half of the treatment sessions. But these are adverse events that are expected and not particularly severe. Such things as some mild sedation, dissociation symptoms, sometimes increased blood pressure. Most of those types of adverse events occurred early on in the treatment course for patients. And that's important to note. There were reported roughly 2,000 serious adverse events. This occurred over roughly 1,100 treatment sessions. Now, the authors point out that while these were serious adverse events, they really occurred in less than 0.1% of the treatment sessions. So pretty rare. And the most common adverse events that were serious in this category were vomiting, increased blood pressure, and nausea, as well as sometimes some hospitalization that related to this. Also, and importantly, there were 228 deaths that were reported in this database over this time period. Seventy of those deaths were reported as completed suicides. Another 83 reported, and this is a quote from the paper, as deaths not otherwise specified. Now, the authors concluded that based on the post-marketing data that there were no new concerns regarding the safety profile of esketamine nasal spray beyond those noted in the package labeling. So that's really important. We have a really good and a little bit provocative accompanying editorial by Dr. Alan Chatsberg from Stanford University, co-authoring with Dr. Kostas Funtalakis from Aristotle University in Greece. And they talk about the safety, but they also highlight the suicides that occurred and ask for more data related to them, wanting to make sure that the suicides weren't related to discontinuation of esketamine. Now, there's no reason to be overly concerned here, but I do think that our readership should read the paper and also this really informative and interesting editorial. Following that, there's a paper from Whittle and colleagues looking at the structural brain development and depressive disorder in a 15-year-old longitudinal cohort. So this is a very interesting study and fits in with the entire overarching theme of the issue, which is affective disorders, depression, and treatment. This is a rather unique study. It was done in Australia in a sample of about 160 youth. And what's really important about this study is that the youth were studied longitudinally from the age of 12 to 19, sampling them from the standpoint of symptoms and depression and also getting brain imaging. Structural brain imaging at these time points. And they were followed then up until early adulthood. And the question that these investigators asked was from the brain data, the structural brain data that was collected, could they make predictions about changes in the development of these youth's brain in relation to the later development of depression? So what they did is they looked at the subset of this group that got depressed. It's a relatively small subset. It was 46 individuals. And then they looked at the imaging that was collected prior to the onset of that individual's depression. So the idea here is, can we pick up a brain signature that might be predictive of the later development of depression in early adulthood or late adolescence? And they were able to identify some things that looked interesting. One was that they found that the general age-related changes in things like the amygdala volume and the volume of other brain regions, such as regions around the hippocampus, that they seem to be accelerated in individuals that later developed depression. And also, there are age and appropriate decreases in certain cortical areas and the thickness of cortical areas. And they found that in one of the areas, the insular cortex and another area, which I won't mention, that there was a more accelerated decrease in the normal developmental trajectory that is seen. So this is early data. It's in a relatively small group of individuals. The strength is that it's longitudinal with multiple measures. And it also looks like some of these developmental trajectories can be now used to make some predictions about the later development of depression. Now, in no way is this ready for prime time or for clinical application. But it does suggest that with sort of a fine-grained longitudinal analysis that we can begin to think about ways of predicting the later development of depression based on brain data. There's a really good editorial that accompanies this paper as well by Dr. Deanna Bartsch, who's an expert in brain development and childhood psychopathology from Washington University in St. Louis. She puts the findings in context. And she also talks about how future research in larger samples can further elaborate these types of findings. Finally, there's a priority data letter from Cooper and colleagues looking at an all-too-timely subject, the prevalence of suicidal ideation and suicidal attempts by race and gender in three large U.S. adolescent cohorts. So this is an important study, and it highlights a couple of things. One is it highlights the increasing incidence overall in adolescent suicidal ideation and behavior, which is obviously a great concern to society and our field. But what it does, importantly, is really drill down on whether or not there are notable differences in suicidal ideation and behavior related to sex and also, importantly, related to race and also, even more importantly, related to the interaction between sex and race. As you mentioned, this is from three large cohorts, which also increases the validity of the findings. One is a cohort from roughly about 16,000 9th to 12th graders from the Youth Risk Behavior Study. Another is a cohort of roughly 20,000 12 to 18-year-olds from the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Emergency Department cohort at University of Pennsylvania. And another is roughly 11,800 9 to 15-year-old individuals from the Adolescent Brain Cognitive Development Study, which is a multi-site study, which has served as a really important large database for the field. Bottom line is what they found is that when they looked at these three studies separately, that in each of the studies, females compared to males, then this is in adolescence again, had a significantly increased prevalence of suicidal ideation and also suicide attempts. And the odds ratios range from 1.2 to roughly 2.6 for this. So across these three studies, females have a greater risk of ideation and behavior. When comparing Black to white individuals, only one of the cohorts had a significant increased prevalence of suicidal ideation. But across all three cohorts, Black youth were found to have significantly more suicide attempts than non-Black youths. And here the odds ratios ranged from 1.4 to 1.7. They also did analysis where they put all the data together and did one big meta-analysis across the three studies. And when they did this, they found that there was a significant race-by-sex interaction. And what this means is, and the specifics of this, is that Black girls were more than 1.2 times more likely to have suicidal ideation than the rest of the different groups. So what this study highlights, again, is the importance of attending to not only the risk that adolescents who are depressed or struggling with problems face, from the standpoint of suicidal behavior and ideation, but more importantly, or as importantly, to think about, you know, at-risk subgroups, females, Black youth, and particularly perhaps Black girls. So this is a really important addition to the literature. Well, Dr. Kalen, thank you for taking the time to speak with us today. You're very welcome. That's all for this month's AJP Audio, but be sure to check out the rest of the podcasts on offer from the APA. Over on the Medical Mind Podcast, Dr. Adrian Prada has a Psych News Special Report looking at antidepressant withdrawal with Dr. Brian Shapiro of UC Irvine. All that and more over at psychiatryonline.org or wherever you get podcasts. The views and opinions expressed in this podcast are those of the individual speakers only and do not necessarily represent the views of the American Psychiatric Association. The content of this podcast is provided for general information purposes only and does not offer medical or any other type of professional advice. If you're having a medical emergency, please contact your local emergency response number. Thanks, Jason. Thank you.