% of men have it at 50. And so on. So a rectal dysfunction is a major problem. Absolutely. Probably the first line solution isn't surgical. Is that? Of course. The first line solution is to prevent from happening in the first place. And that, of course, is based on foundational pillars of health, diet, exercise, sleep, stress mitigation. Those are the core tennis that are going to keep your penis healthy for a long time. But sometimes in life, we get, I don't know, prostate cancer or whatever we need a surgery, and you get a collateral damage. And so it's from that collateral damage that often men will develop problems of directions that no longer are responsible to pills. And once that happens, you can make the decision to fix it definitively with a surgery. Can you walk me through just on a very high level? How does that work? How does that surgical procedure implemented? Well, I guess the first thing to understand is that in order to get a good erection, you have to have blood flowing into the penis. And that blood has to be trapped there. So when you look at why rectinns stop working, the most common cause is a vascular problem. So nearing of the blood vessels going into the penis, so you have a blood flow in problem. Those can be often mitigated or addressed with pills or shots or even exercise, right? So if you exercise, you get better blood flow to the area, you can fix these problems. That's one set of reasons why the penis feels. The other one is blood is in trap there appropriately. So you have to develop what these surgeries try to do is mimic mother nature. And instead of blood flowing into the penis, we put kind of aligning inside the penis, across thesis, where men will pump normal sand or salt water into the device. And when they pump the device, the fluid is transferred from a holding tank or reservoir, which is typically hidden next to the bladder or somewhere in the abdomen. And so they'll pump the fluid into the penis. And they'll keep the erection, whereas long as I leave the fluid in there, right? So you can have an erection for four hours, 15 minutes, it doesn't make a difference. And then when you're done, you hit it to flight button. And then normal saline goes back to the holding tank. So as a surgeon, when I do an implant, I put in three, four ounces of fluid, 100 milliliters or so of saline. And that same saline powers the device for the next many, many years, the average device. We've the same saline that it's recycled. Exactly. So it's essentially when the fluids in the reservoir and not in the penis, the penis looks normal, flaccid. Nobody can tell you how to. No one can tell. What about the pump? It's like a third testicle, but hidden. So most men who are single who have it came plant their partner as no idea. Lee cow. Yep. So it's completely hidden. It's completely locked and improved. The joke is of course if you leave it and inflate it all, I just got that slide. I just got that slide. So, you know, not so hidden, but you can decide when and where it's going to happen. And so it takes away all the anxiety and problems that people have when they're thinking about having problems with sex. And on average, these devices last half of them last 20 years. So they tend to outlive most other prosthetics. They outlive breast implants, pacemakers, hip implants. These kind of things. It's amazing because they have functional parts. But at five years, 5% break, 10 years about 10 to 15% will up until 15 years, 30% break. So they have a really long longevity. And most guys who get an implant will die with it working, the average age of implantations around seven years of old age or so. But. What's the average age of implantation? Is about 68 around 70? But would if someone came in who is younger, would there be any issue of, let's say someone has major performance anxiety and their 50. Yeah. The strength of the implant is that it works really well every time. One of the weaknesses is that if other stuff still works, then you don't want to do an implant because that other stuff won't work anymore. I see. So it's a surgical decision and once pills fail, that's the decision point. Do I want to try shots or do I want to do surgery? And it's a very reasonable look at the surgery if you don't like needles. It's covered like I said covered by insurance, completely invisible, very spontaneous. And the other thing which people always ask me is like, well, those who feel the same, the answer is yes. So both parties. Yes. Again, the partner doesn't know you have a plot prosthesis. Unless they're like in the medical profession. Or very, very observant for the man who gets the implant a sensation is essentially unchanged. Does it change the size of the penis? Great question. Like everybody else asks, can you add an intro to doc? Right? And again, like the answer is no. Essentially, Mother Nature gives you a certain length. And then you're kind of stuck with that. Now, there is debate as to whether or not when you get the implant, whether or not you lose a little bit of length. When we actually do good studies, the answer is no. But patients do have this perception because they tend to remember the majesty of their erection when they're 18. Compared to now when they have an head sex for 10 years, some men have this perception that means somewhat shorter. So you have really have to counsel about that. Right? So as a surgeon, it's all about risk benefits ratios. And if a patient comes to me and says, doc, I want to have a consistent erection without having to use pills or shots without fear of it not working. They're going to be happy. If they just want to penetrate an intercourse with their partner, if they come to the expectation that they're going to be enhanced somehow in terms of lengthwise, they're going to be disappointed. So you really have to do a good job as a surgeon to make sure that the patient understands that. And anybody, you know, considering this type of surgery, you need to educate yourself as to the risks and benefits of any procedure. And then you'll end up happy. I have a question that I don't know if you've ever seen and I don't even know if it's a thing. Is there ever something where penis cannot get an erection? Maybe it's a genetic defect of vascular surgery? All the time. Really? Yeah, all the time. So when I look at the age range of patients that have put up peeling implant in, it's 18 to 98. So that's, you know, if anybody out there is 100 years old, please come see me because I want to say I put an implant in 100 year old. So then you're all, you're all, did great by the way. But some people are born with this congenital venous leak, where the venous trappings is done work, or some men are born with, you know, some kind of a genetic defect, or whatever it is, where they've never had a good erection. If they're in tire life, some had patients come to me where like they're actually having pain with their erections because they've never stretched the penis before. Wow. So, but, you know, the surgery can fix it. And there are many men who have never had an erection in their entire life. Like age 16, 17, 18. We see them for the first time. It's like never had a good one. So that's fixable. That's treatable. I'm really grateful that surgery is available, and can be done in a convenient one.

But exosomes are not only for therapeutic purposes now, they're also being using for diagnostic purposes. Because exosomes are like these cargo messengers that allow for intercellular communication. And what happens with disease processes, for example, like cancer, they're the exosome, the cargo messenger actually changes. And you can detect that before they even manifest full-bone cancer. So exosomes are in exploding in terms of not just therapeutic applications, but diagnostic as well. Because there's something called microRNAs, and there's all these different molecules that the exosomes carry. And there's different prognostic kind of markers that we can look at that can tell us, hey, your exosome cargo is changing. So therefore this is the disease you're going to most likely develop. And that's going to become more and more sophisticated as time goes on. But for therapeutic purposes, what we want to look at as we talked about earlier, the foundation is cytokine profile. So what's the cytokine profile of exosome that we're driving, for example, from a and build a cortisho. Yes, where do exosomes come from? So as you were saying in your long definition there, mesenchymal stem cells. And we've got positions that listen. We have everything else in so are. Yeah. Accuracy is important. It is. Yeah, no exactly. So as per that definition, they're coming from different mesenchymal stem cells. And where do mesenchymal stem cells come from? They come from inbilical cortisho, inbilical cord blood or even bone marrow or fat. And then you isolate those stem cells and then you culture and expand them. And then when you culture expand them, that the soup or the broth that they grow and sort of speak in the expansion, the culture medium, that's what you can isolate. And that's what has the cytokines and just the growth factors and no actual stem cells. And so those exosomes, it turns out, have 10 times more cytokine profile than PRP. So the exosomes have 10 times more of a beneficial cytokine profile than PRP. Yes. Will this make PRP obsolete? It will eventually as a cost of exosomes comes down. Yes, because most people are not saving their inbilical cord. No, exactly. Or because in the US ironically enough, you can store it, but then you can't use it for unless you have some sort of really, you know, maybe a, you know, emergency medical need or something like that, but like, I'm belacle cord. Yeah, yeah, it's kind of crazy. But you can't just use it the way you want to use it. So the exosomes, the cytokine profile isn't too time stronger. I always say it's an order of magnitude, right? So it's not order of magnitude. So that's why it's hard for people to understand. I've had many professional hockey players, for example, because I'm in Canada, I triola hockey players. Yeah, exactly. And so they had PRP done and it didn't work for them and then we did exosomes and it worked for them and they were kind of like, they were asking me why. And I, you know, this is why I had to explain to them, it has to do with the cytokine profile, the signal of the PRP wasn't strong enough to tell your body to regenerate and repair this tissue, but the signal from the exosome is strong enough to regenerate and repair tissue. And when it comes to soft tissue and musculoskeletal conditions, we're talking tendon, ligaments, muscles. So that's the big difference between exosomes and PRP and then musculoskeletal stem cells. They're about 20 times stronger than PRP. So not 10 times stronger than exosomes, but maybe two times stronger when it comes to cytokine profile. So it's not that much stronger than exosomes. And that's why I think we still have to figure out the dosing for a lot of these things. So figure out, okay, what's the perfect dosing for the specific indication? And there's still a lot of data that's coming out for us to kind of guide us on what the best dosing protocols are. The exosomes, you said that obviously there's a number of ways in which we could retrieve them and do you spend them down? Yes. Okay. All true sensitive. You, okay. So you do that. But it seems also that they are for sale or have been for sale. Yeah. I love because again, when we are discussing these things, is there an FDA approval for interesting in the US and Canada, I believe that they are not FDA-approved. Is that true? No, and they're not health can't have proved. But in other countries, they are. Yes. I always bring up Japan because the Japanese do everything to very rigorous standards. For people who have been there, they obviously know that cleanliness, the food, but it also applies to their medicine and technology. They have some of the best surgeons in the world when it comes to innovative techniques. And no other than Professor Yamanaka, who won the Nobel Prize, for his discovery on how to reprogram stem cells is obviously from Japan too. So they have a culture of innovation and wine to always improve themselves. And they've created a regulatory framework for a regenerative medicine that's ten years old now. And ten years old. And they're on for a long time. And the US and Canada still don't have a regenerative medicine framework. So instead of creating a framework and regulating these things, they just said, we're just going to ban them. And to me, that makes no sense. And I think this is much more political than it is based in science. And yes, you can use the anecdote of Japan, but there's also so much clinical data out there now. Plus, you have to look at the risk versus benefit of any intervention or what we call a medicine number needed to treat versus number needed to harm, right? NNT versus NNH. And so exesomes are because they're a cellular. So there's no cells in there. They have a very high safety profile. There's no chance of rejection. There's no chance of having tumors for them. And by the way, you say tumors form. One of the biggest criticisms, I think, of this regenerative medicine space is are you giving cells that would then go and differentiate into something else. And cause cancer or proliferate an existing cancer that one is unaware that they have. Would you say that that's accurate? That was always a concern. And that's why you have to be careful. And that's why the word stem cell is meaningless because is it a musachimal stem cell? Is it a hematopreneic stem cell? Is it embryonic stem cell? Is it induced play potent stem cell? Where what are you talking about when you're talking about stem cells? And so there's all these different types. And they have different profiles. And they have different capacity to differentiate into tissue. And some of them can turn into tumors and some of them can't. So you have to understand those kind of nuance differences to really be able to counsel a patient and then make them feel rest assured that whatever we're using isn't going to make the risk of cancer worse if you do have cancer in your body or a cost cancer. If someone has cancer and I usually save this for the yes or no questions, it will do a yes or no question. Maybe I'll do that later, which we will. But if an individual has cancer would that be a contraindication to treatment? For exosomes. For exosomes, I would say it's a gray area. Meaning that the studies that have been out there, some of them suggest that it can actually improve. For example, there's an studies looking at combining exosomes or mesenchymal stem cells with chemotherapy and there's been better outcomes. And then there's other studies suggesting that they may because of the growth factor as they may cause proliferation. So from all the data that I've gathered and the best available evidence, it seems like it's a neutral effect. And in that case, I always take the most more conservative option. So meaning if you have active cancer, I wouldn't recommend doing a systemic treatment of exosomes with stem cells because there may be a risk of it getting worse. Outside of active cancer, there isn't any other really contraindication.

What would be an approach for a, I'm going to give you two scenarios, an untrained female or male who's listening to this and going, man, I'm 40 and I've been doing marathons and now I have dad bod. What am I going to do? I'm doing a lot of cardio. And then the second is I am folding untrained. I know longer can wear a crop top. So the first thing I'll say is everyone should begin lifting weights roughly the same way. The rates of progression will differ how much interest people will develop in it and thus how much more of it they want to do for extra credit will differ. But the beginning is roughly the same. So I give a couple of tips on this. One is generally you want to choose body weight, barbell, dumbbell and t-gravity exercises as the preferred method of training. That doesn't mean that's all you do, but you should be interested in doing things like bent over rows, dead lifts, squats, overhead presses, upright rows, stiff leg a deadlift. Why does this exercise? Yeah. Because the exercises train large swaths of muscles at the same time and they're insanely economical, I could tell you isolate your delts, isolate your biceps, isolate your forums, and be in the gym for an hour and be like Jesus Christ, this is stupid. These exercises also replicate the fundamental movement patterns that humans are able to do that from which jumping and running and walking and pushing and pulling and putting your luggage up on the top compartment, all stem from. They require a lot of balance and they are easily progressive, easily loadable. They also encourage you to move in this sort of tip number two through a very full range of motion. If you're preparing yourself for life, life doesn't end below 90 degrees in the squat. And if you find yourself below 90 degrees in the squat and you haven't been training there, you are two things less strong in that position. And more likely to get hurt if you have to try really hard in that position. So these compound exercises generally, some isolation work is totally fine. The way Dr. Sizes and other benefits, they greatly encourage the development of balance. But not balance in a circus seal kind of like look, I can stand in a boat, who ball, no application of this whatsoever, but here I go. It's fun for TikTok, but I assume if you're in your 60s, hopefully you're not on TikTok. Maybe you are. What am I judging with the Chinese government does with their time? So the compound freeweight exercises are testing your balance while you're trying really hard through a full range of motion. That transfer of activities of daily living to an immense degree. And it makes you have the kind of balance that look. If I can walk out with some amount of weight that challenges me, squat at 10 times up and down to completely full depth under full control and racket. If I'm walking down an airplane aisle and they get some turbulence and I have to grab the seats and kind of support myself. It's a joke. It's a joke. But if I can't do that, I might fall into somebody's lap. And I usually pretend to fall into people's laps on airplanes because I don't get any physical touch at home. And I'm just deaf. Everybody wants to ride on their plane with Dr. Mike. I actually have my own fleet of airplanes. I don't like to talk about how I'm a truly an air too often, but it comes up always. Yeah. It's annoying to count all the smarties when I'm trying to. It's terrible. But so that's some of the reasons why these kinds of exercises are preferred. Now, I'm not going to say don't do machines. But if you learn to lift with compound barbell, dumbbell, and bodyweight exercises, and then you go and use machines, you're automatically the best at every machine, no problem. But if you learn to lift with machines, then the transfer to real world is tougher. And the transfer to training that occurs in a free-weight environment is also tougher. So it's kind of like you might as well make things a little bit challenging up front. And then you'll have a very, very easy time with it. So I would say those are the kinds of movements you should be prioritizing. I would say training in repetition range of sets of five to ten is a good idea. Anything less than five is super cool. But for beginners, it's not enough repetitions to train their nervous system, to learn the technique very well. Because if I trained you in a karate move, and I said, okay, here's how it works. Practice it. You did it three times. And I was like boom, you're ready. Let's go do a tournament. You're like, well, hold on a second. We need a lot of reps of it. You would be more able to replicate that in real life and in future training sessions. You don't want to do too many more reps than ten to begin with for a few reasons. One is when you're learning technique and the next point is you have to get the technique very good. You should become a technique stickler. Technique is the basis on which everything else is built. On the basis of what you build, all of your muscle and all of your strength, and ensure that your injury risk is as minimum as possible. Anything much more than ten reps, especially more than 15, for beginners, tend to be so fatiguing and so painful that they start to just get the reps in versus worrying about quality and technique. And so sets of five to ten are enough reps to learn, but not so many reps that you start learning the technique wrong, because you're practicing it wrong, because after set after rep number 12, if you're like, I'm just trying to stand up and down. I don't even care what my back or chest position look like in the squat. And then also, especially for Caucasian women in their later years, sets of five to ten are heavy enough to robustly build bone mass, and heavy enough to robustly build a lot of the joint connective tissue integrity. Sets of 15, 20, 30, etc. definitely do those things well, but not as well. And so because of that agglomeration of factors, sets of five to ten are my preferred method of training beginners. And I mean for the first several years of training, compound large muscle mass exercises, and sets of five to ten with a big onus on a range of motion and total control. The eccentric has to be controlled. You can do the concentric of the up phase of an exercise explosively or not. It doesn't much matter, but controlling the eccentric. That doesn't mean going slow. It just means never deactivating your muscles and just dropping into a squat, for example. That's of the core. And then the last thing I would say is you should begin with the very few sets. I would arguably say begin with one set of everything when you show up to the gym. A lot of people think it's kind of comical for two reasons. One, it's embarrassing because you did one set of everything. You look around and make sure no one noticed you and you fuck off. But how many days, how many days of this? Yes, yes. So I'll get to the days and just the fact. Yeah, I'll make it go in and yeah, yeah. Well, so in that first workout because you just did one set of everything that was a little bit challenging for you, you just didn't feel like you really challenged yourself a ton. You're not super sore. You're a little sore. You're not super beat up. But that's part of the plan. We don't want to get you so messed up that you're so sore that you're on train for two weeks. And then what? I don't even know what the plan is after that. To your question of how many times a week, I would say very many people should begin with two time a week training that is you training whole body. Both times a week, say Monday and Thursday, it's doing something like, you know, some close grip pressing, some rolling, some upright rolling, some shoulder pressing, some hip hinge work and some squat and lunge work. And that's it. You go home. One set of each of those movements with good technique with a load that here's the rule for how much weight to use. A weight that is a little tough. It resists you. You can tell you're lifting. Like it's not like picking up a Coca-Cola can and going, we know, problem. It should be like, oh, okay. Like, you don't, you don't drink Coca-Cola. So you wouldn't really know. I never let that poison enter my body. I actually don't consume anything corporate, but it's for another discussion. So should be challenging, but something you have to be able to do good technique with. And that is picking the weight and then if you train twice a week, just begin at twice a week. And some people will say, well, I want that. It results. I'm going to go more times. What I would say is this, do only twice a week lifting for the first summer month. If you like it, if you really like it and you really want more, expand your program to three times a week. And then later, you know, you're going to learn stuff. You're going to be in the social media space about how lifting works. You're going to start to understand concepts principles. You're going to go and download the RPI purgifi app. I'm under contract to mention that in every podcast. I'm kidding. But, you know, it's a fine app. Not really for beginners. It's more for people who know some things. And then the other, the app and other products out there and other podcasts, you listen to. You'll know what you're doing by then. But for beginners, two times a week for a while until you get the hang of it and you like it because consistency, trumps all.

Can you talk to me about your own health? So I'm in France, I still remember. And I get this call from a 480 number. Yeah, Jeremy, this is Dr. Son, so it's like, and you just just set down. And he's like, hey, we examine this. This is cancer, but we can't tell what type of cancer. From the time that you got that call, it's a time that you knew something. What was that like? Your why has to be bigger than money? I know a lot of people are money driven, but actually they're not, they say they're money driven, but there's a fear that they have. Every decision you make starts with your survival target grade. What makes the best entrepreneurs the top one percent? The first foundation that makes a great entrepreneur, a great annual is commitment. If you're not committed, you don't take the necessary actions to have success. How important is communication? In society, most people view what you do or anybody does, as it's just kind of the same thing. What's going to differentiate that is how you frame what you do. A lot of people take advice from people who are not that qualified to give advice. Your biggest expense in life is your lack of a wide knowledge. I always say the biggest problem in life is... Jeremy Miner, welcome to the show. Doctor, thanks for having me on. What would you like to discuss today? You're a really unique guest because typically we have MD's PhDs, but the one thing that you have in common with all of them is that they are the best at what they do in Oreo. Well, at least grandma tells us about the best, so thank you very much, it's very kind. You know, as an entrepreneur? Supposedly, yes. Supposedly. Find a figure down. An expert communicator fair enough to say. A few people would say. A dad. Yeah, dad. And a human? Yes, I'm hoping I'm human. Maybe maybe we're the aliens. I really don't know at this point. Well, the reason I bring up humanity is because we are all fallible. Yeah, for sure. And yes, we are. Tell me what makes up the best entrepreneurs. The top one percent. You're probably the top 0.5 percent. Trying to catch up with you. I would say in my mind, it's the first foundation that makes a great entrepreneur a great business owner, a great anyone is commitment. I think everything starts from commitment because if you're not committed, you don't take the necessary actions to have success. So in my mind, it's commitment. Like it doesn't matter if it's a bad day or something bad happened or, you know, you've got relationship troubles or just anything could go wrong. You still wake up that day and you still get things done. And that's commitment. And I think that I think that's something that people can actually learn. You think they can learn it? I do. I think anything is pretty much learnable for sure. Now, almost everything is. I'm not saying you're going to dunk a basketball like MJ. You know, if you're not so far, but yeah. Okay, committed. You know, I am in my practice. I take care of a lot of elite CEOs and also tier one operators. So seals that whole crew and I've always felt that they were born that way. That their level of commitment and ability to execute was not trainable, but you're telling me that it is. So I would just cool to be kind of the psychologist. So I specialize in like neuro-psychology, like the study of the brain and how it works with a human being nervous system. So really your whole belief system really stems from how your raises a child. So it's not really how you were born, but it's how you were raised in the people you were around your world view could be influenced by, you know, your cousins that you hang out with. Your parents, the church you go to. Uh, if you're a kid now, you're influenced by who you follow on TikTok. Right. So your your world views your your belief systems like commitment. And it could be anything or really influenced by the people you're around as a child from ages of four to 13. So it's not really I understand like you're born, but it's like it's who influences you where really a lot of that comes from. Now it doesn't mean that you're like you're not born. It's like a person that has a gigantic personality, but to really expand on that to become great. You're going to be it's who you learn from and kind of what you do with it is really get you to where you want to go. I wouldn't say you're just born with it completely. I think you have a like a seed of it, which I have to expand that seed. And here's here's also why I say that because you might have like in in biome means I am not an expert as an ABC. Like I've never been in the military. Yeah. But just you know, it could be like one of the best Navy seals is a great Navy seal because quite literally they could have been like abused as a child and they have this fear that you know they're never going to be successful because their parents hold them they were worthless or whatever and so they have this drive in their brain that they're afraid of like not being significant and so to be significant they want to be a Navy seal and whatever that whatever they put their mind to they're going to be the best at because they didn't feel significant as a child. I actually think that part of that is very true. Yeah. It's not the true bad thing. Very true. You know it's like it's what Tony Robbins says. You have to look at life as like life doesn't happen to you. Life happens for you. It's what you make of what happens in your life. Like what you do with it and a lot of people just kind of react and a lot of people play the victim card whereas others like an Oprah Winfrey you know she was abused as a child has still born baby African-American raising the 60s where there was like segregation and racism. I mean what's the chance that that freaking person becomes Oprah freaking Winfrey. It's extraordinary. You see? And I would say that they are born with a certain level of attributes and you said committed and that is your number one tip for someone who wants to be successful. I think that's the foundation of success is commitment. Without commitment it's really hard to be successful in anything. But how do people become committed? Like I said I think it's the people you're around that influence you. Maybe if you didn't have the best childhood it's like who do you hire as a mentor? I think a lot of people don't realize that the cost I call it the COI. A lot of people say it's not just me the cost of an action. It's like a lot of people like like want to learn from their mistakes and I think that's good but I'd rather learn from other people's mistakes so I don't make the same mistakes myself. Right and that's that gets you to your destination like a hundred times faster. So I think it's who you learn from so you know if you want to be a doctor like you it's like who taught you how to do what you do like if they were like roll class and great that's great and a lot of people that graduated with you probably are good but you probably took it to the next level and the next level and you kept learning and you kept growing and that's was separate you from other doctors because you had that seed you had that some level of commitment you just expanded on that commitment. One way to cultivate commitment is to be in the right circles. Yes. Do you think there's another way are there ways in which and I really like that you said this because people will say oh you're so motivated or oh you are so disciplined and I would say yeah but I think actually we're committed. I can't admit. Now is that? I mean it leads to discipline. Yes. You can't be disciplined if you're not committed. Yes. Yeah. And commitment is interesting because people don't really talk about it they'll talk about discipline. They'll talk about motivation. But how does someone get very clear to then take the next step to become deeply committed? I mean I like to say I think it's who you're around as a child that really I mean just from a psychology point of view it's like like who you're around as a child and things you learn that were both in good and bad that kind of really start to shape you but it doesn't mean you can't change that reality like an Oprah Winfrey. It was like she had the best childhood but look what she did with it. She's like took like all this bad stuff that happened to her and she didn't play the like a victim like a lot of people would a lot of people would just be like look up. Be fair. All right look what they came of me. I understand what I mean. I told to understand that especially if you don't know what you don't know what I always say the biggest problem in life is the problem that you don't know you have because if you don't know what your problems are you have no idea to fix it because you don't really understand what the problem is. Right? And that's why I always say find somebody who's already mastered the thing you want to be good at and learn from them because that's going to get you there a hundredfold faster and that can change your outlook. So there has to be somebody that influence Oprah at some age like as example to cause her to go to the direction she did. There was some mentor or somebody she paid or somebody took you know her under their wing that really showed her the way. It's unlikely that she just did that herself. Very unlikely. I'm not saying it doesn't happen but your chances are greatly increased if you get around the right people. If you listen every week and feel like we are in this together which I believe that we are learning, growing and building strength. Then I created away for us to get connected even more closely. It's called forever strong insider. It's premium community for listeners who want to go deeper. You'll get ad free episodes which I know you'll love. Bonus Q&A is where your questions shape the conversation. Behind the scene moments because let's face it on flarious for my daily life and written takeaways to keep at your fingertips. But more than that you'll be supporting the show so that we can keep creating content that matters. If you've ever wanted to feel part of the inner circle this is your invitation. Join us at foreverstrong.supercast.com or through the link in the show notes. Number one probably discerning the right people is difficult. And then number two is it important to have a very clear why. In order to cross over to become so committed because again commitment is when everything is falling apart you're able to take the next right step and it doesn't matter what you are surrounded by. Yeah. But to do that from my perspective you have to be so aligned that the world could literally be on fire and you're ready to take the next. I agree. It's like your why has to be bigger than money in my mind to achieve pinnacle success. It has to be bigger than money. I know a lot of people are money driven but actually they're not they say they're money driven but there's a fear that they have there's a fear of like maybe they weren't seen as significant when they were younger by their family or by their peers at school maybe they weren't loved so money like causes them to feel like higher status because people like them better. Like there's all these fears that drive us to actually have success that we just don't think about. I thought that was interesting you said that earlier because I you're a very fake guy and one of well I just go to the gym to try not get fat that's my whole goal. Which is hilarious. Which is the opposite of by the way in from our audience's perspective it's all about muscle. Right. That is just a symptom of unhealthy muscle. Sure. Yeah. But I would say the most in my mind we need to shift from being fear based to look what I can gain versus look what I'm afraid of. Sure. But as we have this brain that's like millions of years old ever. Whenever God put the first humans here on the earth I don't know when that was and our brain was not designed for us to thrive. Our brain was actually designed for us to survive. So every decision you make starts with your survival part of your brain. That's the problem. This is I agree with you. This is. But it starts from survival and fear. It's challenging because do you think that you can overcome that fear or leverage that fear? I do. Yeah. I do. I mean obviously people do it all the time. Right. But it's how they so when we have things that happen to us we all go through bad things. Nobody like everybody has bad stuff happened to them. Right. But it's what you choose to do with that. Like do you choose to be the victim or do you choose to react a different way and make that a strength? Right. I think there's a scripture of God. I don't know what it's called. God gives men weaknesses so he can turn them into strengths. So I believe that we get weaknesses. It's up to us to decide if we're going to make those weaknesses in the strengths. Now, I'm pretty weak at like algebra. I don't necessarily want to make that into my strength because it doesn't really help me with what I do. Right. But you see what I'm saying. We can take whatever we have in our life and especially if we get around the right people that have already made those mistakes and we learn what they did well, what they did wrong and we just don't repeat the same thing. It's really hard to fail at whatever you want to do, whether you want to be a parent or you want to be the best business owner, the best sales person, the best leader, the best doctor. I find it really hard that if you're committed and you get around the right people, that teach you skills, that take to get to that level, it's really freaking hard to fail at anything. For example, as a physician, you show me someone's disciplines or commitments. I guarantee you I will be very good at guessing how successful they are in various domains. I feel like if you are there attributes of people that tell you if they're going to be successful or unsuccessful. But you see, there's a lot. I think a lot of it is just how a person shows up in life. Even are they on time. I'm not even necessarily saying if they're on time or I know a lot of successful people that are always late. Or they always late when there's something important going on. It's different being late to dinner on Saturday night, compared to being 30 minutes late for podcasts or something that is really important to do. That would be one consideration. I probably look at, do they actually show up when they say they're going to show up? I know there are circumstances that are sometimes out of control, but if it's a pattern, if anybody has something bad that they do, it doesn't necessarily mean that something is wrong with them, but if they have the key to doing it, that's a pattern, that's a behavior pattern. That would tell you that that's a red flag. So they keep doing this one thing. You're like, oh, that's a pattern. And that pattern is not good. Or that pattern could be good. Really depends on what it is. What about how important is communication? I can tell you. It's a number one skill bar none in the world always has been since the dawn of mankind. So let's say that you're a Christian. You read in the Bible. He talks about there was a war in heaven. And a third of the host of heaven fell from heaven to this earth. Well, nobody talks about like, how is that war fought? There's a fault of tanks, bullets, guns, swords, shields, no, it was a war of words. It was a war of persuasion. It was a war of influence of ideas. And everything in this life wars are fought because of lack of communication. Everything comes down to how you communicate your message, how you frame your offer. Like, you know, let's say if you're a fertility doctor, we're just talking about that a second. There's a lot of fertility doctors out there. In society, would society, like, if they heard like, I need to go get a fertility doctor, would they say like, oh, every fertility doctor is different? Or they kind of just classify fertility doctors as kind of all the same. They just kind of do the same thing. So in society, most people view what you do or anybody does as it's just kind of the same thing. Like, you see, I'm a real estate agent, you know, a real estate agent. They sell real estate. But there's no difference in their mind. So what happens if society views everybody kind of does the same thing, your profession and you're all kind of the same, what's going to differentiate that is how you frame what you do. It's how you frame your offer. I always say how you frame your offer. So imagine like you have two family pictures. You get, you know, your family picture on your mantle or on your desk, if you and your husband and kids. My family dartboard, but yes, they're okay. Yes, I like this. I like you. So you have these two family pictures exactly the same. You're going to go by two frames for them. The first frame you buy is like, you go to like, the highest in store. It's like a $2,000 gold frame. I mean, it's immaculate and you put that on that picture. For the other frame, you then go to like the flea market and it's got holes in it. It's got cobwebs. It's been beat to hell and back. And you put that frame on the other family picture, which is the same family picture, which frame are you choosing? The one that was frame better. So we call that the POB perception of value. So it's how your market perceives the value of what you do. It's not necessarily the value of what you sell, but how they perceive that that matters. I know a lot of companies that have amazing products that nobody knows about because they're not very good at the perception of that value. I also know companies that have really crappy products and services, but they're way better at framing their offer and the perception of value is very much higher. So communication, like as a fertility doctor, it's going to come down to like, why do they choose me over somebody else? How you're framing what you do? How you make them feel, right? How you frame that offers what matters at the end of the day. So your communication skills or everything. That sounds like there's a very humanistic nature to framing and communication. Meaning what is going to separate? Someone who's going to go, I want to go to that doctor versus the other one. I'd like to acknowledge one of the sponsors of the show and that is Puri. This podcast has allowed me to speak to extraordinary experts and they have one unifying message. There are only a few core compounds that we need in the diet and one of those is Omega-3 fatty acids. Puri's O3 Ultra Pure Fischoel, which is third party tested and certified by both the Clean Label Project and IFOS. So you know what you're putting in your body. It is safe, pure, effective. It is tested for 200 contaminants and Puri publishes all their results online. I've teamed up with Puri to get you an amazing offer. 20% off site wide, even on already discounted subscriptions, which means you can save nearly a third off. All you have to do is go to PuriPURI.com slash doctor lion and use the code Dr. Lion at checkout. From a human perspective, how do we begin to communicate well? I'm going to give you an example. I believe that we can have a stronger more resilient world. I agree. I'm trying to sell that and I am selling that hard. You're trying to frame that. Exactly. Because in my mind and what I've seen with patients, if I say, you know what, you need to be stronger. They're like, it's like telling grandma like you got to stop smoking and it's like smoking for life. What's the first step? I know that you have a framework, but utilizing these tools to do good work in the world. And let's say it's not about buying into our medical practice or buying a book or doing any of those things. But actually selling a mission. The first thing I'm going to talk about is how we view selling. Because it's all going to start how you view what selling really is. Okay. So like if I asked you like a selling something you do two people or a selling something you do four people, what would you say? For people. Most people would think it's two people because they never thought about it. Right. When you when you talk about the average person who sells something, okay, they believe that selling is something you're doing to somebody to, you know, get your way, to get your way of thinking over to, when them over to your way of thinking to, you know, have them buy something that you want them to buy. So you can get paid. That's how most sales people quietly during the world are trained. And that's why sales people are viewed in the world is what? High status or low status, lower status. How do people view sales people in general, lower status? How old would? I don't know. I like those take, do you see those take talk guys selling that those cars in Australia? I haven't seen that one. There's a lot of, there's no it's pretty hilarious in there, they're dancing and for you this is what you guys know what I'm talking about. You don't. But if you go to the card dealership here, okay. And if they're trained to like beat you on the head, right? Because they don't understand how to emotionally open up, open you up in those type of things. You're going to run the other way. Because like, oh, they're pushing. They're too salesy, right? That's how most people are viewed in sales. So how do you, so the reason why I started to sell them levels to change the way sales is perceived in society. One sales person, one company at a time, because I believe that communication is the number one thing that's going to determine you're destiny, anything you do. I totally agree. You know, like Elon Musk, it's not like he was the only person of the idea of the electric car. He just knew how to frame that and communicate and sell that better. Jeffrey Bayzos, it's unlikely he was the only person who had the idea of Amazon. He just knew how to frame that better. He knew how to sell that message better. He knew how to do those things better. And that's why they stand out compared to everybody else. It does something similar. It's how they communicate what they're doing. Does that make sense? It does. And it sounds to me like this is a transferable skill. Because people are going to listen to this podcast and they're going to be like, Gabrielle, this is an unusual guest. And I would say you are an unusual guest, but the mission is, it's not just about telling people and learning how to e-well exercise. Any of these health and wellness items that are really important. Sure. But none of that matters if we cannot communicate it well. Yeah, well 100%. And communication comes down to what type of questions do you ask and win? I always say a lot of people have great questions. They just don't know to ask when and how to ask them. You know, because if you ever wondered, like if you look at salespeople in general, why does salespeople selling the same thing to the same prospects, the same price points, using the same script, how do they get completely different results? Great question. I don't know sense. I don't know much about sales and I would say. I would also say I haven't studied communication. Yeah. But I do. Like a pretty good communicator. It is, thank you. And I would say, I believe that if you can communicate well, then you can take a world. 100%. And I want you to teach me in our time together. Well, do you like to know? I just just disclaimer, it's going to be hard to master sales and about 45 minutes. It takes a while. But we can have the tools to practice. Oh, 100%. And also to understand. To understand. So for me, I'm selling health. Okay. And when I say selling, I, I'm not actually selling it. Sure. But if we can get people to do it for them, not to them, because if they don't get healthy, well, they're going to die probably a lot earlier than they could have, right? Yeah. And they lose those memories with their their kids, their grandkids. There's a lot of things. And I want people to buy in. Yeah. To the mission and to the ethos that we can be a better, stronger, more resilient society. Yeah. So let's say, okay. So, I mean, there's, there's a lot we could go through. What's your first question on sales? How do you get the buy in? And that's a big question. It's a big question. I know. There's a lot. There's a lot of different ways. So like what's it? What's a question you might ask? Let's say if you had somebody setting in here. And they wanted to, you know, sign up for some course you have that's going to change their muscles, like get them in shape better nutrition. I don't know if you do any of that stuff. Do all that stuff. Okay. So what's a question that you might ask or your salespeople might ask to help them find problems that maybe they didn't realize they have? Their biggest pain point. Why are you calling? Why are you here? I like that. I would, I would relaying which it a little bit. Typically the reason when we ask a why question typically in that like, oh, why did you call sometimes people will get defensive a little bit? What, what caused you to, to feel like you might want to, you know, look at what we do. What caused you? Why? Because why sometimes we'll cause you to get defensive. Right? Well, why are you doing that? Right? And so, but what I'm doing because of, see what I'm saying. Now, in certain context, if I, if I shifted my tongue like, oh, why? Why did you actually see the shift in the tongue? Mm-hmm. That's a concern tone at tone that shows empathy. Right? So a little shift there if I want you to a why question. Let's just a little example. So let's say that they, they, let's say they book a call with you. Right? You're on zoom. What would most people do when they got on zoom? What would be one of the first words out of most salespeople's mouth? Well, the first thing that I would do is I think gosh, my hair looks a little like, okay, yes. Okay. What would you guess that? Most salespeople are like, hey, how's it going? Yes. And we think that's really innocent. And our mom told us to be polite to strangers. But in a business setting, that's a predictable question that most prospects are used to that pattern. So prospects are brains pick up patterns. What would be a pattern we are pretty much used to every salesperson always asking us at the beginning of a conversation? How are you doing? Hey, how are you doing? How's your day? Now, do you set their like, oh my gosh, I am so glad that that salesperson, I, they generally care how my day is going. See, they know that, you know, the prospect knows you don't care, right? So a lot of times, even though they don't say it, their guard actually goes out because they're used to that pattern from everybody who's tried to sell them anything. And so they know that you're just trying to build rapport to sell you their thing. So I might relange that, like, hey, welcome to the call or what's going on in your neck of the woods. You know, I just shift the pattern a little bit. I'm interrupting the pattern. Does that make sense? And would this be trans, and I know that we, these are learnable skills. These are learnable skills and these are also helpful in any kind of dynamic, right? We train every industry in the world, even that's. Yes. So that's like I'm speaking at a big care practice, association, keynote training, they're one of our clients as well. Training lots of care practice, clinics, all of the nation. So it doesn't really matter. Every, every service is, you have to have clients, you're always selling your thing. So going back to that. So then they might, yeah, you know, I'm doing good. Okay. So for your industry. Okay. So it looks like you booked on the counter about, hey, I guess, maybe losing some weight and gain in some muscle, right? So what am I starting to do? Lose it, maybe losing some weight, gaining some muscle. So you can, now, would you know, like, would they do they with you when they booked, do they felt application before? What would they say the reason on that application? Are they saying anything? Well, patients come to us for energy, body composition, got out there's a salt of them wanting that energy. You're not selling, you're not selling them getting more energy. You're selling the results of that energy does for them. That's what you're really selling. It could be a better sex eye. I mean, literally, it could be a better marriage. I did actually just write a paper on that. That's what I'm saying. It could published. Period. It could be that. It could be, um, they want to get promoted and they would have more energy to job. It could be they want to spend more time with their boys playing basketball in the weekends. You know, but like, that's the in-result. That's really what you're selling. You're not selling the energy. You're not selling health. You're selling the results of what that does for them. That's what people buy. They don't buy the thing itself. And too many people that sell things, like try to sell the thing, you have to sell the results what the thing does. That's just the vehicle that gets in the thing they want. Does that make sense? It does. Okay. So I might get on there at the put on the form that you have. Like, oh, I want to get more energy. So I can, you know, get back out in the dating world because they just went through a divorce. They just put it that way. So I'm going to add that into that first question. Okay. So it looks like I was reading your, your, your form. So it looks like you booked on the counter about, hey, maybe, uh, losing some weight, gaining some muscle so you can get back out in the dating game, right? See how I'm instantly taking them from usually price or cost based thinking because that's what most people think are cost based thinking. Okay. When you first start talking to a salesperson, what's one of the first questions you start asking yourself? How much is this going to do I ask that? I you start to so for me. I'm just I, I'm pretty direct. I want to know what it is. How I'm just going to cost. I want to know what you're thinking. Yeah. Like the average, what is the average person thinking when a salesperson first starts talking to them? Like, okay, that's great. How much is it? Like you're thinking that you might not say it, but you're thinking it. So the question is, how do I take them from price or cost based thinking where they're focused on that to the result, results based thinking? So that first question starts to shift that. And that first question should be unpredictable. Well, yeah, that's it. I'm just so that question I asked. You probably never even heard that type of question before, rather than like, why did you call in? I might ask that a little bit down there. Okay. So it looks like you book, I'm going to start to shift their phrase. Well, you said what's going on in your neck of the woods or something like that? I don't even, I wouldn't even do that. But I'm just saying if you, if you like some such like, oh my gosh, like I'm hyper-friendly because I always ask everybody how their days go. And even though we know that that's actually a true question is most people are used to that. So what would be another way? But what's another way to start? Just as I'm thinking because it could be for anything. So is there another way? What you're really getting as engagement? Yes. I'm starting to shift their focus from how much is going to cost to the end result that they want. So it doesn't matter if I'm calling you. Yes, John, it's Jeremy. Jeremy minor with X-Wasey company, you responded to the ad. You, you asked us to call you back about looking at the, what was it the red 2020 to Honda, right? If I'm a car salesperson calling to lead back off the internet. I mean, it doesn't matter to train every industry. So it's the frameworks we train. On this show, we focus on what builds a stronger life. And for me, that includes the hours no one sees, evenings at home. And that's really our recent dinner with the kids, 10 minutes of reading. Okay, if you ask a teacher, you should be 20. And then lights out, cozy earth, one of the sponsors of the show has become part of this regular rhythm. Their bamboo sheets made from this coast feel amazing and our temperature regulating. They naturally wick away heat and moisture. So if one partner sweats, the other one doesn't. And I will tell you this on family movie nights. The bubble cuddle blanket has become an all-time favorite. It's plush, mid-weight, and looks great in the living room. Here's the best part. You get a hundred night sleep trial for free. Try them out. And if you don't love these blankets or sheets or whatever it is, you can return them. Hascle free. And if you're going to improve one thing about your home life, well, let's just start in the bedroom. And yes, you guessed it. Start with sleep. Go to cozy earth.com and use the code Dr. Lion for 20% off. The code is Dr. Lion. And they will send you a post purchase survey. Tell them that you heard about it on the Dr. Gabrielle Lion Show. Because hey, home isn't just where you live. It's also where you sleep and how you feel. Give me another thing that you do. I'll just show you another first question you can ask. I mean, it could be a fertility doctor. Like a care, like somebody calling back to a potential patient. They're not a patient yet, but maybe they fill that up for it. Yeah, okay. And you go over the call. Yes. Okay. So looks like you, you, you, uh, books some time to come in to talk to Dr. Johnson about, well, you know, getting pregnant, having a family, right? See, there's a problem here. Was that? You are too likable. And so is this, is how you're likable? You think that's something you can learn though. Because like what I just did with my tonality and the questions, is anybody born with advanced questions out of their mother's room? Anybody born with advanced? I think my sister. Okay. Anybody born with advanced tonality skills out of them. No, unlikely. Anybody born with advanced objection, prevention skills, unlikely. Anybody born with advanced questioning skills, unlikely. Those are all learnable skills. In creating this framework, communication is one piece. How do we begin to think about problems so that we can communicate better? And I'm saying problems, but again, selling people into the practice. Yeah. How does the framework work? What, okay. So those are called problem awareness questions. So what most, what most business owners and salespeople do and in really anybody that sells anything is the prospect will tell them one problem and immediately what do they do? They're like, oh, yeah, that's really bad problem. Let me show you how we solve that and they go straight into their solution. But the problem is, usually the first problem the prospect tells you is not really the real problem. It's the surface problem. So it's like the Titanic, like the iceberg. They're just showing you like the tip of the iceberg. I teach you how to go like all the way down. Did her 750 meters to find the whole iceberg. So you find out everything. I call that problem finding. A lot of people say, oh, you're going to be good problem solve. I might, well, if they don't buy from you, you're not really selling problems. If you want to be great at selling, your services, or whatever you do, you have to be better problem finding that means how do I help them find not just one problem, but two, three, four, five problems. They didn't realize they had. And when you're able to do that, it actually raises your status in their mind because they view you as more of an expert because they've never been asked that type of questions that makes sense. It does. So like give me, give me an example. Let's just go back to your industry. So they tell you a problem. Like give me a problem that maybe somebody told when your last sales people that they have when they first called it. Like, oh, I called in because of this. I can't I can't lose weight. So do we know at that point? So what did the salesman? Oh, you can't lose weight? What did they do at that point? I don't know. What would they normally do? Oh, oh, that's, oh, I see. That's one of them. That's, we solved that. Like, let me show you how that's exactly what that's exactly. But the problem is is like, what if that night? So what if they, you know, they didn't buy on the call. Let's just say they didn't buy on that call, but they're going to buy the next day. Or they put down a down deposit and they're getting their funding the other day or two, right? And then somehow on TV, they see some new wonder drug. Lose weight now. Because that salesperson only found that one problem and didn't really open them up emotionally. Now they're like, well, maybe I don't need to buy that $10,000 or training thing because I can just get that weight loss thing for 35 bucks a month. And then the next day they call it cancel. See, I would once I found that problem, I'd want to find out I want to help them find many other problems. So I might then say, well, yes, and then that's a big reason why people come to us for sure. Like, how much, like, where are you at now? Just want to understand, what are you, what are you waiting now? So when we talk about weight, you're sensitive. Like, hey, what are you waiting now? Well, that's kind of private. But like, would just help me understand, what are you, what are you actually waiting now? See, I'm a tone shifts. I know. I'm mesmerized. That's a concern to that's something you learn. You learn these things. Yes, who's who's born with a concern tone and tone that shows empathy compared to playful tone. Those are things you have to learn. You know, teaches that kind of stuff? No. Well, we do now, but I went to acting school to learn that type of stuff as a sales person. My second year in sales, I was at this event with a guy named Larry Moss, teaches like Helen Hans, one of his clients, Jennifer Gardner, Jim Carey, Toby McGuire, Leonardo, the Caprio. So in acting, you know, when you go to high level acting school, like we're talking high-ess stuff. We're not talking about just, you know, Betsy down the road for 20 bucks an hour. No offense, Betsy. I love you. But at the high levels, they teach those actors and actresses, facial expressions, penalty shifts, body language, verbal pacing, verbal pauses, you know, why? Because can you imagine if who's your favorite actor actress? I don't have a favorite type. Let's just say the problem with your life. I never watch TV. I never watch TV. I never watch TV. Oh, no, I do. I'm watching the terminal list on repeat. Okay. So the rock. Okay. So the rock. That's great. So can you imagine, I don't know the rocks to anality, but imagine the rock in which of favorite movie with him. Well, I mean, right now, we're watching our cartoons. I would say Moana. Oh, well, okay. That's a bad example. Yeah. It's a Tom Cruise. Missionary. A possible twist. Perfect. So imagine if Tom Cruise was like, if he had the same tone, the whole movie, John, we got to go down to the river because there's a bomb there. And if we don't get the bomb, the CAA is not going to do anything. The CAA could like destroy the whole world. And then there's going to be anthrax. And then at that point, we wouldn't be able to do anything. And then after about five minutes, you'd probably turn off the show. Because it's a Monatone tone. There's no shifting in the tonality and the pacing of that tone. Just like I did right there. Those are things you learn how to do. Nobody's born with those skills. I would love it. I was born with those skills. It would have made it a lot easier. I wouldn't have had to, you know, spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to acquire those skills for sure. It'd been great. Thanks to one of the sponsors of the show, Von Charge. Ben, if you're a Monatone there and you've been carrying the whole team, I got a different form of therapy for you. And that is red light therapy. And listen, good light impacts sleep hormones mood and even your ability to recover and focus. Von Charge has created science back tools to help me live in better alignment with my circadian biology. Artificial light is overloading us. They have blue light blocking glasses that are staple in our house. They have red light. They have red light light bulbs. They also have infrared, pmf, mats to help chill my body relax my muscles and support full body recovery. If you've never tried red light therapy, this is the time to do it. They have some of the best devices that I've ever seen great for skin, might a congeral health and overall resilience. If you care about your skin, if you care about your sleep, if you care about your body and want to try something new, check out Von Charge.com slash Dr. Lion, use the code Dr. Lion to get 15% off your entire order. Simple, proven, designed, do support your biology. In terms of top performance, I mean, the only way you get to where you are is because you're committed and you've sought these things out. What do you think is important as it relates to top performance? How does someone get to perform at the top? Well, I think it's, you know, I was classified people in four categories. And I think I classified salespeople in these four categories, business owners, moms and dads, doctors, anybody, there's four types. They're those who wing things, those are the winners, right? So those are the people, like in sales, that would be the type of person that, you know, says something different to every prospect. They don't know what works, you know, they don't know what doesn't work. And when they don't make a lot of sales, who do they typically blame? They're prospect. All prospects are broke. Like they got fear. They never blame their, like a skill level where most of those sales people go, they get fired. That's the winner. I think about like in your profession, what would be a winner? Some of the probably like walks into the gym kind of hits a few machines here and there doesn't know what to eat that caused them to lose weight. Just, you know, eat salads with thousand eye and dressing, smear it all over it and wonders why they don't lose weight. You know, that would be a winner. They just kind of wing it. Then you said, and that's why they never get what they want. Right? So that could be a doctor that could be a seal that could be anybody and athlete. They just kind of wing it and that's why they never succeed. But they rely on their talent instead of hard work. They could work hard. Like you could be a salesperson and work your head to the ground. But if you don't know what you're saying, that works, you don't understand what not to use. You can still work hard not be successful. It just really depends on what it is, right? The second type of person that I classify is more, they kind of dabble in things. I call that the dabbleer. So if they're a salesperson, a dabble would be somebody that would maybe buy a few sales books a year, maybe attend a free event, maybe they follow me on Instagram or, you know, YouTube to get a free, you know, these are free, it's just free-basic content and they believe the lie that if they just stay long enough, if they get enough reps, eventually they'll figure it out themselves. Which we all know that strategy takes years, if not decades, to ever do. And if they ever get good, they, you know, they're forced to play the numbers game. They have to work 12, 14 hours a day because they're not very good at communicating. They just put in more hours and they eventually burn out. That's a dabbleer. So like in your profession, what would be a dabbleer? Somebody who just kind of dabbles in it. Think about that. You know, there's probably some doctors that went to medical school and did just enough to get the degree, but they're not really that successful in their practice because they just kind of dabble in it. They don't get better. They don't learn new technology. They're old school. We probably call that like a dabbleer, if that makes sense. Like a Navy seal. You know, probably not a dabbleer, but there's going to be Navy seals that are up at this level, compared to some that are at this level. So once they got to that level, you know, what did this person do, compared to these people down here, there was something different they did, right, Tom Brady, same thing. Okay, I could go on and on. Then you have the Know It Aller. That's the person that in sales initially invested, put a bit of funding in sales training. They got good. Maybe they got to six figures, multiple six figures. Then they get a big head, big ego. Think they know everything about persuasion. They stop investing their skill level. And then come get's capped. So think about your profession. What's the Know It Aller? Somebody who's doing it? Yeah, well, somebody who thinks that they know everything that they can never get better, that they're best in that everybody else. That's a Know It Aller, right? And we all know that comes from ego. And we all know ego is the greatest prohibitor of somebody getting to the highest level they could, right? And then the fourth person, I call that person. It's any air of life. I call that person committed to mastery. That's your top one person or higher. The ones who committed, like committed to mastery, they're always investing in their skill level, because they know their skill level determines how much they get paid, right? And they know that training is not something they like did in the past, but training is something they do to get to the top and stay there. So think about like your favorite athlete, where they a winner, Daubler, Know It Aller, committed to mastery, committed to mastery. Always. You know, best doctors in your space, including you, winner, Daubler, Know It Aller, committed to mastery. Committed to mastery. I don't know many people that are not committed to mastery. That's a good circle of friends to have. I mean, that's where you want to be, right? You want to be around people, rock, committed to mastery. Not everybody is though, but that's a choice. You can choose that or if somebody who's on that road to mastery, like you might not have mastered something, but sure you're putting in the time, you're putting in the skill level, you're learning from other people. That's a good person to be around to. If you're not like, if you're like new and upcoming, right? You're not always going to be like hanging out with billionaires, you know, as a 21 year old necessarily, but you can hang around people who want who are going that place. So if you think about any person life, the greatest parents in life, winters, Daublers, Know It Aller, committed to mastery, like I can keep going on. So those four types of people, and you just got to decide which group you want to hang out with. Hmm, it sounds pretty extreme, you know, it just depends on what type of results you want in any area of your life. Like I said, it could be apparent, winner, Daubler, Know It Aller, committed to mastery. Like if you want to be the best parent in the world, you're going to probably get books and training on like how to how to do everything the right way. You're not just going to wing it. Like a lot of parents do. I've been parenting sometimes here and there. I'm going to be real, you know, but I've had to like in the last several years and like you know, I need to learn more about relationships and stuff. You know, I've done all the stuff with sales and sales training. Like, have I been a dabble in relationships? Like I need to take a relationship course. You know, I went to Tony Robbins, the relationship was amazing. You know, I learned so much, you know. Yeah. And then you apply it. So you, there's probably difference between those that just do and then those that ultimately apply. Yes. You know, I always say your biggest expense in life is your lack of applied knowledge. Not just knowledge. I know a lot of people that have a lot of knowledge, they just don't do anything that they don't apply it. So here's what I think. So if I'm being honest, I think you're speaking for being honest with me. Yeah. I hope you be honest with me. Yes. I, you know, so if anyone someone says, oh, I'm just being honest, like, Virginia really lie. That's exactly why I did that. But what I'm trying to get to and I think that the audience will love because I'm also interested in it and meaning I think that people don't make the connection between what your professional. So we're talking about sales, but what you're really good at and forgive me for saying this is people. Yeah. You're very good at people framing questions and connecting and moving them towards access. What selling is most people just have never been training to it the right way. I've come in like humanized sales and it just becomes from my background. I was going to become psychologist and I'm not a psychologist by the way. I actually dropped out on a clear, I dropped up my senior year at a credit stop. Legitly. Why would you do that? Because I was already in like a big corporate career. I was making five times more than the professors teach me and I was like, I'm not going to be a psychologist. I'm going to be in the sales side. So like, why don't I need to finish my degrees of psychology? I just didn't, you know, just making too much money is a kid. It was like 22. So just, but going back, I took what I learned from my studies and it wasn't, you know, I expanded that. Like I would go out and buy courses. I would go to seminars. Like you're not going to learn all that stuff from just going to psych 101 or anything, right? You're going to learn a little bit of that. But I took that. In my first job, I got in college was selling door to door like alarm systems. And I remember the sales manager, he told us, yeah, you got to knock on a hundred doors. You know, talk to 30 people that'll be home. Out of the 30 people, you're going to sell one. So my brain is like, well, if I talk to 30, I can't sell like 25 a bit. I don't understand. Like I'm preventing something bad from happening. It's like life insurance. I'm also like I'm preventing, I'm deterring intruders from breaking in like physically like, you know, coming in, hurting people, like tearing stuff up, stealing valuables, like, you know, all that stuff. So like, my mind was like, that doesn't make sense. Like I don't want to talk to 30 people. I said one, like I want to be able to help as many people as I can. So when I first started, I didn't know what it was doing. Right. I was just using their script. It's door slam, slam, slam, and most salespeople will be what? They'd be like, oh, this is a bad neighborhood. These people are mean. They're all broke. Always blaming the prospect. My mind goes, okay, what did I say? Or what did I ask? Or how did I, how did I, how did I use my tone that triggered that reaction in their nervous system? Because anytime somebody goes into fighter flight mode, that's a triggered reaction. Not from them. It's something that's triggering that that you're doing the salesperson, okay? And so I would just would reverse engineering. Like, oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, if I talk to you fast, they seem like they're just the guards always up. So I need to slow down a little bit. And a lot of stuff, I just kind of learn all my own. Now, they're, I learn from other people, body language experts, you know, I learn from Larry Moss tonality, those type of things. I keep expanding that. But I was looking as like, what's kind of like Tom, I was like, you ever seen that Tom Brady documentary is so good. It talks about his life and his dedication to craft and how he became the best. And Tom never really blamed his teammates necessarily, very rare. He always is like, oh, I threw that in reception. So you go back and watch the game film. We're like, oh, yep, yep, my front foot. I was too forward on that. And so the ball said about four inches high. He's always looking for his mistakes. We can correct those the next game. That's why I viewed sales. I'd always review the film, the game tape or the recordings. I'd record a bunch of stuff to see where did I lose the sale? What did I do right there? And I started like messing, like putting it all together. And that's a parallel for life, right? It's how you do this. Would also translate to how you become better at life? I want to know what I'm doing wrong. I always say the, like I said, the biggest problem in life, biggest problem sales is the problem that you don't know you have. Because if you don't know what your poems are, you can't ever fix it. So it's always really good to take constructive feedback from the right people, though. A lot of people take advice from people who are not that qualified to give the advice. And that's the problem that I see with a lot of people that have training programs is a lot of them, not all of them, but a lot of them are amateurs. They just don't have enough experience. They don't have the credit intervals. They don't have the success. You know, it's talking to Alex, Hermosie. I'm not my person friends with them, but we talk here and there. I know it's life. Oh, I was right. I've never met them. They just talk on the phone here and there. And I was congratulating about his big book launch on that stuff. And we were talking about like all these people out there, these coaches or whatever they're like, hey, we're going to scale your business to 100 million, 200 million a year. And you find their background, they never did that in their own business. So if you're taking advice about how to scale your business from somebody who never scaled theirs, like, what's likely going to happen? Probably not what you want. And so you always have to see like who am I taking advice from? What was their track record? With what they're teaching me now? What was their track record when they were in the thick of it? Because always say you can steal somebody's content, but you can never steal their wisdom and their experience in making that content. That's why it'll always be a water down version of what you do. It's I try to copy Tony Robbins just because you hear him at events. If you don't understand the psychology behind it and how he came up with it and his experience using it, you're going to be a shell of that person. Do you think that sales has taught you to navigate life better? It is and you know what it is, it still teaches me that. I always say I know nothing. I'm just a student. I'm still learning just like everyone else. In terms of rejection, sales has a lot of rejection. It doesn't. It doesn't. It's under skill level. If my skill level is up here, I'm going to get a lot less rejection than if it's down here, right? Wait, $3,000. $3. Wait, is that number right? I spent more money on skincare. My pores should be taxed deductible, maybe even have their own trust fund. And thank goodness that I found one skin. Because one skin, it doesn't just make empty promises. It's research driven minimalistic and tested for beauty, skin health and longevity. One skin is the first top-cult skincare backed by peptide science that targets skin aging at the molecular level. I slather this on all day. They have a peptide that is designed to reduce the accumulation of dead cells or zombie cells that drive inflammation tissue breakdown as we age. Now, this isn't about cosmetic quick fixes. It's about changing the biology of your skin. Strengthening the barrier, improving firmness, hydration, elasticity with clinically tested ingredients. So, if you are focused on aging well from the inside out, it's time also to think about your skin. It should get the same level of care. Go to 1skin.co for 15% off use the co-doctor lion. It is amazing and it will not break the bank. How would you now or how would you have no rejection? I don't like if somebody doesn't buy something for me like when I was in the trenches selling as a salesperson, we're going for companies. If somebody is like a sold everybody, but they knew when I got out of that conversation that I was generally concerned for the consequences for them of them not changing their situation. And that's how I looked at sales. I'm sorry I couldn't help you, but I wouldn't say this, but they knew I was concerned about the consequences because they didn't buy. And that gives a lot of people to call you back if that makes sense. So, you don't enter on it. I don't know because I'm not the one that has the problems. They do. I'm the one that can solve them though. That's what sales is. I'm not the one that has the problems. I'm the one that can solve them. So, why I'm not going to qualify to them. I'm not going to be a douche, but I'm not going to qualify to, you know what I mean? That's so obsessed with like that. Like, oh, you know, I don't know if you're qualified for what we do. Like nobody believes that. Like that's not a technique. So, I'm not going to qualify to them. I teach says people how to get the prospect to qualify to you because you're the one that can solve their problems. You can take away their pain. You can take away their fear of future pain. Right? I mean with what you sell, the two biggest, I always say this, the two biggest emotional drivers that cause a human being to want to change are actually pain and the fear of future pain. A lot of people say it's pain and the pleasure's second. Precious a disinthird, just like I told you, like with what you do, if someone's like, man, I got to get in the best shape of my life because I want to look great in that bikini, the summer on the beach. Well, that's what they say to you. But what is their fear? They have a fear that when they get on that beach, they're going to be judged by others. They're not going to look that good. They're not going to feel good. That's a fear of future pain. Pleasure's always a disinthird. It's interesting. I would always think that motivation, not motivation in the sense of raw raw, but the overachieving aspect would drive people or to see with their people. Well fear can do that. Master it can drive you to overachieve. Fear is not a bad thing. This is a fear can literally drive you to be successful because maybe you grew up poor as a kid and you never want to be poor again so that fear continually drives you to make more money. Does that create? So you are known. I don't know if you know this, but for a very high performance lifestyle. Did you know that? I did not know that. And you were saying that you did you know that? You even know that. I thought we were just a sales trainee company. High performance last. Yeah. High performance lifestyle is being able to operate at a very high level. And there's a level of mastery for that. I mean, there is not a difference between being the best at what you do over here, being the best at what you do in medicine or being the best at what you do if you're a speaker or a communicator. There are through lines. And there are habits that go with those through lines. So I'm curious as to some of your high performance. Have you people that ask you about your own personal physical habits? Just to be a problem with the, I go to the gym so I don't get fat. Which is hilarious. Which I've never heard that. I literally say from a high performance. Yeah, I go to my high performance. I think most people go to the gym because they just don't tell you that. No, they would tell me just real. They just think, look, if somebody's like, I want to get big, like, you know, I would be strong. It's because they have a fear of looking out of shape. They have a fear that people are going to judge him. It just comes back to human, the human needs we all have. Think about it. If that is the case, what, what are some of the things that you do? So you don't get fat. I go to the gym. So I go to the gym, you know, depending on travel schedule, I try to go five days a week, when I'm in town. I've seen an average is about four times a week. But I do three times a week. I do hit training. So like I have a coach there at the gym owner, like, has a coach. It's like four of us, you know, it's really good. I go at five, 30 in the morning. Like always, I always wake up at five. I'm not a 40 in person. Like, I don't, those are different breed. That's for sure. My CEO wakes up at three, third and I grow the three A. M. Club, like, you're the whole different level. Like, I'm five A. I'm like, I'm the web. They have genoc mutations. I'm so outgoing. They do. Something's telling you. So I go to the gym early. That's the time I can just get it done. So three times we get to hit training one time we get to crossfit. That's usually the schedule. If I go five times a week, I'll probably hit training four of those times one time we crossfit. I try to halfway decent. I'm definitely, I would say a dablar in the eating game, because I have a weakness for like cookies here and there. But I try to get like sugar free cookies. That makes me feel better. I don't know why. I'm not sure. It's probably just like a solder to yourself. Yeah. Like 78% less sugar. You know? So I just, you know, I take supplements. You do? What kind of supplements do you take? I took the 10 X supplements, but I just switched over to a new brand. Okay. I don't know. But you don't ever think it. Do you know what I think? I need to do better. I need to do better. I can better outsource it to someone who is a master of their own. I need to get a master. I need to hire you, doctor. I'm not taking patients. Ugh. See? Look at this. She's getting me to qualify to her. I like it. You're all right. I don't even know what I'm doing. I'm already learning. Well, you can maybe refer me to somebody because I need to take it more seriously because then we're all getting older. Here's what I would say. Time flies by quickly. Time. Your biggest asset. It does. Because once it's gone, you can never get it back. You can be a billionaire. You can't buy more time. That's right. Or more health. So I want to know you're not off the how to dablar on supplements. I would say I'm committing to mastery on supplements and doing much better. I've had peaks in my life. I took them all the time for your straight and then for some reason something goes wrong with an order. I just get busy and then format later on a crap. I didn't take supplements again. I so I probably need to hire somebody that just does it for me. What about nutrition? What does that look like for you? I read it really healthy. Sunday through Friday. I am really really good. I buy meals from a protein ass in a lot of places. I had a trainer that hired that did my blood work and stuff and showed me all the time food to eat. Why this is better? It's really good. Weakness is Saturday. I don't have a very good Saturday's doctor. Sometimes I cook these on Saturdays. If I just cut out the food, it's coming for you. Yes. It's not a special weakness. I know the mind. I still have a hard time over coming the mind. I'm working on that. I know what the mind is doing. No, you don't. You want to have those cookies and you're telling yourself. There's a sugar addiction. It's sugar's drug. No. It's not a drug. Typically, addictions don't just happen on Saturday after you. Okay. Valid. I'm like the person that's really like these days of the week. I'm perfect. Then it's like a cheat day. I just go too extreme on the day. Three meals and cheat eggs. I'm telling you, I will tell you this. As someone who takes care of entrepreneurs, health is a common denominator. They will never get higher than their health. You cannot outpace your biology. Period. End of story. I would say entrepreneurs are the new kind of warrior. I mean, we have the warriors. But their tolerance for pain and suffering and mistakes is very high. Yeah. The mental clarity. I want to talk to you about that when I have you on the show. For sure. Which is going to be soon. Can you talk to me about your own health? So there was something and I think it's really important to share when we go through stuff. Because people look at you and I'm sure they are inspired and they think everything is easy and all of it is rosy. But it's not all the time. So you're talking about this stuff. I can't answer stuff. I am. Okay. A lot of people have only been asked that one other time. So I found out I had no idea. So but two little over two years ago, two years ago, and June. That over two years ago. I noticed there was this ball back here at the back of my leg, like backside of my leg, and it had been there for probably at least a decade. It didn't hurt. I never thought anything about it. And I kept, I was scrubbing and wondering and I said, I should probably go to a dermatologist for many days. And I said that before, years before, I just never did. And so I went to a dermatologist. You know, because I didn't know it was. And he examined it and he's like, you know, it's a tumor, but it's like 100% benign for sure. Like you don't even need to get taken out. You can get it taken out. Or we can go in and take it out. It's toilet to you. It's a 100% benign if it's been there for 10 years. It doesn't hurt or anything. I'm like, why don't you take it out? Because like, I just thought it was a bump. I don't know what it was. So not a general surgeon. You went to the dermatologist. They ultrasound it. So yeah, so they just thought it was benign. So I went to the dermatologist. They removed it. And I still remember his words. He's like, oh, I had this a little bit different. He's like, yeah, we take it back. I'm sure it's not a big deal. Like, you know, we'll micrce, you know, whatever they do. And you know, I had a, I was going to Europe for vacation like a week later. He's like, I'll call you in a couple weeks. He's like, yeah, he's, but don't worry about it. It's probably nothing. I'm okay. So I'm in France. I still remember the rumors in France. I was in hotel room. He was in, was it Mars? No, was, uh, niece. No, Marseille, Marseille, France. And I get this call from a 480 number. And it's like 10.30, not. And I like who's call me. Like, and I just, I never used the answer to the call. For some reason, I was like, I need to take this call. I don't know why. And it is on this different website. He's like, hello, he's like, yeah, Jeremy, this is Dr. So and so it's like, I need you to just set down. I'm like, I don't know. I don't know. I'm like, okay. Can you pause? Was your heart racing? Yeah, I didn't really know what to, it was almost like the moves that I need you to set down. Is that tone shift? You know, you could tell like there was some concern there. And he's like, hey, we examine this. He's like, we don't, this is cancer, but we can't tell what type of cancer. We're going to send this off to the Cleveland Clinic because this looks like a very rare type of cancer. So our comma is very rare. Yeah. And we want to make sure. And it's going to take about three to four weeks. Well, I had just got there probably three or four days. I had about three more weeks there. So the whole time I'm there, I didn't know like, did I have three months, six months, a year, ten years. I didn't, it might not have been a big deal. I didn't know, but it was, it was, it was an interesting time in my life for sure. And so when I got back, I didn't tell anybody though. But the thing, a lot of people are, why didn't you say anything to anybody? Because I didn't want to, especially since I didn't know what it was at that time. I didn't want to wear anybody, especially like all my employees, like, I think I told my business part at that time. That was it. And swore secrets. You said, I don't want to worry about that. Clients, you know, we got clients over the world. Like, I'm not going to get them worried. I don't even know what it is. And so then when I got back, he's like, you know, it's start coma. It's like 65% survival rate. So this, and then they did the MRIs or whatever they do, they didn't find any cancer anywhere else. I just didn't, I just didn't tell anybody because I didn't want, and when people to worry, they're going to make sense. You know, I just, I don't want my kids to worry. I didn't tell my kids like a year later. I didn't tell my employees. I didn't tell, I didn't go out and announce it or anything because first of all, I was like, it wasn't like stage four or anything, you know, but it was, it was big. I didn't know at that time. I didn't know. Well, even when I found out, you know, because then I had to go get surgery on it. So then they bring in because the dermatologist is not like a tumor specialist. So when they did that, some of it, they got most of it out, but then it like spread out all over the place, right, in here, right? So then they bring in like a really high-level specialist. He takes it out. He removes the rest of it out. That was a painful surgery, by the way. Holy hell. Were you under general anesthesia? What, they knocked me out. Yeah, sure. It was really painful. Like I was on like, you know, what's the drug they take it? Oxy codeners something like every couple hours. Like for it was painful for about five, six days, really bad. And so anyways, then I keep going, you know, everything's good, you know, start blocking again after five, six days, back in the office, working everything. And then like three months later, I was up on, no, it's actually right after because there's a bunch of staples. There's like 45 staples there. So I think I grabbed the staples there. It was big. It was like all the way here. So after they took the staples out, does that maybe a month after later? I remember I was speaking on stage in Salt Lake City. And I remember it was like the day after I just kind of moved this way real quick. I felt it tear. Gosh. And I was like, oh, and then I went to the hotel room that night. It was like, it was bleeding a little bit. And I could tell it was like open. Why didn't think anything of it? Like an idiot. And the next day I went to like Cabo. And I'm setting in like the hot tub. And that's probably not a good idea with an open wound. Well, then it gets infected. I get really sick the day I come back like two days later. And they have to like, I almost passed out. So my girlfriend at the time like took me to the ER because I was like, why in the face? Like we had a lot of stuff. And I got some type of infection. It's called a certainness. It's like, it's a bad infection. Staff infection. Yes. And so then they'd open the wound back up. And for two straight days, they put like some type of drains in there. So I have like this wound. And IVN around. Oh my god. Yeah, the painful two days might morphine all that stuff. Like just like drug me up. And then they bring the doctor again to redo it. And so then I had to go through, you know, so it was like three surgeries and like six months. Not very fine. But you know, I'm just complaining now. Okay. First of all, you're not complaining. In the second of all, I want to share what's our coma is because it's a rare type of cancer. And it arises from mesenchymal tissue, which is a connective tissues that support in the body. And there are more than 70 different subdubs. It is very rare. It's either soft tissues or coma bone. This wasn't bone. This was soft tissue. It is less than 1% of all adult cancers. Well, there you go. From the time that you got that call, it says time that you knew something, what was that like? It really, it really taught me a valuable lesson that our last fly by really quickly. And so, you know, I was worried about my kids. You know, if I kids, especially my youngest one, because she was five at that time, it was like she's going to know her dad growing up. So that was really tough on me. You know, my older kids, they would miss me of course. But they they're a little bit older, you know, you know, the other 18 through 24, but I still worried about them, you know, what would their life's be without me? What would my company be like without me? So these things were all going through my mind, you know, at that point for sure in a big way. That was pretty rough. But it taught me a valuable lesson that at the end of the day, you know, you take two things with you in the next life. You take your knowledge that you learned. And I believe you take the love that you had for your family and your fellow man. And that's really the only two things you take in the next life. And so it maybe start to realize like, hey, there's errors in your life. You need to get better at because you don't know your your time or date that, you know, God's going to take you. So there's a valuable lesson for sure. And do you still think about it? Not as much anymore, you know, because it's it was isolated to that. So the doctor's like, it's very rare. Like if it was spreading all over, we got a problem. But since it's been there for 10 years in the same place and hasn't spread, it's good. Um, let's still, you know, I'm I definitely cut down sugar intake. You know, different things like that. Took more supplements. I need to get better. Um, it comes up here and there. I don't think any of us, I think AI is really cool because I think that AI is really going to help with some of the stuff, you know, preventative stuff. Um, but it's definitely a situation that it really causes you to really reflect on your life for sure. Most people don't have those. They go through life and they don't have those. Yeah. How did you process it? I mean, because you said it was a tough time, but you are, I just kept going. Like the thing with me is like, I put on horse blinders. Yeah. Like we had, we have hundreds of thousands of clients everywhere, every industry. They paid us to get a result. I'm not going to let my circumstances hold them back. So in my mind, this wasn't saying anything because I'm like, I don't want to give them more it. Like they're going to be taking care of like, I have to still perform for them. And so I, I really, I think that really helped me because that it caused me not to think about it all the time. Like I wasn't, I didn't have self-pity. Like I was like, I have things to do. I have people to help. Like I'm going to go forward. And I didn't really think about it that much. I thought about some, but like I wasn't sitting there like crying every day. You know, like I'm doing something in my life. I have purpose. And that's why I want to stay here. And I think that's important. I think a lot of people don't do that. They get into this like, oh no, you know, like, why is this happening to me? I didn't necessarily think like that. I just thought like, it's a thing. And I got to deal with it. But I've got other things I got to deal with. And I'm just going to go forward. And I know that's probably not the most greatest answer, but it's just kind of what happened. I just had things to do. And so there's another thing that I do with. And I think as an entrepreneur, you have things you have to do with every day. And as long as you know that you can do those things, you can do it in a high level and do other things. Like you just don't worry about it. There was no narrative. I do. Yeah, I don't have like a sad story around it. I'm just like, I got to do these things. This is thing I have to deal with. I was kind of pissed off because it took a lot of time. I had to go get MRIs and I call these scans all the time and set in weight in rooms and like this sucks. You know, I had to go like just all this stuff for like six months. You know, like every, I think every four to six months, I have to go back and get more test rate over to make sure it doesn't come back. But it's an issue. You have to do that now. Yeah, it's like every four or six months. They do some type of scanners. Yeah. Yeah. This might surprise you. Yeah. But the best of the best at what they do do not have a narrative about I had one patient who um he was a 20 year seal and he lost his leg. Some growth is texting and driving and it was you know in my office six months later and I was asking these questions just much like I'm asking you now and I was like, how is this? How are you doing? And I'm expecting this pity and you know and you know, a lit of other answers and he was like, now you're talking about my leg. It's like back. That was like six months ago. Get it all right. He's got things he's got to do. He's got things he's got to do. Yeah. You know I have a lot more questions for you and I know that we are probably running out of time because you did it. Great questions. You really many think. You have really good. Thank you. So my my last question is if you could give people one piece of advice whether it is in business and sales and health and life. What would it be? It's going to sound boring. I always say success is simply a choice. Choose well. That's about it. It's just a choice. Once you choose you do the things that successful people do. You make decisions like success. We will do you make choices like successful people do but you first have to choose. I love that. I think you're very inspiring. Thank you very much. You're going to maybe cry if you're tear me up. And I hope everybody learned something. You know this is a section that we're calling strong icons. And it's not just about medicine. It is about the person and they're very whole being something. I want to you're going to ask me today. I was wondering what you're going to ask me today. I'm like what she actually going to ask me about persuasion and influence. I said this is a really good really show congratulations. Thank you. You're welcome.

Plately rich plasma is basically where we take your blood, we concentrate it using a centrifuge and that just spins it at a really high volume. And what that does is concentrate the platelets and hence the name platelet rich plasma because it's rich in platelets. And platelets, you can think of them like little molecules and there is kind of the drug that we're injecting into the body to help it heat to heal. Plately it's something called growth factors and something called cytokines. Now the cytokine profile is the key to what determines if PRP is going to be efficacious. And have to talk about that. Yeah, and that's the biggest issue with this whole PRP field. It's there's no standardization when it comes to PRP. You have a thousand clinics offering PRP now and no one's doing it. No majority of them are not measuring cytokines and B majority of them don't even know what they're doing when they're injecting this. Or what they're injecting. Thank you to Vivo Health for sponsoring this episode of the show. Vivo Health makes the most incredible footwear and that is Vivo barefoot. I use these shoes to train to walk around and you better believe that they are incredible. Here's why I love Vivo barefoot. Number one, it allows me to feel very stable in all of my training. I feel like I can move without being afraid that I'm going to trip. I feel as if my feet are getting stronger and in fact, there is evidence to support that my feet are getting stronger. Studies show that foot strength increases by roughly 60% in just a matter of months by walking around in these shoes. It's kind of like exercise for your feet. Another thing is this footwear is made from recycled materials and I can't help but think about all of the waste that we put the wide. Especially, you know, with my little kids where always going through clothes and and shoes. This footwear uses recycled materials with the aim to protect the planet. If you don't like the shoes, all you have to do is let them know, but I know that that's not going to happen. Vivo barefoot.com that's vivo barefoot.com slash doctor lion for 15% off. Doctor, a deal, con. Thank you so much for joining me today. I am very excited to bring this conversation forward and we're going to learn a whole bunch. Yeah, I know, I'm so excited. I've been looking forward to this for a while. You know, it's really funny. And as I was mentioning earlier to you, there's not there's probably been only a handful of times. Where people have said to me, you really got to sit down with Dr. Onney, got to talk to them and special shout out to the mind pump guys and to Jordan. Shalos, but really, and you have treated and we know and have many, many mutual friends. So I'm really grateful that you're here. I'm grateful for the opportunity and I think it's going to be a really exciting conversation. Yeah, and you know, just on that note, I was looking at some of the data regarding. I'm going to share this with you. So basically, you guys, what we're going to be talking all about is not just muscular skeletal health, muscular skeletal health, probably cartilage, tendons, anything that would impair. A body's ability to function from a physical aspect. Would you say that that's right on point exactly. And just check out these numbers. These are annual numbers. 800,000 newer placements here. 450,000 hip replacements and 150,000 shoulder replacements annually. Those, and let me just keep going. 21% of the entire population has arthritis. And 51% in the US, 51% of adults in the US have arthritis. That's over half the population of adults. That's insane. And what you do, in part, is to make that better. Yes, and we're doing it quite successfully. And I think it's important to remember joint replacements are 100% success either. And so that's why people are looking for better alternatives. But not only that, there's a lot of people who are being offered these at a very young age when these joint replacements won't last the whole duration of their actual. Metallic longevity, essentially. Absolutely. And I've seen that. And the things that we as physicians, so you are a physician and I do want to hear about your history and how you got into regenerative medicine. The options that we can offer patients for things like arthritis, for things like laboral tears, the traditional medicine is not good. No, it's really not good. So if someone comes to you and says, I have an arthritic knee. The standard of care is what? Yeah, exactly. And this is what got me, I mean, this is exactly why I got into it. Because these patients would come to me as a sports doctor and then interventional pain kind of train. We're trading chronic pain, which is half of it is osteoarthritis. It's not more than half. And so people come in with the knee issue and they've tried physiotherapy. They've tried acupuncture to try the conservative management, maybe bracing. They're going to a doctor because they're trying to see what's next because I've tried all the conservative routes. And the doctor generally speaking will do something called cortisol injections. That's kind of the first line and still I think most guidelines still recommend that as a first guideline as a first line. And unfortunately, cortisol is great temporarily as a pain relief because it reduces inflammation. But then what is it doing to the joint? And we know there's enough data, not just in vitro data, suggesting that there's condo toxicity, which means cortisol is actually toxic to the cartilage, meaning it eats away at it. And that's in vitro, meaning test tube studies, but then there's in vivo data, an actual clinical trial data showing that even one injection can accelerate the progression of osteoarthritis. And this is something that is never done in terms of proper consent, meaning the physician never informs the patient to say that, hey, we're going to do this cortisol, but it may make they may make things worse in the long term. I've never had a single patient who's been told by an orthopedic surgeon that this is a possibility. I, if I do cortisol, which I rarely do, but if I'm doing it for example, if a patient's going to have a patient, they just want some pain relief and they really want something to reduce inflammation, then I'll tell them, hey, we can do this, but this is what is a possibility. And that's called proper informed consent, which is unfortunately not happening. And so it's such a disservice because in these patients get that cortisol, maybe it works, maybe it doesn't. And then even if it does work, it eventually stops working and then what's next, then usually the orthopedic surgeon will say, okay, we can do maybe hyaluronic acid. That's becoming more and more common, which is just a lubricant basically to replenish the joint, kind of like an oil change for your joint. And that'll last six months typically. And then eventually that'll stop working and then they'll say, okay, now you're ready for joint replacement. And it's almost, it's almost ironic because it's like the system is feeding itself because when you do cortisol, they also mix in something called marcan or be pivicane and marcan and be pivicane are also countertoxic. So you're basically putting in a bunch of countertoxic fluid into the joint that is then setting them up for knee replacement even faster. And that's unfortunate, that really is unfortunate. Before we dive into all the details, tell me a little bit about yourself. How did you get to be doing what you are doing? It takes a very special type of person to think outside the box. And usually there's a moment where you go, you know what, what I'm doing right now, there has to be a better option. So take us through a little bit about your history, your background, what kind of physician you are, how you were trained. Yeah, well, I think like many, many people who are a bit outside of the box and girls, I started off as a fitness trainer. Why didn't you? Oh, really? But I had that maybe I should have. Yeah, I surprised you did it because, yeah, so I worked at a gym just like a personal trainer. And when you work as a personal trainer, though, you obviously see how exercise can be medicine, right? You see it firsthand. You see patients with diabetes, high blood pressure, cholesterol issues, all get better when they just start eating better and they start exercising and give the right dosing sort of speak with that stuff. So obviously I saw it as a personal trainer before I went into medicine. And then when I'm in medical school, I was all excited because I'm like, oh, I'm really going to get to treat people and reverse disease and all that. I think we all, we have to feel that way going into medical school. Yeah, so you're so enthusiastic. And then it's, there's, I had one lecture on nutrition and where do you want to medical school? So you're Canadian. Yeah, University of Ottawa, which in Canada, all the schools are considered pretty topped here. Because there's not that many medical schools. So you get a good education, but even topped here is essentially just very lip service when it comes to nutrition and lifestyle medicine. So the one lecture we had on nutrition was the Canada's food guide. And I remember arguing with the person being like, this isn't right. Like there's more to this. And then the nutritionist was teaching us was like, no, this is what the endocrinologist teaches. This is what the American diabetic association says. This is what American Heart Association says. This is what we have to follow. And I was kind of just like, this is crazy. So that was my first like kind of moment being like, okay, there's obviously something going on here. This is just, this is just odd. Why aren't we learning more about the root cause of disease when we know there are interventions that can help to reverse it. And so that's what kind of led me during medical school. Yes, I was studying alipathic medicine, which is medical like a doctorate in medicine. But then I was also studying functional and interrogative medicine. So I was just kind of, that's what I used to read for fun basically. And I first thought, don't know how you had any time to read anything else in medical school because that is brutal and itself. When you finish medical school, did you do? What kind of residency did you do? I just did general practice, but then I did that family medicine. Yes, exactly. But then I went into sports medicine, which is kind of his own two years fellowship trading. And I worked under Dr. Anthony Gallia, who's kind of the pioneer of something called platelet rich plasma injections. I have a question, is it was he, is he Italian? He is, Malta. Malta, yes. Okay, I think so that gentleman has quite a reputation. He has, he sees a lot of athletes that are, I believe under the radar, not saying under the radar. Maybe a better way of saying is there's a lot of individuals that go to him that maybe don't publicize that. For injuries, for injury prevention, etc. Yeah, and that's still the case for myself and him because unfortunately most team doctors are orthopedic surgeons. Not saying that's about their amazing surgeons are great. If you need your body open and you need surgery, but many of these people do not need surgery and there's alternatives. And so they have to sneak behind the door as more or less and come see us and knock tell their team. And did you, when you did a fellowship in them, is it a standard fellowship? Is it, for example, here in the US, if you do a sports medicine fellowship, it may be one or two years and it is within a governing body. Is that the same for you or was this more of a mentorship? Yeah, it's more like a mentorship. They have like the formal one as well, but I didn't want to do the formal one. I chose not to because that's one year formal fellowship and then you get like that whole kind of like traditional, I guess designation, but I chose to mentor under him and do two years instead of one year because I wanted to learn innovative medicine whereas I looked at the traditional curriculum and it was literally so boring because it was essentially just very, there was no intervention. It was basically physio, cortisol and then referrals of surgery. That's what primary care sports medicine was. And I was just kind of like, this isn't exciting. Like how is this, how, and I didn't feel like I was doing anything for patients. I was just for, I was either getting them NSAIDs, referring to physio, cortisol and then surgery. That's it. And then you started, so you finished this fellowship and during this fellowship you learned I'm assuming PRP stem cell. I don't, they don't think they call it stem cell. Any of that transfer or yeah, so basically. And by the way, I've had all of these done. Okay. I want love to hear your perspective on a very significant injury that I've had. So yes, I'd love to hear the kinds of interventions that you've been doing that you have done. Yeah, so the biggest issue with PRP and people who don't even know PRP. Yeah, exactly. They forward to outline your, how many different treatments did you guys do? Three, five. Yeah, I would say like four to five really main stage treatments. And what are those? So, platelet rich plasma is basically where we take your blood. We concentrate it using a centrifuge and that just spins it out of really high volume. And what that does is concentrate the platelets and hence the name platelet rich plasma because it's rich in platelets. And platelets, you can think of them like little molecules and there's kind of the drug that we're injecting into the body to help it heal. Platelets have something called growth factors and something called cytokines. Now, the cytokine profile is the key to what determines if PRP is going to be efficacious. And have to talk about that. Yeah, and that's the biggest issue with this whole PRP field. There's no standardization when it comes to PRP. Do you have a thousand clinics offering PRP now? And no one's doing it. No one's majority of them are, A are not measuring cytokines. And B, majority of them don't even know what they're doing when they're injecting the stuff or what they're injecting. And the reason is because where are they getting their PRP? It's just some manufacturer who's some rep that comes from some company who makes PRP. And they're like, here, use this machine. Armour machines the best. But if it's a PRP, so a PRP would be considered plasma rich. Plasma rich or platelet rich plasma would be considered a biologic, right? It wouldn't be from the person. And everybody's probably plasma is different. Exactly. And is there a way in real time to determine the foundations of what is in that plasma to say, Okay, well, you have this is leukocyte rich plasma at this number. This is going to be effective for your shoulder injury. There is now something called a platelet counter, which you can use. And that's one of the things we were using because we had a scientist on our team with Tony, Dr. Gallia. And he and what he and he was the first one as far as I know, really talking about the cytokine profile. And that's where I learned from him. And that was the reason why he pioneered a second generation plasma called cyto-rich. But that one was essentially to make an increase the anti-inflammatory cytokines. So there's something called inter-lucin receptor antagonist or i-rap. And there's another company called that has something called orto-kine in regenocine. And that's made from Germany. That was by Peter Willing. And the reason why that one was getting a lot of attention was because people were calling it a second generation PRP. Because it had more anti-inflammatory cytokines than the original PRP. And now what CETA rich had was i-rap, but then it also had something called Timps, which are tissue inhibitor metalloproteneases. And this all comes from the person or this was often the person. So Timps target MMP, specifically MMP9, which is matrix metalloproteneases, and which are one of the catabolic cytokines that degrade cartilage. And so that's why you can enhance PRP using these methods. So you better targeting the pro-inflammatory cytokines, there are causing the chronic inflammation and the degradation of the joint. So you have this kind of progression of PRP from like first generation where you just kind of mix again and hoping it works. To second generation where you're trying to standardize a little bit more by standardizing the cytokine profile. But the issue is as you were saying, is that it really depends on who you're taking it from. Because if you have an end there's been studies on this. If you take a 70 year old and take their PRP and compare to a 20 year old, there's a very vast difference in terms of cytokine profile. In terms of antibiotic growth factors, in terms of anti-inflammatory cytokines. So of course there's going to be variability in efficacy because you're only targeting so many cytokines. And the number of those is going to decrease as you get older. And so that was one of our biggest interventions. And then we also had something called autologous committed progenitor cells. So it's pathologist, committed progenitor cells. I know it's a lot of a... I'm happy I can't even put that in. I wish. So this is what is erroneously described by every, almost every physician in the United States, except maybe a few who I can, you know, Dr. Steve Samson who's amazing, but maybe there's only a few who don't call it that, but they all call it stem cells. It's not stem cells. It's a committed progenitor. I'm very glad to hear you say that because when we hear stem cells, it's not a thing. No. It is illegal in the USA. I was absolutely... But that's a most stem cell. So anyone offering you stem cells is telling you a lie, and you need to be careful because they are uneducated, and they do not understand the science of mesenchymal stem cells. I'm very, very grateful to hear you say that. Yes. A toggle, whatever committed progenitive cells. Yes. That is one treatment. That's where we take your fat or your bone marrow. And we concentrate, and we isolate their progenitor cells, committed, meaning they can only differentiate into certain cell lineages, but they don't really have much different sensation capacity. So these aren't really turning into new cells. What they're doing is they're doing something called paracreen signaling, which means they're helping to reduce inflammation and help to improve the microenvironment where the chronic inflammation is occurring as an osteoatoreitis. So doing still can be beneficial, but you just... people need to understand when doctors are telling you you're getting a stem cell injection. It is not a stem cell injection. It is an anti-inflammatory signal that can last for a couple years. Which is still great. I mean, it's still helpful, but it's not a, it's not regering new tissue. And I think that's what a lot of patients think. They're like, oh, I'm getting new tissue. And that's where I think a lot of there's a lot of predatory, unfortunately, doctors in this field, because they're making false promises. And just to clarify, when you say fat or bone marrow, does it matter is the fat? Is this similar to a cytokine profile? If an individual has a, I hesitate to say that word, healthy fat? If someone is lean, let's say, an individual? No, for sure, there has been studies on that. So they're essentially the fat that you collect. Your isolating was called the stromal vascular fraction, SVF, and that SVF that you collect has all the cytokine profiles in there. But that's going to be very contingent on this health status of the individual. And most people have, as you know, as you're the one who coined this term, if fat is the organ of inflammation. And so if you are in this inflammatory state, as many patients are who are overweight, because overweight goes hand in hand with osteoarthritis, then is that really a thing that you want to inject into people in the first place? And I don't know if it is. I'm not, I'm not keen to inject that into people's joints. I was using fat only as a scaffold for example, if you have a large rotator cuff tear, say if it's fully torn. You can't just put stem cells in there or exosomes or PRP, whatever you use because they're not viscous enough. So they're just going to go straight through. So you need something to hold that and hold as a bridge. And that's what the fat does. What we do is as a fat, we use it as what's called micro-fragmented fat graft. And this is a procedure that I was actually invented by plastic surgeons, because they've used it for the cheeks, for the butt and, you know, for cosmetic applications. But so it's not a new procedure, but we're just using it in an orthopedic application. We're using it as scaffold and then we can see it with whatever substance that we want, whether it's PRP or stem cells. And then that can help to act as a bridge to actually regenerate the tissue. And that's kind of the holy grail of regenta medicine in the first place. It sells signals and scaffolds. So that's an easy way to remember. I love it. Cells signals and scaffolds. Yes. I'll take it. And with that would be considered, that would someone will call that a fat graft. Yes, fat graft. Thank you to thesis for sponsoring this episode of the show. thesis is the world first customized, nitropic company. Nutropics are nutrients found in nature or the human body that enhanced cognitive function. Let's face it. We all need that. We need focus. We need energy. We need, I do I dare say it. Motivation, confidence, clarity, etc. That is what thesis delivers. This is not one size fits all approach. This is a customized approach. You will go to the website, take thesis.com slash doctor lion. Take the quiz. And what will happen is because they have a huge database of information, they will pick out the formulations that will be best adapted to you and your brain function extraordinary. You'll get a starter kit with four different blend recommendations to try over the course of the month. This is what I have done and it has been a game changer for me. Go to takethesis.com slash doctor lion. Take the quiz. Use the code. You guys will absolutely love this product. I have been using them for years and I have found them to be extraordinary. Number three. So bone marrow aspirate, which is again a tollegus committed progenitor cell, but except using fat, we're using bone marrow. And what does it tollegus mean? It just means from your own body versus aluginec or aluginec, which is using adoner. And we'll talk about why aluginec is probably better because- Well really. Yeah, we'll go into it because the biggest reason aluginec is better is because you can standardize a dosing and you can control it. The cell standardization is kind of the biggest challenge in regenerative medicine because we want to make cells like drugs. We want to be able to control exactly what we're putting into your body and make sure they're releasing what we want them to release and they stay there for a definitive amount of time and they're doing what we want them to do. So if we can engineer cells and control them, that's the biggest challenge right now and we'll go into how we're doing that. But that's kind of the holy grail sort of speak of cell therapy. And so bone marrow aspirate is a committed progenitor cell because as we talked about, you're not really isolating the stem cell. You're just taking the bone marrow from the back of your hip or the front of your hip and you're just isolating that and then you may spin it and then you concentrate it and then you inject it back in. And that can help to reduce inflammation maybe for two or three years, help with tendon pain and whatnot. So and then the other, I would say common treatment that we did was something called proleterapy. So proleterapy initially started out as just dextrous and saline and that's people probably wondering why you injecting sugar water. Right, sounds weird. I know it in a death note. I also had that done. Okay, great. I had number one, two and four done. Oh wow. Okay. So you're a well-versed in this then. Unfortunately. Yeah. And so proleterapy, as you probably know then, is essentially to try to proliferate ligaments to help them stabilize and support the structures. And the reason we do that is for instability or even sometimes with patients who have a lyrs-dental syndrome or may have dislocations of joints and then we want to stabilize them and try to avoid surgery. And so proleterapy started off as sugar water, but now is really advanced to the point where personally what we're doing now is we're actually using either PRP like a lucosite rich PRP because there's lucosite rich PRP and lucosite poor PRP. Right. So what that means is is the PRP that you're using does it have white blood cells in there or does it not have white blood cells? And why is that important is because white blood cells are going to actually trigger more inflammation. So you want that if you have like for example a muscle tear or if you have ligament instability because you want to trigger that inflammatory cycle to help regenerate that tissue or strengthen it or to speak. But you don't want to put white blood cells into a joint. So because that's going to cause our osteoarthritis is an inflammatory environment. So you want to use lucosite poor or something called platelet lysate which is where you filter out the cells completely and you're just using the cytokine profile and anti inflammatory signals. So that's where those nuances become very important because if you use a wrong type of PRP for the wrong indication you're not going to get a bad result and that's why a lot of patients say PRP didn't work for me is because they're not even using the right PRP to begin with. And that's where you have to also have this kind of gram I would say framework of how to progress and understand different therapies which a lot of doctors don't unfortunately because they've either they've they just went straight to stem cells or they never got their proper training with PRP so they don't really understand the application for each one. And so they're just offering patients you know whatever they think they're two box of whatever is limited and it's not often very systematic. And so that is and then so prolotherapy what we're doing now is instead of just dextrose and saline we're often using lucosite rich PRP because I'll trigger inflammation or where even using bone marrow because bone marrow is also pro inflammatory because of the bread blood cells and everything and that can help to strengthen and tighten ligaments and I'll often now mix it with something like copper peptide because copper peptide can help to also facilitate collagen deposition which is what you want for the ligaments. Those are amazing treatments you'd mention something that I think is important to point out is typically when we have a issue. For example what are the most common complaints or issues that again your population was a bit different because I'm assuming that they were very athletic and we already know that 50% of Americans don't work out but even with that being said there are probably more significant issues. For example when we look at how many knee replacements, how many hip replacements, what are the most frequent issues that people come in for? Yeah by far it is osteoarthritis and then chronic pain yeah because chronic pain most of it is osteoarthritis but then there's also a huge subset of patients who fall into this chronic pain category and are labeled as fibromyalgia which is basically a catch all term for just saying you have chronic pain but they don't really know what it is so they just call you a fibropation and to me that's it's really a disservice because a lot physicians aren't just willing to dig deeper into what's causing the pain and so we understand now there's this really kind of link between dysfunction of the immune system and chronic pain so what's something called neurogenic inflammation which is inflammation at a cellular level around the nerves which can trigger this pain cycle and so what we try to do is we help to break that pain cycle and we're learning more and more sophisticated ways to do that by combining peptides by combining cell therapy and sometimes just looking at more intensive diagnostics even and figuring out like we've talked about before the show like it could be a chronic infection or could it be mitochondrial dysfunction or all these other things that are root drivers as to why their bodies in this dysfunctional state and there's something called is it a complex regional pain syndrome? Yes yeah I remember when I I had a patient so before I did family medicine I did psychiatry for two years and it was really interesting because I worked in a psychiatric emergency room and a patient had come in and they actually triaged her to psychiatry and she had complex regional pain syndrome and people were like oh there's no way she needs this many pain meds etc but when I'm hearing you say that was probably neurogenic inflammation yeah exactly and then the other common driver and this is also with obesity as you or probably well aware because Gabbermante's were adverse childhood events and unresolved emotional trauma that often can be a risk factor or predictor of chronic pain as well and so one of the procedures we do for that is to kind of reset the nervous system as well. Would that be a stelle gangling block or something yes exactly stelle gang down but we also inject the biggest nerve at the same time and set just using anesthetic we're using exosomes and peptides as well so it's modulating or reprogramming the nervous system is also reducing inflammation it's not just blocking it because that block only lasts usually for three months but the approach that we're taking we're seeing patients do while even a year later and the log them don't have to come back so that's that's the difference I think when you're using these regenerative substances in sort of speak because of reprogram or retraining the system to function better long term and I have a there's a really good review there's a handful of really good review papers but to clarify for the listener exosomes are members of vesicles with a 30 to 150 nanometer diameter secreted by mesenchymal stem or slash stromal cells and other cells such as immune cells and cancer cells the easier way to remember it is imagine you have chicken soup and the chicken the meat part is the stem cells and the broth is the exosomes and so the exosomes is essentially the fluid with all the cytokines and signaling molecules and what's called the secretome that we think that most of the benefits of the mesenchymal stem cells dry from anyway so and that's where there's a lot of debate do we even need to stem cells for for example for a lot of musculoskeletal conditions do you really need the stem cells because the exosomes are probably the main driver of the healing process anyway and this still isn't fully elucidated but I personally if the way I practice I'm often using exosomes for most of my musculoskeletal applications unless they have advanced osteoarthritis because then you need those stem cells to really modify that disease environment and this is a clarifying question we're talking a lot about the knee joint for osteoarthritis exosomes I want to hear more about that because that is definitely a hot topic and then the next question is where is the injection for example if someone has a muscle tear versus a a tendonopathy or a again a ligament tear how do we differentiate what we're using and what would the impact be if we were to just look at the exosomes on a high level what are they what's going on and this is where I'm acting it I don't know if it was Einstein but I remember there's this quote of somewhere I remember reading where you can't innovate unless you have a good foundation say that again you cannot innovate without a good foundation that is extremely important because you know people I'm sure they ask you how did you get to do what you are doing and the reality is it's you have spent years studying and once you spend your studying then you have a how moments but you cannot fake your way to being good at it you cannot fake your way to become a scholar to be able to innovate yeah unfortunately there's no shortcuts unless you're a super genius maybe but for us near mortals who are normal you have to really do the hard work and because I had that foundation with Dr. Gallia I understood that hey let's look at the cytokine profile of exosomes so and do exosomes exist in a body they do but exosomes are not only for therapeutic purposes now they're also being using for diagnostic purposes because exosomes are like these cargo messengers that allow for intercellular communication and what happens with disease processes for example like cancer they're the exosome the cargo messenger actually changes and you can detect that before they even manifest full-bone cancer so exosomes are an ex exploding in terms of not just therapeutic applications but diagnostic as well because there's something called micro RNAs and there's all these different molecules that the exosomes carry and there's different prognostic kind of markers that we can look at that can tell us hey your exosome cargo is changing so therefore this is the disease you're going to most likely develop and that's going to become more and more sophisticated as time goes on but for therapeutic purposes what we want to look at as we talked about earlier the foundation is cytokine profile so what's the cytokine profile of exos like of a standard exosome that we're driving for example from a mental court tissue yes where do exosomes come from so as you were saying in your long definition there masonkema stem cells and we got we've got a position cellist and we have everything in so yeah accuracy is important it is yeah no exactly so so that so as per that definition they're coming from different masonkema stem cells and we're doing masonkema stem cells come from they come from inbilical court tissue inbilical court blood or even bone marrow or fat and then you isolate those stem cells and then you culture and expand them and then when you culture expand them that the soup or the broth of the grow and sort of speak in the expansion the culture medium that's what you can isolate and that's what has the cytokines and just a grow factors and no actual stem cells and so those exosomes it turns out have 10 times more cytokine profile than PRP the exosomes have 10 times more of a beneficial cytokine profile than PRP yes will this make PRP obsolete it will eventually as a cost of exosomes comes down yes because most people are not saving their inbilical court no exactly or because in the US ironically enough you can store it but then you can't use it for unless unless you have some sort of really you know maybe you know emergency medical need or something like that but like in the air ambilical court yeah yeah it's kind of crazy but you can't just use it the way you want to use it so the exosomes the cytokine profile isn't it's a two-time stronger I always say it's an order of magnitude right so it's not order of magnitude so that's why it's hard for people to understand I've had many professional hockey players for example because I'm in in the can I drill a hockey and yeah exactly and so they had PRP done and it didn't work for them and then we did exosomes and it worked for them and they were kind of like they were asking me why and I you know this is why I had to explain to them it has to do with the cytokine profile the signal of the PRP was in strong enough to tell your body to regenerate and repair this tissue but the signal from the exosome is strong enough to regenerate and repair tissue and when it comes to soft tissue a musculoskeletal condition we're talking tendon ligaments muscles and so that's the big difference between exosomes and PRP and then mesenchymal stem cells they're they're about 20 times stronger than PRP so not 10 times stronger than exosomes but maybe two times stronger when it comes to cytokine profile so it's not that much stronger than exosomes and that's why I think we still have to figure out the dosing for a lot of these things so figure out okay what's the perfect dosing for the specific indication and there's still a lot of data that's coming out for us to kind of guide us on what the best dosing protocols are and the exosomes you said that obviously there's a number of ways in which we could retrieve them and do you spend them down? Yes okay I'll turn sensitive to you okay so you do that but it seems also that they are for sale or have been for sale I love because again when we're discussing these things is there an FDA approval for it's interesting in the US and Canada I believe that they are not FDA approved is that true and they're not health Canada approved so but in other countries they are. Yes I always bring up Japan because the Japanese do everything to very rigorous standards for people who have been there they obviously know that cleanliness the food but it also applies to their medicine and technology they have some of the best surgeons in the world when it comes to innovative techniques and no other than Professor Yamanaka who won the Nobel Prize for his discovery on how to reprogram stem cells is obviously from Japan too so they have a culture of innovation and why to always improve themselves and they've created a regulatory framework for a regenerative medicine that's 10 years old now and 10 years old and they're on for a long time and the US and Canada still don't have a regenerative medicine framework so instead of creating a framework and regulating these things they just said we're just going to ban them and to me that makes no sense and I think this is much more political than it is based in science and yes you can use the anecdotal of Japan but there's also so much clinical data out there now plus you have to look at the risk versus benefit of any intervention or what we call a medicine number needed to treat versus number needed to harm right and anti versus and NH and so exesomes are because they're a cellular so there's no cells in there they have a very high safety profile there's no chance of rejection there's no chance of having tumors form and by the way you say tumors form one of the biggest criticisms I think of this regenerative medicine space is are you giving cells that would then go and differentiate into something else and cause cancer or proliferate an existing cancer that one is unaware that they have would you say that that's accurate that was always a concern and that's why you have to be careful and that's why the word stem cell is meaningless because is it a musachimal stem cell is it a hematopoedic stem cell is it a embryonic stem cell is it induced play potent stem cell where what what are you talking about when you're talking about stem cells and so there's all these different types and they have different profiles and they have different capacity to differentiate into tissue and some of them can turn into tumors and some of them can't so you have to understand those kind of new nuance differences to really be able to counsel a patient and then make them feel rest assured that whatever we're using isn't going to make the risk of cancer worse if you do have cancer in your body or a cost cancer if someone has cancer and I usually save this for the yes or no questions so we'll do a yes or no question maybe I'll do that later which we will but if an individual has cancer would that be a contraindication to treatment for exosomes for exosomes I would say it's a gray area meaning that the studies that have been out there some of them suggest that they can actually improve the for example there's a study looking at combining exosomes or musachimal stem cells with chemotherapy and there's been better outcomes and then there's other study suggesting that they may because of the growth factor as they may cost proliferation so from all the data that I've gathered and the best available evidence it seems like it's a neutral effect and in that case I always take the most more conservative option so meaning if you have active cancer I wouldn't recommend doing a systemic treatment of exosomes or stem cells because we just because there may be a risk of it getting worse but but outside of active cancer there isn't any other really contraindications and we've and that's really just for exosomes we've covered PRP briefly we've covered the a talk yeah you're gonna that one committed progenitive cells we've also talked about bone marrow aspirates and prolotherapy exosomes and I think that you're the final piece to that is also gene therapy yeah or is there additional interventions for gender interventions that you would want to mention so the one that I'm most excited about is the IPSC's induced potent stem cells induced pluripotent stem cells and thank goodness that Dr. Khan is gonna allow us to say IPSC's exactly or if you want to just say yam and ocus stem cells that also works I don't know what's easier and that's interesting is that related to the yam and ocus factors yes exactly so the four transcription factors Osk and then CYMC so that that's kind of the short form of it but basically these four transcription factors when we use so the way it works is you can take any somatic cell in your body and somatic just means body cell yes so like muscle fat and you can reprogram it by inserting these four transcription factors usually using a viral vector and it what it does is these four transcription factors over express pluripotent genes and then that what's a pluripotent gene so pluripotency is essentially the ability to differentiate into different cell wines or different types of tissue so but this pluripotent these four are pretty incredible because they have this amazing ability to turn the somatic cell into the epitome of a pluripotent cell which is embryonic stem cells why embryonic stem cells because they can turn into actoderm, mesoderm or endoderms like so any basically anything from the embryonic origin and so by being able to do that that means that these cells have the most stemness but then the downside of it has always been because they have so much stemness they could turn into tumors or teratomas and that's why I'm waiting and just for people listening a teratoma do you want to explain that is like the ultimate in med school where it's a tumor that has could have teeth. Oh right yes yeah. A hair ball in it. Yeah it's a kind of scary it's like a kind of a scary like almost fetus like then growing into fat your body that you don't want it there trust me. By the way if you are in med school or going to med school this will be on your boards. Seriously what is that? I've never liked everyone had that on their boards. The teratoma. Yeah I always think of like a scary like a scary like fur ball or something. I wake up in the melanin I think about the teratoma. Yeah exactly yeah so so IPSC is where these is incredible discovery and this is by Yamunaqa. Yes. In Japan. Yes. In this and he will un-the Nobel Prize for this. Yes specifically. 10 years ago. He won the- he discovered this in 2006 and while the Nobel Prize in 2013 I think and so it's been around for a while but then no one can figure out how do we take these IPSCs and use them clinically because with that we don't want to cause cancer. So that didn't stop people from doing it and let me so but but to me I'm always about safety and I don't want to put something my body that I think may make things worse and I'm always you know first do no harm right and so I think there are people using IPSCs but you got to be careful because there is that probably 1% chance of having cancer development and so. Thank you to element for sponsoring this episode of the show. You guys have heard me talk all about element. This is an electrolyte powder comes in cute little packets that you can travel with. Hi Zodium, potassium, magnesium. I am a two pack a day drinker of element. I travel with it. I use it before I speak. I use it on a daily basis. It has really helped me maintain hydration. The truth is I don't drink a ton of plain water and I really feel it. Element has allowed a solution in my life and you guys I'm incredibly grateful. If you are someone who struggles with drinking water, even getting headaches or muscle cramps or fatigue, these can all be symptoms of electrolyte in efficiency or deficiency or lack of fluid. You will love element. Go to drink lmnt.com slash doctor lion. When you order you'll also get eight flavors. You'll get this cute little packet that has eight different flavors. You can try all eight. If you don't like it, it's totally risk-free. Element offers a no questions asked refund. Go to drink lmnt.com slash doctor lion. Now, IPSC, how would someone would they purchase it? Would they just broadly? The IPSC does someone purchase it? Does someone have it? Usually, we take it from a skin cell because that's the easiest way to reprogram because the skin cells are easily accessible. You just take a skin biopsy and then you use a yam and knock-up factors and then you repoke them in. You look at the colony that sort of made from that reprogramming and you validate it. It makes sure it has all the expressions that you would expect to see in IPSC. In real time, does this take weeks? Yeah. And then this happens in the background in the lab and then we can differentiate those IPSC's into different cell lines. And does it need to come from the person's body? It can be a tollogous or it can be allergeny. You're laughing. The tollogous word is just my diagnosis today. No, you got it now. So, I listen both my little kids kept me up. Yeah, no fair enough. Or you can do allergenyic, which means from a donor. And we'll talk about why I think that's better. But basically, once you reprogram them, now you have these IPSCs and the cool thing about IPSCs is unlike just MSCs, which are from imble with court tissue. What is MSC's temper? The mosaic almost themselves. Sorry, a lot of jargon. But well, that's okay. We are we're going to power through it. It's good. It's important information because it is a branch of medicine that is getting a lot more steam and has been global at this point and we are late adopters, not early adopters, not even middle of the ground adopters. And because of the unregulatory nature of this, it's given a potential therapy of very bad name. It has exactly. And that's actually why I didn't want to go into it. Because I knew about this stuff maybe 2017 or something. But I was just like, oh, this is like scammy. And I saw Mel Gibson on Joe Rogan Show and talking about his house dad when I'm like, this sounds like nonsense. Like, what is this? And then obviously I had to do a lot of research and then I got into it myself. And then when you see the results and then you dig into research a bit, then you start seeing the promise of it. But then you still see that there is a lot of bad players in this space too, who are offering it the wrong things. And so the IPSCs, though, the main difference between what they can do and what the mosaic most themselves that are from a bill called Hortissio can do is that they can actually engraft and regrow new tissue versus the first generation. Let's call that first generation stem cells versus second generation stem cells. The first generation is mainly going to be anti-inflammatory or immunomodulatory. And would that be a differentiating factor if you were to choose how are you going to treat or or the level of treatment requires? Yes. So for example, if you have something that's really degenerative in nature, like Parkinson's disease, using MSCs first generation is only going to have maybe a symptom management. And how would that work? Would that be, let's say you can do injections directly into the brain. We have a neuroinfinential read-all, just on our team, for example, who in guys a catheter up into the crotid artery and the heat can inject it or you can actually go directly into the brain and inject the stem cells that way. But the mosaic most stem cells, the first generation, they'll mainly reduce inflammation, they'll help with neuroinflammation, which we know is a driver. There's minor advantages function. It was kind of addressed like the different, let's say hallmarks that are part of the mechanistic pathways of Parkinson's disease, but it's not going to cure it or put into remission. But the second generation, what you can do with IPSCs is you can differentiate them for example into dopamine producing neurons. And then when you differentiate them, fascinating. Yeah. And for those listening, Parkinson's is really this degeneration of the substantiina grach and it leads to movement disorders. It depletes dopamine. Basically what we have, there's just a handful of drugs that we have. Old drugs, which are very, a little dope. Senniment, a very old drugs that typically people will have to continue to increase their their dose. Exactly. And which are just basically managing the symptoms. And again, there's nothing wrong with that paradigm. But there is now because we have better options. And so the kind of quintics and show example of this is blue rock therapeutics, which is this company that has these IPSCs and then they differentiate them into dopamine producing neurons. And then they transplant them via injections into the substantiina grach and then get how effective is that? And guess what? And actually replaces, not doesn't replace it actually ingrass new cells that produce dopamine. And so it actually puts patients into remission. And they did one year follow-up study and they showed these patients were still doing well. They had two dosages and the higher group dosage was doing better. How often is that being used now as a standard of care? It's not standard of care yet because a standard of care, remember, even PRP is not standard of care still. And like or even an option for people, only is still joint replacement and cortisol essentially. So I think standard of care for to get into mainstream medicine is going to take a long time. But that doesn't mean these therapies aren't efficacious and can still be offered in jurisdictions where there you have a regulatory framework to allow people to do this safely and for, you know, with the right indications. Is IPSC for the treatment of Parkinson's use in other countries more routinely? Yes, like Japan. Japan. And then so that's where I see and why Japan because they're discovers of IPSC. And this is a hundred percent if an individual is given this. This IPSC that is now differentiated into part of cells in the substantial nigra, is it a hundred percent remission for a hundred percent of the patients? Is it a 50 50 shot? No, it was essentially it was just a dose dependent response meaning the group that had the higher dose had a better response. But everyone had a response and the magnitude of that response differed. But patients were essentially in the higher dose were in into remission. Now the question is how, well, that last permanently, we don't know yet, but my guess is yes, because you're actually fixing the problem. And you're actually addressing the root cause as to why this happened in the first place. Now, I think maybe a missing component of that is to make sure that you're addressing the root causes as to why you got the Parkinson's in the first place. I think that's the missing piece with the current trials. And that's what we're going to be looking at is we're not. So the IPSC is that we have we reprogram them using similar technology, but ours have, we have a patented gene edit technology called failsafe, which basically prevents uncontrolled proliferation. Because you're saying that these, that there is some risk with the IPSC. Yes, so even though that blue rock therapeutic use of IPSCs, they're still probably the scientists I've talked to were experts in this field. They say there's probably still 1% chance that these people could get tumors. And so obviously these patients are willing to take that risk because they have Parkinson's and they're willing to take that. But for me, obviously if I'm going to provide these to my patients, I want to use a technology that has a built in safety mechanism into it. And hence why I like the technology that we have, which we've worked with the company to develop it, is essentially it has that a gene edit. So if the cells start growing uncontrollably, it has this kill switch, meaning it'll stop the cells from proliferating. And is there a certain type of tumor that is maybe proliferating? It's usually a terror told us for about a time. Then yeah, no, the terror told me. I thought never hear about that again. Very, very fascinating. How else are how else are these IPSC? So first of all, Parkinson's is not that common. And it is not, I mean, we do see it. I saw when I was doing my fellowship and it definitely was believed that in part due to a lot of exposures. A lot of veterans, I think that there's a mis-proportionate amount of veterans that have been exposed to things like Agent Orange or other things that we may or mean, we don't necessarily know about. Seem to develop these neurodegenerative. Exactly. Oh, illness. And that's where I think the missing pieces with the current trials. So the trials that we're planning to do, we want to take more of a functional medicine approach, which is not just in grafts and new cells, but also look at all the potential causes. And because there's thousands of toxins in the environment. And we even, for example, there was a study that came out last year that showed that there's certain microbes that got to spioses that are linked to Parkinson's disease as well. So there's a gut component too, which is not something you would think, but gut brain access is really being elucidated now in terms of how they communicate. How else are IPSCs for an individual who doesn't have Parkinson's are not really looking at neurodegeneration? What are some of the other benefits and is Japan the only place someone could go to get this done? No, well, we're going to be offering it in our regions where we can, like in Mexico, we're working on developing one Bahamas, we have Dubai, and then Cairo is going to be ready sometime later this year as well. And then we're also looking into Switzerland. And again, the reason for these places is because the jurisdictions are allow for these things and they're regulated. It's not like they're not regulated, they just have a framework and they allow for more innovative therapies. And so what we're going to create, we're creating right now is IPSC MSC. So IPSCs, but are differentiating to mesenchymal, strength, stem cells or stromal cells. And what you can do is you can enhance these MSCs to better target the inflamazone. So at the inflamazone for another jargon here, it's an NLRP3. We definitely look over at Matthews. He looked confused. Are you could he's like he could use? Matthews the producer. He's here, just call him out and anytime he looks confused, we know we have to talk more. Yeah, no, it's lots of jargon. But so for people to understand that inflamazone is arguably one of the most important pathways when it comes to aging because it triggers what's called nuclear factor, capa b and fkb and interlucan beta and all these prone inflammatory cytokines. But what is an inflamazone? It's a, well, the by definition, it's basically a caspays linked in English. Yeah. So essentially, it's an enzyme unit that triggers chronic inflammation. So the signaling molecule NLRP3 gets activated by certain aging being one of the drivers of it. But there's toxins, there's lots of things in our bodies that can trigger it. And obviously, like exercise can help to counteract that, right? It's probably the only thing, I mean, maybe really significant fasting. Again, I don't know. Yeah, but then fasting has so many other now. Correct. Exercise is really the only thing that I can potentially even think of. Exactly. That would make any kind of impact. And muscle, particularly because muscle also helps to upregulate to you, regularly, tori cells and has these amino. You don't say, you don't say the muscle is the working of lung health. Yeah, yeah, I don't. All these people looking for all these other options. And that's, and that's where it's coming back to what people can do. The whole point of doing these treatments that I do is so people can exercise and live a healthy lifestyle. Because if you're tired all the time, if you have chronic pain, if you have trauma, if you have all these other things in your body, good luck telling someone to go exercise three, four times a week and put on muscle. Sure. You need to address these issues first, sort them out, then they can live the healthy lifestyle. The compliance is going to be so much higher if they actually feel better and they get the benefits and that kind of feedback loop from exercise. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. When we talk about regenerative therapy, you and I are both on the same page. We want people to be as active as they can for as long as they can. And once an individual, you know, we often think about as individuals age that all of these changes are going to happen. For example, fat infiltration into tissue, sarcopenia, and a ballic resistance of skeletal muscle, but it might a conjure dysfunction, the data and the research when we see healthy, quote, sedentary individuals, and they talk about these hallmarks of aging, that's a diseased population. If we can keep people exercising and moving, then the trajectory of aging doesn't have to be the way that we experience it to be. Yeah. And what the cell and gene therapies are designed to do is to allow you to do these interventions for a longer period of time. Because as you get older, if you're for example, if you're in your 70s and 80s, you might not have the energy anymore, or you might just be in, you might just be really, you're really fighting this uphill battle. And so if we can make your body more resilient so that when you do these inputs for your body, they're just going to allow you to do more longer. And that's where the intravenous and so you're to your question, for example, someone like intravenous stem cells that can actually be used for recovery to help with HRV and to slow down the aging process is not because I care about all the mechanistic stuff that they do. Yes, great. They target all these different hallmarks and there's all these mechanistic data, but what I really care about is that it becomes exactly. And what has the best outcome? Grips strengths, which is such a silly proxy, but that's one of the things that I didn't go back and forth about Grips strengths. Yeah, but there's more tally data showing that, hey, Grips strengths, so what if like an actual squad and what about myelstate toasts into the rec famine, include, include, right? Like those are better predictions from mortality. And so if we can do these anti-aging treatments, what I mean by anti-aging is that it's just going to allow you to work out longer and do it with more compliance, hopefully. Yeah. And from just a big picture view, if you have near arthritis or osteoarthritis, it limits your mobility. You're not wanting to walk. You're not wanting to squat. You're not wanting to do these things. If you have a hamstring tear or a tendonopathy, a bicep, a tendonopathy, or a shoulder injury, then it really limits your quality of life. I mean, I can't tell you the number of patients that have had sciatica, chronic sciatica, which is a compression of the peer is a, depending a pair of hemispheres, well, compress or the sciatica, or nerve or cess, it's vital nerve. Depending, and it just debilitates people that have been athletes their whole life. And the question becomes is, how do we do early interventions to allow people to be? Are you ready? Matthew, forever strong. Love it. How do we do early interventions to begin to mitigate these these things? In terms of, and that's really the muscular skeletal tendon ligament cartilage piece. What you're talking about now is something else, which is IV, do I even say stem cell? Yeah. Okay, I can say IV stem cell. And that would be different. That would be a full body regeneration, but I do want you to clarify. Would that get to something like a shoulder injury or is it you go under general anesthesia? You address the shoulder with whether it's PRP or exesomes, etc. And you do IV stem cells. Where is the line? And are they two separate things? Do they both need to be done? How can we think about that? It's so the approach that we take and to your point is basically there is something called chemocytes that are released by tissue inflammation. Chemocytes are signals that tell your body, hey, come here and repair. So they tell macrophages, they tell other kind of repair molecules to come. And so when you do intravenous stem cells, there is a homimekinism. And that homimekinism is mediated by these chemocytes. And then that goes into the endothelial cells. And that's what allows them to transport and go into the site of injuries. So yes, the intravenous stem cells or an intravenous exesomes that we do can help with nagging injuries, but usually if they're milder, anything that has actual real structural damage and has more moderate pain, then you actually need to go in there directly. And let's endothel pause because when you say structural changes, how are we identifying this? Are we identifying this on ultrasound MRI? How are we identifying this? It's both, but the missing piece is clinical assessment because in America, especially you guys love MRIs. And like in Canada. Especially Matthew. But in Canada, it's a finite resource. Meaning is you're lucky if you can in Canada there's a sick mudway. Yeah, you're lucky. There's a sick mudway for an MRI. You ain't getting an MRI tomorrow. And so if you're in the next six years, exactly. So. Thank you to inside tracker for sponsoring this episode of the show. I believe that blood work and biomarkers are critical to your success and living a muscle centric life and being able to look at data points for longevity. Inside tracker makes it so easy. Head over to inside tracker.com slash doctor lion. You'll get 20% off the entire inside tracker store. This is a great tool. Not only is this a great tool for you, the consumer, but if you are a health coach, if you are a health professional, inside tracker is also for you. They offer inside tracker pro, which enables coaches and health professionals to provide premium and personalized services by leveraging inside trackers analysis and recommendation when they're clients. And that you guys is extraordinary. So thank you inside tracker. You guys are doing a wonderful job. And if you have not gotten your blood work done, people, it's time to rock and roll. Go to inside tracker dot com slash doctor lion for 20% off the entire inside tracker store. So how do we as Canadian physicians figure out how do we treat our patient if we don't have an MRI? We have to do dynamic ultrasound assessments. So we're really good at that. What's that? That's doing different maneuvers to try to aggravate the symptom so we can actually find small tears. I always like to use an example of Muhammad al-Bahar because he's this famous man in Dubai and he owns a birth clef on six tallest buildings in the world. And the reason I like to use him is because... Ah, but I mean, I know what a life, right? Yeah, but he should really try to do something with his life. Yeah, seriously. He just buys hotels on weekends. That's why he does her fun. But like I- And he babysit. Yeah. But basically he could access any doctor in the world. And so, but despite that, he had this nagging shoulder issue for 20 years. And he did cortisol and then they just told him MRI was normal. So he just had physio, physio, physio, and just had physio every week, basically a massage every week for 20 years. Yeah. And so that's literally what he did. And so when I came to see him, we did a dynamic ultrasound assessment. And guess what? We found two small tears that were missed on MRI. But interesting, the size of the tear doesn't necessarily look quite to be seen. And that is important because a lot of people, for example, if I order an MRI, an individual will act, you know, you'll do, you'll go through the full gamut of tests. And they do have tears. And it actually is causing a significant amount of pain. And you might not even see it. Exactly. And it depends on like if you have facial tears, for example, facial tears are notoriously painful. And you can have a couple of millimeter tear in the fascia and they can cost so much pain. And you can see that on ultrasound. Yes. And only on ultrasound, not an MRI. Wow. And so that's why a dynamic ultrasound assessment is the gold standard when it comes to soft tissue injuries. Does someone need to be all user dependent? And very important point. And it's someone under general anesthesia when they're doing this or not. No, it's all a way because we need to ask them. This is replicate your pain. Is this, you know, it's a very dynamic assessment. And that's a biggest difference between ultrasound and MRI. Because MRI is just static images. And depending on those static images, for example, even with your spine, if you're not standing up, and you might not find certain things. So because MRIs are obviously done when you're laying down. And so there's definitely a lot of gaps when it comes to musculoskeletal care. And that we're trying to fill those gaps with kind of diagnostic maneuvers we have and then obviously the interventional stuff. So. So. So when you see the tear, do you treat immediately, do you treat directly into the injury? Yes. The precision is by far the most important predictor of success. So I've seen people. Yeah, I've seen people go to so many clinics in other places, you know, in South America, let's just say. And they've had bad results because they're just doing IV and then they're just injecting them like either blindly or they just don't know how to inject. They don't have a skill set. Those doctors are unfortunately just not trained in this stuff. And so they don't put in the right spot. And then obviously it's not going to work. So that precision of getting it into the right spot really makes a big difference. That is fascinating. What happened? Did he get better? Yeah, he's great. I fixed his wife as well. His wife had a knee issue. His wife story was even worse. I mean, her pain wasn't as long as it was like six months, but they basically told her she needed a knee replacement. And she had like mild osteoarthritis. And we found we didn't ultrasound. And she had a tear in her meniscus and paesensoring that was missed. And so we just fixed it with PRP. And then she's now she's, you know, she's just being so happy. He was happy that I fixed his wife and him because he's, you know, about you. He was very generous with his gifts. Let's just say that. That. So there is a stratification of when someone would use PRP for versus the exesomes or the other IPSC. I mean, IPSC from what I'm hearing you say is more for attacking what we would consider the hallmarks of aging. Yeah. Exactly. Correct. Well, IPSC is you can engineer these are engineered cells. So you can engineer them to target different conditions. So for example, not necessarily an IPSC would not be your first choice for a shoulder injury. No, no. That would be way too expensive and unnecessarily, you know, just just going to like the Lamborghini, all of that in for, you know, there's a stepwise approach you can take. And there are less costly solutions that can be just as effective. And so I always like to take that, and that's one of the things I consider too, which a lot of unfortunately other clinics don't, is that they just want to give patient what costs the most and because that's going to make them the most money. And again, being a Canadian doctor where we aren't, we're not really taught about that stuff so much and that's never been my focus. My focus is always on how do I get this patient better. And now that I'm more in the private industry, I always think, okay, how do I get this patient better with the least cost? And that's, so that's kind of the mindset I try to take when I'm trying to treat these patients. And so IPSC's, you can differentiate them into dopamine producing neurons, for example, for Parkinson's, you can differentiate them into enhanced MSEs to target aging. We're, we're even going to be doing IPSC-derived beta-ilet cells and we're going to be... You're the pancreas. Yes, we're going to do a, we're going to do a clinical trial. Hopefully you'll start a Q4 of this year or early next year and we're going to differentiate them into beta-ilet cells and then we're going to do a trial for type 1 diabetes. And that's already been done by company called Vertex, but again, the IPSCs they use didn't have that gene at it. So there's no kill switch. No, exactly. So there's always a risk of tumor. So we have that, plus Vertex is, you know, they got bought out by bear, I believe. So they're obviously under that big pharma conglomerate now, but but they again, they don't understand the functional medicine stuff. So they're not doing anything to prevent the autoimmunity from developing again, and they're not looking at the kind of the whole picture. And so when we do our clinical trial, not only are we going to transplant new beta-ilet cells, we're going to re-organize... In-genital... In-genital... Do you have to go into the pancreas? Yes, so we do it via infusion of intra-terriol-ly under fluoroscopy, basically. Okay, into the pancreas. Wow. So you know, it's not going to the kneecap. No, it's going into the pancreas. And is there any risk of rejection? Not with these ones, specifically, because our IPSCs are also gene-edited to be hypomanemune. But in general, IPSCs and MSCs have low HLA expression. So so LAS, the antigen that can trigger graft versus host disease. And that is, for example, if someone were to get a kidney transplant, you would transplant somebody, you try to get a match, you transplant that into somebody else's body. And there is a risk of the body rejecting that. And that's... And that's because of HLA mismatch. And HLA expression in the cells that we're using are very lowly expressed. So there's zero chance of graft versus host. But because MSCs still have a low level expression of HLA, they are still somewhat, immunogenic, which is why the first generation MSCs don't stick around very long. They get cleared up by your immune system. So the kind of underlying principle of what we're trying to do is we're trying to engineer cells that stick around longer. And so are cleared up by the immune system as quickly. And then that we actually have some sort of scaffolding effect because that also creates a protective barrier and the last for more in graft men. So it comes back to that whole paradigm of regenerative medicine, which is cells, signals, and scaffolds. So once we can actually do that, that's a holy grail. And scaffold. Yeah. I am going to ask a question that I'm sure many physicians are going to be thinking right now. And I'd love your perspective. This idea of the Yamunaka factors and the IPSC, it almost sounds too good to be true. In the way that we could potentially reverse put in remission debilitating deadly diseases like Parkinson's, like type one, diabetes. And I'm sure that that is just the type of the iceberg. It is now from a medical perspective, the physicians listening are going, well, if it sounds too good to be true, it must be too good to be true. And where do you think there is a cap? Where do you think there are potentially holes in this treatment or where is how can we balance it with this extraordinary possibility? What do you think? Yeah. I think the biggest hurdle is getting these cells to actually survive, meaning that these cells, there's always a chance they don't survive, and then they don't engraved, and then it's not successful. But we're getting closer and closer to increasing that cell viability and survivability. And it's not like just me saying it, like I said, there's actual trials that have already been done and shown that this is possible. So we're just taking it to the next step by engineering cells and kind of taking into account the whole body. So we can create an environment that allows the cells to survive. And that's always been my, I guess, beef with the traditional stem cell clinical trials that have been done. There's no like consideration of the environment that you're putting the cells into. There's no consideration for the environment that you're putting the cells into. That's absolutely correct and likely one of the reasons why certain things aside from all the other things that you spoke about that peer P might not work. Exactly. Or these bone or fat grafts might not work because the environment that in which they are coming from, I eat the individual may struggle with obesity, maybe chronically inflamed, may have Lyme disease or another type of pathogen that exists within these cells. Exactly. And that stuff is still so overlooked by the medicine medical, allopathic industry for there's I think it's just lack of education and you don't know what you don't know. And so a lot of them just when they when you have these specialists who are considered the top in their field from different institutions, they just not taught about this other stuff. And so there may be amazing stem cell biologists and amazing doctors when it comes to neurosurgery or whatever it be, but they don't understand this other aspect. And so I think the unique advantage of what I'm doing a little bit is that I get to look at everything from a, you know, from a bird's eye view and then I can take this different approaches and combine them. And that's the fun part about doing what I do. It's pretty, it's very exciting. The other very exciting part is that you'll be able to innovate. You're in a position to innovate some of these treatments you guys are going to be running some of these trials. And that makes the primary application, once we have real life as and you already have, there's already data out there for real life advantage can be extraordinarily impactful. It can be extraordinarily impactful. You also are excited about certain other things like gene therapy, specifically full of statin therapy. I would love for you to talk about that as well. In Lester's anything else that you want to mention about IPSE. No, I'm just, I think I've shared my excitement enough and we're going to, I think people will see a lot of IPSE trials coming out over the next decade, really. There's over 40 companies, I believe, about tech companies that are using IPSEs now. So it's exploding. And I think the, you know, I think what, the approach we're taking is one of many. So we'll see who's the most successful. But I think it's going to be one of those things where similar to Tesla. I think it's going to be a winner takes all, where it's going to be a company that has the best approach. And then that's going to be used as a platform to develop all these different engineer cells to treat all these chronic diseases. And people have to recognize what he's also saying is that these are biotech companies, which mean they will fund research and people will say, oh, well, this research was funded by X, Y and Z. That is a wrong way of thinking about it. We need companies that have money to fund research and as long as they go to reputable institutions, these, this data should be able to be replicated and exact. Again, you can't throw the baby out of that water. What's a reputable institution anymore? I don't know if you saw this, that's about Harvard and fake results. And that's fair. So I'll say something else. Then you must go to trusted scientists that are very well respected by their peers. You make a really good point. There are a lot of issues with the Ivy League institutions and policy and agenda and paid, I'll just leave it at that. Yeah, exactly. So fair. So go to very well-known, like, Yamanaka's not going to win the Nobel Prize because I mean, listen, I was reading a Candace Perth byography. So who knows? Yeah. But at some point, science will be replicated. Science requires dollars and we shouldn't turn our nose up if a biotech company is going to help fund research because we need it. Yeah. And that's always been my approach is that you have to become an institution yourself to make change. And so that's why we're taking this kind of approach from a business perspective and then be able to hopefully get more reproducibility and replicability of results as time goes on. And so speaking of which the fall of statin, we, what is fall of statin? So it's a naturally occurring peptide in your body, a peptide as most people probably know is just a signal for a specific task. It's kind of like, you know, ringing a doorbell in your house and telling opening a certain door. Has a bunch of amino acids, peptides a bunch of amino acids all strong together or different. Yeah, exactly. So insulin was one of the first peptide hormones that was synthesized over 100 years ago, but now of course, people know is epic, which you know is a very famous peptide probably not for all the right reasons, but people know in and cloacally now, I think what a peptide is. So but peptides as as you age, many of them do decrease. So fall of statin being one of them copper peptide being another one that's important for skin youthfulness. And so what is the main purpose of fall of statin? The main purpose, yeah, the main purpose is to well, the main purpose of fall of statin is to inhibit myostatin. So it has what's called an antagonistic relationship. And what is myostatin? So myostatin is an enzyme that sets a limit on how much muscle you can put on. And have you ever seen the certified, have you ever seen a well, it's actually a peat monti's cow. Have you seen a peat monti's cow? Yeah, and they have a defect in, I think that they don't have the myostatin gene. That's right, it's a knockout basically. And these are the, in by the way, shout out to certified peat monti's. This is where you get those cows. These are the buffist cows. Yeah, they are, they are, yeah, you have never seen these cows right, Matthew, do you want a certified peat monti's cow? A peat monti's cow? And so basically the idea is that and this is nearly everything in the body has some kind of regulation. If you don't, this is a one way in which cancer develops this, the regulation of muscle mass, which is interesting in part is by myostatin, which would inhibit someone's ability to put on muscle. Yeah, exactly. And so it's not like we're knocking it out because that could, like you said, maybe increase the risk of cancer. All we're doing is allowing your body to have a better response to the inputs that are from exercise because that cap sort of speak is being slightly taken off and allowing more room for your muscles to grow. And the other thing that follows that and does is activate something called Foxo 3 pathway. And Foxo 3 is a pathway that is reducing inflammation, helping with a regulation of T-rex cells. And so it's basically helping with your immune system and immune dysregulation as we know is one of the biggest hallmarks or chronic inflammation is one of the biggest hallmarks of aging as well. And is it safe to say that the upregulation of Foxo is beneficial? Yes, yeah. And the, I think the thing people get concerned about, like you said, is that how do you know you're not causing cancer or anything like that? You know, in the clinical trial that we did, we obviously measured IGF1, made sure that didn't go up. And then you also have to look at what I call, and I think you would agree is what's the underlying principle of how this is working. So what's going to be more important? A mechanistic marker that maybe let's just say theoretically fallstab and did increase IGF1. Let's, what's going to be more important? That's light increase or you putting on two pounds of muscle and decreasing systemic inflammation. Like you know my thoughts. This is not even not. So IGF1 is not necessarily taught. It's not that you have an increase in IGF1 and then all of the so many people in the longevity community who are talking about fasting and calorie restriction. I can't with them. I can't either. It's like, what do you even, they don't understand the clinical data and hard outcomes versus mechanistic data in animals. And this is the biggest problem with scientists in general. Scientists are little silos of information. They're not clinicians. They're not clinicians. And that is also the biggest problem that I have. And again, we work with some of the best PhDs whom I love and they do interface with clients. But the majority of scientists doing these things like talking about longevity. They're not training patients. And they're also not using human models. No. And most of them are saying erroneous things. Correct. And misguiding people on what's imported. You got to look at the pyramid. What's the foundation of longevity? It is muscle. You hear this guy? You hear this guy Matthew? Yes, it is. And we are going to move in that direction. And it's people are always looking, yeah, this idea of fasting more and we're searching your protein. You know on your IGF1 to be high, you guys, they are totally missing the mark. And what's going to happen is we are going to have a weaker society with more more hip replacements, more osteoporosis, more diseases that could have been prevented. Yeah. Because of the information. They are confusing people on the order of importance. And that is well, that's my friend frustrating. How do you really feel about that? Yeah, no. And you know, there's and some, and we're talking about like the biggest, some of the biggest podcast in the world who have huge platforms under sending misinformation. And it's really, it's really just hardening to see because people are trying to educate themselves on health. And then they end up actually getting the wrong information. Correct. And so it's on the onus of the person who has this huge platform to make sure they're doing the right research and bringing on the right gas and and clinicians are a big part of that. And obviously huge part of that. That's why follow statin. If for me, more than anything, it's just a tool to you to put out more muscle and lose less muscle as you age. It's very anti-catholic. So that catabolism increases as you age. And we know one of the biggest drivers of sarcopenia is oxidative stress and chronic inflammation as well. And that mitochondrial dysfunction is what also leads to increase of muscle loss. Like we see that FSHD like musco-distrophies. And we know with sarcopenia as well. That's part of the underlying mechinistic pathways. So if we can improve the mitochondrial health and that inflammatory cascade via phyllo statin and and so that's a mechinistic stuff. And then clinically, we also see people getting stronger and we detect the scans and you see people putting on muscle. Then how like to me, that stuff is going to be so much, it's going to trump everything else. We got to add D3 creatin to that. I'll talk to you about that later. It's in a way to directly measure skeletal muscle mass. Have any thoughts about or have there been any studies on caceccia? And full of satin therapy. Thank you to first form for sponsoring this episode of the show. As you know, first form makes a ton of amazing products. I want to highlight their energy drinks. First form energy is phenomenal. They have all different types of flavors that you can't even believe how good they are. And I will tell you one of my favorites is tropic lightning. I am a coffee person and I am a coffee person in the morning, but I tend not to do a second cup in the afternoon. I have been using first form energy and I'm going to tell you why. It has the six B12, co-lean, things for my brain. Again, this is all about brain function for me and energy. Not only that, it has a hundred milligrams of whole coffee fruit extract. It's called neurofactor, sign me up. You guys are absolutely going to love this product. It is one of my favorite energy drinks. And yes, I love a good energy drink. Go to firstform.com slash doctor lion. I would suggest that you start with their variety six pack. That's firstform.com slash doctor lion. We are going to be do sort of phase two trial. That would be fascinating. So our phase two trials are going to be for sarcopina. That's starting in the spring. And that's going to be a super health candidate. So hopefully that will be starting in May or so. But before you do that, we really have to get something called a D3 creatine. Dylution method on there because dex the changes in the sarcopina individual can be so slight because that just again older. And this way, if we do a D3 creatine, I have a hard insert in myself into the study, you'll be able to directly measure skeletal muscle mass because of that. So we'll talk about that. It would be weird. Well, not taking any of you work. I will definitely continue to be good. Yeah, that's awesome. Yeah, that's good. That's good. Actually, that's now. Well, we were thinking about what I was this was my and my proposal was to actually do a full body MRI using springbox. I don't know if you're here with that company. They look at muscle kind of mass throughout the body and they look at myocytosis. And so then you can see. Which is bad infiltration. Yes. And so you're marble steak. Yeah. Exactly. So that's what we were going to do. But that's obviously costly and pretty. That's why D3 creatine is. Yeah. That's the way the future. So full satin gene therapy talked to me about how it is used. First of all, this has been around for how long. So fall a statin because body builders, you know how body builders are. The electric experiment of the last time. Early doctors have everything. They are. And that's the fit. I made a post about this one time. That's a bodybuilder. Yeah. And that's because, you know, because I've been into the bodybuilding scene since I was 18. And I just love that world. And so I see there are always 10 years ahead of the medical world. It's kind of funny. When it comes to advice, literally, to lifestyle medicine. Correct. And so they understand because they've done so much self-experimenting, they've always figured out the patterns of what works and what doesn't work and make really actually reasonable recommendations for lifestyle interventions. And so fall a statin being self-experimenters as bi-builders are. They've been playing around that for over 20 years. Injectable. Exactly. Because I think there is also an oral, an oral dose of full of statin. Right. And they're probably is, but the bi-availability of all. Yeah, exactly. Most of them doesn't work very well. And so the problem, though, is that people didn't really see great results because the fall statin has a 90-minute half-life. So basically, you'd have to inject yourself every 90 minutes every day for months or two years to have the same effect as our gene therapy does. Which why is it because so you wouldn't inject full of statin or take full statin and then die has now inhibited my or statin so it's not. Because it gets cleared up by end-res enzymes that break it down. And so the expression of that last only is so transient. So what I'm here you say is that the full statin gene therapy in order for it to be effective, it has to be long lasting. Exactly. And so that's what our delivery mechanism does, it essentially gets yourself to produce a fall statin and increase a circulatory levels for 18 to 24 months with one injection either subcutaneously or intramuscularly. And that's one more effective than the other. We are seeing anecdotally that intramuscular seems to be more effective. Does it matter where you put it? No. And so what we're going to do for a phase two trial is we're going to compare subcutaneous two intramuscular and then we're going to see if one does do better than the other. Do you feel that one does better than the other that you have seen? Yes, intramuscular does seem to work better. And what does when you say seem to work better, what do the outcomes do? People tend to put on more muscle and have more strength gain. So let's say generally speaking, people will get like 10 to 15 percent with subcutaneous and the intramuscular maybe like 20 to 25 percent strength gains. And that's a lot. Our intramuscular did it in her muscular. Yeah, he did. Oh my gosh, okay. Yeah. And you know for someone who's been lifting for lifetime, that's a lot of strength gain. And especially if you're natural, like that is not easy to come by. And that can translate into more volume and back in translated into more hypertrophy. And then not only that, the recovery because of the less inflammation tends to be better too. And then if you can recover better, then obviously you can do that progressive overload better too. And does a full of statin only target myestone? It's highly tissue specific. So only targets skeletal muscle. So it's not going to affect like cardiac muscle or anything like that. And that's why the specific one we use is follow statin 344, which cleafs to 314 into the cell. And that specific fall statin is one that only acts on skeletal muscle. And so that's one of things people often get worried about is like, how do you know some affect together things? This is because it's obviously it's been studied and we know how it works mechanistically. Who would and how would something like that be available? So the bodybuilding community has been using it for a long. This is interesting. They've been using it for a long time. Yeah, because people are like, okay, they just get an awful website. And it's a you can. Yeah, but I don't know. I don't know. Matt was trying to get off Amazon. I'm in the back over there. So it is available. It is one of those things that people could get. You wouldn't ever want to do that. Right. The problem is, yeah, you don't know the quality control and all that stuff. And so obviously where we have our gene therapy vector, which is available in approved jurisdictions like Mexico. We have our headquarters as an Rua Town, funny enough in Honduras. And then we also are doing it in Dubai and then in Japan as well on Tokyo. And so we have areas where we have approvals and where it's regulated, but it is not FDA approved as of yet. That will probably take maybe five years at least I would think. You know, they are becoming more, I'd say it's weird. FDA says they want to do selling gene therapy and they have this whole framework now where they're saying we really want to push these things forward. But then that thing's really been done. So I think there is obviously lobbyists and people who don't want to see that stuff go through because it does disrupt the traditional model of, you know, big pharma and surgery and all that stuff that infrastructure that they built in because saline gene therapies are decentralized and care and can help prevent and avoid surgery is obviously. Yeah, you know, I'm just looking at this paper. Maybe I'll include it, but it is full of statin gene therapy improves six minute walk distance and sporadic inclusion body myocitis. Do you remember that from med school? Yeah. Body by side. And these are just these inclusion bodies that can cause muscle and body inflammation. But this is done in humans and a six minute walk distance is what we use in geriatrics and what individuals will use as a marker of as a physical marker for I don't know the better word to say robustness, but there's a handful of tests that are validated in terms of improvements in life and longevity and six minute walk test is one of those. Exactly. And that's and that's the other thing. So what we're going to measure in our phase two and I'd be curious to hear your thoughts if you have any other I wanted to measure grip strength because it's so easy. So if this is so easy. Okay, we don't have this grip strength. Every way talks about this is it's the thing. But I think that you're born with a certain kind of grip strength. I don't will have to go back. I had been talking to Samuel Buckner maybe a year ago about it and you not going to have to do some. Yes, because I think again when we accept things over and over again as the standard just like we've accepted Dexa as the gold standard. And then we go back and we question it well is it really the gold standard? No Dexa is extrapolation. It looks at body fat. It looks at bone. Everything else is lean body mass. That's not measuring skeletal muscle mass directly. It makes me think that some of these metrics that we are potentially using could be off. So we're going to have to we'll see. Trust me, I'd rather wait rather measure like one rep squat but that's not practical necessarily but fair. Fair. So this full of sand gene therapy. Who is it for? I'm sure you're going to say for everybody. Are there any contraindications? How would one go about it? The only contraindication is pregnancy and funny enough when you're pregnant, your fall sand levels are the highest. Really? Yeah and so we believe that is because of fall sand acts as a protective mechanism for the body when you're you know some obviously just variable removal. Every pregnant woman would definitely disagree. Yeah exactly. Post baby. What has happened? No post baby but during pregnancy your fall sand levels actually peak and I think that's obviously just because as a protective mechanism to try to get your body to be as strong and resilient as possible during that phase. And so that's the only contraindication but to your point any adult who wants to slow down the aging process wants to have more vitality energy strength. It can pay you pay me much be applicable to everyone. And again this isn't just me saying it. There's George Church who's arguably the best or one of the best geneticists on the planet. He said himself that he would like to see this in every like Walmart one day like anything accessible to everyone because it's such an inert vector that doesn't have any side effects and has a potential to really help so many people to put on it's the closest thing we have to exercise in a pill. Like obviously we're never going to exercise in a syringe. Right and so the reality is to a lot of people have a hard time sticking to exercise because they may not get to see the benefits and if you see more benefits I think it's going to help with that positive feedback loop as well. If you see more muscle gain if you see more strength gain because some people do have bad genetics and it's hard for them to get that and so I've had patients who wanted to do it just for that reason. They're like always had a hard time putting on muscle. Because I was going to ask you the just from the physician stud what are the you'd mention more vitality, more energy, my question would be what are the objective measures that we would be able to measure with full statin gene therapy? Yeah so you could actually I mean aside from like the you can look at like for example epigenetic clocks and so there's biological aging testing that you can do there's these are with these be teelamirs is this one. They look at a whole so all the different hallmarks so tell me here's a part of it but then they're also look at like inflammation mitochondria immune dysfunction and different kind of the hallmarks of aging and so true age diagnostic was the one we used for a phase one trial but for phase two we might use a company called generation lab because they're using something called biological noise which is a different type of measure of looking at how essentially entropy or how your body is epigenetically and looking at methylation from that perspective. But the point is these can give you objective measures to see how much we can deage your body before and after the fall of statin and we see quite significant reductions in epigenetic age when you do these interventions. If you're over 60 for example the average age reduction was about 11 years with one intervention and funny enough x prize which is this prize given by it's my Peter Demandus and Chip Wilson who has muscle just for you they're giving away a hundred million dollars to anyone who can reduce biological age by 10 years in three or more organ systems and so we're gonna be applying for that and so that's we've got one organ system. Yeah yeah muscle but we we're gonna measure multiple or we believe we can do it in multiple organ systems but obviously muscle I think translates when you can do it in muscle it translates into it because all intertwined and I think muscles of foundation. Yes sir I agree with you now we're gonna do a my favorite part of the episode we're gonna do yes or no so basically think about this as with in clinical practice it is going to be yes or no you can't you don't get to say anything else the use of collagen orally yes okay the use of PRP in a pregnant woman no the we'll say this um what's the other one sleep less than five hours no unless you're a super sleeper unless that you are a super sleeper knee replacement you don't get to answer anymore in that no hip replacement yes fair okay we're gonna stop there I love that answer and I am gonna guess why you said that you are going to say that knee replacement is a no because out of all of the joints knees seem to respond really well is that true you mean to stem cells to am I allowed to say stem cells yeah yeah to treatment yes that that that is one it seems as if even in the traditional literature that you if you have near arthritis or some kind of knee injury that there is tremendous benefit yeah to doing regenerative care there is but hips seem to be a little bit more hit or mess yeah and that probably could be because there's more mechanical component to it and that mechanical component needs mechanical fix and hence why you need some sort of structural uh replacement but having said that we're very close to having that mechanical fix because we are getting something called hydrogel scaffold now we just got we just we just started our investigation with that now so these are polymers which are hydronic acid base but they really crossling so it essentially forms like a little gel like scaffold around the stem cells and then it can actually regrow new cartilage and so that cartilage engineering approach is which I think you need for something like hips as opposed to knees which tend to do well which is that kind of inflammatory reduction that's really I think very helpful to bring this back we've been talking about a lot of different things and to bring this back to a practical application as we're both clinicians is this idea of the umbrella of regenerative medicine and regenerative medicine is really about no shock regeneration regeneration of cartilage would you say that that is something that can happen we're really close to it and it's already happening in clinical trials and now we're with the hydrogels and then with 3D bio printing it's gonna be there in the next few years what about muscle tears yes that's a lot like we can do right and it's like easy muscle tears what about tendon injury yeah like pretty much like 100% success rate with the right treatments yeah without surgery yeah what else am I missing so if it's a tendon rupture that then you need surgery yes but then we're talking most patients aren't ruptures right most are chronic degenerative tearing and those are not actually great outcomes with surgery they're they're very poor outcomes with surgery so we need better alternatives so why not explore this stuff anyway for the mainstream doctor to look at too and I think that's where there's a lot of I think it's just I think it's just territorial like orthopedic surgeons don't want to give up their because this is a bread and butter right surgery and also it's what they know they are trained surgeon and if you are it's like if you are trained to cut then you cut yeah yes exactly what about shoulders so yeah no shoulders do very well with even osteoarthritis and with rotiocraft tears which is the most common thing we see by far but often they need that scaffolding because a lot of them have focal full thickness tears or they have high gray tears and so that's where you have to use a scaffold and that's and then the cells and the signals to kind of regenerate the tissue well I have to say um Dr. Conne we could go on and on to discuss this really it's so informative it's so informative and really what you're talking about is an ultimate root cause approach to being able to maintain a quality of life that is where it should be yeah we're gonna make your body forever strong with saline gene therapy I'm gonna steal that line we're gonna link wherever we can find you you know we didn't really touch on nutrition I'm guessing you and I have very similar nutritional views my big thing and I'll just notice in there is making this light like you know I think Peter was the one who came at medicine 3.0 and so there's this concept right of medicine 1.0 2.0 medicine 1.0 is obviously like the stone ages and then medicine 2.0 was kind of just surgery and drugs for everything 3.0 was to try to prevent issues right using lifestyle and then to me medicine 4.0 is using saline gene therapies to allow people to maintain lifestyle longer but medicine 3.0 we have to make more accessible like most people know that they need to exercise and eat well and the mechanics of that is really starting for a lot of people to understand it but they don't know how to actually maintain it and so I think the biggest problem is how do we actually create sustained behavior change and make it more accessible to the average person? Yeah it's a that is a very large task that is a very large task but we if we put the pieces in place from the physical aspect and you put the pieces in place from a mental aspect I am a strong believer that a strong body cannot exist with a weak mind yes a strong body cannot exist with a weak mind and wherever you are starting on your journey there is a certain amount of mental strength that will be required of you to push through some of these things and I just have to say that at the end of the day when I was kind of talking to Matthew before we started that you have to do the practical things or the practical things become impossible right you must do the practical things like train like eat right like whatever it is that you want to do in order to be able to do the practical things later on yeah and the whole idea of the selling gene therapy interventions is to build the resiliency so you can do those practical things. I love it well Dr. Khan thank you so much for coming on the show is really fun where and what do you up to next I'm going to link everything that people can find you. Yeah my Instagram is at dr.acon but I'm going to be most likely in Dubai in the fall I'm still here on the side of the road and we're going to have other physicians that we're training and we're going to have hopefully create more access to these therapies for people who are suffering with a lot of chronic illnesses that fall through the gaps and so you can either find me in Kabul or in Dubai. On a beach. Yeah exactly. Thanks so much. Yeah thanks for having me.

Welcome to the Dr. Gabriel Langeau. In this episode, I sit down with my very dear friend, Dr. Andy Gulpend. He's a full professor at California State University, Fullerton. He is an expert and a game changer in muscle physiology. Health and wellness. He works with a ton of professional fighters and athletes. In this episode, we cover a number of things. We talk about skeletal muscle biomarkers, health and wellness biomarkers, essentially blood biomarkers, sleep and how you can think for yourself when it comes to scientific information. We talk about this and a whole much more. And by the way, I show you and bring you a different side to Andy that I don't think you've seen before. He's truly extraordinary. Not to mention before we get into the episode, if you are not on our newsletter, please go to Dr. Gabriel Langeau.com and sign up for our free newsletter. We give a ton of evidence-based information and things that are happening and most importantly, things that are free and valuable to you. Let's jump into this episode. What's up, friends? Did you hear the news? Yep. That's right. I'm hosting my first ever forever strong six week boot camp. What's a boot camp you're thinking? Well, this is going to get you leaner. Improve your metabolism. Help you move forward in your health and wellness goals. And you are going to do it with me and my team alongside real people for real results. What are you going to get? You're going to get workouts, meal planning. You're going to get my forever strong muscle centric training course. So much more. Most important, you're going to get support. It's never too late to start and the time to start is now. Head on over to my Instagram and DM me boot camp. I'm going to send you all the information. That's right. Head on over to my Instagram, DM me boot camp. And I'm there to support you along with my team. It's a rock and roll, friends. Dr. Andy Gulp and welcome to the show. Thank you so much for being in studio and Houston. I know it's hot. Yep. And I fed you well. You did. We're going to be ready to get out for it. Yeah. And there's just no chance I was going to do this on Zoom. No. Not with you. Of all people. Not with you. I mean, how long have we been friends? I don't know. A long time. We both have great hair now. Yeah, for sure. I have a lot less hair total. Priority. We had no children at that point. Potentially no marriage is at that point. So different worlds, different universe. It's been a long time. But what I think is so cool is that we've been on parallel paths. Yeah. And I asked you while the cameras were off if you ever thought you would be in the position that you are in now. I mean, I always dreamed of it, right? Like that's that's what you're at. I'm also very aware of wiring him out. And I say that and say like everyone gets their their 15, right? And I'm very aware that this is mine, which is great. I also very aware that that 15 ends. So I'm having a blast right now. I do feel like I told you're like, I do feel that I somewhat deserve it, but I also feel incredibly lucky. There are many, many people who could be in my position probably deserve more. Have done better things, more important things are more eloquent, more effective. So there's just not a really a day. And I'm not really being cliche there. My wife and I like actually have a little bit of a practice. I love that. And it's like man. This could end any day. And also could have anybody. Like you have to have talent. You have to do the hard work thing. But you also have to have that third and fifth amount, which is you call it luck. Call it a break. Call it the fortune. Like whatever you want. And to me, that's a big part of how I approach the entire world. It's just like, hey, represent some people don't get that shot. And some people don't get that luck. Well, for any number of reasons, right? Could be a thousand things deserving or undeserving. And so I'm just always very, very appreciative that for whatever reason inland it on me, at least right now. So yeah, very, very appreciative of our map. Well, I think there's a few things that really separate you. And I probably haven't told you that. I think that you have a lot of integrity. I think you're a really good human. And one of the things I respect most about you is you very much care about making the world better, making it different than it was and is. And I would love to know what is that you hope to accomplish. Yeah, I was actually, a couple of weeks ago I was with a good friend of mine Jeff Bires. I was telling you about he's the CEO of Momentus Supplements. He's just a friend. We were doing stuff and he kind of asked us in my question and I stumbled around for like 15 minutes. It's doesn't really know. I'm being totally honest. I don't have like a, I want to rid the world of obesity. I like I don't have anything like that. I'm not going to make a difference on the world. I think what I really boil down to the end and me figuring out is like all I really care about is I feel like because what I said a second ago. I don't feel I have a burden, but I almost feel like I owe everyone else who didn't get that lucky break. It's like, hey, you did the work. You had this and you had the chance here. And so for everyone else that was in a worse position or you know, I'm getting any number of things that didn't catch it. You owe them. Right? You owe them to make sure you are taking advantage of this opportunity in a way that's going to move things forward. Or at least you're respecting those people who would have done it better than you. I think really fundamentally in this aspect of my life, it's not for my kids. It's like, I don't, it's really none of those things. It is really that going, man, could anybody else? And if they were here, what they have done, so that's what you better do. And do you think that that keeps you hungry and motivated to keep going? Yeah, for sure. I mean, there's obviously a part of a lot of anyone that's forward facing has a bit of arrogance. I'm never going to walk away from that, right? Bit accused of that plenty of time. Yeah. There's a bit of desire to be needed and wanted and attention seeking. Like, there's all those things that roll into you, right? And I actually have no problem saying that. That's, it's not a negative thing, right? In context. But it is still foundationally going, okay, also in doing that, can you use that in someone that's the way that's going to help the world? Then to me, it's like that's a positive way to channel that energy attention, vigor and saying, all right, you're going to be up here. You're better use it, and then you better continue to move, right? Like, you better continue to do something that is worth it. Because if you're just piddling around or you're doing things just for the sake of maybe attributes that we would find less appealing, then like, you know what, when you're 15 runs out, good riddance. And like, okay, so make sure you're just respecting again that opportunity you've been given, and you better not do things for the sake of doing things, which is another really hard thing in our position, right? It's like, you just really do get addicted to that more, more, more. Another published occasion, another thing, get another high profile client, get another big podcast invite, like, whatever it is that you're valuing, you gotta be really careful of making, not making the thing. And like falling back and being like, whoa, what are you really doing this for, right? Is this really an instant mean, are you doing this? Because of justification of wanting the attention, even if it's not directly, it's like, or whatever the case is, is this because this land in most finances are getting the mess spot for your product or whatever it is? Is this really moving the needle forward to where when your time's done, no one remembers you that they do where they don't, that doesn't matter. But did you, again, really respect the opportunity that someone else would have done with that? And if they would have created something better that enriched human experience more, then you better continue to do that. And if not, then maybe it's time to step back and let everyone else have their shop. I wanted to ask you that question because you are very well published and you're a thought leader. But the other unusual aspect of you is, yes, you're very charismatic and your great speaker and your great educator. And you were an educator before you were ever in the public eye. For years and I don't know if people understand that, that you spent a lot of time in the trenches educating students and educating people. That is unusual to be in the position, a lot of academics don't become forward facing. I would say 99.9% of academics, also you're very young. You're very young when you got 10 years. I think you were 34. I was a full professor at 35. I think. Yeah. 36, maybe 36. Yeah. It's Fullerton. Yeah. You see Fullerton, which is an excellent school, excellent muscle physiology lab. So these are very unusual aspects. Yes, we're going to talk all about science. But I also think that it's very valuable for people to know who you are. Yeah. I appreciate them. I will get down to the business in a second. I still educate. Not only in this sense, but I still teach for academic classes, first semester, I teach winter and I teach summer. When I first got into this, that was what it was really for. In fact, when I left my PhD program, I really didn't think I would do a single study to rest in my life. Where did you do your PhD? I got my PhD at Ball State in the lab that you know, the famous Dave Costell, you know anything about sports nutrition, Dave started that lab, you know decades ago. Dave really is the one that brought out things like, oh, we use carbohydrates during exercise more and like turns out, hydration is important. Like really that foundational layer of 1960s, 1970s, 1980s exercise physiology. How old was it around that time as well? Yeah. I mean, look, if you look at any like classic exercise physiology textbook from the 1990s to 2000s, those the authors like you're going to see. I didn't think I was going to do a single study because I was just not interested in science at that point because of, I think the limitations and a number of other reasons. And I was like, I'm just going to teach because I really really enjoyed that aspect. And then obviously I realized I could kind of do science my way. I was like, well, that's way. Cool. So I did that. And then the fast forward so we can move on. What happened was I was actually working on a project with some close friends, Doug Larson, and Mike Blitzow, who started a company years ago called Barbell Shrog, right? This legendary, hey guys. Yeah, shout out guys. And we actually had a side project called Barbell University. So we were trying them out. I remember that. Yeah, I was like, man, what if we could make like a real kind of online university for this human performance type of stuff and we built a lot of it out, like a ton of it out, curriculum courses and flow and all kinds of stuff. And then one day, Doug was called just like, yo, we're done with the project. It's smart choice on his part, by the way. And I just laid on my floor and I was like, oh my god, I'd spent just so much time on this. And then I just thought, why did you want to do this first place? And I really drilled, you know, like drill back, like, why did you care? Why did you care? And then I realized those core things that I wanted, what I didn't want to do. And I was like, oh, you can do 90% of that. Like, you know, I actually have to have all this stuff built out. Like, you can just do it. So that's what I did. And that really was the biggest, like, one of the biggest breaks over had in my career was directly because of all that stuff. And just being like, yo, just do the education you want. However you want, don't worry about SEO optimization and like editing and like all the things that I didn't want to do and figuring out and how do I charge people for it? Like, I didn't want to do any of that stuff. So I was like, just do it. What if you do it exactly what you want? What's going to happen? And it was, again, to this day, the smartest career decision I probably ever made in my life. And if I still answer two questions. Number one, the question of a mentor. I was going to ask you about a mentor and then I was going to ask you, was there a time or has been a time where you're like, um, I think I kind of made it? I know that we're never done, but there are really, really moments where, I don't know, you get a call from someone like Dana White or whatever it is. I remember like sitting in my office one time, my phone rang and I just said to sue for LLC, which is like the parent company of the O.C. It was like, that was pretty dope. You know, getting a call from Joe Rogan years ago and then going to his show, like that was, especially back in that time. It was like, wow, that's going to be pretty big. So that was like another one. And then like funny, it's little stuff like when I paid off my student loans. It's cool. Like that was, that was really, uh, I had coach like privately coached a very famous actor, god, like eight or nine years ago. And it was just like the first check. I was just like student loans gone. And I was like, wow, that was like pretty dope. So those some of those things jumped down to my, but yeah, that's probably the biggest ones. And now you're just on a trajectory where you're giving actually a lot of content still. Yeah. Yeah. That's, honestly, like that's the jam I have the most, like, if I could figure out what I just do that, and nothing else, like that's probably what I was spending most of my time doing. It's just not possible right now. And there are components to learning. I think you probably love the, is it the challenge of learning? Is it the challenge of teaching information? Is the challenge of distilling down the science? Um, you know, it's, I'll see that. I think, isn't going to sound weird, but I think most of it is vanity. I totally don't want to see that because the reason I like to do it is because number one, the attention, the acclid, like when, when you do something really well in front of it audience. And like you get a huge response, even if that audience is one person, right? You hear people talk about this all the time, like when you see people say to cliche, like when you see the light bulbs go off in somebody, that's really you. Right. When they go like excited, because they learn something that makes you feel good because that's a, that's a van, a vanity thing, like you are feeling good about that. And when you do that in front of a crowd of 7,000 people, our 700 people, and that feels like really, really good. So that's part of it. The other part of it is, if I'm trying to learn something myself, and I'm like, woo, just really, really, really struggling with it. And I spend weeks or months or years on something and you figure out like, actually, why is no one ever just weaved it through this way? And then you go, you know what, I bet if I did that and put it out there, a ton of people would be find it super helpful. And then you do it. And it is of course. So it's the vanity of going, like, I can do this better than anyone else has done it. I've seen anyone who does this. It's good as I can. And then you're right. Like that's that going to call it whatever you want, but that is a large part of what I do because I'm like, man, everyone's made this way more complicated and it has to be, I think I can do this better. I know I can do this. Actually, y'all suck. Like, let me go crush all of you on this right here. And that's a competitive at all. Totally. Like, I'm throwing this trace on a purpose. Like, labeling air against labeling, attention seeking like this part of it, right? This is part of it. But these are not negative things in this way. It's like, if the worst thing that's seen I ever had is I wanted someone's attention. So I made a bunch of free content and YouTube gave to the world like, tell them all about muscle. Yeah, it would be amazing. I'm good at that. Last question on you. That's it. We're up enough. No, that's it. That was a long show two hours normal podcast. Two hours. You better strap in for about three times that. Yeah. Yeah. What is the hardest aspect of the amount of attention and now being put in the public? Man, there's a bunch of hard stuff. One of it is I actually for probably 10 years had a 99% response rate. If people emailed or social media like for a decade or more, I was like 100% going to get back to you. Now it's like completely unmanageable. That sucks. But in the last time, it's like people like really genuinely, they do it the right way and they're really, and like I try, especially if it's like I can answer that pretty quickly. But a lot of times you're like, oh, that's not like a quick answer. Yeah. That sucks. Like I really don't like that aspect of it. Number one, um, and then like it's hard to always give to the world. Like when I come home, my kids want everything from me, my wife wants everything from me, right? And then you, you touch your phone. Everything on your phone is somebody wanting something from you. And you try to not be under in lack of appreciation for that, right? Because you're like, yeah, dude, like that's what everyone is trying to do is getting spot where everyone wants them. And so it's like man, I really am super-pushed up every time someone wants my advice or accompanying wants to work with me. Or whatever. And of course, I'm hyper-pushed up that my family wants to, like, but it is hard when it's just like everybody is always outgoing. It's just like pulling out. That is hard. I ask no sympathy for that because that is 100%. Like that's what I, I try to do. But it is a lot. And there are components about that are, it pulls you, right? You want to be 100% present with your kids. It's in a life and your work. It's a lot. It's hard. It's impossible. Even when you're not working, like this is a thing that I, like I've still yet to really articulate with my family side is I can't just walk out of the door at 6 p.m. of my office and like immediately going to to dad mode. I'm like trying my best, right? My phone has gone all that, but like you can't do that after a 12 hour plus run and then just like shut off, I can do a walk. I can do like all these things. It's great. But then like seconds later, it's just a flood back. That has been the hardest on my family for sure. Like I was joking out, like don't build three companies in one year. That was probably the biggest thing that did it, like not a smart decision to do that. Because now it's not the workload. It's just a different amount of different things that are floating in. There's no chance shutting out. So like that is the biggest burden. It's not just being able to walk out and just be like yeah and truly be on with my kids and that's that's super challenging. The last thing I'll say is getting back to my own internal circle. Yeah. I mean, you know, like just like when my family or my close friends like text, like you know, like I'm sorry, but I did a podcast that came back to my phone. I had 84 text messages like it's a lot like and then if I try to do anything like take a day off, it's like it's a wrap. Interesting. So that part sucks for sure. But also your friends understand. Yeah, most are pretty good. And we'll continue to spam text you into your back to them. It doesn't matter. Okay. I said that that was the last question. But I have one more because I think this is relevant as we take it into the scientific literature. We have very good concentration and focus. How do you manage that? I wish I could give you something of value here. I think my most honest answer is going to be I don't know any different. I wake up in the morning. I generally have something really going on in my brain that I want to go do. And I'm pretty good about compartmentalizing. So like I'm very good about being like, you know, my sleep stuff is not in my brain. My blood worked with nothing up in my brain. And I'm only going to grade right now. Like I don't set a count. I don't have like any of those fancy things. But like when I get into something or I get an idea, I'm pretty good at shutting the world out so much so that like will infuriate my wife. Because I'm just like I'm gone. Like any of them I'm not in front of the computer. Like I'm thinking about it. I'm not even trying. I'm just like I'm on another level. It's so actually though because my daughter does the same thing. That's cool. And I can see it in my wife's like I think she's kind of like, no, no, no, I know exactly what she's doing. Like she's in space right now. And I'm like, that's exactly what happens to me. Like I just go into space. So I'm very good about even if there's like real legitimate things going on. I can be like, okay, great. If that is, if that is, if there's nothing I can do else about that right now, I can't prepare more. I can't do anything else. Like I'm pretty good about being like that's out of my brain space. And now I'm like into something else where like my wife is really hard time with that. Like until that thing is it's not a, I wish I could say that it's like a book I read or practice. But like it's somewhat of an obsession. Maybe you're the way you're brain work. It's the way my brain work. It's the way that I think it a lot of it is actually my upbringing. A lot like I'm from the country. And it sort of just like, well, that problem is that problem. There's three more over there. Like it doesn't matter. Like you have to be able to just put that down and like go over there and go over there and go over there and go over there. You don't have the ability in the time to just like, you can't ruminate. That's just it's not an option because there's too many other things that I had a life has to put it in a pan you, right? Like that fence is down. Like animal is going to get out. Like whatever's happening. Like it does not matter about your taxes being light or like whatever the heck is, it's like doesn't matter because something is online right now that you just have to like move to and you just have to execute. I'm actually looking in the background at Jocco's book totally axiomally. But when he came on, I'm like, yeah, like totally resonated with me personally because I'm like you have to pass down a lot of my life and then just move forward. So I think the only reason I can do like teach the classes run my lab, run the companies like do the other stuff, do the podcasts is like I have to just be able to be like next next sort of next. And there's a downside of that trait. Like they're real downsides. I mean, you're not wrong. My husband who's obviously a normal seal is very much like that. And I think that in order to be successful in the way in which you guys are, you have to be that way. Yeah. Are you the first scientist in your family? Oh for sure. For sure. Like where I grew up, like I didn't know anybody famous and like I didn't know anybody, I know anybody famous. I don't know what I like I like. Where you grew up in the south of West Washington. Like halfway between Seattle and Portland down there, a little city called Rochester, Washington. It was dope. Like a dope little city. But like people weren't my family or not lawyers or scientists. Like no one of my family has it. I actually was the first one to graduate that college degree. My family. So yeah, like even as I like undergrad student, I didn't know what a PhD was. When I got on my master's program, I didn't know the difference when a master's in a PhD was. I had no idea. So yeah, first scientist for sure. But probably not the last. Your daughter. My kids, my son. My daughter's all over. Where's your to your undergrad? Was that also a ball state? No, I did my undergrad at a small school in Oregon called Linfield College. So I played football down at an division three school. Did my undergraduate degree in actually science? I think it was what was called there. Did my master's with Andy Fry at the University of Memphis? Amazing. He's amazing. Yeah, he actually did like the story of getting into grad schools one of my favorite ones. Like that was all we we have all the time in the world. I know we're like so far and we haven't covered probably anything people interested in it. Well, I I think that that's incorrect. I think people are interested in who you are as a human. Okay. Well, we'll see. I will see how many two announced you get the first. No, you guys better be listening. If you are a fan of this podcast, I have someone on here who I deeply respect. I appreciate it. So as I mentioned, like I didn't know anything about academia, even as an undergrad, right? I was playing football and I loved human performance stuff. But like there was there was no advanced place to go in this field. Right. I remember being on like recruiting visits and asking what do you want to do academically? And then I kind of like tell them and there's like well, there's athletic training. And like athletic training is is more of dealing with acute injuries on the field and stuff like that. It's not really what we think of as like training and athlete. All right. athletic training is a very specific field. They're like a physical therapist onsite at all times. Right. And so I'm like I don't want to do that. Like I'm not like the energy. I want like high performance of there's like there weren't no strength conditioning. Grace exercise. Why don't any strength in conditioning? Definitely not. Wow. No, there was nobody really doing it research in the area was very little. Very few labs focused on that. And if you did get into an exercise science program like I did, you're really looking at public health. Right. It is part the car and the other and the of the parking lot and walk. I take this day or more. It was, you know, eat nuts and vegetable leg is it's more public health stuff stuff. There was no like, hey, how do we optimize field to max? How do we enhance performance all these things, right? It's not like cool. So you're dealing dealing with like obesity and all those things. So coming out of that program, I'm just like, I don't want to do. So actually, I'm a tell two stories. Did you enjoy your education and loved it? I love it. I love it. Does theology? Yeah. I mean, it wasn't like the high performance stuff. Who cares? Like you're learning how muscles work and grow and how the body works in general and how you're recovering. And to me, it was pretty easy for me to honestly cover our mentalized. Because like in the the example in class would be how this is working for somebody who has cardiovascular disease. But like it's so easy. My imagination would be like, okay, then how's that work and like just to switch it over, right? Because it's the same physiology, right? Physiology is physiology. We were kind of joking earlier, but like I'll kind of jump it a little bit. But like to me, there's like human performances, human performance. You get to use that body and your flesh to perform however you want. I don't really give it shit. But it's still performance, right? Doesn't matter how old you are, doesn't matter. No, you all want to look. You want to feel and you want to perform a certain way. How you want to look and how I want to look is different. I don't care. You set the terms, right? But we all want to look a certain way. You all want to feel a certain way. You set the terms, right? I want to feel more energy. I want to feel like I'm more focused. I want to feel stronger. Great fine, right? But that's still you want to feel a certain way, right? Then you want to perform a certain way. Okay, you want to perform a certain way. Again, you want to be strong. You want to be fast. You want to just not hurt. Great. It's still all the same three things, and now if you took that example and put that in one of my starting quarterbacks in the NFL, you put that in some one of our athletes from parent and little bit games. Cool. Or you put that in my wife. You put that on me. I'm not of those people. I still want to perform with my best. So it's not, I'm not saying anything different. With the one exception, this is the best part. In my PhD, we actually had the real cool opportunity to, our my physiology courses were actually in the medical school. And so I'm in the med classes, just a physiology one. Right? And I'm the only PhD in that class or Esther, like real proper MDs. Right? Our program is small. Right? So if you're in our program, you did it, but no one else got to cross over. It was like a pretty dope like back of the door deal we got to do. So it's like cool. Instead of taking like a normal class over there, we got to go take the physiology. But the teacher was a PhD. Not an MD. And he would get in there and he started getting his stuff and I don't know how your med school went. But this one was like, you basically do like a full chapter right day. Like a chapter of the medical textbook per day. Like that's the right that you're crushing. Yeah. And you sit on one topic for like four to six weeks. And then you kind of cruise that like melgier for a month and renal physiology for a month and two weeks or whatever. And you just like crush right? And you hammer through and you four or five hours a day, four days a week or something like that. Right? So you get really focused on what. So we would get into stuff and he would start talking about things like blood volume. And I'll be like dope right? And he's started talking about, hey, if you're you know a female and you have five liters of blood, like you're going immediately into cardiac arrest concerns and you're going on a blood thinners while how that's working, what the kidneys are doing, how you're altering stuff. And I'm like immediately from a five liters of blood in the woman, I'm like, do that cruel super and fit. Right? Because you're like the same thing that you would see in a legit medical, especially trauma issue, right? Like a medical concern is the exact same thing you see in eye performance. So I'm looking at him like, we what? Like five liters, one of the biggest adaptations, most pronounced to adaptation, so endurance training is more total blood in your body. You hold more blood, right? So you make more blood cells, but in order to make your blood not get super viscous, right? Thank you after retain more water, right? So your total blood volume goes up. One of the most classic hallmarks of high performance is more total blood. At the same time also, that is like if you're an unhealthy person, you see the exact same numbers on a chart. You're going, whoa, cool. Get this person on a dioratic immediately because retaining fluids and this is all classic signs of heart attack that's coming or from my perspective, you're super fit. So like I'm just like, okay, great and you start to really appreciate, wow, physiology, physiology. It's the same thing here, but now we actually got here at a different angle. In this context, this is deadly and this context, it is the healthiest way you can be. And now you start going, okay, it's just physiology, but now also context matters. Context is everything. It's one of the reasons why I hate giving these direct straightforward answers on podcasts and like social media and they have to meet. Like people don't really realize why you and I don't post very often because I'm like, it takes me so long because you have to be really careful in like really poor situations. No, I like this, but even in a smart skill, like you want to be exactly as possible and you want to fairly represent what's happening. That just takes like a long time. So it's not misinterpreted or misinterpreted rather. So like just learning physiology that way, I'm like, so I loved all my underground classes like coming back where the started because I'm like, all right, you're learning how all these systems work even when it is like cellular biology stuff, genetics, even if it's botany. So it's like, who cares? You're still learning the basics of living systems and then even into areas that I didn't like like bomb mechanics. It's still like, okay, and this is great. And it's bomb mechanics of this is why people's gates are shutting down as they get older or what dementia kicking in or something like, okay, great. The example is this function, but just imagine what it'd be like if it was higher function. And you're just running through those games in your mind and you're learning, you're thinking, you're creating additional holes where like, oh, I wonder if everyone's thought about that. Like that could be a place where, so I just loved every second of it. I loved it. So I finished that and along the way, the only people in our program were, again, like public health people. And one of the professors Janet Peterson, she was just, she was the greatest. Actually, you know, it's fine, Janet was that Cal State Fullerton. Really? Left Cal State Fullerton went to Linfield and she took over and was my professor there and then all the years later when I got to Linfield, she was able to call down and be like, I was interviewing, he's like, yeah, this guy is amazing. Super, super fortunate. It sounds like you've had a few mentors that Janet was great. Help direct where you're going or how you were thinking. 100% like director indirect, right? This is one of the powers I learned very early in my academic career is you could be mentoring somebody to have no idea. You have no idea because I had a kid come back to me. It's something one day. I was like, what? He's something like he's like, you know, no one's ever told me that I'm a good writer before. I was like, huh? Like apparently I told the kid, he was a good writer. He meant everything the world of this kid and I didn't know what his name was. That's what I was like, oh, dude, you got to be careful. Like you, because everything you're doing could even know that person, you know, doesn't mean anything to you. You could really be in fact in their life. Which is kind of going backwards that earlier, like one thing, I don't like is not being a little respond to people because it can make a really, really big difference in somebody's life. That was like one of my first or second year as a professor and I was like, okay, that like changed everything in my brain because yeah, and I was hit the same thing like at the time Janet had no idea that she was out and I'm picked up. Really? No, no idea. Where's just, because I'm just like another kid in her class, you know, and this is like it's changing my life, right? Yeah. And so in class one day she was like, hey, I want to start doing blood pressure checks on kids. She said that. She said that. Does anyone want to volunteer? And I'm like, Hellia, right? I'm taking like, did you sit in the front? No, you weren't. I was not a sit in the front kind of guy. But she asked that and I was like, yes, immediately yes, I'm on there. She's like, great. You're not taking blood pressure and I was like, nope. She's like, you want, are you interested in getting the met? I'm like, nope, nope. Yeah, you knew you were never going to do about this. For sure. Which is interesting. I think that because I knew I couldn't get in. There's no chance I could have handled it. I don't have the horsepower upstairs. You have to be really smart. Like in a very specific type of way. And I definitely knew there's no chance. Like I had an undergraduate GPA of probably 3.1, 3.0. Like I'm I'm I'm really not that that kind of intelligent. Like I don't have a lot of my IQ is not particularly high. My wife's crush is mine. My like we've tested we've run out of bunch of testing done. But my SNAP speed like it's not particularly impressive. It's like very, very average. Very average. But you obtain mastery and then you can think outside the box. Different. Yeah. Like I'm not creative in a scientific ground way more creative than I am operating way more, right? So just being able to like you have to learn and memorize so much hours of memorization dead in the water. I'm never getting it. Talk about, I just studied study 10 to 12 hours. I believe every second on that because you're in like that class I'm in for 4 plus hours a day. And then you're taking a test on it again the entire renal system for a medical perspective terrible. Like 3 days it was terrible. There's I barely got through that course and only really got through that course because I got as a PhD and had a big soft spot for me. It was just like I'll just give you a see or whatever. I was like, oh, thank God. There's no way I would have passed up that like I was dead last because you you're in basically you get your grades like post yeah I know I'm dead last. I've recently won't I'm I'm down there right? You've made up for it. Yeah I felt the right. But so she asked that and I was like okay great. And she's like why you're volunteering. I'm like I'm only gonna learn like like this is what you do right? You want your spot like you yes to everything right? That's how I grow up. Yes blind college football I'm taking like 16 units. I have to study way longer than all of my friends like with Doug and Doug Larson went to school like we I'm talking guys I went to school together. Yeah so we've known each other since we were like 18 we took almost every class together for 4 years and he's just I think I literally remember one time I got a better score and one class on one exam than him the rest just shut out the entire 4 years right he's really smart guy. So I remember I'm like just it's I'm just going to win by other ways like I'm going to win in other ways. This is part of it. So I end up taking this blood pressure thing for and I sit out and Western Oregon outside and it's like drizzling raining and not a single person comes by to get blood pressure and I'm like well that's not but whatever like at that point you're just chalking up lands like you just everything in the bucket you can throw in you're going after right? Right like nine months later Janet email there's something's like hey one of our former alumni is working up at a deedus so deedus is national headquarters is in Portland. What's I also didn't know that? Yeah I'm a lot of people don't because Nike's up there and they just think of Nike but a deedus is up there too it's like an hour drive from our school and she's like there's an opening it's kind of like a corporate wellness gig like they have a gym on campus they need someone like open the gym five in the morning and I'm like I'm on it done she's like great so I'm I'm still playing college football I'm getting up like three thirty in the morning so I can drive an hour to make sure I'm there half an hour early because I grew up in like my dad works in road construction right you show up 10 minutes early you're definitely getting fired like you're you're gone so I'm like you learned your work at that oh and from where you grow oh yeah my parents my grandparents everyone I grew up with like I'm in the country that's like the expectation right if you show up five minutes before practice you're gone like that's just a wrap so I'm like I'm not blowing this opportunity I'm an hour drive I have a six hundred dollar car so I'm like if it breaks down or whatever like I still have to change the time get there on time traffic hits like no whatever so I'm getting there way early and I start to notice and by the way I didn't want a person train like the last thing the world I want to do is be a really even though you loved by mechanics yeah but like theology I don't want to like I don't train these people but did you know what you wanted to do with that point no I'm just hustling okay I'm hustling right I'm like whatever I'm hustling I like being in the gym that's like great and all that but I'm like I don't want to train forty five year old corporate people like not at all right I'm hustling I'm getting there so early that I'm just like I'm not going to the door right again then I notice there's like three people four people six people that are like always they're half an hour early so I asked I'm awesome I can I let him in just like yeah I don't care like if you want to get her that early I can't pay him like I don't care right I'm here I let him in and then they start asking me hey will you train us I'm like yeah some coach and I'm we're just like we're trained and we're going after it there's no like personal training there right but I'm just like doing it I'm like before the hours show up like yeah we're good let's go all right and it turns out like I don't know what was three or four from around the executive board I did it you had no idea like the other two worked in like the smoothie shop I didn't know anybody from it didn't care did not care I'm just like who cares right I'm I'm hustling I didn't think long for one of the guys to be like yo we are actually invested in a facility in Arizona that only trains athletes is called athletes performance so Mark Prestig and opened this thing up like the late 1990s at that time was the only place like in the world right had your nutrition your car practice your training all this stuff in one location and he's like you don't need to be here like you need to be down there and I'm like I'm in he's like no money you gotta go work for free for six months and I was like I'm in like can't say yes fast enough so graduated drove my car down there didn't make it ever once and now yeah like I ran it for sure I made it I had nothing no like had nothing else I was eating oranges every day on like the orange trees that I could find on my way there I would wait for any of the athletes who would left they're like protein shake and they're aggressive and I'm like smashing all those to get you really put in your time and you didn't have anything I didn't have much I mean I had like again I had I had a lot of opportunity in terms of like my parents were really good people there was no violence there was no like yeah I didn't so I didn't have the deal with this stuff that's really hard like I didn't have money like I had safety and security so I didn't care because I'm like worst case I go right back to you know back at the couch like not a big deal so that part is do you ever take a moment and reflect on not having anything yeah to not I mean for sure like I make extraordinary life the amount of money I make right now like relative to the amount of money my parents made the whole life like it's it's longer right feel really good to be able to do stuff right on oh so it's it's like so they that best part is like they're not in the internet you know what I'm really like they barely not a user phone for real it's it's embarrassing and they have no idea like they have no idea they're like kind of like I had to explain this to my mom because I got stopped in the airport like three times ran on like different times she's like how do people sell me people know you I was like kind of a big deal mom my god to pull a bit she's like no I know but I'm like I don't think you really get it um so yeah like to think really do them now they're just like yeah yeah it's a greatest thing um see got Arizona yeah so I get I get down there I'm just hammering it right and uh it was dope because I'm like training Hall of Fame baseball players we had like 15 or 18 guys going the first round of the NFL draft that year guys are not being like real legit burn and Davis guys are like really really elite guys and and baseball stuff and I was coaching them like right out the gates for the most part. Did you know what you're done yeah yeah that's honestly why I didn't want to become a strength edition coach. It's funny that sounds because like literally I'll never forget like probably the third day it was there like you're interning right there's a bunch in terms of show up at once and you got to run through really high level coaches that are running the show. I like the third day I was like and this is total arrogance but I was like yeah I could do that better than that guy like right now like I could have cooked like I right now and I was picking up on things that they asked me to do stuff and I was like I'm the coach missed that, stop missed that whatever and I was just like man stuff's not challenging like it's just not hard and I mean no disrespect of course at all to anybody but it wasn't like a it was a strength thing that is in coaching on that level was a little bit like babysitting because those coaches couldn't kick those kids out right those coaches couldn't they didn't really have authority to to really like run that show like so you had to be like a little bit of kind of do it do it with the high profile people want and and anyone that isn't strength like in this that world of pro athletes like you don't if some if one of the athletes is getting paid 20x you are and they don't want to do something like you don't really have to say even though it makes them better the no no like what what do you got to tell the bronjames if you're the strength coach he says I'm not doing that exercise like okay you're you're you're not gonna say anything right like so I didn't like that and I'll say damn I don't really do that and then I thought like like it just wasn't mentally like challenging enough for me to be like again like pro grammesitis really really really hard at that level and coaching is really really hard and the hours that those people work is just bananas but that was what I was like I'm not working these hours to not have the autonomy like I didn't like the autonomy I didn't like if I had coach got fired I just lost my job potentially I'm like I didn't like not being in control of my own life and destiny and it just wasn't like there's a so much learn and strength conditioning but I felt like I got to the kind of way I think it's like I felt like I got to purple belt really fast and I was like yeah yeah two easy too fast for me for that aspect of right and then the hard part on that field is like putting in the work and I didn't want to do that I don't want to be there every day like really just getting people to execute the plan I don't like operations like I like the creativity side of it so I like I want to come up with new innovative things but I don't want to be there every day like going through the same process like groundhogged do so hard but it's so hard to do that that's that's the that this is the flip side of great is right that's really easy to come up with an idea holy hell is it's I don't I was like I don't have I don't have the toughness of these people have to get through this so I'm out on this one and the athletes were with they are I just knew what I want to do that so I went to the actually Doug Larson I went to the NSA the National Strength and conditioning Association National Conference changed my life I was lucky again another big break Doug's life time mentor who's like he worked for like Hewlett Packard as an engineer he just loved lifting though and as a member it was like I'll take you boys down there so he drove us down there let us stay in his hotel where about that Vegas so he drove over like 24 hour drive or whatever 12 hour drive or whatever to get down there whatever it was he's like I'll take everything basically like paid for most of our food and stuff like that like I knew he was gonna take care of us because I got back actually when I finished at a in Arizona I literally got back so I moved back and I was like man I need I was about a half a gas tank away like my cards were tapped they were red line and I was like whoop like I just have to get and I was like driving home I was like watching the old domino being like got to get there got to get there made it back so I didn't like have anything I got super fortunate though got to work with my dad like make some money build the roads but then got to NSA and we get there and I'm like my mind is blown like what is this thing and I'm walking around there's part of the conference they have they give away like free beer and snacks so I'm just like smashing all this snacks right and they have a big row of posters and and people what they that signed up in conferences they put up like for like two or three hours you'll have a poster you'll make a big poster of a study you've done typically that published that like you can kind of see what they feel this working on preliminary results stuff like that and there's these big halls and I'm just walking up and down these halls and seeing all this strength and the addition of science and I was like what the because all this like where is all this? I had no idea I didn't know about a PhD didn't know any I had no idea this stuff existed I was like science was the crappy boring crap it was all the like again blood pressure medication did this and I'm like I don't know this stuff sucks I had a new idea and I walked by one poster and it was a poster of these people taking muscle biopsies and they were doing like really heavy squats with chains and bands and I was like well what and they were looking at they did a one-rate max back squat and you had to do ten successful reps in a day at 100% if you failed like you had to do it again so you were there squatting a lot oh yeah you did one-rate max ten one-rate maxes in a day every day for 14 days and they took muscle biopsies before and after and I was just like what the what is this this is like you took biopsies what's a biopsie how do you do that and like all this squatting stuff and I just hammered this poor guy with questions right I'm just like no like the kind of questions you get assigned to for confidence like how does this work like well like oh you know how do you do these things like how does this all happen right I just remember going back and forth getting back getting two more beers coming back talking to this guy what's this one one one poster right by that time we're done like the poster session shut down and the guy was like hey you want to go over to like the ball over there with like let's keep chatting whatever and I was like yes absolutely goes by and he buys me a couple more beers or whatever was and I was like and I had you know we're talking he's like hey you know I think I have an opening for uh grass student next year you want to come get your masters and I was like absolutely what's the masters like I had no idea like no idea that guy was Andy Fry and for people who don't know who Andy Fry is he's just alleging in the field yeah he I mean he recently won lifetime achievement award like the first real muscle physiologist in strengthening edition like really a couple of the guys uh pair of test and stuff I've done some stuff but really really Andy was like really mostly the overtraining research like a lot of stuff and people have to appreciate that um strengthening conditioning has been kind of separated from physiology it's it's been different all of exercise physiology all of health it's part of the reason why like like you and I have such an incredible connection right this is like this is so cool to see this stuff become science this stuff become medicine this stuff become things that are in papers and like in in scientific journals not the strengthening engineering right to get into jam and to get into the human-in-win journal med and and saline stuff like that nature and science to go up there but yeah so they told me and he's like you just happen to pick Fry's work well it like in retrospect uh there's no other one I could have picked right because I'm like who else is doing this stuff another people were there but I got in there actually I started I did a year of him then he left and went to Kansas started his lab out there and then I finished uh with him and I thought it actually it was getting closer I was like man I don't know what I want to do I don't want to coach they want a personal train um and I kind of want to do more stuff like this so what are my options well no one was had PhDs and that type of stuff so he hadn't started his PhD program Kansas yet he just got there he had no funding yet and I was like damn no one was really doing it so I just looked and I was like well who is doing the science and the physiology part like I want to do it who cares what they're doing it in right if somebody doing the science side that I want to do can I learn that and I felt so arrogant and confident in the performance and strength that is saying I'm like I don't need you that you're out there if I can learn the science side of what I want to do and then I can come back and do this in this population I'll be now the second person and the first guy doing it is you know 25 years older than me so I'm like I'll be in a real good spot so that's what I did for my PhD and they didn't have much of stuff I didn't really care about and then when I finished Rod as I was getting done I had the skill set of him and performance strength conditioning and my luck there physiology what did you do the PhD in my PhD was in called human bio energetics okay it's exercise physiology it's just a title like it's all the same stuff my like my actual dissertation was we developed a method for measuring individual muscle individual signaling proteins in single muscle fibers so it was all like a chemistry technical sort of one there's no like real intervention but the the first part of the dissertation was actually our Sweden study where we had the probably talk about the of interest the life long cross country scares and the victim access updated there so that was Eric the guy who has me dissertation so I worked on that one and then mine was like a chemistry but the physiology was very cool yeah it was dope like we were able to measure proteins that are really small level in individual tiny muscle fibers that like no one had ever been able to do before and didn't really go anywhere we never used the method all G really again but it was cool to show us possible so when I finished I was like what am I going to do and I started kind of applying for jobs and most of it is still that like public health like kind of job as a PhD yeah because I'm like you're going to start a lab but you got to get federal funding you have to do health like you knew sport but only if you really do obesity or diabetes research or aging that's like the kind of hallmarked three in our field right you got obesity aging or diabetes metabolic disease something like that I'm like I don't do any of that stuff and like you can do the sport performance stuff with the with your slush money like your leftover money from your real studies or something like that like I don't know what I want to do that shit at all like I wanted to give performance and then I just happened to see a posting at Calstay Fullerton it was like yeah we wanted somebody to do molecular physiology of strength addition and I was like what what and then I applied and Libram also just recently one lifetime and she would call me like I feel like it was like an hour after my application when I was like okay Libram Fullerton I was like of course I know who you are like president the NCA and he's like this is like exactly what we wrote our job posting for him like I know this is weird he's like how how how how how how do this exists and I'm like this is so that application process was pretty short what did that like I felt pretty good and the guy actually the reason that job was open was because the guy had just left that job that guy played football at Lynnfield so he had was a few years ahead of me gone on got his PhD from Bill Kramer at University Connecticut I applied for my PhD to go work with Bill this guy interviewed me with Bill and I I turned that spot down with Edelon so that four years later five years later I applied for it he's like hey or remember your name your that Lynnfield guy or whatever I'm just leaving he went to actually he left Fullerton and went to work for Eusarian or Neda one of the he's been a bolt so I don't know where but he left then to go to military research and it's like you should apply for this job and I was like Tom did like I'm there and then Janne called and was like yes and so I like I had all these people being like like this is a spot that you're in so when we open our conversation 40 minutes ago or whatever and I said I can feel your fortune because I don't I don't know some of this yeah I told you though like it is a ton of hard work but look look and just in this like 20 minutes like look how many breaks I got just like lucky lucky lucky also um Fluxo not really though yeah because there's also like what I didn't tell you were the 6,000 stories where I did something nothing happened I think this is important for the listener yeah to push ahead and to you just have to keep fire and shots but you also knew what you'd love and I think a lot of people don't spend time figuring out where they're true passion lies and if you don't well what I say is like I want to be really clear on that because I get this one a lot from students like I didn't know what my passion I didn't know like I wanted to do this specific thing I just knew it was like I love human performance and I also know like I can get after it and I'm just gonna keep going so like I didn't care about like having no income as a master student or going on a PhD student because like I don't got any money anyways so I don't know any different like I'm not going backwards life style I was don't care I'm a little more who cares right so I'm just gonna keep and I know like I don't know exactly what I want to do when I started that job I told you I didn't want to do science it was a teaching based job right I was going to teach you yeah what did they hire you for well I came in and I was like yo this is exactly what I want to do so Dave cost him had this thing where he was like I want to do one to one one to one is for every scientific publication I have I want to do one lay publication so like the 1970s that's you're talking like you published the paper in journal of the point physiology and then you write an article in runners world that that's interesting how was right yeah I suppose I didn't realize that and so coming in like Dave was retired by the time I got there so I didn't spend much time with them but that's how I got a big part of the lab sculpture like like this is what they and I was like damn that's perfect so when I came into Fullerton that's what I told I wrote them and I was like yo I'm gonna do one to one and I'm gonna put equal emphasis so in the center for sport performance that Lee started that I run now that the goal the mission of that center is to produce and disseminate research that enhances performance it is produce and disseminate that is one to one we will make and we will disseminate not we will publish we will disseminate which means we'll get it out to the world so I came in I told them yo I'm gonna do this and like I'm gonna go hard in the paint both ways and I'm gonna spend as much time or more getting the current information we have out to people and not just publish publish publish publish like let it die which I'm surprised because most labs want 100% of the lead is different like Lee was in charge and Lee was like no that's what you're doing like you do what you want and like get this out in the world like the NSEA's mission statement is something to do with bridging the gap between science and application and I'm like that's it and like this is this is what I want to do right to be in that middle world so I come in I'm teaching we're doing studies I'm getting them out there and that's when like the barbell show guys were like you got to you have to go on social media and I was like I don't want to do like I hated the idea of social media but I did it like you have to start coming on a podcast I'm like okay that started all making sense things take off from there and then at the same time that's when I started working with the pro athletes as well did they find you I mean because at the time there wasn't a lot of people doing what you were doing or good it was an individual might I was I mean it was a decent time ago because I had never what I didn't like I never stopped coaching athletes all the way I was coaching people my masters I was actually in the strength of the initiative as a strength of the nation coach I ball state as well which I wasn't supposed to be but I was like like coaching teams down there and stuff so I didn't stop coaching I was training myself I was fighting I was competing I was doing different stuff I was working with fighters so when I get to LA you're working with fighters that time oh yeah for sure because you've been working with fighters for yeah when we were master students my bloods will start across foot Memphis and like the fighters and and Doug was fighting the time the competing at MMA they're just like damn like all these science people now have a gym like let's just go over there and then we started training competing over there and then when I got to my PhD I found the first fight gym I could find them like join and then they're like they figure out what you know and it's like okay great like we're gonna trade services here so I never stopped and like I was competing myself so I'm like what are those keep doing this and everyone is thinking how did you have the time for all that yeah well like it's funny because like I would leave the lab I think practice was like 630 p.m. or something like that so like being a lab I would leave is right down the street from the lab funny out we would go train and like train pretty hard and we like fought a lot in practice and I could home eat go sleep like wake up do the next day and it was awesome because the rest of my lab mates were like the classic XFiz PhD students were like they're running maybe like doing some brolifting it's like I'm coming in I'm just like I had a broken rib one time so I was like hunched over in my thing I was all smashed up all the time they're just like what are you doing and I like you think it made you a better scientist for sure right because like that's such a good question we would yeah man like we would go over you know papers would come out or we'd have scientific ideas or basic XFiz stuff come up and in one of the reasons why I fell in love with fighting so much scientifically is because it doesn't fit the mold of any other industry right super super hard and they would say things like you can't do ABC and I would be like what we did last night of practice I'll show you my data like I'll show you the numbers they're just like what right it's like basically think about this like this um there's like lifting and then there's like long duration endurance and I'm like no no no here's what we didn't practice here's the rounds we did here's the heart rates we're at or whatever and just like the way and then it's like oh you don't do any distance running like no nor should I like all these things coming up right like you can't do that and be strong and this and like you can like this is how you're going to do it you guys don't know anything about training you guys know a ton about your little areas of science but you guys you work out when you really do not understand how to train for you performance like none of you have been real performance coaches because our lab actually never interacted with the strength of the shooting people at all and they were very much like the classic all those guys don't know the science of training sort of yeah I'm like you guys have no idea what you're doing you guys at PhDs and muscle physiology but you do not have any understanding how to train muscle like at all you know how to distance run and that's like all you know or swam or cycle right so it was like it was a ton of being able to be like yeah and look well what if what if this what if this what if this right and like look what happens and look what these people are able to do and they were constantly and so even like the science questions I wanted to ask the things we want to go after the way that I would interpret papers like I mean I'll never forget a ton of them right we can get these giant fights like academic fights like as doctoral students coming in because they would interpret a particular paper a certain way like one of them was classical and we there was a I didn't I wasn't an author on this paper but we did a training study in 80 year olds it was 70 and 80 year olds this is one of those and the 70 year olds got stronger and added some muscle mass but the 80 year olds did not right and it was like okay great and so the lab interpretation of the paper was there's something happening at age 80 where you stop responding like as well that notation right and I look at all the data and I'm like no what you saw is your training program sucked like I'm looking at a training program you did leg extensions three sets of 10 at 70 percent I think it was like once or twice a week that was the whole training program I'm like your training program sucked what you found out is you don't know how to strength conditioning code like that's what you found out so and then we were like well look at the this marker look at this one over here blah blah blah like there's more support you just hammering down it but yeah like all that like came out as in my science right so like how am I interpreting how I'm in positioning things what do I want to do but that is and it really learning the skill of going men this is why I'll say this not to hopefully if anybody but if you really have never been a scientist really never done the work like you really don't know how to interpret research and you really really really don't you can get kind of close but I mean like even someone like like our good friend laying norton right laying did a PhD and he gets this but he also has not done a single study on his own right and I'm saying this with all love and lay a lame but fully hug me right now if I said this it's like you don't know the difference between you've run 10 20 40 studies like you really there's layers of understanding that come with a career with career so does like man you in and knowing like the scientists and knowing the lab like I can pick apart and be like so I can see things in between lines is because I like I know these things so there is there's a level of trust that has to happen with like the actual people in there like when a real scientist is really producing research so something and that disagrees with maybe somebody else doesn't mean they're right plenty of biases and but there's a different level of understanding how the whole game works and they can get to so yeah it totally informed how I was doing things and it's you can see it to this day that the type of studies we've done on my lab that things we've learned the approach I've had it is all funneled back to that same thing right the direct work with tons of fighters it's very unusual yeah it's a very unusual combination but I did it all on purpose yeah yeah because like I saw that thing right like I looked at that thing as a master student with no one does this and that's together okay how you're going to get a job we got to you have to have a skill set like 10 for us who is so beautiful about this a decade ago it's not necessarily having a crazy skill set it's having a skill set in two things that don't complement each other that's where people get magic you're like how do you have a PhD in mathematics but then you're also a world class chef what like weird now this isn't like weird things that an opportunities happen because you have this unique combination of skills right so I'm looking I'm like I don't see anybody who's really understands human performance from a coaching perspective that understands cellular physiology who's also actually still competing who's really coaching people who's doing all this right if I go start a lab like that I can do whatever research I want I'm not competing against anybody because no one's doing this type of stuff any grand I go after I'm I'm in the open here no one's looking at this and any athlete who I would potentially want to work with is going to come in and be like yo which of these people would I pick like I'm going to be the pick right people wondered like I I'll finish this rat like God we're we're so deep and you could call this or put it to the end. Oh no no we're keeping us in when um as I I did uh it's been like six or seven years since the first time I went on Joe Rogan people ask I had like no falling at the time right like a thousand followers or something like how the hell and people were like oh what public surety use whatever and I was like none ever zero how did he find you he DM me but how did he find me if you go back and look at my bio yeah it said something like this like PhD muscle physiology uh MMA coach like blah blah blah and it was like it was like the four or five things like he loves the most so people always wanted like how did I go on like first I don't know how to get on if you show they have to but like don't ask me yeah when you're like us if you're a strength addition in coach and golf don't expect to get on there like he doesn't like that he falls it's like I listed all the things like he was super into and looked at all my posts or science and sports and athlete stuff and he's like he probably saw that one was like that's exactly what I'm into like that's cool I don't have posts about other stuff or whatever it's all science come so like part of that was like you know I'm doing this because no one's in this field everybody wanted to be in the NBA and the NFL and majorly baseball I wouldn't want to be strength coaches for like those people and I'm like that's great no one's giving a crap about these UFC people well that was 2008 turns out wow like that sport was getting big right and I'm like and I'm the only one there I'm the only person to turn to so when these fighters start like looking and finding work it's out like there's a science that's doing on this work and like he also has worked with ABCD and you know these UFC champions and all this and like all of a sudden floodgates in that community gets opened up boom like things get going so like from there I had I already had this experience with NFL players and majorly baseball players as well too so I still had some people from there that was sending people over and then you know at that point like we'll call that marketing in terms of like word but marketing is only as good as then what your product is going to be so once the time came out was like oh shit he's like look how how well people are doing out of his stuff then like from there was a rap did that inform your research or something so you went from fighting doing all these things you then took over this sport lab at Fullerton what was the first study that you did do you even remember I don't know is that was I don't remember when was that I was 14 years ago it's something like that that's been years ago I don't remember what I've ever ever heard for study was but it was geared towards what was it geared towards fighting I don't think so the first couple of years I had to build the biochemistry lab I had to get the muscle biob sand board like there was that's a lot of infrastructure like building like physically building the lab so I don't remember what our first study was but I mean some of the early ones we did I wanted to know whether or not you'll see a lot of times in between rounds of a fight boxing or M.A. that coaches will put an ice pack like on people's neck and rubber on their shoulders to stuff like that and so I was like what I know does that actually work does it doesn't matter well so we looked at it and we're like let's put them in a control condition let's put them some placebo condition let's put an ice pack on people's necks and like in between rounds like a simulated fight we didn't see any difference in like thermal regulation or performance or either and director indirect markers of a TIG in the first three rounds but then it started to make a difference after that and so the basic idea was like well okay if you're fighting in a championship fight potentially putting it right back there I also don't know harm so my general recommendation was like potential to work no downside whatsoever I'd strongly encourage it like definitely put that thing as high but you have to put a really on the base of your neck like the base of your brain not only like your lower neck put it right up there where your thermal sensors are so I just can't and then hold it don't rub it around it or whatever where the longer you can apply that thing the better so that's a great example is like okay great and I'll actually like what's actually really funny is for my first tenure review I got completely crushed from the my own department actually because they're like you know your research isn't focused because I had done like a muscle biopsy biochemistry on I had done that one we did a study on deadlifting with heavy bands right so we built in on the force plate and we're looking at that and they're like you're all over the place because they want you to be super focused and like do one thing I would say probably most almost I mean they want you to be a niche because only way you're going to grow old famous and get funding itself is like if you have a hyper niche into something right I'm like that I'm not doing any of that like I'm doing exactly what I want so I got crushed on that but as I got all care like I'm gonna do like what I want to do well I turned out it worked out for me so yeah we were all I mean we're all still this day like if it if I think very different and I think that the papers that you publish have a lot of diversity thank you to cozy earth for sponsoring this episode of the show I have been using cozy earth products forever and if you have not tried them you are definitely late to the game cozy earth products are made from biscuits from bamboo these are the softest towels batting clothes you will ever ever try I am telling you I recently got the resort towels I didn't even need to go to resort to use these towels quite frankly I'm using them for bath towels they are large and fluffy they feel great they're beautiful and listen cozy earth has been around for a while and they just continue to create new products that you can use in your daily routine I love my cozy earth bedtime sheets well I guess they would all be bedtime sheets but they could be nap time sheets especially as it begins to get warmer and many people are hot at night and you can turn down the temperature but the sheets for some reason stay hot cozy earth is not that cozy earth keeps you cool and soft and just amazing you can get yours at cozy earth.com you'll get 30% off my listries get 30% off using the code doctor lion that's cozy earth.com 30% off and use the code doctor lion now back to the show talk to me about let's talk about your lab now or I should say let's talk about some of the things that should be being done like biomarkers for muscle help big question what do you want to go here because I got a lot to say about this stuff well I think it's really important because there's the blood biomarkers and then of course there's the physical piece the physical imaging piece whether it's ultrasound Ct MRI dexa yeah I I mean I would love to talk about the blood biomarkers and I have message you many times you know Andy what can you tell me about this or you know what can we think about muscle turnover or sarcopenia again you and I come from different perspectives I care about performance because they care about the military operators yeah but other than that aside from dealing with tier one operators ideal with real people ideal with c eos people are getting after it you're interested in human performance again there's a spectrum of the human performance but from what can be applied clinically even if we're not even there yet blood biomarkers skeletal muscle what do we know so number one depth defining operationally what we're going after here biomarker simply means a marker biology your height is a biomarker right you're a very small one about it being so when you this is what reason I'm saying this is to say that actually it's used the fairiesley marketing purposes and I think it it sounds sexy sounds appealing right but it could be anything and so when you see a company it's like oh they are really good at biomarkers they do my own it's like it doesn't really mean shit that be totally honest right what does that actually mean okay so a biomarker could be any of number so when you lay out a couple of different forms flavors of those biomarkers it could be a physical thing so if we're analyzing take kind of company like axiophores I remember with axiophores yet okay great they actually are an up and coming company they're out actually well the subconscious mind is fascinating they are out of antifryze lab so that's a bomb mechanics company though whether out of the university canvas Kansas and they built a force plate that is a soul of a shoe so you can actually you get full 3D motion analysis of how you're moving and all you do is you take the soul out of your shoe and put their soul in full like give a full kinematics kinetics coming off this thing force plates are like 40 grand but they figured out how to put this technology into a soul of a shoe so you can put this in there right can anyone purchase that it's not available for consumer purchase yet for the outside world but but you might know someone maybe axiophores is spending most of their time with early Parkinson's detection right now because one of the things that they're they're going after saying hey look if we can identify changes in your gate how your left foot is moving how you're walking right because when obviously you've unimagine somebody with dementia or as they're stuffling right you find these other changes in gate right what if we can pick up those changes in gate six months earlier a year earlier six years earlier six new I don't know the number is right but we are clearly if this is now a passive technology that's just sitting in your shoe and your at risk or have some other mark like I don't know who gets it we don't know right but now we can identify this before you start identifying other signs of neurological innovation you're not you're not feeling the loss of mental clarity you're not seeing some of the early signs right but they can see that marker happen earlier now we can step in an intervene prior to you actually having observable changes by just that that's a biomarker that's a biomarker of muscle quality so definitely the new and I typically think we're looking at now true function right okay super interesting that's out there now whether or not their technology fully works or look at that's actually yeah it's a point of going after right you have other companies that are there you do something like that then you have another form over biomarker like what you and I do right we'll take hundreds of blood biomarkers in this I typically will further them as blood biomarkers or probably more appropriately molecular biomarkers and we're looking at everything from a combination of actual enzymes to metabolites to full proteins any number of things we're looking in there right and we're trying to gauge and I'm putting words in your mouth here what you do for your job you're trying to gain a gauge a stage of like what is signal what is response right what is the what is the actual cause what is the symptom right and there's all these things right what is the dysfunction what is the response and this is like way more tricky than to saying you're testosterone's low therefore your it needs to go up like hold on here we got to go upstream we got to go downstream and figure out again it's just a response it's this the cause if so why and then you're trying to really get an understanding what the physiology is doing because it is it is proactive and is responsive so you're moving up and down I'm going to come away off that here a second then I'll we'll come back we'll spend most of our time there but now we've talked about like a physical movement biomarker we've taken actual blood biomarker and now let's take another biomarker like how do you feel what yeah your subjective life experience is an incredibly power biomarker right how are you going through the world how are you experiencing thing is your back hurting are you low energy are you feeling like you're struggling to recover are you not you anymore you want to go back like you just don't feel like yourself anymore like all this stuff is a biomarker so when you say like what do you go after what do we look for it depends on what are we looking for fundamentally go all the way back to a science principle called first principles strip this whole thing down and just start asking questions along the way to we can no longer get past an assumption we feel like as a hundred percent no I think of this in handflow is number one step one is there has to be some assessment okay I got to have some data on you if those data are how do you feel today if it's that and your waste or conference great if we go the all with the end of that and we've got 500 biomarkers we've got stool urine saliva I know how you walk I've done a springbock analysis on you are you from a springbock oh my god oh right this one down please let me tell you a whole bunch of about springbock when we're done here springbock allows you to run a full MRI scan but not for cancer detection for muscle analysis and so you actually get a 3D movable analysis of the volume of every muscle on your body so I can look directly and go okay great your left feel your left quad best slaughterhouse the outside leg muscle is 12 percent larger than your right side now that's just size side function doesn't talk about function or quality but now we've but it's another piece of the pie like what if I could visually physically see every muscle on your body now I can in a 20 minute scan so it's springbock available you know totally I mean well we do full body MRIs but we do it for a fast flitor we do it for cancer detection we look for physical injury but we don't look what is the the accuracy it's it's dialed okay there's MRIs I'm pretty good yeah yeah you could take those things right so you imagine now you're stacking these things together and you're going okay great it's seen the blood but it looks fine nothing popped out there right gate looks totally normal functionality why is it what we're struggling to return why is this needs to hurting okay now we run through three walk analysis we're going okay well maybe we're saying is giant asymmetry in muscle side now I don't know what giant asymmetry means or not so asymmetry's normal like there's a top things a little about that right like I don't know or maybe it's the opposite maybe we see a 15 percent difference in your quad size left to right but there's no pain there's no dysfunction okay great right hmm it's not there and then we're going into now we're going to your sleep and we're looking and so my point is we start talking biomarks it's like what problem are we solving and ideally step number one is assessment we have to get some sort of data on you is nuts is that all stuff could be or as simple as how you feeling how you're energy you know how you're poops today like like what is it was going to be okay step number two now we have to be able to contextualize that you call that assessment right is that good better great all those things right so okay doc my testosterone's low is it according to what according to who we have a full conversation now to talk about reference ranges for things like blood markers yeah yikesies right holy Toledo we could talk the entire time about that like compared to who correct high compared to what low what do you mean outside of what reference range like based on a population of who all this stuff we could go into all this but we have to understand how my contextualize in that front piece right I we talked about it from the spring back okay you're a symmetry but what what is normal even mean how much is okay part number one is easy on ending technological growth on number one you can pick any metric of health in human performance you want and there is a great technology and there's even more coming part two is a problem part two is a real problem right I don't know um if you don't really understand how to interpret blood work we can't get this if you don't really understand how to truly analyze sleep you're gonna have problems if you don't really understand and you could okay we don't have databases of super healthy people this is a huge huge problem for all of us we do not for sure not the pander to the audience here but we for sure do not have good data on healthy women I can scrape together like in a lot of areas like what a normal healthy 40 year old dude should look like you go into women and now you go into anything between pre post childbirth no idea like there there's a different difference between a 35 year old woman who's had children and 35 that is not okay right now we get into all of their challenges which is where you thought I was going right you go into menopause right like this is just a Darth like we're in dead space right now right we might as well be in a middle of a black soul like we're really fundamentally we we we we we we're in a black hole right now yeah we got nothing here right then you got to go to the next step which is okay we've determined we've made our best guest based on your clinical experience based on your intuition based on the data that is available based on okay we have some data on men at that same age then we have some animal studies like you're doing the best you can because people need action now with that's practice right that's evidence based that's okay the next step though is going all right how do I get that corrected what's my actual action and now we're still at an even bigger mystery right because now we're going well I don't even know if they're not updated on if that was good band great and there's definitely not intervention data then what do I do how do I solve it right and so now you're leaning on people again with their experience and intuition and you're making your best sort of guests there that is is the the stepping stone that we have to walk through this entire path on right so getting into the dark so we could go up and down this is anyway you want we could maybe spend time on one one in particular once dollar something like that but that is really the full picture trying to assess how do we actually use this information to make my world better and the way that this is all packaged the last thing I'll say here that is all under umbrella population and that sucks for you right because I need to know what works for me I do not care if something works in the population level that's a great start but science doesn't really give you answers on the personal level very often it almost always gives you answers on the population level right this is most likely to work the best in most people and that's super helpful that tells you very little information about you and so we have to be able to approach this whether you're intervening on your own behalf whether you're working with somebody like you or great doctor doesn't matter we have to be able to go from okay great that's where the science took us as far now how do I figure out in my system in my approach how I collect my own data make sense of that whether I know that that's good bad terrible for me and then what is going to work for me that's the gap we've got to close we have to help people understand how do I figure that out for me personally the science is what it is but gotta help people get that last last level of individualizing personalizing however you want to call this precision iteration precision recovery precision training for me that's the problem you've got to get to I want to ask this question but I do want to talk about myocines and so we need to deal with just because it's not discussed enough these markers maybe even three-metallic histidine things but before I do I'm gonna throw this out there because actually you taught me about this we were at a nutrition conference for special operations do you remember we were in San Diego oh yeah yeah it was for it was a lot of the nutritionists that worked with and worked with the same socks yeah you sock joint special operations command dev group those kinds of individuals digital twin oh yeah is that where the digital twin potentially comes into play and my listeners don't know about digital twin maybe they're smarter than me maybe they know about it but most don't I just learned about this great there the digital twin is imagine we can take your physiology uh your genotuck to phenotype so who you are at the genotuck level all the way to how that is physically expressed how tall you are how you feel but bloodbomb art you have and we could digitize that and now with that we could run endless simulations on you and predict how well you're going to respond and what ways to any intervention and big any combination of interventions so you did this for your sleep routine this is your self-imensia you run that whole thing and we would see what will happen with your physiology as a result of that that human digital twin thing has been going on since the 1960s and now started off at NASA after their Apollo mission that got all screwy and they basically said here's a new standard any physical machine we sent up this space has to have a digital twin made of it so if anything goes wrong in space we can run simulations on a cure digitally and I have to rebuild it physically identify the problem know what the best solution will be for our crew up there and then tell them exactly what to do that then just got extended in the 1990s or so to the human made sense right how could we start digitizing and so the first things started to come on hard were like the heart so being able to run a digital twin of your heart and identify which surgical intervention is going to be best for you and your particular case right using that information there's a couple of groups that are working on the physical brain and that's getting close just physically not cognition not emotions not memories not like that's a very deep problem to get to the soft and hard problem of consciousness like that is way way we are not there yet no but just like a physical brain pretty close lungs and kidneys are very close as well those are not and so much as I was like they're basically here you're talking about like third step clinical trials now at this point running some last little things but and technology and cost and stuff but it's really really quite quite here the stuff that's been worked on for the last decade or so and you'll fit do you find it if you're just going to PubMed yeah I have a digital twin you'll start it seeing these old ways right this is not like a fringe thing you'll see human digital twin for the immune system and that gets really really challenging we're not close to that yet but that is hard because as you know they like I can go in and pull out your renal system I can go in and pull out your vascus system I can go in and pull out your pulmonary system I can't pull out your immune system it's everything it's in every cell of your body like it's all over there right so figuring that thing out mapping that is really really challenging but there's other stuff we can get to so we actually like the read one of the reasons I'm here in Houston right now is tomorrow we have a special little conference thing going on we just actually finished our first round of our human digital twin project is myself and a bunch of other companies so our sleep company our blood work company and a bunch of other companies came through and said okay what if you run all these analyses on somebody created digital twin of them then put them through advanced protocols based on their response and then test them at the end and that's the actual project that we completed with the handful of the NASA teams and other stuff space acts like some other groups that are combined on that one so we put a lot of stuff together pilot study learned a lot from it but but really impressive there's a bigger conversation about like some other things going on but the the the reality of that step number one I can talk about assessment it's just getting better and getting really good so I don't know who we're comparing to like I don't know any of the things but the ability to take your physiology and upload it it's just not a if anymore like it's effectively here being able to run digital twins on your own self and you be able to put them through like there's actually a group called Svexa is out of they're in the bay area but it's like silicon valley exercise something or other group they were able to they can take very little limited amount of data and basically tell you how you're going to predict in any performance marker anytime down the road I mean that's pretty extraordinary yeah what stunning accuracy are they I think that they did this for the Chicago marathon and the group of people that they did it with they were within like six seconds of the marathon performance do you think there's a space where we could say okay from you know in my brain that is the practical aspect would this give us a sense of where someone and again recognizing the limitations of the subjective question of feeling better let's say we have a woman and we have already these things or we give her this number this amount of testosterone and then she feels we give her I don't know 50 milligrams of testosterone this week it causes her free testosterone to go to a hundred and she feels amazing just make it up with amazing accuracy versus we give you 20 milligrams of testosterone you might see a free testosterone of 15 because that's kind of the human variability there's again I understand it's not the intercellular amount yeah yeah yeah I mean the fact the matter is why people who listen to this will really care is you just saved years of experimenting years trial and error because and you save when this is going to be ready you're going to save massive side effects so we give you the 50 megs of tests and I'll also now you're crazy and you lose all your hair or whatever and you get acne yeah yeah it's all you can maybe testosterone wasn't the right choice for you maybe we had to figure out a way to lower your sex hormone binding glob and or whatever it is yep right so the issue is there's many issues with the stuff to balance the conversation because like I want you to get side of it not too excited I was very excited the balance is always still remember it's only it's good to stay to end so what data did you collect to begin with right okay that that's you have to be really careful of that then number two it's only operating on the information it has so like if it doesn't have any information about your mental health and like it's not going to have you able to predict that has no idea right so you have to have a more comprehensive this is why when you have practices like your medical practice this is why you have the success you have right because you're a tech you're looking at every part of this this program right everything holistically yeah everything holistically right ours is the same with our coaching practice right like you have to do it this way I think at this point in order to move the needle you're only in a meaningful way for people has to be all in companies all you have to be stool all of it you have to live a genetics everything yeah if not like what the way that we phrase it is we're looking for performance anchors what is that mean what is an anchor that is holding down your performance I didn't say sport your performance again you define how you look feel and what performance you right so we've we've coached hundreds of non-apples hundreds of them right okay you tell me the terms I'm still looking for that anchor what's that thing holding you back maybe for you it is your testosterone totally great I don't do that I don't give hormones I'm not a real doctor like you I'm saying that person to you okay great I'm really getting a hormone therapy like you go to them not what I do we're gonna come back and say okay your biggest thing though however is maybe maybe something small I'm trying to think of examples that I've had like the last couple weeks that maybe it's the fact that like you don't have a consistent daily schedule You have a variability of three or four hours today all I do is change that and I'll also watch your testosterone rise that's exactly what happened in this guy right okay great got them up there perfect other ones it is like hey you need really a very specific protocol for six months we have to have this combination of breath work got to get you down regulated I mean to change the time of day you're working out and not getting some exposure we need these specific nutrients like in getting very very very complicated for some people because you end up in a circle right where it's like a little bit of bad sleep a little bit worse nutrition choices a little bit worse nutrition choices a little bit less energy a little bit less energy a little more stimulus a little more stimulants a little bit worse sleep you got to break the cycle right you can't just come in and give them testosterone you can and then they're gonna feel great and they're gonna quit that and then they're gonna come see me you because they're gonna be like I feel horrible yeah that's what happens right so you have to approach what is that real anchor what is the most severe lens you have what is the lint pen the log jam like however you want to think about what is the thing that is dragging and what the tip I'll give you here is it's not the thing that's dragging necessarily like just your performance down so it's not always one to one meaning like I have low energy there for it's an energy issue maybe not like really maybe not at all or not recovering like I did it's somewhere maybe not it is what is what is putting the most constrained your physiology physiology will only operate the level that it is constrained you have to figure out what is constrained that that physiology then get out of it the way right and then watch all the other peripheral things just take off because physiology is physiology it's all just one big soup in the same pot right so it's not like you can mess with one of the ingredients and expect the other thing not to mess with so look at the entire pot and then go you know this is the area even if you don't think you care let me give you like a direct example so people don't think it's gonna be like you're not strength training at all okay great yeah but I don't really care about that I only get bigger bulky I don't need to put a mask like I really just care about my mental health okay great I've seen that mental does not just strength training right we're not saying that but if we look at your entire panel and go yeah but here's what you're not just appreciating all and then we could go on and I'll make a read your book right they got a read your book and they realize all the physiology that goes behind high quality muscle and then we can show them we can show them the papers and this is what we do like we we present like the people that work that they get presentations of the science of their physiology right this is what's going on this is why and so then when we look at your labs A is low and B is low and D is low and D is low right and then we look at your sleep all these things are connected back in your case to your lack of muscle when we think we we correct this problem this is gonna go up and then you're gonna get the thing you want oh that's what I mean when I say what's constraining the physiology is not just the oh your testosterone is low it needs to go up maybe maybe not oh your insulin's down hold on here if we do not treat one to one like do not I don't treat anybody I'm not a doctor but we don't coach one to one it's not just like oh my sleep sleep slowly got to go sleep more maybe why's it low let's fix that problem and then watch everything else correct so do you think with um the client tell you guys are working with there's there is one overarching I understand everyone is there energy like energy like energy is probably even like with our pro athletes with our executives like I would say then probably the biggest one we get is fatigue you think about it it's like either fatigue or slash energy so I can't train as hard as I used to I get tired sooner slash like physically I'm sleepy throughout the day like I don't have energy used to have I don't have the vigor the like the go after it's as much anymore like if we collectively call that energy I said that is the biggest collective thing we've had and do you find that in terms of the cause I understand the cause is different but do you think I mean again sleep apnea's huge you sleep apnea also environmental yeah toxins in the house in the room for sure do you find that there are top three yeah issues that's that is pushing the fatigue or and or lack of energy yeah so we kind of have like a um we triage we we walk most likely most common all the way down to more likely something like an environmental toxin important but that is down on our list of like we're not getting there till the end most like because we're going to start with the most of what if you're fatigue the most the number one place we're starting is your sleep if you don't have energy you feel tired make sense make sense right we're going to exhaust that and if you're a parent forget it if young children just forget it caffeinate okay I got to say yeah all right okay so we're starting off a sleep right uh there's some insane number of people in the world okay I don't want to go too far down here but here's the reality your practice medical practice we talked about blood biomarkers being poor reference ranges look at the sleep ones there are fucking disaster okay total okay you mean from a um if you're pretty happy I tell you here's what sleep testing looks like imagine you're you get into a snowmobile accident and your knee is totally trashed and you're like oh my gosh your knee is pointing the wrong direction it is sideways you're in screaming pain and you go into a hospital and they take an x-ray and they go well Dr. Lyon the nothing broken here it looks like your knees find like yeah but it's pointing the wrong direction and I can't move it but nothing's broken so you're fine that's what sleep testing is right now it is an x-ray if you officially have one of two or three things at a certain cut off you will be told you have sleep apnea you have some other clinical sleep disorder below that though you'll be told not your sleep sleep is fine and like okay great well my ACL PCLNM cell are all torn off the bone but you only looked at the bone structure themselves you got there if you go get a sleep test done at a almost any sleep lab you have that in addition you're going into a lab you're sleeping for a couple of nights in a very weird scenario I don't even need to explain to you you're putting wires all your head and face like this is total out of nonsense right you're not getting that there's an litany of subclinical any like it don't officially have sleep apnea but you are suboptimal extremely deficient that can be explaining all of your fatigue all of right like there are things that are benign or things that people think are benign that are absolutely not snoring snoring is not normal no you should not be snoring I'm not saying you have a sleep disorder because you're snoring but if you are like yo can you're part in or who you from the other room most nights are often yeah like that is ding ding ding ding ding like red bell that is suboptimal sleep every day yeah regardless of what comes back on your one day is the question if you're waking up more than once per night for most people ding ding ding ding ding ding ding like that should not be having less is because your three-year-old is running upstairs like if it's under your control it's milk or needs water sure the other one yeah all of them right all of them last night was a mom dad I have a question what um no go back to you but it's a really quick question that's my just-torn for you that's what funny um condinos are you me no but dinosaurs are staying time yeah yeah but go back to your home okay did he come back course he did goes back to his room five minutes later on you know is it playtime no it is not it's a love in pocket night you should be fully this is three forty or something like that I like to you would have a little bit longer would have let this one slide we would have just got up but this is too early go back to that but yeah outside of that so there are lots of things that are like people are like oh I guess it is normal um and it's feeling like I'm just pretty tired all day like well I guess I am fifty now no no no no no right like these are all things people just assume of like oh it's because I don't have this like giant sleep issue that you think your sleep is just like normal I'm just a bad sleeper man we have analyzed a lot of people sleep and we are really yet to find anybody who's just a bad sleeper I love that because that means you can fix it yeah you're sleeping poorly for a reason you haven't found it yet but because you've also probably done very little about it um you've maybe in fact some of these people have had two three four five sleep studies I'm like well you're still doing the same x-ray you have to get better analysis of what's actually how and you you've created that yeah I mean this is obviously we have our technology at my company which is absolutely rest yeah that's that's one but um generally sleep assessments are going to look at how you're sleeping so let's say like my company is this is not meant that all of you have applied for my company do do do every one our company sold out any nice good luck I really do want to see this one that doesn't matter about my company so I'm trying to be as helpful to you as well thank you yeah if you want to pay attention to something like this you have to step number one it's like we talked about assessment what's that you have to figure out how you're sleeping okay if you have some sort of sleep tracker that's going to tell you how you're sleeping now I could go on and on about why they are bad while I think sleep staging is terrible do not pay attention to how many minutes you spent in deep why why I actually agree with you why yeah a lot of reasons number one on the small level most trackers are at best like 85 to 90 percent accurate sleep staging so for a lot of people that's actually good enough okay fine I give you a rough idea of plus or minus okay however bigger problems with that number two what makes you think that we know exactly how many minutes need stay you should be at because do not have normal data in these different situations but number three you're not asking your brain and body to do the same thing every day why are you asking and then to have the same sleep it should not right if you spend an entire day podcasting versus an entire day running up a mountain you should not expect the same sleep staging that night it should not happen so in one of those nights you turn on you like oh my gosh my deep sleeps down 20 minutes it should be because then it's prioritizing other phases of your sleep deep is not just better REM is not just better light sleep is not bad fourth those stages I just laid out don't even exist those are arbitrary and made up and the line that makes something officially deep or non-deeper and one to changes these things have been restructured over time right and probably will continue to be they will for sure fifth on top of all this this is all based on a system of assessing sleep called polysomography pst that's the gold standard I think it's all garbage in fact I will put my stamp on this one 10 years from now I don't think people will do anymore it's like it's fading out of the look at the look of the sleep scientists the sleep researchers these folks that are in these labs like pst is going by the wayside there are much much much better ways to look at your sleep quality if you're just looking at things like timing did you go to sleep the rough at the same time which is very very very important fine your sleep track or pst is fine if you want to just look at total duration it's important it's not the most important thing though it's okay these are things are fine but if you're really trying to figure out like you're sipping and you sleep quality and you're trying to understand what's actually happening there like pst is it's okay right it's okay but it's not I'll put it this way when I have six hundred million dollars athletes like we have we're not using pst like that alone should tell you like when we have one limited funds that's not what we're doing when I'm sticking wires all over your head and like doing that for one or two nights there are much better ways that we can go after these things so all of that just tells you how you're sleeping so throw my company out the window don't use abs at rest at all you got a contact us yeah no but I'm to saying like it doesn't matter pick pick your you're wearable pick your tracker that you have great and let's just say everything it just says doesn't matter and it's good enough for what you have because again it really is good enough for a lot of people they've like really $200 is the limit you've got on your budget okay I like you can get some reasonable stuff but that's number one that is how you're sleeping you gotta go the next step which is why are you sleeping that way you're not gonna solve anything and none of your trackers tell you any information about why are you sleeping that way that's why people don't get solutions that's why every time I go to conferences or I talk I maybe did this then that if you ever seem to speak I ask like how many of you are asleep studying done a lot of hands go up how many of you have ever found you value out of it down well I don't know we see it ton of major sleep out now from head injury oh yeah you're going to see that right and then they usually get told seep out which is like hey we are all for or trans magnetic simulation other things they're better yeah yeah yeah I'm having you know me and it fell guys get told to wear a seatbelt all of them and you how many actually you wear it you're all there exactly I'm like it's not gonna work right people rip them off like this all kinds of problems that really not against it like tremendous tremendous solution for a lot of people it saves life like changes life yeah first of all it's not about that but it's why okay why you're sleeping you've got to expand past the fact you just have obstructive sleep out of the if that is the case for sure yeah if I go after but you want to think about this in a couple of different buckets you mentioned environment mm-hmm they're environmental factors physically going into I'm not talking about like to sleep hygiene stuff like how light are talking about it's your two pollutants in the room yeah and or collagen of allergens like all kinds of stuff like that in the room all these things that are happening there number two is it actually pathology do you legitimately have a sleep disorder right okay like that could be happening but that's only one of our four number three is it behavior are you doing something are you doing many of the obvious things one should not be doing you had caffeine late you did oh is there something wrong yeah right before Ben yeah well not if you're parent because you're such a different patient you forget it fall right it anyways um are you doing really high intensity training really late at night right are you like doing many of the things like pretty obviously should be you having giant meals right before you fall asleep right okay and then the last one the fourth one is physiological so is there actually something in your physiology that's doing this so like are you not creating enough serotonin or melatonin is something off uh obviously a cortisol curve is like the most classic thing here right but it is way more interesting than that micronutrients vitamins minerals like all this stuff can be now laying the foundation of really what's happening any of this um what I didn't actually put on that list but I actually part of it is it's psychological as well right and there's clearly PTSD trauma anxiety depression like all lot of this stuff going on so how you solve your sleep issues is you try to look for that performance anchor if this thing is in psychology I don't give a rats crap what melatonin you take like not gonna matter right not we're not solving any issues if if this is really a brain injury I don't care what breath work you do I will help but like you okay great like you need like like h bond or tons of other stuff going on right and so it is about coming back and saying finding out how you slept that's just the starter journey if you can find out how you're sleeping specifically though now knowing where to start with our solutions is really precise like that's why people let up so rest of crushed it so much because we don't have to guess anymore about well I don't like it could be this and this and we have to give you 600 things to go do and try because we have the most advanced analysis of how you're actually sleeping we now have the most direct pipeline to exactly what to do so we can just go after people with lasers and just juggernaut the the big thing that's coming after him and an overwhelming and just like go after problems so um it sometimes it's really a lot of times hopefully it's really easy cheap scalable solutions like that's that's by far the most if we can we like to start with inactive solutions like if it is something to do with the environment and we can open up a window you didn't do anything that's an inactive one right if if we can do something if we then have to progress to pat to active ones like from those passive ones and you have to have to change your behavior activity we will but obviously hey if we can start with something that you don't have to do much and we can win like that's that's where we're gonna go for sure but eventually sometimes it's like hey you're not to change your behavior here hopefully we can but if not we'll work backwards right we work with people that run companies all over the worlds and like they it's like hey I can't just have you going to bed at nine o'clock yeah that's not gonna happen right okay great how do you help me within that then that's when we start getting really tricky and dialing stuff up a little bit but that's gonna be really specific to that person and that brings me a little bit to muscle because everything yeah curse back to muscle we're muscle people yes we are so I have a couple questions there and then I do want to circle back to this biomarkers oh yeah yeah because I have to say I don't know if you know this but you were the one that turned me on to a benti paterson's work in Copenhagen who really looked at myocines and yep again I don't know if we know the amount of training that's going to release x amount of myocines but before we get to this let's close out sleep okay there is evidence to support the training can offset lack of sleep would you agree that no okay good tell me it would all be pedantic here it would depend on when you mean by offset and it would depend on what type so like clearly what you're not saying is like hey as long as you live today and you sleep an hour tomorrow you're fine like that's not what you're saying no at all clearly it's is some level of like well how much and by what could you manipulate some markers yeah would you totally ameliorate the issue I don't think so I think the most proper interpretation I know actually what papers you kind of refering to but there's probably something you've read I haven't I'm sure link actually I think the most appropriate interpretation is if you had a bad night asleep and you train the next day that's a really good decision right even if you're tired don't feel like we're not talking about hitting PRs but actually getting after it in a meaningful way I just didn't want people to interpret that the opposite hmm which is to go hey I lift I don't obviously just because you lift whites in the gym a few times a week you're not good to continue with your shitty sleep behaviors didn't want that interpretation so I started a little bit with like a catch the attention but yeah like it's very it's exercise in general for sure we'll do it but strength training has really bigger strength training but really strength training will have some special benefit there so I will absolutely say like let's say tomorrow tomorrow our meeting starts at 7 I think which is Texas time which is two hours out of my time right here so that's maybe five time there is a 1000% chance I'll be lifting the mark more and that's going to be a very early wake up call yeah great don't want to go around at all one thousand percent's gonna do I could sleep in and just go for some additional drugs in the morning go to more coffee things like that's what just come down I actually packed you you know great you're not your doctor you can do that stuff I'm not but just talking about caffeine people and that's that's going to strictly be for me going I need to be productive tomorrow and I can go 45 minutes extra I will legitimately not only like psychologically but actually very physiologically be in a better spot tomorrow so that will happen I'm tired too I don't I don't like waking up I'd rather not I'm not one of those people like ours people like no I would definitely rather sleep but I know because I have to be on tomorrow I will do that it's been a really rough run lately but it's gonna happen right like you're you're gonna get it out to the end depending on what time we finish tonight I might probably do something tonight as well just just to move through there so I think if you're positioning your statement that way it's as as I say like again if you've had done something and for whatever reason within or outside of your control that where you got so well mostly even if it's acute or even mildly chronic a few days weeks something like that strength training will be a really good choice that next day just to get something through there but I wouldn't want one to use it as an excuse to continue with poor behaviors do you think it matters the lower that you're lifting could it be because again it's the stimulus could it be a lighter weight more reps doesn't need to be I would say don't let the enemy be with the the don't let good be the enemy a perfect here fair get what you can and this is interesting from a muscle physiologist because we know that there's different adaptations physiological adaptations if you're lifting heavy versus if you're lifting light not just above and beyond high particular yeah you also got to be a human that's right it got to be a real person right I think one of the reasons also when people ask me questions on podcasts about like protocols and stuff in different actual interventions I rarely give straight answers I'm always just like long winded going back it's difficult why and it's difficult because when you ask a question like that my brain scanned the people I work with just this week right I went okay all right starting quarterback NFL coming off injury guy playing in the masters this weekend I can golfer a bunch of our non-affait clients focus we just like just need basic workout programs up another one running a billion dollar hedge fund okay great my brain scan that just this week right and I went that's not the same answer for all these so I can't in in my real honest effort to like really try to give all of you listening I don't know who you are so I'm trying to give an answer where I don't mislead some of you I don't want to put some of you in a wrong position because I'm only thinking of this myopic avatar in my head of who you are listening I think some of you are probably running a bunch of companies some of you are probably MDs some of you are probably traveling a ton definitely some moms out there definitely some guys trying to get jacked like And I got to try to have an answer that is accurate for all of you and I appreciate that because it's It's specific it's hard even high-purturing protocols. Yeah, you could say yeah, you know whether it's a three by five or or etc. Yeah, but there is a whole spectrum of what can work most stuff like muscle clock jeans oh yeah Talk to me about that some data has kind of changed over the years. Yeah, I really got a huge I remember when I was in fellowship I think one of the first papers had come out and this is at Wash U out of Sam blinds lab 2015 but since that time to where we are now What do we know about this is really good muscle clock jeans and is there any relevance for application to us okay I'm gonna put my foot in my mouth on this abog But I don't mind right like science is the act of being wrong mostly Right, that's really what it is generally gonna be more wrong than you are right I don't see any utility in them right now at all From like a practice we use um now muscle clock jeans get let let this again set the stage a little bit if you think about we're trying to get an assessment Overall quality and functionality right if you think about like biological age Some idea chronological age okay, so we're saying this chronological year 32 68 whatever okay great With these market we're trying to figure out like you have a like how long you're going to live in the world Not every 35 year old 55 year olds is same right So biological age phenotypical age various calculators there's a bunch of them I think these classic like nine hallmarks of aging Probably in your book right and then you have the nine in there. I mean we have certain things But you pull some yes, great Okay, and they're a little bit different they're telling a little bit different values and they're all like okay Now there's some that I really strongly just like Happy to like call them out by name if you want or not and by the way you guys can pull up this paper It's a hallmark paper and it discusses the nine hallmarks of aging I think they've added two more you definitely but sure you guys can google it. It's very padmed We'll link it amazing So what we're trying to get to with this one is like okay now can we break this down more specifically to muscle And if I just look at how much muscle mass you have on a population level this will be pretty telling Roughly telling right now if I compare muscle mass to muscle strength Now muscle strength is way more telling the muscle size Translation if you were to take 60,000 people or 600,000 it doesn't matter randomly Those that have more muscle mass are generally going to be healthier and those that don't have as much amount If you factor in body fat right things like that okay fair all right great now All right, okay also strength has to these people what you would find is Their data on their strength Would tell you more about their overall health and their data on just their muscle size So what we generally will say is muscle size is important. I'm a muscle functionality Muscle quality is More important than just muscle size from an aging perspective right from a longevity from a functionality from almost every sporting perspective So almost across the board how your muscles functions Generally more important unless one of these is severely off the train So if you're really under muscle I don't really care how strong you are this is going to be having a problem eventually If you're really really under muscle right so unless you're way off the spec talking about it Southopenia or even cacaxia definitely frailty there was actually a paper that came out today This was like a tongue and cheek here, but it was a it was cool They looked at calf circumference and they were the fine that calf circumference and this was elderly people in the hospital We're able to predict some percentage of prognosis right and I was just like yep like What we've been saying for decades like small cast is not only embarrassing but steadily Yeah But the point is like you can actually get a pretty good assessment of people from that on these population levels But functionality is typically more important The next level than below that is saying okay Can we do liquid biopsy somehow? Can we get a blood marker from somebody and predict their muscle quality? Why? Because when we get muscle quality per se I have to have a functionality test. What do you have to come in? I have to have a lab We have technique issues. Do we have warm up issues? Do we have knee injury issues? How are we gonna get this done? Is one of my testing is how you understand it? Is it okay? These are easy problems to solve but like It's still it is some barrier yeah to training to execution Okay, what about imaging? So I want to see the muscle quality itself well, that's an MRI that's really expensive and who Try to see we know one radiation or decks that which is not that great. I'm not a huge fan No, you're not gonna get much information from that or ultrasound okay still you like how hard you press and this is really really challenging time Expans again not unsalable problems at whole But issue so because I can be good easier can we pull something out of your blood And are there any markers in there and this is what you and I've been Or I feel like 10 years I'm not going after right and this is why the mild kinds of side all kinds come up and this is where the Our phenol games Project is is like why we done that project and like there's tons of stuff There's not one particular marker but even with The muscle clock you're sort of like thinking okay like can I they're just different ways to try to go after this problem right? What we're trying to do is identify lot less healthy muscle Versus more healthy muscle right so then we can intervene before things get nasty or These know like be more convincing data or whatever we want to do or at least show people hey This is a problem and if you do not address this marker and again, we're picking a marker. Yeah, it's not the marker Right, but the the lack of muscle lack of healthy skeletal muscle is is more impactful than the gain in body fat over time outside Outside of like true pathology or infection You're gonna struggle this find more Like I'm I'm doing this live right now so I'm like looking not even out you because I'm thinking I just I don't know if you can find a marker that's gonna be more predictive of your global health Then that it's gonna be really challenging maybe one can argue mental health Okay, but that's also different that's not subjective Is it post you objective data of here is the marker? Yeah because Like obviously you and I are if we're gonna play a game with what's your favorite organ? Like can you know what you want to work at a pack right? Tell with your liver. Yeah, he's beat it up if comes back All right, do you want to know what I drink in the morning that is a little bit salty and gives me a huge pick me up Well, I'm gonna tell you and that is Elements chocolate element that's LMNT in my coffee. I brew a black cup of coffee with a shot of espresso And then I put a scoop of collagen and a little bit of MCT oil in it and one fourth a packet of Element chocolate sometimes I use chocolate mint I've also saved chocolate caramel. It's kind of this like chocolatey caramel Amazing so I get my caffeine I get some collagen for of course her skin and nails and I get electrolytes in my coffee sodium potassium magnesium all Amazing I have now created my own supercharged drink which you can to and by the way This is a different way to take element that's a little packet of Electrolites if you get headaches maybe you get headaches with your caffeine because you Dehydrate yourself or maybe you get headaches because you sweat a lot while training or maybe you just live in Texas where it's hot and so you definitely sweat a lot you definitely get headaches and this is why I love to add Electrolites to what I'm drinking and it can be coffee it can be water lately it's been coffee and it tastes amazing you can get yours at drink Element that's drink LMNT dot com you'll get a free sample pack when you use the code Dr. Lion and by the way if you don't like it it's totally risk free you'll get your money back No questions asked I love this stuff you will too This episode is brought to you by Maui Nui Venison Maui Nui Venison is one of the best finest Tasting red meets on the planet Maui Nui Venison is a mission-based food company we love it My kids love it especially their little jerky's by the way not only do they use them as swords but as snacks and listen That is a hard sell getting your kids to eat healthy Maui Nui Venison does an amazing job It is high in protein and low in fat which again depending on your macros is amazing and High in b vitamins on your and all of the micro nutrients vitamins and minerals that we need not only that You don't have to go anywhere it will come straight to your door. That's right go to Maui Nui Venison dot com For your first order you will get 20% off amazing who doesn't like to save money and the product is extraordinary Go to Maui Nui Venison dot com slash lion or not that kind L. Y. O. N and Try it you will love it back to the episode Yeah, I mean I think you're gonna have a hard time I mean I can't because you can you can you could pick like You go to the phalamus or something like that, but man, oh You recovery like you're your your physiological health Your immune system all these things are being regulated in large part by skeletal muscle is is Thousands times written in your book In addition to it's your interface with the world How you experience this life the the one on like I think I don't think this example is on our our grip strength paper, but Tommy would friend of ours and his his question It was first author of his paper a couple years ago But one of the stuff we've looked at a little bit of grip strength right and so people will look at like grip strength as a marker of aging and While in some part of that that is correlation right so people who are healthier older also tend to be stronger That's totally true, but there is also direct causality Here, there's there's absolutely 100% direct causality between your grip strength and your aging and if you think about this why People has asked me I'm like well, let's go a couple of steps back It's not difficult to imagine you not being able to carry things All right when you can't carry things you're less likely to go out in the world Why this becomes a problem is if you look at the research on like social sciences outside of our side And when the largest determinants upon when people were retire when they have major drops of mental health and when they will stop leaving their houses When they become a burden on society self perceived But people do not want to feel like they're slowing the whole ship down Quite literally if you know you are not going to be able to carry your groceries Through the thing you're not going to go to the grocery store Okay fine, I'll just do electronically order and I'll have it delivered my house. Why? Because it takes me forever. I can't carry my groceries. I can't get to that place I'm moving slowly can't load the line. Yeah, wait for me. I get really embarrassed I slow the whole thing down. I don't want to waste people's time because I'm just too old and slow. I can't get through that place So you order a grocery store house great fantastic Which means now you're never leaving your house you lack the physical activity anymore You're not holding these things anymore. So you just got weaker, but addition look at the social isolation You also have the mental burden of lack of purpose Right, so you start looking at those things and you feel like you are a drainage society You stop doing all this up the physical deterioration and then you have those other Really strong papers showing you fall off a cliff your physical health really falls off a cliff When you don't feel like you have a purpose in society Not good, right? Okay great same thing with your legs, right? You're not gonna go on a trip You're gonna skip the family vacation. You're not gonna go to the kids activity because you know that that place has stairs in it And they don't have an elevator not gonna go not gonna go you start opting out of things because you don't feel strong in your legs And you don't feel strong in your hands if you're on you know you have to take that tram because you're gonna really airport You have to take that tram to get to your car and you know that tram is really busy and you don't feel confident You can stand in there with your balance well that tram is going You're gonna opt out all these things right this place doesn't have a taxi service. I'm not gonna go You start doing that and then you have those second and tertiary problems That come with all that other side of healthings. So this is why we say like it is all physiology is Really a circle here These are the problems that associate that I mean doesn't mean you're not gonna have those issues if you're strong But you can just see just just avoid that trap. How strong does someone need to be so if we were to and I get a hell of a world record then you're off the team You know, I how we quantify so yes, there is grip strength You know basically what I'm hearing you say is grip strength leg strength and I'm sure Votemax matters to you Do we have a sense of An optimal grip strength as to hear me out here right so there are these charts That will say you should be able to back squat W bodyweight or bench press one and a half times your your bodyweight For grip strength or any of these are these markers Reliable in terms of optimization for or an aging population So what I would say is I probably wouldn't use those markers in that population because You're gonna run in a technical limitations right all the same you can Google and there are plenty of reference range papers out there They're open access and they'll break it down by Dominant hand non-dominant hand no break it down by age demographic so 4044 or 45 to 49 like etc men women right hand left hand all these things for something like grip strength and you can get a rough idea Whether you're gonna 20th percent 50th percent on 75% dollar or way or at kind of on that chart There's lots of papers that are open access like that so anyone could download those and find those You'll find same thing for leg strength yeah like extension like press of you two max Those three things are like very easy to do that um by the way one would do the same thing for your body composition So you mentioned earlier we very much differentiate the two major components if you want to call Bombinodensity a third like that's great pay attention to that if you dexa But if you don't do dexa and you have how much body fat do you have it's very very important of course Probably going to know though like right you're going to have a good sense if you have too much body fat And then the second component is how much lean muscle mass you have and we want to look at those things separately I want to know functionality Strong all those things, but I also need to see what's under the hood in terms of just total amounts so even if one is okay So you're in the 50th percent off for your grip strength 40th percent off for your leg strength, but we're seeing a fat free mass index of 12 All right, I don't care Fat free mass index not the best way ever to look at but like I see that on like that is off the reservation like you are weighed on there and you're 44 This is going to be a real challenge like we have got to put some stuff on there Because we know that that number is it's going to continue to decline Unless you really take interventions after So we want to look at all those things but but you're all those charts for the most part are going to be open access So you can take a look at and you could break it down that best so we have yeah It is the best so we have in his population level again is this is population level I struggle with it because it it you know the appendicular lean mass and I yeah, I don't know So that one okay, appendicular lean mass is interesting What you're looking at is dependencies, right? So basically saying if we look at how much muscle mass you have on your arms and likes And I make sense those are the things again that are you're going to interact with the world but think about it My appendicular lean mass is going to be a lot smaller and yours Yeah, yeah, but like you have like mostly things are in account for body size I want to imagine you'd be at least average if not above average because you have it you're small physically, but you haven't Right, you hear that I'm just you're pretty good. I saw you doing Some one on rose it was legit I think it's I think it texted you and I was like dude that's legit. You're like I was like no that was like the jitter What you're doing it was like real number It was good not bad for a non athletic real person yeah, but whatever But like that would be situation with like okay if you're just came back a little below I'll you clear it on my knee add muscle Well, I because look at the other markers you would have Assuming like right and you just like okay everything else is checked out function out. He's there be able to max is there When when my body comes is okay like you're fine I'm always gonna support people getting more jacked like always but at some point they probably should get would it be fair to say that individuals should put on As much healthy muscle mass as they can while they are young Yeah, because I always like I'm always going to support that right now coming from someone who's like certainly not the most jacked You're never sitting this chair ever I aren't even close Yeah, like there's actually let me go back to There is there's kind of a line with Scott on a muscle. I ask a question about grips ring All right There is a line of muscle mass I'm gonna go the you shaped curve. Are you getting to that? I'm gonna I'll do that right now. I wasn't going to but There are idiots. I mean people That would have folks think yeah that too much muscle mass is the deleterious for you right and that's like so easily not true You will find published papers on this typically from M.Ds But we're not that bad. I was just taking a funny. Okay fair very clear data if you have insufficient muscle mass And you compare this to things like mortality risk survival risk all cause mortality It's just risk doesn't mean you're actually gonna die. I just like you're adding stacks to the deck right of like More risky you know it's 10% 20% 30% 80% percent Not taking into account metabolic dysregulation anything else Which comes with low muscle mass those are issues with insulin and glucose and All the other things all related to healthy skeletal muscle if you look at that What you'll generally see is if you're under muscle and you increase muscle Things get better My span goes up right and that is a pretty much a straight line and some people have published data And spoken about data incorrectly such that that line looks like a you meaning If you get like in the mail numbers. I don't know the female numbers. Sorry But it's something like a fat free mass index of ballpark like 20 or so It is when the line crosses so once you cross to a fat free mass index of 20 Getting any more muscle mass makes that line go back up again. So it's the you right so goes down decreasing Reist decreasing risk got the 20 now at the 21 22 23 now have increased the risk It's fundamentally not true. We published data on this in fact another one of our papers recently Showed that if you go into the national databases at which those things are pulled from you will find zero Correlation between the muscle mass and those populations and their physical activity history And I'll say that one more time No relationship between physical activity passed and muscle mass Which tells you those people did not under any circumstances a crew their muscle V-Elifting weights They accrued it most likely from just being bigger people right which is to say it is muscle But it is not high quality and healthy muscle what would define High quality healthy muscle versus Unhealthy non-functional as in it's not strong. I can't produce any function The classic visual image is is going to be marbled I mean you have fat infiltration in there right. You're going to have other by products Inflammatory responses sub optimal ones right typically sensitivity made at junior crucesters Horma all the ayababase gay every homolar receptor is either way dialed up or way dialed down right so insulin Anabolic estrogen is like all these things are typically off Bi products like basically every marker of healthy functionality mental conjury health Metabolic properties of them Damage like not always every case, but the guilt typically They're at that point yes So it's good back to say like I don't think that's true. However. I don't think there's a strong argument that once you and men get passed about 20 to 21 That getting any more Will exceedingly increase your health spell I think that papers off. I do think from 14 to 21 22 It helps going from 22 to 25 22 like 25 is a lot that's really big My muscle. I don't think any healthier I think at that point now we're looking at all their aspects of your health your metabolic health your Vue to max your lifestyle is your mental health like your sleep. Okay, great That's not the case though first rank That's not the case for Vue to max either. There are multiple Giant data sets you're talking about meta analyses on top of meta analyses one just came out like this week. It was some In saying number of papers It was some caramel was it was like 5,000 papers in this meta analyses If you look at Jonathan Myers work all the way back to Steven Blair's work in late 1980s early 1990s Typically we'll see no upper limit to benefit For leg strength grip strength or Vue to max Almost never that's a pretty big statement. It does not stop So if you are that's like we will say in our like coach-abraxx all the time like yo If you're Vue to max is great it's not good enough Why cuz like there's no number you could put on the way black that's good enough I mean for see yeah, I'm saying I'm just that's the number right so what you'll see is Those numbers don't tend to stop right and you'll actually see like in these papers The classic one That I'll that I always think of here is Jonathan's paper is actually from the VA Like there's like 750,000 people in this study 174,000 died Of course, it's study not because intervention, but you know, these are great. Yeah, so it's hard end points is the point I cool live who do not die Our who did and you see this is when you see these like classical morbidity stack up right so you see diabetes You see smoking you see corner or disease all stacked up against Vio to max Right and you're looking at like Those things are increasing has our ratios for all cause mortality of like 1.2 1.4 like that's not good right so You can kind of it's not how it works friends but like to be very quick It's like a 1.4 mean like a 40% increase in risk It doesn't mean like 40% chance you're gonna break like it's a So no no don't over interpret that but you stack the Vio to max numbers up and instead of being 1.4 It's like 2.6 3.8 5.2 like the numbers are that's Dwarfing yeah smoking they're dwarfing diabetes they're dwarfing Stacking those things together right these numbers get large and in that You go from Though so imagine what I think about this way is not what they did but I'm trying to help folks like collectively Understand what generally the researchers will say here so you take all sooner let's make an a million make numbers easy great Put a million people in this database and we say okay We're gonna break this into quartiles which means at top 250 thousand scores In the top group your group a the next 250 thousand scores group b You're in the 50th to 75%ile sort of works Bottom three 250 thousand in the C group I mean see that 25th there and in the bottom Not doing well friends Me neither the bottom 25%ile bottom 25%ile me 75%ile me 75%ile people are better than you So it means right all right awesome if you're in that bottom group It like you're if you go from the bottom group To the second highest group that's C group right you're still 30th percentile 70% of people are still higher than you You're talking about risk reductions of half You're cutting your risk of dying in half By going from just the terrible group to the still terrible but not as terrible group Like that's what you're really talking about you can pull different papers and you'll see different numbers But like you're getting the same general point Some break it into quintiles so you know 20% 20% 20% some do 25% so I'm doing quintile like They're they're all different things right different database different populations and numbers different But it's all generally gonna say the same thing if you go to the top though and you say great Let's stop the group at the 90th percentile Those are the 90th percentile and compare those to the 99th percentile you still see You still see wow less reduce in the 99th percentile and it does not stop and so even going from 90th to 99th percentile still Confers the survival advantage for bio to max and the same thing It has been shown in grip strength as well So there just appears to be no upper limit to benefit at the population level Like very clearly at the population level to continually getting stronger and I'm getting your bio to max higher and I mean that that's a really important statement this idea that Cardio respiratory fitness is Extremely important for overall health longevity Improving all literally saying there is almost outside of having an infection or actual Acute disease That there's just I can't make an argument for anything else being more important for how long you're going to live That well the controllable factors Nothing is gonna beat that and V02 max people are probably thinking endurance but There's multiple ways to increase your bio to max whether it's high intensity interval training We know that that's effective Now I've read a few papers. There's not that many and maybe there's more now the relationship between V02 max and skeletal muscle have you I mean so as a train jury tradition What we would look at is V02 max we looked at papers and data sets that really It seemed as if that the more healthy skeletal muscle mass they had the better their V02 max was okay So at some manipulation of math a little bit okay so view to max is measured in A metric of leaders per minute so how many leaders of oxygen can you bring in per minute? That's absolute the ultimax all right typically we talk about the ultimax expressed in a relative term Which means milliliters now we got from leaders to minutes so you got to do a little bit of in a conversion But as milliliters per kilogram per minute or minute and so by default bigger people Have a more skewed view to max negatively skewed than smaller people This is why like if you take an NFL player, I mean that like it's just a guy who's over 100 kilos You tend to like get a falsely a false sense of their bio to max being lower than it actually is because their body mass is being the denominator It's getting them smashed so it's actually not a linear if you look at like power lifting And weightlifting lumpy weightlifting you don't just see Like who's best lift or take your body weight and divide it or take your however much you lift it divided by your body weight They have to actually correct for it because it doesn't scale that way like a strong lift or Who's your size you know 70 60 kilos 50 kilos something like that you lifting double body weights not that hard but somebody who's a hundred kilos lifting double Body weight is really damn hot today. It scales that way so if you're to max plays a little bit of that same game Higher bigger people will get falsely represented a smaller view to max because everything is being divided by their body weight So if you're looking at relative you're gonna you're gonna loop like the math is gonna get you a little bit there In addition when you're smaller you're physically total body mass you're less likely to have There's a when you're smaller you're more likely to have a better body composition Just because it's hard to be 120 pounds and it'd be 50% body fat But you can do that at 280 pounds Pretty easily yeah, so it's really really hard so most likely smaller people are generally most likely leaner And those equations so your your misrepresent that misrepresent I'm glad I asked yeah It's so what you're saying is it's there's not a direct correlation between skeletal muscle mass or even healthy skeletal muscle mass and View two max performance. There is though they're it. Oh for sure there's a relationship. Okay. No question You will not see somebody or put this one if you go the inverse here You run a kind of actual you will not see somebody with a view to max of 75 with unhealthy muscle No way right because have you to max is too far to send from peripheral right it is the equation for that is your cardiac output It's cardiac output is too common it's your heart rate so how many times you can pump Multiply by your stroke volume how much blood comes out per pump Okay, that is heart that is cardio pulmonary I have to be able to get things in so this is where back size long size matters. I have to bring air in I got to get that oxygenated air cardio pulmonary and do my heart. I got to get that thing pumped out Okay, then the second half of the equation is a VO2 difference so it's a difference in oxygen between the arterial and vs side Which is basically saying how much can actually extract into skeletal muscle So if you have bad muscle low capillary density poor ability use it poor amount of cotinal function My no condular function. I'm you have a backup of Oxygenation so we start running after we have to kick over the anaerobic side then you're gonna struggle To handle that sort of the equation so it is two components to it and there is no Way to say you can have dysfunction in one side and still have a high total. It's half the equation it won't be there So you can be okay Just like you can have really great muscle and pork cardio pulmonary Because I can be okay You're the opposite but you can't have great and be terrible the equation same thing to say If you take somebody who's got to be able to max its low and If all you do is train their musculature you can see huge improvements in VO2 max if that muscle quality is really really really poor for that exact reason Right if it is an oxygenation I'm thinking about this way too Imagine going upstairs and if you're going upstairs by the time you get to the top you're like Huffin and puffin you're like 70 80 percent It's probably not because your cardiovascular system's unfit It's oftentimes because your legs are weak Why because every step now took 70 or 85% of your one-art max This caused such a large amount of muscle mass to contract it caused the large amount of energy production That you had to kick energetic demands of so high if you got your muscle super strong And now walking up those steps represent a 10 percent if your cardiovascular system didn't change at all You're now way more important fit that makes a lot of sense So really they're interrelated 100 percent of the equation you can't find like you could find an elite cyclist out there male or female They are not weak in their legs They typically don't jump very high Not powerful or springy or things like that they may not back squat very much But like if you put them on a Look at the watts that kick out on a bike You're gonna be like whoa she's like they're smashing out six hundred watts and you're like you I can't get that once They're they're not weak people at all it's just Excessive training and adaptation so it would only be who view Increased your muscle quality to increase your video to max it's only going to make life better And you will never get a really great score with that I can tell you like going back You know four hours ago when we were talking about performance actors That's one of the things we look at so when we have that's a reaction really good example when someone comes in We see that they're viewed to max super low. We're gonna all sudden just naturally only put them on Like a steady state endurance program or even high intensity animals We might look at that and go Yeah, we're not going to high intensity intervals especially if we have something else that's causing problems So if they are a hard charger right they're running companies They're in a job that has really like where the consequences matter like physicians or finance So folks were like hey maybe not working 90 hours you were conform 40 But every choice you make really matters all right great I'm probably don't want to throw you into high intensity intervals every day That's maybe not the best road for you especially when I'm looking at your sleep data And you're last 18 hours this time yeah, like you're over breathing your shot right Okay, I'm not going to do that to you but what your view to max is 26 Okay, great I'm gonna go out that a different way and And we may look at this thing and go okay, so to call cardio pulmonary issue who it's both suck then I'm probably starting with muscle I'm probably starting there and then I'm working my way backwards into it And I might get cardio pulmonary break breath work. I might get it with the sauna. I might get it with Walk I might get it with lowering a rousele like we got lots of ways we can play with the view to maxide equation That doesn't have to just be hard charge like go you know do four minutes of death Sort of thing yeah because you're just looking at physiology constraints There's a thousand ways to get there and I'm looking at it and going based on your other factors How kind of get you there? And that person with different situations scenario. I'm Michael. Yeah, oh, let's let's just go do this pool We're gonna train we're gonna run we're gonna do endurance work. Okay But depending on the person We're just looking for the physiology and what's I get the physiology? I'm going all right What are my different options one of my different tools to get there? So I run ever tied like a methodology or a protocol all that crap because I'm just like man Just think about the physiology What's challenged it apps What challenged adapts what's not doesn't So I'm looking at that is going okay, how what are my different options to make a challenge there? And if that means we're on putting a pool I mean we mean you're gonna hold your breath Means we're gonna go for a walk My mind would put you in hot or cold or whatever like I have different options there And then other folks are like like no you don't even Sonic it that's something that I just waste your money We need to go do this. Yeah, that's too easy for you Or whatever right like it's just it may be negative may put them in the wrong spot like maybe making a problem worse Exhaust for bathing, right? It's like we don't know no no no we're not doing that we're going over here So yeah, we have options I think that's very intelligent that there are multiple ways to push the boulder up the hell and it's not always the obvious in that way There's a lot of misinformation out there which I think Makes it very difficult to people from people to move forward I mean that's fair you right Should people do hyper speech training in fairness? I don't know if in this entire conversation I'm really given anybody who's listening like a lot of really helpful tips at this point and not saying that to be like self but to your point of like Lot of that was probably like okay. I don't know. I feel less confident about what to do and I would love Happy to switch like and Harley like give some specific examples I think background is important because there's a lot of discussion on VO2 Max and people go right to Well, how do we improve VO2 Max and and that's fine but You know a body composition you've talked a ton about that if you guys want to hear Andy talk about body composition you could find a million podcast and his own videos his own YouTube What do you think if you were to pick three things that people need to practically at home implement or three major I don't know myths that people are now doing or things that they're doing wrong and again I could be three it could be five but actionable items I know you're gonna say sleep Aside from sleep in terms of the health of their skeletal muscle very hard Very hard to do that well without a minimal viable protein intake I'm not sure have you read much about protein? No, okay. Is that a macronutrient? Yes, it's a new new Yeah, does it have amino acids in it? You have to have supply and I say minimal viable you can get away with You know you probably default to the gram of pound Minimum right you cut that in half okay you can get away with it maybe If you have to not worry when I start but It's not ideal always a ton of data out there that the lower protein and pigs are not ideal for body composition No, I'm gonna do that either Give me half away there Amelys halfway All right, let's let's start there if that's where we're starting. 0.7 grams per pound I don't want to say anybody that low but if we had to start at 0.6 One could make an argument at 0.6 I think There's not a co-gen argument below that No, there's just no and that's And you would lose the argument at 0.6 and you would lose it quickly but like there could be a Kind of low program thing but this is not one below that yeah That's that has to be there is like a if you don't get a ticket to the door Right, I'm not even talking about what game you get to play you didn't get the door right you know how that I don't like how it was if you don't have that basic substrate it's gonna be very difficult Not gonna happen right We have to have that I think secondarily on that How high would you go? Well, yeah, I mean, you know like there's really no A problem that you have to stay at that point it depends on context. Do we hear about total body size in terms of God or is like a lot of our athletes are in the way class space sports So we actually do limit protein Because we have to make way right we have to lose typically 15% of body mass or so So like even if we lose some muscle mass sometimes like that's a go because we have to hit that number one way or The other and any amount we don't lose on the way Has to happen in that last 36 hours and like that just just gets bad fast right So we would like a lot of our athletes. I'd say like we want to see Right or like even I think not athletes we Run around one gram per pound is pretty there and like We also Can't really not many people are tracking at that closely Once you figure out for you I was it as a track like crazy for two weeks Figure out what a gram or so looks for you great idea and stay at that and go higher great idea That's all we really need to do I can like to be totally honest with you I don't think a single one of our quarterbacks and then I felt Is weighing Like we don't have that we're not doing that the master's turn I do not We're not we're not doing that we get them to figure out what what's that roughly looked like for you So whether they really at like Point eight grant maybe some days surely some days But these guys are probably consuming a lot of calories getting carbohydrates and fats well again some of them are coming down Because you're like not lit a lot of calories because we've got 15% of body mass Oh, I'm talking about the NFL oh those yeah, but some of them have well so one that already secret series We have a lot of times and there's weights and contracts so we have to cut weight for those things So we can't just like eat an nauseam because there's like and that those are big fines too Those games we have to play there so some of them do some yeah and point is either I don't I think it's a two. I don't really care the most part. I do grab some prom like Totally fine there nothing detrimental there's some chatter on the internet about how going Above 1.6 grams per kg so 0.7 grams per kg is not gonna yes I know I know benefit benefit Mass like this is like We don't This is so like this is what you have to you have to have basic literacy of interpretation of context right? There's a difference between like had no benefit versus that was detrimental That's not the same thing right and also these people are have a higher percentage body weight Again, I'm just thinking about one particular study that you have to not die one one thing that I'll say on this before I were one in here Hopefully this is a practical tip it's very easy to make Is a marker or as a as a scientist or not it's very easy to take Anything from a study and Not make this sound high rewatt because like that can be done people know that but it's very easy to make a story out of it And I'm not saying like as a still honest interpretation of right I'll put this away If you take two scientists that work on the same paper together They won't necessarily interpret the same that's absolutely true So I'm not even saying like bad actors Right, I'm not going to let you people that are trustworthy and good people my friends people shows up Been on I will look at some of them like no way you're in a way like fully disagree with that right? Yeah, so it's then there is the whole of the lair's and the cheats in the front blah blah Okay fine, but just with in the good honest people Is really hard to do that and and the reason is when you take things like that you go okay Great what you don't know is the scientific background. I'm going yeah We'll a marker did look at and my lab actually think that I'm marker actually shows it a little bit high It's scientific evaluated, but I think that number is over estimates or I think it underestimates because I've seen this okay or it is Yeah, and that population would work but those people were untrained or those people were highly trained or those people were all At the point so you all this lays into it and if you're if you're skipping that part of the explanation Then it's like oh yeah, these things have shown to be bad. Well, no time out Like been shown to be Maybe not great or didn't have a neutral neutral thing In that situation in that context, right like that's always the best answer and so rather than my my tip here is really this because you're not gonna Figure that out like you listening home like you're not gonna figure out that level of context my tip is this pull back Pull way back when somebody has a social media posters on a podcast and that give a specific number Never take that number to heart Me like any number. I've just told you when I said gram of pound never take that number to heart But it's a great target guys. Yeah, it's just a reasonable target the reasonable target yeah and and zooming back and going okay So when I track myself and I realize that was that point four that's too low But don't get caught up on like well this paper showed pointing who cares that's outside The level of accuracy you live your day life anyways, so it gives a shit like who cares right like it's not it's not that's not the thing to pay attention What you want to look at it like it's a big global trends Looks to be a lot of different papers and this is why like I I hate talking about this particular point like with protein because I'm like oh my god like look at the well roundedness of the data Yes, look or the different Evidence that's what I mean like different popular The numbers don't care someone's found someone's studied 25 grams and I don't care what's it roughly saying? Okay clearly it's doing a B and C yeah, like I don't need any more data at this point like you can close the door And so like to me that conversation is actually over I Like I don't I can appreciate that to be totally candid when new papers on that come out. I don't read I go like the internet by the way I passed you We were at a meeting together Many years ago we were in Colorado, do you remember? Okay, well anyway, we were at a meeting together and you were like protein don't care Oh, yeah, probably I mean you had stopped caring because I think that the evidence is just a volume of evidence Okay, and you're just like you just now like You're splitting such irrelevant hairs for the most part. I'm like, huh, we're done here So one-gram for pound Idea body weight ish ish great. Fine. Move on number two. I guess we should start it with some former Persistence exercise because if you look at actually those two things compared The protein is not even close to stimulating as strength training. That's true I'm close to like like nothing you can boy you can really I don't care what you do protein timing Csine plant based and what I don't really care at all nothing's the coming on the same planet as resistance training is gonna be That's true people are like well Gabrielle you talk about protein Yes because you can't do without it and 100% of people eat 100% of people and I'm training in traditional sciences and it's also still true but exercise Resistance training it hops Nutrition now what's dope about protein is it will stimulate muscle growth Independent So if you can't or aren't training and at least you eat protein It has a protein sparing effect and so it's just context, right? So who are you speaking to? If you're speaking to somebody who's willing to be both Okay strength training is more important If you're speaking to someone who's willing to enable to be both and they're strength training and they're not eating the protein Then all that protein stuff matters the most for them They've already chat the box fair or the opposite person right? I'm not doing anything Okay great if the barrier to entry is easier To start with protein and I'll do that fact the my example here. I just did this I was in Maui last week right was Maui knowing jealous and we love Maui knowing yeah like I'm like those great Protein sticks do like that that's then I can go on on that company is what they're doing is so It's one of the coolest things ever better part of it's so dope But they were like you know like bringing up like all your hyper performers and getting them on the Syraculity protein 12 a lot and I was like they all have the hyper performers I'm going to mean like to me This is the best first step into health I agree They're like what I'm like think about this there's all this conf... this is literally what I said to them Think about all this confusing stuff that's out there the supplements are confusing and like do I fast? Why not fast and like all this what do I do? Do I exercise for this person said this kind of bad? This is other there's so much confusion a lot of people who are just starting there journey like I don't know where to start I don't know where to start at all right Why tell them is I I don't know anybody reasonable Anybody who wouldn't say high quality proteins for it What do you mean like yeah if this is your first path Better than extra not better but probably prior to you starting exercise Everybody everybody has to eat and if you go yo This is the highest quality most nutrient dense red meat that we know of and low calorie very lean super lean Animals that have to be harvested anyways Like they're like people are dying because of accidents on the road or overrunning the like this tones they have to be harvested anyways now We have this insane nutrient profile It's the Easily objectively the best tasting For like an animal like you're gonna go after like no no question right? Amazing and the and jacos like dude that's that's great. I'm like yeah like this is the start So if I've already be like yo like for my family My family does not exercise for most part right? Like what no for sure? Not at all right like there's just no no way right there too far away for me and like all these things All I do with them is like just get protein Just get protein like just get protein like just get protein. This is the bird and this is the biggest impact I have on their health is getting them to eat protein By far I'm I'm really not panoring to you. This is like you know check the text like go to go see the protocols I build them They I don't they don't work on it but they probably realistically never will We love to say that they do but they never will but I'm okay great as a first starting place then People will disagree about the thing but I just again well, no, I don't think you would really find anybody who's reasonable In the space who will tell you protein doesn't matter. I know some but maybe not reasonable resistance training. Do you think about how much how hard? You just get it done. Yeah, what are your thoughts again? This is your this is your tips for If you can people on I would love what they need I would love love to see strength training three times a week I right I would love to see within that each muscle at least twice per week right I would strongly encourage most people to do more full body Rather than doing it like muscle parts splits so don't do like Mondays Are your triceps and Tuesdays or your legs things like that well Mondays universal chest egg God no Tell me that was a joke right yeah, of course is this joke Mondays is like day really what has to no When we cut this please you need not have my permission to post this in the end of episode Please sleep my phone number no Monday's leg. Oh All right, we're not friends anymore. Oh my god on your friendship down down the tubes Okay, um full body training examples of that would be yeah deadlift squad It doesn't matter actually. I don't even care if you're still doing single joint or like exercises But just don't do the entire gym of one body part. Okay, so even if you're in like leg press and then you go to chest press Okay, that's fine, but the reason I'm generally saying this for for this audience in this avatar is you're gonna miss workouts That's gonna happen, right and so if you do only chest on Monday or legs or legs Can I we'll say my first for now okay And you may you missed film the blank. You know the reasons why now you're not getting chest again for the next seven days That's like okay. That's gonna be a problem and then what happens that next Trip that next thing and also and you go two weeks without getting a body part that that happens like in a blink of an eye Right anyone who's a real person. Oh, yeah, it's like very rarely or very common to have that kind of thing happen But potentially you could maintain if you were gonna do push out to or some kind of if you but again Medicate the damage that'd be great, but in an eye to world I personally I don't even do I was joking I don't I don't any more do like legs Mondays What I have is is the training I do and I do them in or in that order in whatever day I can get them in So I don't have that right so I'm way off my a routine's like some Mondays could be any number of my different training sessions But I have this couple of bodies six training workouts that I do and I do those six in a row and Sometimes that six days in a row sometimes that that six days cycle of workouts takes me 18 days to get through Right cuz I only got three workouts in three workouts in three workouts So I just continue to do that so imagine building like 50 workouts And saying okay, I'm gonna and in the next two months. I'm gonna try to get these 50 done in this order But like whatever days they happen to happen and it's exactly for those reasons earlier kid got sick I was gonna train today and I don't want to get the whole thing thrown off like I was just rest I'll do the next workout the next day. I get the opportunity I want to play and play and got the leg you're in there like all these things happened to us right and I don't want to know my whole schedule I mean this to do it so I do it and I generally rotate I'll do like my just my full training session here like one day Most of my training right now is What call it like movement based stuff so I'm I'm training to Correct asymmetries to repair some joint health to feel better It's kind of like a little bit of a reset. It's like hey, I got You know a lot of more years left to do less investor six months almost a year actually like really Wow, yeah, it's totally my physics terrible right now It is He's being dramatic friends I am being dramatic. I told you I like it's bright brand any totally being dramatic Okay, I like attention No, it is worth for me because like I'm not doing high-purchary training at all I'm not doing even enough volume move What are you doing it is more of like it's really hard to articulate in some like this but it's more of like So I have like anyone should I have a coach Tim G Francesco is my coach use the coach for the Lakers that strength coach there physical therapist he's great So it's lifting but it is like I might do like a specific sequence of a one-legged RDL To a reach movement and then I'll come back and reset and then it may be like a lot of One to a specific rotation like try like a very specific thought out Different planes of motion totally different motion. That sounds awesome. He has like it's literally a year long progression of movements So wow so it is it is built out like and every every we do about like six weeks And then we'll kind of do like a little bit of a check and then he updates this is okay This is ready to progress this isn't this development didn't happen like we wanted to we're staying here with this Part but this part did so we're moving up a regression here. I mean it may be like going from Gobble the box squats That moment will okay to so like holding a dumbbell in your chest while your box squatting To then moving to remove the box so then maybe a two second hold of the bottom position like there's all kinds of stuff And that's a very advanced well thought out training program. I mean not so it's hard to call on you explain So it's kind of easy for me to just like give the basics but it's interesting that you're doing not just One plane movements. I haven't done like a barbell backswater deadlift in a long long time because we're trying like It's a front unilateral strength. I love it. Yep, so I do that typically and then I'll do that sound on Monday And then the next day I'll either do more of like a real high intensity interval Initiating base you're talking I have a salt bike aerosol. Oh, we got one in the garage. You can use it It's the best right? You're going and what are you rest in our vault? We're doing lots of different stuff, but this is your more typical Could be 30 seconds on 30 seconds off for 20 rounds like for four rounds, sorry like and it doesn't really do you think it matters Again, this is four it matters, but it also like mostly doesn't matter. It mostly doesn't matter Yeah, for me when I'm programming for like our people like okay paying for paying at end to everything But for the people that are not professional athletes Just get it in if if we were like if I showed up here to your house and you're like hey I got cut up But the kids school will be the home in like an hour and a half. I would've been like all right I'm just gonna hop on it. I don't want over to do I would've just like done I'm gonna made it up I would've just it wouldn't have mattered right because today I'm not like trying to optimize work out I would've just been like let's just burn some calories. That's great fun. It's play People forget like exercise can also just be for fun Can it be just totally really? Yeah, or like the mental benefits Yeah, I love it. How many high intensity interval training sessions are you thrown in there? one Probably a week or so three to four days of lifting three days of lifting or yeah, you think of lifting Conditioning lifting conditioning lifting conditioning back and forth the first conditioning one And so say would be more higher intensity interval the second one is gonna be very low intensity I'm going if I can get 45 minutes We try just on the bike. I might I might literally not even exercise I might walk I don't count walking as exercise some people call it fast cardio It's just walking but sometimes if I can walk I can do that if I can get like a bike ride Like a bicycle like I'm on a bicycle outside now. I'm checking off multiple boxes right now I'm getting sunlight now. I'm getting out of it like I have we have to do those things, right? I will do something like that I might get on the assault bike and just cruise Right, I don't know Only person on the planet that just cruises on an assault bike. Yeah a lot of the times A lot of the times now. I'll do my low intensity stuff in the song Really? Oh yeah Yeah, I dial it back you know like I won't have it at 200 to a five anymore to get it walk That's 100% 100% so a little thing will give you I got this actually Brian McKenzie You know Brian I do yeah Brian told me this you wrote your First you write one but you're unplugged back. Yeah Brian run that together good friend great great stuff But he's like dude Going there like 140 150 160 degrees that could be an infrared that's about how Hot those get I don't know I don't use them Mine mine the traditional the traditional you can do that. I'm being no No, no, no, yes, of course you can use those for that but actually because they don't get super hot but the evidence Sports the traditional song or but I do have an infrared oh I got nothing against it. I would use one if I had that there but My full song is way dope I'm using it But I'll go in there and he's like set it to that and Do you know 10 push-ups 20 push-ups with doesn't matter right you're just like moving get your heart right up a little bit Do that and then stand for a minute Like stay at the top stand up there like a lot of times I'll do like walking high knees I'll do like some like I'm just like moving on right and then sit for a minute How long you in there for? Uh, those sessions like 30 minutes Like nothing crazy so if anyone's listening or wants to join and he Dude Brian has a bike in his what he just layer does too layer to come on desert storm So layered puts his like actual salt. Okay hard past I just yeah hard past on that but I feel like I really feel like there's something special To doing very very low intensity work on the song I mean I feel that way different Instead of just sitting there doing nothing if you're using it for different purposes, but I'm like yeah That sounds amazing. I need to like double double dip and I need to be time efficient here and Like say I'm I'm really beat up or like I'm like I don't want to sit in that damn a salt bike right now Or is raining outside like something like that like I'll definitely go in the sauna You get super whoever complain about me in the sauna right yeah, and then I'll do a little of activity So like a lot of my low intensity stuff will be in there and I'll just like try to move I'll shadow box stuff a lot in there like I'll just it's a great idea. I just don't and if I still like a high just sit down for a second like I don't like I mean with a great idea But that's generally it so then I'll rotate back more to this let's talk about protein Specifically first forms natural way protein formula one people ask me all the time What kind of protein powder I use what kind of protein powder I recommend formula one makes many different kinds of protein powders different flavors A natural one you pick it it mixes amazing it makes it extremely easy to get your protein in and Really there it's a way protein isolate so you're getting the majority of your calories from protein in the shape tastes great super easy to travel with Great breakfast dinner Maybe even lunch whatever you need it's got you covered and it has all the amino acids necessary will help improve body composition muscle mass all the things that protein does and by the way When do you need protein well you need it every day and that's why I love first forms Protein powder their formula one go to first form dot com slash doctor lion that's first form dot com slash doctor lion Have you done your blood work? If you haven't I have a solution for you and that is one of the sponsors of the show inside tracker Wise blood work so important well, you know I use inside tracker my friends use inside tracker Also my parents use inside tracker inside tracker makes getting blood work very easy and use our friendly They have an amazing interface you can check it out on your phone You can check it out on the desktop which you know hopefully you're using a small one Inside tracker allows you to look at really important biomarkers like hormones iron thyroid insulin the list goes on a bobe it never stops and by the way if you are a professional Anu of clients inside tracker also has a pro platform Amazing I really feel that inside tracker has revolutionized health care and listen blood work can be expensive But it doesn't have to be inside tracker is offering my listeners 10% off 10% off anything on the store in the store anything As it relates to subscriptions 10% off go to inside tracker dot com like inside tracking your body Use the code doctor lion and do not wait if you are due for your blood work Give this a shot is extremely valuable back to the show So we covered first this dietary protein. Yeah interchangeable with training. We're on number two No, wait where I'm number three now. Okay, the next one I would be would be for high quality muscle. I mean you've What I probably say here is Range emotion I did not think you were gonna say that if I'm looking back at like the issues we've had with people that even the common The program or that like when they realize we're like this is our biggest issue That is a really big one like your joints need to be healthy and you need to have like to default Of all your joints should be you should train over full range emotion a lot of people don't have that anymore And so many times Training over full range much you you like you can't do a lot pull down and have the bar all the come down your chest You can't do a basic body weight squat right you can't Do any kind of audio Our hinge or all the way down because your hands are so tight you can't properly run you can't get in good positions You certainly can't Like do a push up or do different things like that you can't do a dip like we can't get into any of these basic body You can't hip-extend because your hip flexors are so tight. We can't do hip for us Is this with Sudden cherry behavior that this kind of thing happened It is injury it is sometimes it's injury, but it is mostly Not training over full range emotion hmm Like the the biggest way to improve range emotion and the biggest way to stop from lost range emotion is to lift weights over full range emotion I'm I'm not saying that to be Fisty shes the the the the strength training guy. I think the data are clear on this one You can stat extra edge. I'm not against that. That's fine, but lifting and contracting over full range motion It to my my opinion and from our my coaching experience Like from just my personal coaching I feel like it's so much more effective at improving range motion and so getting people to I don't need you to be You know as a jitter player where you can do all kinds of things with every joint But we got to have we got to have like minimal viable here So I'd say of our of our non-athletes even with the plan of our athletes but of our non-athletes and like executive coaching program That would be the third biggest one the reason I'm saying that is because it causes so many injuries And so much pain and we get so limited in the range in the moments we can do That you end up to be like well, I don't have that machine. I don't have that machine Like my one-up takes so long because everything hurts and I don't know how I like to do this exercise because it like hurts my back a lot We're just like God like if this could have been preventative if we could just do you have a better range of motion now the world opens up to you And now we don't have to do all this prevention stuff. We don't have to do all these things And so when when things hurt less you tend to do much stuff that one of the number one reasons why I'm about your practice, but we have found that people are like resistant exercise in general, but specifically the things is it is like Oh, I mean this so tight today It's like I don't want to I don't want to I don't want to lift thing I just don't want to go through that warm-up process because everything hurts so bad So I'm like all right, what if we cut that problem out? Okay, I live well. I'm okay, great. So I think in order to get this drink training and we have to have That first piece to lower that barrier of entry I think there's a great Three actionable tips. I'm gonna ask you one more and then we're gonna get you out of here so that you can get to NASA Oh yeah, otherwise United could talk for probably I know we never even got to buy a market At least another three hours the one biggest mistake you think people are making In terms of their exercise or Or lifestyle or yeah, it could be either and there's probably not one but there's You know if there is one or two major mistakes that people are making Can you give you two yeah, okay? I'd say one would be I'm hesitant because I'm trying to give you a an insightful Non-genetic answer, but one that's also very true I wonder if it's the same one. I'm thinking so I've in my mind predicted two for oh well one for sure I'm probably probably nowhere the same okay here just because never now I'm trying to I'm trying intentionally Give you one I think you will one one recommendation I'll give folks is to say a lot of these details They do matter But the ones that matter most I probably say D1 that matters most whether it's exercise or nutrition or mindset or recovery or health The one that comes out to me is the top dog is consistency hmm Just give your body time Don't expect it in six weeks. I hope it happens and we we can if you know what you're doing you can definitely get progress Yeah, a ton but if you don't you can't afford to work at the you and you don't have a private code to doing all these things for you You probably are a little bit efficient with what you're doing it's not precise to you yet But what that means it's not that it's not working just means it's gonna take longer That could be really important. Yeah, it's like hey, I'm I don't like I'm doing all this stuff I'm meeting this way I'm working out. I'm trying to get to better earlier like nothing's work I haven't lost weight yet. I don't have a better yet. I promise you if you're eating good food You're exercising you're doing other positive behaviors. I promise you it's working It's just not specific So you're not getting a specific result yet Specific adaptations to impose demand. This is classic scientific principle cut this said principle What that means is if you wanted to get bigger by steps Getting those muscles bigger the most specific thing you can do is do do nothing but train those biceps Great, I promise you if you did nothing but biceps training that's all you did and you just kept going those biceps muscles would get larger right Having said that When you're over relying upon specificity you lack variation So we lack well-roundedness we lack other adaptations Lot of people that are trying to like hey, I want to have more energy. I want to lose some weight I want to get a little bit stronger the nice part about it is you're doing a variation in training But because you're doing a variation in training You're not doing specificity which means you're not seeing maximum results in any one of those areas Which means in six weeks when you're friend who did nothing but biceps curls has notice with bigger biceps in six weeks You have one percent bigger bicep and one percent better view to max and one percent health your metabolism You have one percent in a lot so if you got 10 percent bigger You got 10 percent as well, but your 10 was spread across ten different areas. I think that's great I mean I think that's great You just got to give a time that I give a time that person come back in a year and now you both gain a hundred percent But that's all in that person's about that and you resolve now it's like whoa how did you change your physique how did you change all these things well? Like you did all these right things I promise you if you're doing those actions especially if you were not doing them before It is working it is making a difference it's just not like in science We'd say the fidelity of that measurement is not strong enough. It's like saying Look at in the classic research this says like if you start strength training Muscle hypertrophy doesn't really happen until so eight weeks or so But that's only because the the technology we have to measure increases in muscle size is not accurate enough Under that it's happening every single damn today It's just happening at these micro scopping love it. You're saying this yes Yeah, and you're in this case the person like you just haven't hit the threshold of your technology yet I promise you your body position your body composition improved but the only technology you have is your scale Whatever, that's is not accurate enough to tell to find your changes. Yeah, so just give it time I promise you like when work we've worked with a Billion moms and billion Nonac non athletic regularly people Something like me and we've worked with the best in the world it's true a mom It's true in all of them like you will get there if you just like hang tight and do the best you can and also remember on that same point You're gonna have roles. I have not lifted weights in nine days probably Like not happened just unexpected things. Okay great I'm not stressed about it right like I've exercised a dollar stuff but I have a lift away So because I'm doing I could up mountains and doing all kinds of this stuff and got super super super sore Maybe that they're gonna die but they didn't and oh my god. It was wrecked I make them wrecked for like a week after this But fine I'm looking at this is like is mine days gonna matter across 90 years No, I don't know because is nine months gonna matter that this why I'm doing I'm doing now for like a year Is what you're gonna matter across 120 years now? I'm gonna matter at all So you must stay you must a week Don't trip Don't trip it's the accumulation. It's the big package here come back to me any year Did you keep a lot over here you're gonna win? No matter how many little things like it's life it's cool. Thank you fine Careful don't like use that as you used to be lazy shit, but you feel me on that one. So that would be never Was that what you predicted? I thought that you were gonna say individuals over complicated things Similar to that we over complicate the things that really matter and that that Impaces for making progress. Yeah, it is right like It's in my get close a lot often and keep going Love it. Yeah, you only one more One more is gonna go the opposite direction. Okay, um, there is a lot of Discussion a lot of chatter a lot of conversations that are interesting we've had some tangential ones today about This movement of precision precision health precision nutrition precision training and The reality of it is some of these areas Our strong at this point somewhere week Genetics as an example genetics for precision training is garbage Genetics for precision nutrition is mostly garbage so say that again because I think um You should be making no decisions whatsoever for your exercise based on any genetic test anybody in the world did I don't care if you got three billion base pair sequence I know these data very well or food based choices based on genetics there have been now five to six trials full trials on personalized nutrition Based on genetics. I believe all six have failed to find any benefit From the genetic based testing any and you're talking different labs different clinical trials different outcomes different populations and it's like a clean slate of garbage That doesn't mean nothing is coming though There is clearly something there precision nutrition from genetics will get better But right now there are there are a few actual things but the the the the big basics of like how you globally should each Are are so clearly not the case in fact in at least two of the trials that I know of maybe the third at least two of them What they found though was individualized coaching Matter way more Then precision coaching what's that mean paying attention to people's preferences paying attention to their lifestyle All actually had a bigger impact than randomly putting them on You know just a random diet. Ah, stunning, right? Get a coach. Yeah, get a coach that pays attention to that stuff and if your coach is main selling point as they do genetic testing No, that person's not advanced Like you have almost complete in our garbage. I can go even a thousand ways worse on this one but if they have not done actual phenotypitesting Then like run to the heavens away meaning I don't give a shit what your mTHFR is When I can directly measure via bb items and almost assisting right I mean yes, I agree with you I do not care at all because if you want to know that's fine, but we'll be able to tell in your blood work We I know and also the relationship I'm sorry. I hate to tease one of the end but like the relationship between your genome type Of that particular one and your actual resume resulting home assisting levels You're talking under one percent you've learned a lot about nothing Nothing especially when you just measure home assisting that's what you're so worried about that's right whatever that I can go there's a ton of safe But This field is clearing group Like there are there are some actual things with genetics for nutrition most of his is odd or nonsense Whether or not like you should eat carbohydrates like that's not garbage at this point there are some things but it's gonna get better and so what I'll say is like the The age of precision Interventions it is clearly coming I don't have a dog in a fight in any of those things that is an area where I would say right now I'm happy to just torch that field I'm happy to support anyone at the same time am acknowledging It's gonna get better and so All right like I watch I'm reading I'm hopeful I actually am I'm believer in it It's just not right out. We're not there not at all Well Dr. Andy Galfin Thank you so much for coming on we could go another two hours and maybe if you're back visiting the astronauts You might be back I'm in Texas. You come you can stay family I really am glad that we were able to sit down and have this conversation I think there's a lot of things that were really important and one of the things is You shared how you think about things and if people gain just a little bit of insight It will allow them to question what they're hearing with their reading Maybe be aware of some of their own limitations or the limitations of those that are talking to them And it's really valuable you have an extraordinarily creative mind and scientific mind I appreciate it. I know wait too long. Next round we'll have to be center. Yes, and maybe I'll come to you Yeah Thank you so much and we'll link where everyone can find you And you also have an amazing podcast coming out. Yeah, I I don't know when this is gonna come out, but my show will be out Rob won't let me tell people, but it'll be out in the summer amazing. We're gonna try to hold this podcast Till oh, no, yes, that comes out. I'm gonna do our best to hold it so that we can Put it out before yours comes out that'll be amazing cool. Yeah, it's called perform with Dr. Andy Goppin Well done friend. Thank you You

do all cancers respond to radiation. There is no cancer that cannot be destroyed by radiation. The limiting factor is the human being around that cancer. One in eight men will get prostate cancer. That's right. That is insane. What has really revolutionized our field is we're not treating large parts of the body. I can make the radiation goat exactly where the problem is. On the case of a prostate cancer, I'll treat the prostate gland with just a few millimeter margin around it. And when you get just a few millimeters beyond that, the dose is very low. So we don't cause the collateral damage that we use to. Gosh, that is unbelievable. What are some of the biggest myths surrounding radiation? Radiation is part of the electromagnetic spectrum. Just essentially light. Doesn't matter how much, you know, FM88.7 you listen to, it's not gonna hurt you. Your cell phone is a radio, so those are all non-ionizing radiation, so the old tail butt the cell phone giving a brain tumor, not gonna happen. What about living next to an electrical tower? That's EFF again, and so that's electromagnetic frequencies that are not able to damage your DNA. On the other hand, as you mentioned, the lady who's afraid of going through an airport scanner, because she might be pregnant, that is ionizing radiation. It's a very low dose to get us like an X-ray to security area, but that is an X-ray. X-rays by definition are ionizing, and if I had a chance of being pregnant, I wouldn't go through it either. Wait, wait, wait. This is really important. What about Dr. Sanjay Mera? Welcome to the show. Thank you, thanks for having me. This episode, my goal is really to vote. Number one, to be a guide for men, men that have had prostate cancer, but also individuals that have been athletic or who suffer from any of the I just is. All right. Us your arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, you name it. Can you can treat it? Yes, ma'am. Tell me a little bit about your treatment, and your experience of treatment with prostate cancer, with low dose radiation that are affected. So for prostate cancer, it's considered high dose. We're relatively speaking, we use higher doses for any kind of cancer. So radiation is a viable alternative to a radical prostatectomy for most prostate cancer patients. So once the urologist does a biopsy and diagnosis, the prostate cancer, then they get sent to me. They'll usually get a referral to a urologist specializes in radical prostatectomy. And then in my case, I'm a radiation oncologist. So I'm trained to treat all different types of cancer, but prostate cancer being the most common thing we see, done probably something like 10,000 cases over the years. So it's a very common thing. But external beam radiation in high doses is usually it's about six to eight weeks of treatment. It's Monday through Friday, five days a week, about a 15 minute per day treatment. Basically, just an x-ray. So it's painless. Patients come in. They're happy. They get their treatment. They leave 15 minutes later without any sort of instrumentation or injections or anything. And by giving a small dose of radiation on a daily basis over several weeks, the cumulative dose is actually quite high. Enough to kill the cancer cells without dealing with some of the things people deal with with surgeries, for example, in continents and nerve damage, and things like that. So you avoid all of that with just a non-invasive treatment. And people can live their life and get treated for prostate cancer simultaneously with no downtime. And depending on the stage and the grade of the disease and whatnot, the cure rates are basically the same as a radical prostatectomy. So that's a very popular procedure. And one in eight men will get prostate cancer. That's right. That's right. Very, very common. That is insane. There is radiation. There is surgery. Is chemo also utilized? In metastatic disease, if you have bone metes, even then when people think of chemo, you think of like your hair falling out and being super sick, like with breast cancer and leukemia, isn't things like that. Typically an anti-cancer drug is still chemo, but usually in the case of prostate cancer, it's an anti-testosterone drug. So like Lou Pron, which is an LHRH agonist. You starve the body of testosterone, so you do cause some side effects, but it's not like chemo, chemo, what you're traditionally think of, or people get sick. It's not that type of drug. So we usually don't have to use that because prostate cancer is usually a local disease. It's not a systemic disease the way other cancers that require chemo are. Yeah. And as a radiation oncologist, tell me a little bit about the training surrounding that, because you are not their primary line of defense. That's correct. That's correct. I'm kind of a tertiary specialist because your typical patient will go to primary care doctor. They'll get an annual blood tests, maybe their PSA is rising, or if it's a lady, maybe they've had their anti-cancer mammogram, there's something that's unusual. Then they'll go see a surgeon. If it's a man, then of course they'll go to a urologist and have an MRI and a biopsy if indicated, women will go to see their, you know, get the mammogram or something's unusual. They go to a breast surgeon and they will remove the lump and then they'll send it to me for a region. Radiation after breast cancer or in the case of a man. Once the prostate cancer has been diagnosed by a biopsy, by the urologist, then they get referred to me. So I'm a little bit further downstream. They'll see a specialist, whether it's a breast surgeon or urologist, a ENT doctor, if it's a throat cancer and neuro surgeon, if it's a brain tumor, they all send to me once they've been evaluated and staged. There are those new full body MRI scans. The prenovo. Yeah, prenovo. And you, someone could come to you, for example, I'm going to see you once this hamstring tear heels. If someone comes to you, they get a full body scan and you see an isolated tumor. Would you be able to treat it or would they first go to someone else that would stage it, then come over the tree. We start with the biopsy first and so there's a lot of things on these prenovo scans that may be cancer or they may be completely benign. So they would need a biopsy. So either an interventional radiologist or a specialist of whatever part of the body it's in. If it's something in the gut, they'll need to see a GI doctor or if it's a prostate lesinocular urologist. So after the biopsies done, then they consent to me. I can help with the staging part in terms of ordering pet scans, MRIs, whatever's needed. And then depending on the stage, then we design the treatment plan. And to set this stage for people, radiation is the kind of medicine that you practice. Correct. Radiation oncology is technically my specialty. Right. And you hear oncology, which is the study of cancer, obviously. But there's different types of oncologists. When you just hear someone as an oncologist, they're usually medical oncologists. So they'll do a residency, an internal medicine, then a fellowship and medical oncology. And that's the chemo side. Whereas radiation oncology, what I do, it's a separate completely separate residency program, which is actually, as we were talking about, it's an offshoot of radiology. So the radiologists are the guys, even half of my patients are like, oh, yeah, that's Dr. Mead. He's my radiologist. I'm like, close enough, but not quite. So the radiologists are the ones who interpret x-ray films, whereas we use x-rays and radiation oncology to actually treat therapeutic versus diagnostic radiology. So I'll do a year, like a year of internship, and then it's four years of radiation oncology. So we were candid hand with the medical oncologists. Certain cancers need chemo and radiation combined modality treatment. Or then the third type of oncologist, of course, is surgical oncologist. So you got all three. And when we think about a physician that is prescribing a medication or chemotherapy, there's a dose, a treatment length, all of those logistics, and you are delivering. Right. Very similarly. You are delivering an energy source. I'd love for you to explain what radiations, but to frame it for the listener or the viewer. You are delivering a dose of radiation. That's right. We are radiophobic, you're nice. Yes. You spoke about this. People will be concerned about the radiation from a cell phone or the radiation from standing in front of a microwave. I may or may not have been one of those people. When I was pregnant, you know, you're looking for all of these things. Or you're mom told you don't sit too close to TV. You're gonna get a tumor. So we can talk about all of that. But you're right. We measure radiation just like you measure medication in milligrams or milliliters depending what your chemical is. In the case of radiation, it's measured in units called the grade. It's abbreviated GY, but it's called the gray, like the color gray. And that's just essentially the amount of energy you're putting in the tissue. So one gray is one jewel per kilogram. So jewel is a measure of energy. But jewels can be, you know, calories and jewels are two different ways of measuring energy. You know all about calories. So essentially, jewels alone is just energy. But jewels per kilogram of tissue is the absorbed dose of energy in the body. And that's how we measure radiation. So when we talk about low dose, it may be a dose of half a gray, whereas a cancer dose, a high dose might be 50 to 75 to 80 gray. And it's just like with pills. It's very similar in terms of if you take one aspirin a day for a week, it might help whatever symptom you had. But if you take the whole bottle at once, not so good for you. So the dose is what makes it the difference between medicine and poison. And it's the same way with radiation when given in low dose, because it's very therapeutic. But as you mentioned with radiophobia, people instantly are just trying to think about Hiroshima and Chernobyl. And all these other things where they were mega doses that were given in inverting. Obviously in disasters where the body got radiated to a very high dose. But that has literally nothing to do with the tiny, focused dose. But we focus it anatomically. We have the ability now. What has really revolutionized our field is we're not treating large parts of the body. I can make the radiation go exactly where the problem is. So in the case of a prostate cancer, I'll treat the prostate gland with just a few millimeter margin around it. And when you get just a few millimeters beyond that, the dose is very low. So we don't cause the collateral damage that we use to. If you listen every week and feel like we are in this together, which I believe that we are learning growing in building strength. Then I created a way for us to get connected even more closely. It's called forever strong insider. A premium community for listeners who want to go deeper. You'll get ad free episodes which I know you'll love. Bonus Q&A is where your questions shape the conversation. Behind the scene moments because let's face it offlarious for my daily life and written takeaways to keep at your fingertips. But more than that, you'll be supporting the show so that we keep creating content that matters. If you've ever wanted to feel part of the inner circle, this is your invitation. Join us at foreverstrong.supercast.com or through the link in the show notes. When I think about radiation, is it fair to say that it is, is it a laser delivering? Yeah, walk us through. Sure. And that gets back to your previous question. What is radiation? So radiation is part of the electromagnetic spectrum. And so radiation is just essentially light. It's just, there's different types of light. So, or I should say light is a type of radiation. It's probably more accurate. And so when you look at the electromagnetic spectrum, human beings can only detect. You remember, have you heard of Roy G. Biv, ROI, GBIV? So that little part of the electromagnetic spectrum is all we can see. We can see red, green, blue, yellow, and all those colors. But that's a tiny fraction. That's part of the same electromagnetic spectrum that makes up microwaves and radio waves. And on the other side, as you get to the high energy stuff, you have ultraviolet rays from the sun. And then beyond that, x-rays and gamma rays. So it's all part of the spectrum. It just so happens that this tiny little sliver in the middle is all we can see for visible light. But as you go to less energetic electromagnetic radiation, that's where you have non-ionizing or basically not dangerous radiation, which would include microwaves and radio waves. Doesn't matter how much, you know, FM88.7, you listen to. It's not going to hurt you. Your cell phone is a radio. So those are all non-ionizing radiation. So the old wife's tail, but the cell phone giving a brain tumor, not going to happen. Because those are low energy waves. Then of course visible light is, as we know what that is. And then as you know, you go to ultraviolet and then x-rays are beyond that. So as the energy gets higher and higher, when you get above the visible spectrum, the ultraviolet, as you know, you can get a sunburn, because ultraviolet is ionizing. It's not as bad as an x-ray, but if you get out in the sun long enough, the reason you get a sunburn is the UV rays, the electromagnetic radiation, in the ultraviolet spectrum, is damaging your skin's DNA, causing that. And that's what, and by the same token, x-rays do the same thing, but more so. And the higher the energy of the x-ray, the more potential it has to damage your DNA. And the whole point of what I do is a radiation oncologist, I try to damage the cancer DNA and spare the normal DNA. I mean, it makes sense. Also sounds like we're exposed to various forms of radiation. If I'm hearing it correctly, there's non-ionizing, and then there's ionizing radiation. That's exactly right. You deliver non-ionizing. No, it's actually ionizing. So x-rays and you've heard, you'll hear of like things like gamma rays and things like that, but the non-ionizing part would not treat anything. So even a tanning bed is ionizing, because that's like ultraviolet basically. So the non-ionizing is just going to be radio waves, micro waves, things like that, that don't have any effect on the human body. When you think about it, it's really interesting. It doesn't affect the human body, but is it inert? Does it cause any kind of damage? Are there ways that we get non-ionizing radiation naturally? So non-ionizing radiation is everything that's below the energy of visible stuff. And so radio waves are naturally occurring. You know, you have astronomers who've got these big radars, the big satellites that are trying to detect extraterrestrial lives. It's so amazing. I'm here. Come pick me up. That's exactly it. But that's, there's cosmic background radiation. That's basically all of the universe is full of electromagnetic radiation. It's just the spectrum of that. That's why, as you probably remember, remember, when the James Webb telescope came out, it could see way more than the Hubble telescope. The Hubble was the big deal back in the 80s and 90s. And it showed us an impressive picture of the universe. But then the James Webb, when that was launched a few years ago, that has an infrared camera. So that can see a different spectrum of the electromagnetic spectrum than just visible light. So all of a sudden these dark pictures with a few stars, all of a sudden you see all this other stuff that we couldn't see as humans with our, the limitation of our eyes. But so yes, to answer your question, there is non-ionizing radiation that in theory, there are ways that actually I believe your husband right now, about some of the stuff. Some of the armed forces can use a very high frequency lower energy x-ray that can actually, like basically a microwave that could burn you. Or at least make you can cause pain. It's not enough to damage the DNA, but it's enough to where it can damage the skin. So I think that's actually been used in combat in some situations. But that's, that's an outlier. Typically radio waves, cell phones, microwaves, all that stuff is non-ionizing, meaning it doesn't have enough energy to eject an electron from the atoms that are near it. So it's not going to create ions, and therefore it's not going to damage your DNA. And that's exactly what x-rays do. They eject electrons from the nuclei of yourselves. And that's what creates ions, and that's what damages the double strands of the DNA, and that's what kills the cancer cells. The utility of it is just, it's so interesting. Really involved in physics. I mean, this seems to be a good idea. I just enjoyed. I'm like a mechanical type person. So I think if I was a radical radiation oncologist, it's probably about as close to an engineer as an MD could be. And I've always loved mechanical things, cars, and stuff like that. So it's like anything mechanical was interesting, and that's why this is an interesting sort of a, a malgum of clinical medicine, plus technology, and unlike radiology, where you're just looking at x-rays, I still have patient care. So I enjoyed that part, what's kind of like being a radiologist, but also being a clinical oncologist. So it's a really great area of medicine in my opinion. I mean, certainly, especially when I hear stories about you treating someone's arthritis, that they couldn't play tennis, and all of a sudden they can get back. It's a beautiful thing. And the side effects seem to be very limited when you are using low dose, radiation. What are some of the biggest myths and falsies surrounding radiation? Sure. So the biggest thing is the danger of what am I going to do? Am I going to glow in the dark? Am I going to grow a third arm? Am I going to, I've even been asked, are you going to get superpowers? And when you watch too many, I guess comic book movies or something like that. But basically the biggest thing is that is radiation going to cause more harm than good. That's what people are afraid of. And if it's done incorrectly, certainly it could. And that's when, you know, historically people have heard about the Adam Baum, and everyone's, especially lately, the Oppenheimer movie came out a couple years ago. Very good. Great movie, right? Fantastic movie, fantastic. But essentially, all that was was essentially a nuclear bomb is basically an uncontrolled, massive way of scattering electromagnetic radiation. So the people who were unfortunately in the area where the bomb was dropped in Hiroshima, for example, they got a very high dose of radiation. And the people who were in the immediate blast radius, they all died basically instantly. But we've learned a lot about what radiation does to human beings and to our tissues and to our organs. As you look at the people who died in those, in those unfortunate war time bomb explosions, as you go, 10 miles out, 20 miles out, 30 miles out, you see as the dose goes lower and lower, you can examine different effects on people. So the immediate effect, the blast radius, they would die. If you get a few miles further out, they didn't die right away, but the high doses of radiation, the first thing you'll do is basically wipe out your bone marrow and your entire GI tract, all your mucosal cell. So any fast growing cell in the body, which would be your bone marrow, your squamous cell lining of all your oral cavity, all the whole GI cavity, it just descoemates and goes away. So that's a horrible way to die if that were to happen. But again, this is a full body super high dose. We don't do that. But as you get another 10, 20, 30 miles out, it's actually been found now that a lot of the people who are further out in there, further out from the immediate exposure, got a very low dose of radiation, and they didn't have any side effects at all. And it is now gotten to the point now that it's been studied long enough, it's actually been found that very low doses of radiation actually promote hormesis, just like exercise does. And back when I was in medical school, we hadn't even heard of hormesis, but now obviously you're an expert on that and a lot of people now that speak about it in the exercise realm and dealing with, you know, hot and cold plunges and things like that, a little bit of hormesis, a little bit of tissue damage makes the body stronger, and we're now finding out that that actually seems to be the case for radiation as well. When I mean, yeah, low dose. Not high dose. High dose radiation obviously you said is lethal, and lower dose seems to have positive effects when it. And high dose is lethal, but in some cases that can be, can actually be harnessed and be a good thing because if you can give a very focused high dose to a small part of the body, you can kill the cancer, like we do for prostate cancer. But you just don't want to treat too large of an area in damage the surrounding organs, and that's probably the easiest about what's the biggest fallacy about radiation is that it's toxic and it's going to make me really sick. But when done properly, it actually has less side effects than a lot of other treatments, usually less than chemo or surgery, depending on where you're treating. If I treat a small enough area, I'm not damaging the rest of the body. Patients have excellent quality of life, and we can still achieve the goal of killing the cancer without causing a lot of collateral damage. If you're like me, you love a good meat stick, and are always on the go. But still committed to putting high quality fuel into your body, then you want to check out Paleo Valley, one of the sponsors of the show. There are 100 grass fed and finished beef sticks are clean nutrient tents and free from all the garbage found in most convenient snacks. And by the way, this is Buffalo chicken, no preservatives, no added sugar, no artificial anything. They are naturally fermented, which means they support your gut, deliver more bio-available nutrients, and of course have a long shelf life without the use of harmful additives, which is amazing. Paleo Valley sources from regenerative farms here in the U.S., the kind of farms that treat animals humanely and prioritize soil health. It's like going to the farmers market, getting a good quality snack, and it's still a good right to your job. Go to pliowalley.com slash doctor lion to get 15% off. That's pliowalley.com slash doctor lion. The radiation is it fair to say that it's the waves that change? What is it if we were to think about how do we understand in terms of if it was equivalent to medicine? Sure. A an aspirin versus a Tylenol. They're both pills, but they have different mechanisms. They're for mechanisms of action. In the case of ionizing radiation, it basically all the waves or the energy of the waves, that determines how I aim it. It's still the same basic entity that we're bombarding the tumor with. But if you have it, if I have a 250 pound guy with a pelvic tumor that's got to get through 10 inches of tissue versus a superficial scar or a skin cancer, where I need the radiation to go the depth of penetration is what I have to modulate. And that can be done based on it's essentially all physics at that point. The different energies of x-rays can be generated from different machines. And you essentially can use a very low energy superficial radiation for certain things that would be useless on a deeper thing. And that's where things have really changed over the years because say 50 years ago when the modern radiation oncology discipline really started coming onto its own. They were limited number of machines and the only had one or two energy. So if you wanted to treat something superficial, you could do that. But if you had to treat a deep pelvic tumor, you would cause a lot of superficial damage to get to that. But now we have the ability to use a high energy x-ray like millions of volts. The thing is when you think about x-rays, we use x-rays all the time. Everybody's, everyone's been to the dentist. They, when they do a jaw x-ray to look for cavities, it's a low energy x-ray. It's the same x-ray that I use. But the difference is that's a kilo voltage x-ray. I use a mega voltage x-ray. So the kilo voltage a thousand volts is enough to get a good image of a bone. You can see if there's any deterioration, a cavity or a broken bone. If you go to the ER, you get an x-ray of your arm, if you fell down or something. The kv kilo voltage x-rays will just take a picture. But they don't have enough energy in them to kill, try to damage cancer cells or damage any cells for that matter. And so the higher energy stuff can penetrate deeper into the body, and it has the amount of energy needed to damage the DNA to actually have a biological effect and not just an imaging effect. But would you be able to use that tool for both when you go and, So actually the machines that we use now that what's really, really revolutionized what we do as radiation oncologist is not only being able to give a high dose of radiation to a small area, but to be able to aim it correctly. So we do what's called image guided radiation. So the imaging part is done by low energy x-rays, like I mentioned, kill a voltage x-rays, like a cat scanner or a regular x-ray. And then the high energy or mega voltage x-rays will treat the tumor. So when the patient gets on my table, we take a regular image first of whether it's a cat scan or a plane film, and I can see where we're aiming. And then while they're in that position, then we turn on the high dose x-ray, and it'll actually be enough to treat the cancer. So we do it based on CT planning, we usually will do it. A cat scan map out the depth, then the area, I'll actually literally take my mouse and contour out the volume of the prostate gland or the breast tumor or whatever it might be. And then with the modern software that we have now, we can take cat scans, which are two dimensional images, and reconstruct into 3D. So I have a full 3D image of the patient's body on the screen, and we can make sure the beams come in from different angles, and we can modulate the energy and the shape of the beam to match exactly what the tumor looks like. So I could create a ball of radiation that looks exactly like the shape and size of the tumor, even if it's got a little Mickey Mouse ear sticking off one side. I can do that too, while simultaneously shaping it to stay away from all the normal tissue. So that's where you get the advantage, basically what we call the therapeutic benefit, where you're radiating what needs to be radiated, but you're not radiating and damaging the normal tissue. And do all, I mean there's various types of cancers. Do all cancers respond to radiation? So the short answer is yes, and I won't bore you with a too long of an answer, but there's always a little more nuance to it than that. So yes, there is no cancer that cannot be destroyed by radiation. The limiting factor is the human being around that cancer. So I got to be cognizant of the normal tissue. So if you took a tumor in a P3D, anything can be radiated, and it's going to destroy the cells. But let's just say it's a tumor in the tip of your pinky toe. There's not much around that. I don't have to worry about a kidney or an eye or something like that. So the brain tumor, I have to be very worried about what I'm treating to the normal brain tissue, the dose that's going to the lens of the eye, things like that. So depending on which part of the body it's in, the surrounding normal tissue will dictate how much radiation I can safely deliver. And it doesn't affect the the dermis. You can just go right through the skin. Great question. So based on that energy. So if I have a skin cancer, I will use an energy of radiation or a type of radiation when it's called electron beam, and it's literally only going a few millimeters. So I can treat that superficial skin tissue and not affect anything deeper. Even if it's a, I've treated it like a squamous cell right on the temple of an old lady who was she's a 90 year old who's on anti-coagulants. And she can't be offered for med. So they couldn't cut it out. So we just radiated it. But with, with electron beam, the x-ray stop, a couple millimeters deep into the tissue. But if I'm treating a brain tumor, I'm going to treat the same area with a high energy x-ray that will, like you said, it'll spare the dermis. They won't even get a sunburn. But the energy will go deeper into the brain. Gosh, that is unbelievable. Yeah. Someone would not have to be opened. Correct. And not even burn. So that's the big thing people like, oh, I'm going to get burned. And that goes back to your previous question about what are people concerned about. Everyone thinks they're going to get burned really badly. And that again is based on seeing all these horrible pictures from nuclear disasters. And with older radiation equipment, back in the 1950s and 60s, we had what was called cobalt 60, where it was just basically an actual chunk of radioactive cobalt that the patient was exposed to. It would burn the skin. And if you're trying to treat, say, a breast tumor, it would completely really burn or necros the skin in order to get enough dose deep enough to treat the breast tumor. But now we don't use cobalt. We use these high energy x-rays that are generated by a machine called a linear accelerator, or a linach for short. So the linach is our bread and butter machine that creates the x-rays, the high energy x-rays. Does everyone use a linach? Almost everyone. The other things you'll hear that are alternatives, and being in Houston, we have MD Anderson at the street. They have proton therapy. So protons are different than photons are x-rays. So they have their own, what's called the cycletron, which is essentially a particle accelerated to create protons. But that's a completely different topic. But most cancer centers do use a linach. So a linear accelerator can generate the low or high energy x-rays. Depending on what I need to treat. So with a linach, I can treat a long tumor, for example, and the surface of the skin will get a little dose, be a little redness, but not a horrible skin reaction. And if it's a deep enough tumor with a high enough x-rays, sometimes the skin dose is almost undetectable. It's low, but not even enough, like my prostate patients. They don't even get a sunburn. Maybe a little bit of a tan spot, but that's about it. Which they're definitely not looking for in that area. Once you treat someone with radiation, obviously it's a few treatments, a handful of treatments. And that's another big topic in terms of how much do you, because it's not just how much radiation you give it's how frequently do you give it and how how many pieces do you slice your pizza up into? What you get of, you know, when you get your pizza from Domino's that has eight slices, if they, if you cut each one in half, you get 16 smaller slices, it's still the same pizza you're getting. But with radiation for someone with prostate cancer, you can do different protocols depending on, there's a lot of different data out there where you can give say nine weeks of treatment, or you can give four weeks or even one week now. They're looking at different things, but it gets much more accelerated. You can give a higher dose per day. If you give a higher dose per day, there's a potential for more side effects. You have to be careful. The slower you give the radiation, you give a tiny bit per day, and you stretch it out over many, many weeks, you have a lot less normal tissue toxicity in most cases. And is that all measured in grease? It is. So like for example, a prostate patient historically, if you asked me this 10 years ago, what do you give a prostate? We would give 81 gray, but given in 1.8 gray per day, which is 45 days of 1.8 times 45, but that also requires the patient come in for nine weeks. It's a lot of visits. Whereas typically now, we will use 70 gray, so it sounds like you're not giving as much radiation. But 2.5 gray per day, rather than 1.8, you only have to give 28 days. So 70 gray in 28 days is the equivalent of getting 81 gray in 45 days. And it's a lot less visits to come in for. It shrinks the cancer, but does it cure it? That's the key thing. And so typically yes, that's what we have to go for is that if we were just shrinking it, then you would see these, let's talk about prostate cancer. The cure rates for prostate cancer are essentially the same, whether you use external beam radiation, or whether you have a radical prostate to me. And one case you're. The cure rates are the same. Literally the same, even though in one case you're surgically removing the tumor on the other side that the prostate gland is never removed from the body, but the energy from the x-rays sterilizes the cells. So even though the organ is physically still there, if you were to do a prostate biopsy on someone after radiation, you would just get scar tissue out. So the physical gland on an x-rays still there, but it's no longer active viable tissue. So you are still curing the cancer. That's the goal anyway. And so an average prostate patient might have a 95% chance of being cured with radical prostatectomy. It's basically the same with radiation. Oh, sorry. It's time to record an ad for the show. Thank you to one of the sponsors of the show. Time line and listen. My kids still sleep with me. And after 470 nighttime snack requests, bathroom breaks, my husband snoring, myself as they are like a yo-jee. We're tapped out. Enter might appear. Time line nutrition is one of the most thoroughly researched products. I've come across an over a decade. Look, to carry it in my purse. They have peer reviewed public science. And this is where it's really interesting. So for those of you who are following the muscle centric lifestyle, when you increase bio energetics, you improve muscle function and how. In adults, 40 plus, timeline has been shown to increase muscle strength and endurance and no change in activities. So whether you've been active, resistance training your whole life or you're just getting started or you're not getting a lot of sleep and you've got a million requests, your muscles and your mitochondria need help. And they have just launched their low sugar vegan non-GMO gluten-free gummies, which by the way, I am eating by the handfills which I shouldn't, but they taste delicious. Time line is offering our community 20% off your first order. Go to timelinenutrition.com slash doctor lion and use the code doctor line to get 20% off. I recommend trying their starter pack with all three different formats. And of course, their gummies which are incredible. What are the side effects of surgery or radical prostate cancer? The biggest problem with surgery is usually in continents because when the prostate is removed, the intra-prostatic urethra comes out along with it and then the urinary sphinctermus will get damaged as well. Because in the process of removing all that, there's always damaged those areas. There can be nerve damage as well that can lead to sexual dysfunction. How does the biggest one that I've seen? That and also, it's not talked about as much, but penile shortening because they have to reenact the most. The penile urethra to the bladder neck in order to create a new pathway. The intra-prostatic urethra is gone so that length is gone. And so I haven't met too many men who are okay with that either. You are the second person in all of my years of speaking with physicians that have mentioned penile shortening. It's just not talked about much. I don't think people even know about it. We had Dr. Tobias Kohler, he's a Mayo Clinic doctor. He runs the men's health over in Minnesota. He was talking about if you don't use your penis over a three month period of time, that you can shorten your penis by a son of a her. That's a lot. Yeah. I think it's slightly reversible, right? If you start to have a penile therapy, you can get some of that back. But if you have a radical prostitectomy, that's irreversible at that point. If you have a radical prostitectomy, which is removing the prostate, you can reduce penile length by how much? Probably a couple of centimeters. Ah, right. Yeah. Depending because that's when you look at the anatomy, the penis or the prostate itself, depending on the size of the gland, you get BPH, some men that are older have a really, really large, 100 gram prostate. That's a lot of tissue to remove. So the your rethral length that's inside of that is gone after that. And that's not to say to be fair to the urologists who may be listening and shaking their fist at us. There's plenty of side effects that potentially can happen from radiation too. But luckily in the modern era, this is called image guided radiation. And because it's so much more precise, the traditional problems with radiation were cystitis or proctitis. He would be radiating the tumor, of course, which you're also radiating the bladder in the rectum. And that could cause blood in the urine with cystitis. It could cause severe diarrhea or blood in the stool. In some cases, they were worried about you hear this in this is all historical. It doesn't happen anymore just to ruin the story. But fistula formation, you know, a colovisicular fistula from the scar tissue causing the organs to stick together and fistulize. But that was in an era when we didn't have modern computer imaging. We didn't have CT scans. We didn't have PET scans. So many times the bladder and the rectum got almost as much doses as the prostate did. That's where radiation kind of got part of its bad rap was because this is in the 70s and 80s. There were some really bad side effects. Or like I mentioned earlier, cobalt 60 causing severe sunburns. But now that we have modern image guided high energy radiation, we can have the radiation beams concentrated. Like just if the prostate is this big around, I can literally map the radiation just to that area. So the dose fall off, meaning the amount of radiation that's delivered just outside of that is very sharp. So you have a nice sharp fall off to whether you're not getting a bunch of low dose radiation to all this surrounding tissue. It basically goes close to zero. And therefore, you're not causing the cystitis and the proctitis like we used to. So that's gotten much better. But the one thing about radiation that people have to keep in mind is when you end and this has been discussed quite a bit when they were discussing the pros and cons. Even though we don't cause the the impotence and the incontinence the way surgery potentially can. Many patients if they have a more aggressive prostate cancer, the data shows they have to be on testosterone blockers along with the radiation. So that in itself, Androgen deprivation, you hear it called ADT, testosterone basically a medicine like luporone that's that's suppresses the body's ability to make testosterone. That is a potential side effect from radiation that many surgical patients don't have to deal with. And so you deal with hot flashes and decreased libido and all the usual because you're not just lowering their testosterone. It's going to go close to zero. And I think it from talking to our mutual friend, Dr. Mahadkarah and a Morgan taller, both of which have been on the show. The joke is I have the number one men's health podcasts and YouTube, but we'll say it for another day. Yeah, I'm not in there. They're both the kings. Well, I don't know. You've got Sunday. You've got some pretty extraordinary skills that are very unique to a small subset of. Physicians to be able to really treat arthritis and things of this nature as well as cancer. But certain prostate cancers, they do well with testosterone therapy. It all just I guess it just depends on that. Interesting and what is he's obviously on the forefront of all the research they've done. Despite all of that and all his data is very valid. We still, the standard of care. We still use for aggressive prostate cancers. We deprive the body of testosterone for a period of several months to even several years. And that still has shown a survival advantage in those situations. Now, the good part is, once they're cured, their PSA goes down, Moe hit can put his patients back on testosterone, which in the old days, they wouldn't, I would be a big no-no, no tea for life. But now he's shown that it can be brought back. But there is a temporary window with radiation, you know, the radiation might only be six weeks. If it's a more aggressive prostate cancer, they might need six to 12 months of hydrogen suppression. But in the big scheme of things, that's all reversible. Yeah. And there's better drugs now to some of the modern oral LHRH agonists. They don't cause as long or as severe of the hot flashes as the old loopron shot did. So it's gotten better. But for some of the lower grade patients who don't need the hydrogen suppression, if it's just radiation alone, extremely well tolerated. They really, the only thing that patients have is a little frequency or urgency. We're in Texas, so if they're spicy foods, maybe a little bit of dysuria, and everything's your passing, the spicy chemical capsafe, and a little bit out of the urethra, but that's really minimal stuff. Patients are thrilled because they can go through their life. I have body builders that are still training for competitions, and they're coming in for their treatment. They get their treatment and go right back to whatever they're doing. We got retired guy. Same day. Same day. Same hour. I mean literally 15 minutes had straight from my clinic straight to the gym. We got older guys that had straight to the golf course straight to the, you know, back to whatever they were doing. And they'd go, my dad, I should treat my own father. And he rides his bike three miles a day. And the only thing that was bothering him was his hand was getting sore and I fixed that too. Is there anyone who would not be accounted for radiation therapy? For example, prostate breast. Very few. There are rare situations like there's certain hereditary disorders of DNA repair like zero-dermum pigmentosum and stuff that you probably haven't heard about this med school. Yeah, I don't even think about that. Yeah, I'd like it. Those are, you know, you'll hear about a case where a patient can't be out in the sun at all. And so zero-dermum pigmentosum, these patients have no DNA repairs. So even the minor amount of UV exposure, they'll have horrible sunburns and things like that. So in those, and again, I don't think I've ever seen one of those people in real life. But theoretically, there are cases like that. And there's individual situations like not a absolute contraindication, but a relative contraindication could be an active autoimmune disease, like a really bad rheumatoid arthritis or showgreens disease. Any of those things might cause the radiation type of the DNA damage caused by radiation to be more severe. I've still treated people with all of these things, and as long as you do it properly and you modify the dose appropriately, it's still very doable, but that is a potential issue. Or if they've had a previous tumor in the same area, been previously radiated, we have to be very careful. It's not an absolute contraindication, but relatively speaking, I have to make sure that my dose doesn't overlap with what was previously treated. And things like that. It's that time again, man flu season, wait, no, just kidding. All flu season. And needed immune support. It's an easy to take delicious, elderberry powder, and it's designed to support optimal immune health for the whole family. Man, when I was pregnant, I could not figure out what to take. And most immune support products aren't designed for all ages and all stages. Needed immune support is safe, and effective for the whole family. Kids, pregnant moms, nursing mothers, it has zinc, elderberry, pre-bottoms, and post-biotics in optimal forms. And of course, dosages that are clinically studied, safe and effective. It is formulated by a group of pediatric practitioners and moms, one serving daily for optimal immune support all year round. And let's face it. There's a lot of stuff on the market, and it's important to get clean products. Go to this isneeded.com and use the code Dr. Line for 20% off your first order. That's this isneeded.com. Is radiation the standard of care for all cancers? No, it's that's a little probably a little too much of a blanket statement. As much as I'm a, you know, a believer in what we do, there's many, many different situations. So depending on what part of the body it's in, if it's a cancer that has a metastatic potential like a lung tumor, or maybe a lymphoma, or something, what's more of a systemic disease, chemo and radiation are many times needed. There's many situations where chemo alone can work. Because, you know, as cancer is not just one disease, it's so many. So for certain diseases, radiation alone works very well, like prostate cancer, but for most other ones, radiation is more of a, a part of the multidisciplinary approach. So in many cases, it may be chemo radiation and surgery. Sometimes surgery first followed by chemo radiation. In other cases, like for erectile tumor, the randomized data shows that chemo radiation combined will shrink the tumor enough to where then the surgeon can go in and remove it and reduce the risk of them losing their spincture or things like that. So many different scenarios, so how to make a blanket statement. And I really appreciate that because we've moved into an era where we are very radiophobic and to frame that up for the listener, the viewer, other than my dad who might be, I think he's the only one that watches YouTube, but hopefully we're changing that. Here's what I've heard. Okay. Don't use iPods. Those Apple iPods because it's going to create radiation for your brain. Right. Do not stand near the microwave. I've had patients who don't want to get mammograms because they are a freight of radiation. Other patients that are afraid to go through the security line and will request an opt-out, especially if they are pregnant. Did I miss any more other additional common? I think as a child of the 70s and 80s when I was growing up, it was always don't sit too close to the TV. Yeah. And so let's address one of those. Don't put the computer on your lap. Don't put yourself on in your posture. And so all of these things are different. Some of them have more credibility than others. The TV part, the microwave oven or the AirPods, the iPod. Those are all non-ionizing radio waves in microwave. So going back to what we talked about previously in terms of the electromagnetic spectrum when you're on the non-ionizing low energy side. Those are not harmful. So the headphones, the AirPods, the microwave ovens. None of that stuff is going to damage your tissue. And we know that those are strictly non-ionizing. Correct. Because ionizing radiation is much more tightly regulated. So like the mildest type of ionizing radiation would be ultraviolet. That's less of a strong energy than x-rays and gamma rays, which is the farther end. But even like a tanning bed for example, those are not regulated by the FDA. You don't want to be in it. I mean tanning salons are obviously big business. But those are ionizing and they can cause skin cancers and things like that. So but on the other hand, as you mentioned, the lady who's afraid of going through an airport scanner because she might be pregnant, that is ionizing radiation. It's a very low dose to get us like an x-ray to security area. But that is an x-ray. X-rays by definition are ionizing. And if I had a chance of being pregnant, I wouldn't go through it either. I think that's a very reasonable thing. Wait, wait, wait. This is really important for the community. So what is going through the is it the machine that you stand up at scans? Or is it the what what is it? Yeah, so there's different types. There's like, I think there's one, I'm not an expert on this. But there's a millimeter scanner. But they all do use x-rays. It's very low dose. It's probably not a big deal, but why take the chance. It's in theory. It is low low doses of ionizing radiation like any x-ray. And that if you have enough of them. Now, if I wasn't, if pregnancy was not an issue, I wouldn't think twice about it. But for a pregnant person, why take any chance? There's a principle we have called a Lara, a L-A-R-A. And that stands for as low as reasonably achievable a L-A-R-A. And that's one of the things the tenets of radiation safety, when no matter what we're doing, why not minimize things as low as reasonably achievable? Why put even if there's a 0.01% of chance of damaging a fetus? Why not make it zero and just not do it? But if it's not a pregnant person, this doses are so minimal. And that's where getting back to what we talked about earlier. Radiophobia is a real thing. And when you have high doses of radiation or whole body radiation, those effects are potentially lethal or at least very much damaging. But at very low doses, this is the point I want to make. At very low doses of radiation, it was always thought that even super low doses could cause DNA damage. And therefore potentially cumulative effects over time. And I would agree with that for someone with whose pregnant, that's a different scenario. But for a non-pregnant and a non-like a child who still has multiplying cell and is still growing, we try to basically keep the radiation dose at zero. But for adults who are fully grown, it has now been shown that the super low doses radiation are not only not damaging. There may actually be a hermedicum or mesis effect. Which he said, again, that I think we're not really thinking about it not very much. So the super super low doses, like they're mounted, they use for an airport scanner is tiny. It's so little. If I was pregnant, I still wouldn't go through it. I don't blame her, but otherwise it's nothing for the average person to be concerned about. Where else would we be exposed to radiation like that? Would that be the red light? Those red light beds, just also the red light beds. How long is which by the way, I use all the time. It's better to tell me. Yeah, no red light is visible. If you can see the light, it's not ionizing. So there's some light that we again, that maybe is being produced at one point. Well, my smart ass answer to you would be everywhere. Living on earth is where we get exposed to radiation. That's because there's there's radon gas in the atmosphere. Of course you have UV radiation from the sun, which is absolutely everywhere. And depending on where you are in the country or in the world, the elevation you're at makes a big difference. So people in Denver, Mile High get way more background radiation than we do here in Houston. It's sea level. But an interesting point about that, even though they get far more radiation, the baseline level of cancer incidence, Colorado versus here, no difference, undetectable difference. Even though we get far less exposure than they do, it's still within that small amount to where it's not a problem. People who are either astronauts for one thing get a ton of radiation, they're beyond the atmosphere. But even people in the airline industry pilots and... That was my question. They do get a relatively high dose because you're up in the air all the time. But even in those population or studies, I haven't seen any data showing that they have a higher incidence of cancers than those of us that stay on the ground most of the time. And is it the location of where someone is? So the higher they get up in the atmosphere of the higher. Is that because it's closer to the sun? Yeah, you have less shielding from the earth's magnetic field. And less shielding from the earth's magnetic field. Even though you're in a plane where you're not really being exposed to. You're still... Because it goes... The plane itself is made out of metal and that will shield a certain amount, but a lot of it still goes through. Have you ever... Okay, don't make fun of me. We're friends who don't make fun of me Sunday, but... And again, I did this while I was pregnant. There were blankets that were EMF protector blankets. There were shields, a placing my computer on an anti-inputable plane. And they call it this anti-EMF anti-radiation tablet. Talk to me about that. Yeah. So that's all the electromagnetic frequencies. No, that's all non-ionizing. So it's not of any danger. So you're saying, I wasted my... I, you know, again... There's a lot of things... I'm not trying to say, I've met a smother mess and knows everything. And it's your own child you're talking about why not be an ex-little extra cautious. I wouldn't... I would probably agree with everything you did as to whether it helped or not. It's certainly didn't harm anything. Maybe harm your pocketbook a little bit. You know, electromagnetic... You know, EMF is not going to... You could... You could have a television and a radio and a microwave on all the time. And it's not going to do anything. It's a really important conversation because there's a lot of misinformation out there. And frankly, it's confusing for me as well. Which is why I bought a EMF blanket and I used this tablet. Yeah. That I put my computer on. Right. But if it's not accurate and... It's not. Then I think that we have to... The whole point is to have... Did you ever see that self that... It was a viral video probably 15, 20 years ago when viral videos became a thing about the cell phone and the... In the bowl of unpop popcorn. And then someone would dial that number in the cell phone and ring and all the popcorn kernels started popping and becoming popcorn. That was like that. Everyone used to ask me about that. And I got, oh my god, if this cell phone can pop popcorn. Of course, it was... It was a joke. It was a hoax. It was completely fake. If it wasn't... The popcorn kernels... What makes them pop? It's heat. It's just thermal energy. It's not radiation that does that. So there's a lot of that type of stuff that's out there that... Unfortunately, it's a multi-billion dollar industry with misinformation. Oh, man. Same as we see with all these liver cleansers and all these... You know, there's no end of this sort of stuff. Hydration isn't just about drinking, coke zero or other sugar free swing beverages like breadball. Now I'm saying this for a friend. Or it's not even about drinking more water. It's about keeping the right balance of electrolytes and fluids. During life's most demanding season, like I don't know, parenting. Maybe pregnancy or postpartum. Your body is going through massive changes, blood volume increases, hormones shift, breastfeeding demands, you know, all those things. All of these life transitions, you probably need more and better hydration. And you need electrolytes, like sodium, magnesium, and potassium. All of this is formulated to replenish what you actually lose without sugar, fillers, and junk that you don't need. It's a clean, effective way to stay hydrated. And for men, again, it's not just about hydration. It's also about performance, recovery, mental clarity, and yes, even energy. Whether you're hitting the gym, chasing kids, or grinding through your workday, maybe even your teeth. Dehydration can quietly sabotage your focus and endurance. Element helps you stay sharp, strong, and ready. We use element because it works. Taste amazing, and it's no nonsense, just science, doctor hydration, that actually makes a difference. And right now, element is offering a free sample pack with any purchase that's eight flavors to try on the house. Go to drinklmnt.com slash doctor line to claim yours. That's drinklmnt.com slash doctor line. And then you're going to be hydrated, stay strong, and as goggins would say, stay hard. What about the idea of grounding, or this change in electrons? Have you heard about that? You go out, you walk. Yeah. Static electricity. That's actually important if you're putting gas in your car. Because a little spark can cause a big caboon with the evaporating gas fumes. So that's why you don't want to be talking on your phone when you're putting fuel in your car. I don't know that. That's actually a real thing. Okay. What? You got to talk about it. We should not talk on your phone. What if you're using an iPod? Yeah. So it's extremely rare, but they've been a few explosions. A gas station. People are an iPod is probably fine. No, no, no, no. You got to tell. I mean, listen, I do not want to. You only time I've heard of because we're going out. Because think about what's happening when you're on your cell phone. It's basically like it's a wakitaki. It's a fancy wakitaki. It's a radio. So there's radio waves that are going back and forth. But there's a little tiny amount of potentially static electricity that which we generate just by touching the ground. You know, static electricity. You know, on a cold day with barefoot on the carpet, you just zap yourself. And so that same sort of thing can happen with with a electric electronic device. No big deal. But when you're putting gas in your car, some of that gas is evaporating. And so the gas fumes are highly flammable. So that's a situation where if you, I'd get off the cell phone. I don't think they talk. I don't think they teach us that. Yeah. And maybe some people don't agree with me on that. But that wasn't actual thing. And I know that actually you'll see it. Some gas stations, there'll be a sign saying turn off your cell phone. Another thing is they turn off your car when you're filling it up because the ignition source of your car. The actual spark plugs that are igniting your engine to keep it running in theory could ignite some gas fumes. That's a whole, that's nothing to a radio station. We're going to go back to radiation. Don't start talking about car when I put it in the air. I say that I actually got into a fight with my husband about turning off the car. Yeah. Why you're pumping gas? Yeah. You told me, no, no, he was right. He said you have to turn off your car as well. Why in earth would you have to do that? And having said that I know plenty of people who when it's hot and 100 degrees in the summer and he used to add in your, and your spouses in the car, you don't want him to bake for 10 minutes. You do. Yes, you do. Let's talk about how your treatment, what your load-oest radiation treatment is. Especially around muscular skeletal injuries. So this is really a new paradigm for America. This is a, the situation is that typically we always use radiation to kill cancer cells. It takes relatively higher doses to kill a cancer cell versus low doses of radiation, which it turns out will actually stop inflammation. So if there is inflammatory cells in the body, there's a part of the body where you have a painful joint or something. That's essentially white blood cells, macrophages that have, that have migrated to wherever the area of pain is, and they secrete cytokines, interlucines and different cytokines that create the inflammatory cascade. It turns out that very small doses of radiation, not enough to affect the rest of the body, but very small doses can stop those white blood cells from, from living, space of kills them, and stop them from migrating to the area of pain. And so it's the same effect as a cortisol shot. Cortison is an anti-inflammatory drug. Radiation, the same radiation we've been talking about when given in very small doses, it wipes out the white blood cells that cause inflammation, and therefore it actually can stop the pain in a joint. And this is something that the rest of the world has been on to for 125 years, not just a couple of years a decade, we're talking about since the late 1800s. And Americans also used to use this. So this was a very commonly done procedure to treat joints for arthritis, even in the US, until the 1960s or 70s. But since that time America decided it wasn't a formal decision, but America just gravitated towards using drugs. Cortison shots, then when of course when ibuprofen became a thing, if it was a prescription. The first ultrars, you remember there was a time, you maybe two hundred, when ibuprofen was a prescription. So at that time it was a big difference. That first came out, then you had all the other the cocks, two inhibitors, the viox, and the celibrex. All of those drugs, they worked really well for pain. Now granted they had all kinds of other side effects, but Americans kind of gravitated away. Doctors stopped using radiation, they just used drugs for this, whereas the Europeans and a lot of the rest of the world, as well. But especially in Europe, the Germans and the British continue to publish studies and use low doses of radiation for various joints. And now they have very robust hundred-year-old data showing that it's safe and effective to stop joint pain, whether it's osteoarthritis, whether it's tendonitis, whether it's bursitis, plantar fasciitis, and the foot, any type of information radiation can stop that information, chain reaction, and let the body heal, and really cause, in really helped the patient in terms of pain reduction. Prior to the 1960s, when was this first utilized, and who was delivering it? Was it the orthopods, was it physical medicine and rehab? That's a great question. So in the earliest day, so this actually goes back to, maybe talk for a second about the history of radiation. Dr. Rentkin was the doctor in 1895, in Germany that first described what an x-ray. He gave it the name an x-ray. He was the first discovered that was 1895, when he first published, you've probably seen that iconic picture of the hand with the bone showing, and there was a big lesion on the fourth finger, which I asked my med students, you know, what is that? They're like, oh, is that an osteo-sarcone? I was like, no, it was his wife's wedding ring. But that was the very first x-ray that was ever done. That was 1895. By 1898, there were already publications in the scientific literature showing radiation being used for all kinds of things, for cancer, for one thing, but also for ankylosing spondylitis. It was given in the spine. Those were done by those were essentially, there weren't even any radiologists yet because it wasn't even a discipline. Yes, so this was just a general practitioner that had access to an x-ray machine. But as the years went on, then there were no radiation oncologists. My discipline is relatively new. It's only the last. Yes, it's roughly. That's exactly right. And so in the earlier days, it would have been done either by an interventional radiologist who had done some kind of fellowship, or just, there was not really no regulation. So, dermatologists were using them for skin lesions, but you didn't have a linach. Remember the term linear accelerated? Those were all highly regulated, very complicated expensive machines that are really part of the modern era. But back then, they had superficial radiation machines, or even an actual radioactive isotope. Like, for example, you have a tiny little piece of a radioactive chemical called strontium. And that could be applied directly to the cornea for a teridium, and it would make the teridium go away. You know, you can take that early. Right. You know, you probably know more about the idea, but I've heard of it. I mean, I don't know what you used for. But it is used like there's liquid forms that are, that can be instilled in various parts of the body, like to try to to coderize a like a hemange, you know, maybe something like that. Radiation was given, but it wasn't utilizing a linach's machine that is able to target. That's right. Where it's going. It was very crude. Crude. But it worked. One of the things that I want to really offer people is a solution, right? Right now, in the US, someone has plantar fasciitis, or, you know, I've had, I've had a ton of recidus. What you will be recommended to do is take, and I'd be profaned, or take something else, lay off of it, and you can't do any work for a while. Or go get a cortisol injection. Yes. What about living next to an electrical tower? That's, that's EMF again, and so that's electromagnetic frequencies that are not able to damage your DNA. No. But is that radiation? No. But radiation? Well, yeah. Okay, so this is like a whole, I'm not a physicist. Like, I probably explained to you better if I got a physicist to back me up. But the electromagnetic spectrum does include electricity and waves. Like, there's electricity, there's electricity and there's magnetism. And the two combined electromagnetism is what powers everything in here. But those are not waves that are able to eject an electron off of them. Because it's the radiation is that it disrupts atoms. So when you have just let's say a water molecule, H2O, you got two hydrogen atoms and an oxygen atom. When ionizing rate and most of, we're mostly water. We're just bags of water, right? With a little bit of salt. We start to, yeah, well, you're more water than the rest was because you're more muscle. The more muscle you have, the more water you are, as opposed to fat. And so when you hit, when a little x-ray comes and hits a water molecule, it will eject a hydroxyl ion in HO ion and a free radical. You know, all about free radicals. And so that creates an ion. So when you had a stable H2O molecule, now you have an OH hydroxyl group and a proton that comes off of it. And so when that happens, the ion can zip around and hit a double helix DNA molecule and damage it. And that's DNA damage, which is what you're trying to do in the case of cancer. And I, what I didn't mention, I probably should have when you're treating cancer cells. Their DNA, the cancerous DNA is fragile to start with. It doesn't have the ability to re-enleal and form the double helix back when you damage it. So that's the beauty. When I radiate someone's tumor, the cancerous part will fall apart more readily than the normal cells that still have the repair mechanism in place. But non-ionizing radiation can't do any of that. Is there any positive benefit of non-ionizing radiation? You know, I think like in the psychiatric realm, they're doing tests with like, they're using, have you heard of like, what's it called TMB or something? I'm like ECTO or trans magnetic stimulation. Trans magnetic steps. So I think with the magnetic fields, they've seen changes in brain activity. That's not my area, but I use that for the military operator. Yeah, yeah, that sounds amazing, but I know nothing. I'm a ignorant person about that, but in that situation, yeah. I can just freak cancer, but whatever. So, but they're again, this is, this is something that a little bit of knowledge seems to really affect people, including me, because I bought all that stuff. Yeah, yeah. But someone made good money off of those EMF blankets. It's kind of like those people that sell the copper bracelets and all that stuff. Why are they selling that? Is that for arthritis or inflammation? Why do people, why do actual professional athletes pan to like, new genics? Or what are those, when you watch TV, you see all these ads for these medicines that make you think more sharply and all that. They're not even FDA approved. They're completely untested. And they're all over actual TV, not just social media. And there's zero data. Walgreens will sell you all this junk for a couple of weeks. The copper bracelets. Let's talk about what works for arthritis. Yeah, not those. But arthritis is definitely something that can really impair someone's ability to live. Right, big time. And especially, you're, I mean, as you've been a huge proponent of exercise and muscle building and all that, if you're sitting around and you can't do anything because you're in pain, it affects your whole body because you're going to lose muscle mass. You're probably going to have to type to that. It is going to gain weight. High-pretending to the whole cascade. If you can't do all the things that you're such a huge proponent of and rightly so, the joints can stop all of that. So it's a huge quality of life issue. And traditionally, you would either have physical therapy, which again is the best thing you exercise, you do this sort of thing. But when you have a chronic joint inflammation, that's not going to get better with just that. It requires an intervention, which is most commonly going to be a steroid shot or just being on and says. Can we talk about the trajectory of arthritis? Sure. It doesn't just happen. Right. You don't all of a sudden wake up one day and have arthritis. If it's low-grade inflammation, that's right. Does that happen in stages? And so I think arthritis is very broad term. Let's maybe focus on osteoarthritis because rheumatoid arthritis isn't autoimmune disease. And osteoarthritis is just essentially friction in the joint from a lot of use, whether it's an athlete who's really used it up or just an older person that's been using their joints than live in their life. You have basically two articular surfaces of two bones that are protected by layer of cartilage. And as time goes on, maybe it's an injury related thing or just from chronic use, the cartilage wears away compresses and eventually it can be completely re-absorbed on bone. So that's like great fore osteoarthritis. But in the earlier stages when it hasn't gotten that bad yet, when you have this inflammation and this irritation of maybe a rough bone surface and the friction, the body's own immune system will come to the rescue. As it always does for any injury, and the macrophages, the white blood cells will be sequestered to that area. They'll come through the capillaries and they'll sit there and they'll release cytokines and interlucines. And that's what leads to the redness and the warmth and the pain, which is what we know is inflammation. But radiation in very low doses will selectively kill the weakest cells that you aim at at. And the weakest, most fragile cells are going to be the white blood cells. So by giving tiny amounts of radiation, you're not hurting your normal tissue at all, but the white blood cells go away. They basically die off. That's what stops the inflammation without having to, excuse me, without having to deal with a cortisol injection and the potential, either you're going to have side effects from the steroids itself or the actual physical injection, all those sorts of things can cause problems. I was my own first patient. I think I may have told you that story. My Achilles tendon was killing me. Cortisol worked a little bit, but you do too many of those. And as you know, you can rupture a tendon if you get too many shots. Plus it was really not pleasant to have an injection in my Achilles tendon. I decided to use the radiation like they do in Germany. And I did it. You just wanted to the office one day. I was like, you know what? I'm just going to try it. Actually, I should give proper due credit. There's a buddy of mine who is a rat on and floored. I tweeted about doing it on his Achilles. And I'm like, I have one of these machines. Why am I only treating cancer when I can, I'm limping around like an old man. I could be treating myself. I said, let me try it. I knew based on, I had never treated anyone, but I've been treating cancer for 25 years. I know what the physics and the physiology is. And so it made sense. And the German data was quite compelling. So let's, let's give it a shot and see what it happens. Where it calls him place the grain of what? Exactly. So we use half a grain. So just to give you that, that, that, that, We talked about early in case you made a missed the earlier part or your listeners might have missed it. High doses like say 81 gray. You're, you're very good. Exactly. Good memory. 81 gray is for a prostate. A breast might be 50 gray or 40 gray. A brain tumor could be 20 to 60 just depending what we're treating. So high doses in the double digits are treat cancer because you need a higher dose to damage cancer cells. But these inflammatory cells, the white blood cells, you need half a gray. So 0.5 gray and the typical protocol is usually six treatments. So like Monday, Wednesday, Friday, every other day for two weeks. So half a gray times six is a total of only three gray. And it's to a peripheral part of the body, meaning there's no vital organs. You're not treating centrally. So by the way, whether it's a hand or a leg or a hip or whatever. You wouldn't treat say a cost of arthritis in your couldn't. Absolutely you could. And it would work just fine. And half a gray even to the thorax is not going to hurt anything. That's an unusual situation. But there's no reason you couldn't. And in the last year and a half, almost two years since I treated myself. Now I'm getting this delusional of all different types of things. So we even spine spinal degenerative disease. I have people with low back pain that have gotten better. So you can treat any particular joint in the body. Because it has to be inflammation. Now when I think about inflammation, and I think about say plaque and arteries, there's a reason why that plaque built up. It's a physical agical response. Yeah, absolutely. Are you when you're using low dysradiation? Do we want a little bit of inflammation early on? For example, as I think about my hamstring, we put PRP in there to increase the white blood cells, increase the inflammation to hope for some kind of healing. Right. Right. And that's a good point because every little trauma you have, your body is going to heal it that way through the inflammatory path, pathway. And then normally the inflammation will pass once the tissue is healed. But what I deal with is chronic inflammation. So when it's someone that's had this, you know, you have a, I actually had a knuckle that was bugging me. I just, I don't know what I did to it. It was hurting when I got on the dark car. Probably. And it was three or four months. And it was getting to the point, I was like, this is going on for quite a while. But then it got better on its own. But for the people who are dealing with this for years. And then you do an x-ray and you can see in the joint, our particular surfaces, where there's actually evidence of what they, the radiologist will actually have cracked here that this is arthritis. That means it's not just a short term inflammation due to an insult that normally, most of these things heal themselves. This is for the long term arthritis, tendonitis, fasciitis, where it's just, it's not healing other, other modalities haven't worked. And at some point, the inflammation is no longer a good thing. It's certainly without inflammation, we wouldn't be alive. It's part of the healing process. But when it goes out of whack, and especially when you have a lot of joints or a lot of tendons, in case of my Achilles, there's a very poor perfusion. You don't get blood flow to your tendons. That's where PRP comes in in theory that will give you all the healing factors. But even that seems to be only somewhat effective. It's not like it's a, you know, 100% effective. But with the radiation, that will allow the actual energy of the X-rays will stop all the inflammation without having to resort to injecting a drug into it, like, cortisol. Which is more effective? The tortoiseone? Or, you know, I think about Don, my best friend, Don Layman. He's a world-class PhD protein researcher. He doesn't listen to this podcast, so I can talk about him. He loves tennis. Okay. His knees bother up, and I was telling him about it. I said, you know, Don, because he comes quarterly, and we record the podcast as a way you got to see. Yeah. Sunday, and he's been doing cortisol treatments. Sure. Which, if someone is early on, or like, if we were to take two scenarios, my dad has terrible hips. He will go to get a cortisol, probably needs a hip replacement, but that is late stage challenges. And he is maybe early on, and they're getting arthritis, or it's kind of early on in their disease process. Could they come in and pre-treat, treat early with the... They could. So there's two different scenarios. One was, I guess, the first question is, is it better than cortisol? And, you know, whenever I, as a physician, especially as an oncologist, when you're trying to compare two modalities, you want to nerd out and have randomized clinical trials, prospective data that really shows that X is better than Y. It's been thoroughly tested, and we don't have that level of like a direct cortisol versus radiation comparison. The few randomized trials that have been done, are we're not particularly... They were done in Europe, and they weren't particularly well designed and well powered. So I thought they had different machines. They do. And so, but what we do have is a lot of observational data. And so, what I can tell you from what... and I've seen this mirrored now in my own couple of years of doing this, I'm still relatively new at it, but even doing a couple of hundred patients, you start to see trends pretty easily. And me myself being the first one, the cortisol usually works faster, because you get that instant anti-inflammatory. And also a lot of times, I think, the pain docs when they do the injection, they have a cocktail, a little light a cane, or something else, and there, which gives you that instant relief as well, and I had that done as well. So the radiation typically doesn't work as quickly, but it seems that it has a more durable response, where the cortisol might wear off in a few weeks or a few months, what seems to happen more often with radiation, and this... it seems to be more durable, and the reason seems to be... What do you mean by Garble? Durable meaning that the pain doesn't recur as quickly, or it necessarily at all. And what we've seen based on the European data is five years out, half the patients who've had radiation are still pain-free, or nearly pain-free. That's extraordinary. And I don't think cortisol shots ever last even a year, much less five years, and what it seems to be happening is that both the radiation or the cortisol might stop the initial inflammation, but the cortisol is very short-acting, and the inflammatory cells will come right back in many cases, whereas what happens with the radiation on a microscopic level, the way these macrophages get into the area in the first place is through the capillaries. Now, you have microvasculariture that delivers the white blood cells to the joint, but with the radiation, it seems to reduce the permeability of the microvasculariture, so you don't get the next round of macrophages sequestering there again. It seems to inhibit them from coming back, and therefore you get more of a durable response. And that's what I'm seeing. In my case, I treated my Achilles almost two years ago now, and I'm still... And so the way the protocol works is the German protocol which we follow. You do six treatments, as I mentioned earlier, half a grade, time six. Then you actually wait 12 weeks, and if necessary, if there's any residual pain... In the first six weeks... Two weeks in a row, so Monday, Wednesday, Friday, two weeks, straight, six days, over two weeks. Wait 12 weeks, and reassess, and in Germany, at that point, they would say, I think roughly a third, maybe almost a half of the patient decide to go for a second course, and that sometimes gets your results even closer to 100% in terms of pain reduction. In my case, I just did the first course. I never had to do it again, and out of my 200-ish patients we've treated, I'd say maybe 10 to 12 of them have even come back for the second course. And those that do have most of them have been happy. The only people I've seen who don't respond well when it gets really bad, as you mentioned, a really severe, like a grade four osteoarthritis, whether it's bone on bone, they still seem to see some benefit, like they still feel good that they did it, but it's not a replacement for a joint replacement or something like that. But you mentioned the, I'm sorry, were you going to say something? I was just going to ask about, is there any possibility of disease reversal? So it depends on what the disease process is. So for an earlier stage, when you mentioned earlier, you're asking, can this be prophylactic? Not truly, like I wouldn't radiate it in absence of any symptoms, but if you have this low grade kind of festering thing that's like a, they grade osteoarthritis on a scale of 1 through 4. So 4 being like bone on bone really end stage, zero 1 being very minor stuff. Typically this is offered to people who have grade 2, grade 3. If it's just chronic and maybe it's not really debilitating, but it's just annoying for a long period of time, this works. And again, whenever I offer a patient to treatment, whether it's a cancer patient or an arthritis patient, no matter what any physician does, obviously, you want to weigh out the risks and the benefits, and there's not a favorable risk benefit ratio, you're not going to do it. So although the radiation works extremely well for most people, even in some of these fringe cases where it may be at works, maybe it doesn't, the benefit may not be as clear, but the risk is also essentially zero. So when there is no risk or very low risk, I'm more apt to offer the treatment, because it's not like you're going to be injecting medication or doing something that's going to have systemic effects. The low dose of radiation can, like for example, for a hand or a foot or an ankle, it can take a hundred times more radiation than what we're using. And that's within safe limits. So even if you use six gray and you do it or three gray and you do it every year, you know, point five times six, which is three gray, you could do it every couple of years, and still be well within the tolerance of that joint, so you know you're not going to cause problems. So that's why we do that. Is there any application for muscle, muscle law? I mean, obviously, we're not, effect hypertrophy, but you see a lot of these machines, machines doing various things. Yeah. I think, you know, typically when you have, for a for an athletic person, the muscle, you know, as you're rebuilding your muscle, if you're working out, that's all of it more of a temporary thing. But the tendons and the ligaments that are nearby, it's sometimes hard to differentiate, like a bicep tendonitis. It's not really the bicep, it's the tendon, but the whole area hurts. And so I've treated people like that, where I'll maybe treat the AC joint on halfway down, their arm, just as it radiates down there, and it does tend to work. But, you know, someone who's just sore after a really heavy workout session, you're not going to use it for that. Yeah, that would be, that would be overkill because first of all, yeah, it probably would make them feel better, but so would a few days of not doing anything, and you don't want to overdo this sort of thing. But one quick thing you mentioned earlier, which I wanted to touch on, you asked about, you, I think was your dad's hip, you said. One thing that I've suddenly that I've noticed now that I was not paying attention to for all these years, but now that I'm so tuned into it, I treat so much prostate cancer. The prostate is in the middle of the pelvis. The different beans we use, they actually go through the hip to get there. I've had multiple people over the years that I didn't really pay attention to, who told me their hip paying got better, which was an unexpected inadvertent side effect, but it truly was a big thing. And one of the guys I just treated recently told me that, and now that I'm doing all this arthritis, I'm looking back and I'm saying, you know, I've seen a lot of that, actually, for people's hip paying got better now, we know why, but as radiation oncologists, our title is oncologists, we just were never focused on this in America, but the Europeans knew about it. And it seems as if they're still doing it. And it's quite frequently used if you look in the literature. Yes. It seems as if it's Germany and the UK Spain, like most of the big, the leading minds in this, who've done it for a while are all European. And the data's very robust, so there's really no downside. One of the big things people are always afraid of is secondary cancers, or I shouldn't say secondary because there is no primary cancer. This is just cancer from radiation induced malignancy. But at these very low doses, unlike with high doses, there is no evidence that cancer is even caused decades later. We have decades of information. I wouldn't treat a child, obviously, you don't. No, you don't. You don't. It's just common sense. But even someone in their 20s or 30s, we've treated teenagers with kiloed scars forever. And we've never seen an incidence of secondary cancers from that. And no damage to the surrounding tissue. Or when you say no damage, maybe a transient redness, like a little air theme, for a few weeks, but no permanent damage. And I know that we're talking about osteoarthritis, specifically, but rheumatoid arthritis. Yes. Can we just touch on that? Sure. And so this is one area where I probably differ a little bit from some of the European doctors that I've talked to about this, where they typically don't treat any other type of arthritis on a routine base. They say this just for osteoarthritis. But what I've seen in what a few of my colleagues in the US who I've chatted with have seen is that with the differences osteoarthritis is a local disease, whereas rheumatoid or psoriatic arthritis, those are systemic diseases. So you're meaning for the non-medical people. It means the whole body is affected because your immune system, in the case of osteoarthritis, your immune system is attacking the joints. So radiation won't be able to stop that. We cannot stop the whole body effect. But what's more important is from a quality of life standpoint. The most important thing is that the health folks that have systemic, you know, have rheumatoid or psoriatic arthritis, they may have one particular area of the body that's really bothering them. And the radiation to that local area, it's a local effect. It's not a full body effect. They may still need to be seeing their rheumatoid just for a regular dose. There's all kinds of different drugs. They mean they're very good. They mean they're very good. That's sort of thing. But the radiation could be a great adjunct to just get that one painful spot. And it improves their quality of life. I mean, I have to say, I think that that sounds really, really innovative and important. Because you get these patients that they're suffering with rheumatoid arthritis. And even if it's a systemic disease, if you're able to treat these joints and you're limiting pain because again, I care about muscle. Right. And I don't care about muscle in isolation. I care about it from a metabolic perspective, quality of life, all things point back to muscle. That's right. I mean muscle centric, right? That's right, sir. And if you're muscle centric and if you limit someone's ability to move in a meaningful way, then maybe not immediately we change their aging capacity and make it very poor. But it's going to happen. Right. What about post operatively? Okay. What type of surgery you're trying to know? I'm just thinking post surgical post-hyperplacement, post shoulder replacement, any of those. You bring up a great point which is on a slight tangents. I won't go too far off on it. But my first exposure and most radiation oncologists like me who do cancer for a living, in residency training, this is something that we did see a fair bit of, which we don't see in the private practice setting, but post traumatic. So if someone has had a motorcycle accident with a hip, like a broken hip, or even a shattered pelvis that's been reconstructed, one of the common problems that they get once they are reconstructed and they get back to normal life, is heterotopic ossification or HO. And that's basically where you've got this chronic inflammation, like, for example, in the hip in the acetabular area, where the body will lay down calcium. You know, that's part of the inflammatory process is laying down of calcium, and it can literally lock up that hip joint. When you have a calcium, like a bone bridge that forms between the pelvic bone, the iliac bone, and the greater choke cancer, for example, and it can lock it up. So early data is data goes back to probably as old as they are threated, it's data from 100 years ago. They found that if you give a low dose of radiation just after the surgical intervention that you will prevent that inflammation from occurring and therefore the heterotopic ossification won't lock up their hip. So I was actually doing that way back 20 years ago, but that's only an opposed traumatic setting. It wouldn't be for, like, a C section or something like that. But when there's an actual bone trauma, if you radiate that area, it will prevent head retopic ossification. That reminds me of we were talking earlier about culoids and we're talking about scarring. Yep. And again, I joke and say that we have the number one men's health podcast and a man can essentially, I don't want to say, foractress penis, but over time, if an individual gets scar tissue that creates curvature, which is known as piranys, disease, can be really painful and uncomfortable for men. For sure. Can you use low dose radiation to potentially treat that? It has been done. There are publications on it. I haven't done it personally, but when you think about the physiology of it, it's the same thing. Fiber blasts lay down scar tissue. And normally the body regulates that and stops the scar tissue from overgrowing and things like that. But the same way that a culoid forms or the same way you get a terrigium in your eye, piranys disease response to a penile trauma will cause scar tissue to form. And radiation can help stop that. It can help to soften existing scars and keep them from getting worse. Because the problem is it's a self-propegame where keeps continuing to get worse. The most common scenario I'm actually seeing it in now is dopatrons contractures with the hand, which is essentially scar tissue forming, just under the skin up, not in the tendon itself, but near the tendons for your hand. And these contractors develop to the point where they can cause irreversible bends of the fingers. And so we wouldn't get amputations from that because it's gotten so bad where they've tried to fix it. And when they do it, what they call a needle aponorotomy that's a common hand procedure, where they release the scar tissue and straighten it out. Unfortunately, the actual surgery stimulates more scar. So by radiating those areas after they've been operated on that allows the scar tissue. It just keeps the scar tissue from forming again. And so dopatrons and then there's actually a foot equivalent of dopatrons, which I wasn't even aware of until I started reading, but it's called leader hose disease. So you can get plantar fibromatosis, which can be very painful if you're trying to walk on these things. And it's not plantar fasciais. It's actually just scarring to get these big, thick nodules on the bottom of your foot, which would be terrible for trying to be able. And so the radiation is an alternative to surgery for that as well, because it'll soften up those areas. Now, if you have a really bad one where you got a finger contracture, you got to have surgery. You have to have surgery. But in these earlier cases, it's used a lot. And pyronies is a similar type of disease, so it should work similarly. And I have seen some data I was talking with some of our urology colleagues about it, but we haven't done it yet. Not yet, but you never know. This area you could be one of the first in the area. The data is there. But why what's holding back the US from adopting more of these practices and how many physicians are doing and using radiation to treat these eye-dices? Sure. So, you know, about 50 years ago or so when this was a new field, it was actually referred to as radiotherapy. And as a profession, a lot of the early, what we now call radiation oncologists, they actually really lobbied to be called radiation oncologist. So oncology is in our name. And therefore, everyone is so focused on oncology, which is the study of cancer, that all these benign diseases for the most part got left by the waste side in the US. Now, many other, basically any other country you go to, there is a much higher utilization of these sorts of things for benign diseases, whether it's kiloids or arthritis or any of these things. But in the US, it's been highly, highly underutilized, but I think we're at the very precipice of this changing. You're starting to see, I was really not even, it wasn't that I was a non-believer, we just didn't focus on it. But now that I treated myself, I became a believer instantly. I'm still not limping two years later. And now that we've seen a couple hundred patients, I'm seeing the true trends of how well it works, I think a lot of other doctors like myself are starting to maybe start to pick up on it. When I talk to my colleagues all the time, I'll tell them what to do. And I'll get emails from people all over the country and say, you have somebody in Montana or somebody in North Dakota. So I'll talk to the local doctors and explain to them, most of them are still not doing it. But I think we're getting to a point where that's really going to change. And to be clear, it should be a radiation oncologist. It has to be. No other doctor is trained with the radiation safety techniques, and knowing exactly what to do. Even in the situation where you may have a dermatologist that only treats skin cancer, they may have a machine in their office that can just treat superficial skin lesions. But you still have to have radiation oncology supervision to do that. I think that you're really innovating. And I'm grateful for you. And I know that many of our mutual friends are. You are providing a solution that is critical because we have to be able to treat these challenges for people, so that they can go on with their life. And it's exciting. It really works and they people think you're a hero because you eliminate their pain, almost instantly with no side effects of it. It excites me. It's just fun. Like I have a good time going to work every day. I mean, there's nothing better than being able to positively impact someone's life. Right. For all these years, the dopamine came from telling people they were now cancer-free, that their cancer is, which is also a huge thing, obviously. But now we're seeing the same thing in the pain space, where your pain free, and that usually happens even faster, so instant gratification. And if people want to come see you, obviously we'll include the link where can I go? Yeah. So my website is doctorsonjmail.org, drs.org, drs.njawiameht.org. And on there I have a phone number and an email you can reach me on. But my clinic is right behind us here on South Maine, so it's 91-50 South Main Street, right across from an RG Stadium, and they can call any time 713-63081-81. And your practice takes insurance? All insurance. And of course most patients are Medicare age, so that's the typical thing we see the most. But yeah, most insurance is. Well, drs.nj, I'm excited to be a patient of yours. And I'm going forward to a week in helping you. Can it be great? I will report back. Thank you so much.

But that also gets dangerous because now you get patients who bring in these AI or these even just filtered pictures in the cells. Like this is how I want to look like. And then there's little things that people don't realize is that if you've got a smartphone and you're taking a selfie, study show that that selfie will make your nose look 30% bigger than it really is. What? Yes, 30% bigger. And so some people are taking selfies either. I want to get a nose job and it's like, no, it's because it's that your phones making your nose a group sent large and that it is. Take a picture from five feet away with the rear facing camera. Then see if you like your nose. Could you probably like it a lot more? Thank you to Mudwater for sponsoring this episode of the show. You know, guys, I cannot believe Mudwater decided to come as a sponsor onto the show because I absolutely love this product and have been using this product for quite some time. Mudwater tastes like chai. So there's cacao and chai. There's a little bit of caffeine. It's amazing warm. It helps me focus. It has functional mushrooms in it. A fraction of the caffeine. You've absolutely got to try this. If I don't want to have a cup of coffee in the afternoon, I have been using Mudwater. I heard it first from a former Navy SEAL friend of mine. It's 100% USDA certified organic, non-GMO, gluten-free, vegan, and kosher Mudwater also donates to support psychedelic research. And best yet, you can try Mudwater now for 29 bucks. That's less than $1 cup go to mudwater.com slash a doctor lion. That's mudwater.com slash doctor lion. And you will get yours for 29 bucks. Case amazing. Dr. Anthony Yoon, thank you so much for joining me in person. I appreciate it. Thank you so much for having me. Yeah, long time coming. And I know we've known each other for many years. And this is, I think, our first time that we can actually do it. Did you do my podcast? You may have back in the day. Yeah, probably. You did. It's been years. Five years ago maybe. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. A lot has changed since then. Yes, it has. And I'm so grateful to have you on. And there's a couple reasons. Well, number one, you're an amazing human and amazing surgeon. And then the other thing is you also have a very interesting perspective on plastic surgery. Now, this is a medical show, a health show, health and wellness show. And people feel as if there's this huge dichotomy. And I'm sure you get this a lot. So they're saying, well, Dr. G, you're talking about health. But now you're talking about plastic surgery. You're going to tell us about injections, etc. Do you get those questions? A lot because you're called the holistic plastic surgeon. Yeah, is that a misnomer? Is that kind of a oxymoron? Exactly what I was thinking. So can you be a plastic surgeon and still be a holistic or be a doctor who promotes overall health and wellness? And I think the answer is yes. And I really think it's this idea of holistic plastic surgery. For me, is using plastic surgery as a last resort. You and I both know a lot of health care and fluencyers who, you know, they speak great stuff about food, about environment, about activity. Yep, we know they get Botox, we know they've had surgery before. And I really think it's using that as a last resort and using it in a way that I think is very, how would I describe it? I mean, it's it's using it in a way where you are really still focused on the patients overall well being first. Because there are a lot of benefits that you can get from cosmetic treatments. But once again, if you can do that naturally, then obviously that's what you want to go. And at some point you can't do it naturally. Yes. And so yeah, so the book, you know, there's a term I come up with called Auto-Jubination. And it's this belief that I have and I think it's true that we all have innate regenerative abilities to turn back the clock naturally. But we have to unlock that with what we eat, with when we eat, with nutritional supplements, with skincare and non-invasive treatments. I really believe that if you do focus on those five things, that the vast majority of people can turn back the clock, they can look five, ten years younger, and hopefully, hopefully, maybe not feel like they need to go under the knife. And this is an interesting perspective because it takes a lot to become a plastic surgeon. And you know, with your husband going through. Yes. And I do want to, I would love for you to highlight a little bit of the training because you know, someone had sent me an Instagram, people asked about the podcast all the time. And I got one recommendation from a friend of mine and it said, World Re-Nown, I don't know if it was facial reconstruction or surgeon, but I look deeper and they weren't actually a board-certified plastic surgeon. There were things that were really concerning and my biggest concern is if someone undergoes plastic surgery. And there is an emergency because surgery is not without risk, even though I was reading up on a lot of the history of plastic surgery in liposuction. A lot of people died. It was originally extremely risky. Yeah, they call it dry liposuction where they just make incisions start sucking fat out of somebody and they would have horrible bleeding afterwards. And it would die. It was a very risky procedure. But it's still now obviously, it's much safer and it's not without risk. And if something were to go wrong, you want someone who is surgically trained in a way that can manage that. Yeah, you know, one of the things I tell my patients and my followers is that, you know, I mean, any plastic surgeon or a clinical cosmetic surgeon can get a decent result on a patient. But really, I feel like the quality of the doctor is not how many good results they get, but how do they treat a patient who has a complication? You know, and unfortunately, I hear so many stories in my area as well as nationwide about surgeons who operate on patients, they develop a complication and the surgeon literally abandon them. They walk away. You know, it's the same thing that you see when people go over sea as they have plastic surgery, they come back to the United States, they've got drains still sticking out of them. And that's the medical tourism. Actually, that was on my list. I was curious to this medical tourism that is happening. Yeah, so I mean, really, I think the true tail, the true test of how good a doctor is, how good a plastic surgeon is, is how do they treat their complications and can they treat them? And that's really how I look at it. You know, I get doctors you hear and they brag about how many great results they get and some of them will lie and say, oh, I don't get hardly any complications. And you know what's not true because if you don't get complications, it's not that you are that good. It's that you just haven't operated enough. You know, that's what it comes down to. That is a really good point. And you're not saying that it's not an if it's a one. And it's the amount of volume and and really looking at a good surgeon is how are they going to be able to deal with not what goes right, but potentially what goes wrong. And it's also true that there are studies, you know, those are really interesting book by Dr. Atul Gawande, you may have read it at complications where they look he actually looked at studies of who what what surgeons had the best outcomes and it really does come down to those surgeons that do the same operation day after day after day after day, had better outcomes than those surgeons who were kind of like jack of all trades. You know, used to be when I went through my trading class surgeons, you know, they were kind of community class surgeons, they would do Cleft lip and pallets, they would do burn care, they would do cosmetic surgery, they would do reconstruction from breast cancer and cancer and other types of cancers. And they would do hand surgery and today the field is so specialized that you really do want to ideally choose a surgeon that really does a total of like maybe a dozen or 15 operations because the more they do of that operation definitely the better outcome in general the patients have. That's a excellent point and to become a board certified plastic surgeon tell me about the length of time. Yes. The hours because again, we have to understand that someone could call themselves a plastic surgeon doesn't mean that they are board certified them. It might be a cosmetic surgeon, they might be a dermatologic facial surgeon, there's all different kinds. So yeah, I can make up my own board of Dr. Eunes board of awesome cosmetic plastic surgeons and I can certify whoever I want. There's no law against it. So in order to become a true board certified plastic surgeon, I'm a certified by the American Board of Plastic Surgery and this is why I went through you need to go through four years of medical school, you need to then go through at least three years of general surgery residency training and then when I went through you only had two years of plastic surgery but now you're required to do three years of plastic surgery residency and then a good portion of those will then do a fellowship afterwards. So I did medical school at Michigan State University. I then did three years of general surgery residency at Michigan State. I did two years of plastic surgery and then I spent a year out in Beverly Hills with a top plastic surgeon out there where I did a one year fellowship which essentially was like a apprenticeship underneath them where you kind of learned the tools of the trade and then I started my own practice. I love it. So you are in no shortage of training. And then you got to do all the darn testing, you know, you've got written in oral exams where like a third of the doctors fail some of those. So it's a big, it's a long haul and you know, my I've got two kids and both of them they're like, oh, Shabby, you're actually like only if you really wanted to do that because it's a long long haul. And does the field of plastic surgery change rapidly? It has been. Yeah. I mean just because all the treatments now they're so different. You know even ten years ago with a lot of cosmic treatments that we have now, I mean surgery doesn't change that much, you know, because the body itself, you know, when you cut the body like if let's say a tummy tuck where you're moving excess skin from the tummy, I mean really you cut the skin out. There's no other way to do that. What is really changing are the non-invasive and minimally invasive options. And that's where it's so exciting because you know when I first started my residency, we had Botox and they had collagen as a filler and that's it. Really people they were injecting straight collagen or what? Yeah. Yeah, yeah, collagen was the first filler. Yeah, but it only lasted a couple of months and for a while for most of the time it was available, we had to skin testing for it beforehand to make sure you didn't react to it. Now there's like such a plethora of non-invasive and minimally invasive options that it's really exciting actually. It's a really exciting time to get older. And so you know, if you'll say like what do you think about the whole aging process and the way I try to look at it is it is a blessing to get older because I mean if you don't then you know what's the alternative you're in the ground. We don't know. Right. No, no, no. But it's not for all of us, but we're definitely not in a rush. But it's the exciting time to be able to fight that every step of the way because we have so many options available. What's our moment in time where you're operating because again, your your books, this is your fourth book, younger for life, you've gone through a series of again, your more holistic in nature. Was there a moment in time where you're operating on someone and you've been in practice how long 20? Almost 20 years. 20 years. Yeah. Where you just said, you know, I this doesn't feel good. I, I, I'm doing these invasive because it is no joke. The recovery from surgery in general. So I had, you know, in the reason why I've gone in this direction and the idea even behind the whole book was, you know, I thought that I had hit the pinnacle of success in my practice. And it was many years into practice where, you know, I started out my practice back in 2004. I had sent letters to 25 surgeons in town, asked them for a job. Hey, can you take me under your wing? And I got zero offers. And so I went into town and met her Detroit deciding that, you know what? If no one's going to help me, then I'm going to take their business from them. And so I worked my tail. Oh, Tony. So I worked my tail off to establish my practice. I was working seven days a week for years. And, you know, in plastic surgery, you really insertory, we look in some ways, there are certain operations that each surgeon does that's kind of like the pinnacle of success, you know. And in residency, you try to do those operations because you know, you're so lucky if you can scrub into those. So if you're a general surgeon, that operation is the wipple. You know, wipple, you know, this is a 10 hour operation, cancer operation. And if you're so lucky, they scrub into a wipple, then you have made it. In plastic surgery, that operation is probably the face lift, you know, because patients may trust almost anybody to do their liposuction. But man, if they're going to trust you to do their face lift, you know, you've got to be pretty darn good. So for many years, Gabrielle, I actually gauge the success of my practice on how many face let's say I was doing. And I got to a point my practice where I had a year and a half waiting list. I'd had a couple of books have come out already. And I thought that I'd hit the pinnacle of success. But I was still like cut for surgeon at that time. You know, my goal was to operate on people. And they would come in like, yeah, let's talk about surgery. And then I had a patient who I did a face lift on and I operate on her on a Thursday. She had a face lift. I saw her the next morning. She looked great. And then that weekend, I basically hopped the kids and no big deal. And I came back to the office that following Monday morning and I had a note on my desk from that patient's daughter. And the question that she left me was, why did my mom die? That patient who I operated on died over the weekend. And it sent me realing as a physician. You know, like that's the worst love ever has ever been. So, you know, what it got me, it, what it made me realize, you know, in plastic surgery and well, what happened, but why? I'll explain. Okay, everyone is listening going that may be real. I said, we take people who are healthy. We make them unhealthy with the belief that they're going to be healthy again afterwards. Okay. And that's what we do whenever we operate on somebody as this elective operation. So I, that whole thing it sent me into an absolute tizium. I mean, when I found this out, I'm on the phone with with her daughter, my heart sank. I felt nauseous and I broke out into a sweat. And I spent the next several months trying to figure out what the heck happened and how could I have prevented this. So I started looking at all the medications that she was on, everything that she had gotten in the operating room. There was nothing that I could have done that could have prevented this. It turns out she had a massive heart attack. But I got her clear by cardiologist two months prior to her operation. She had a stress test and everything. So literally the only thing I could have done to prevent her dying is just not operate on her. And maybe with the, you know, with how her heart was, she would have died from something else. I don't know. But still like I still today blame myself for this. And so that really got me realizing. I mean, for a while, I thought about quitting plastic surgery. I thought about quitting medicine altogether. And then I realized that I had to look at this from a different perspective of like how can I take this horrible tragedy and create something right out of it. And that became this idea of auto-juvenation. I started reading books from a lot of our friends and mentors. I started realizing there was so much about the field about really medicine and health care that I didn't that I didn't know that I wasn't taught in medical school. And I started reading books from nutritionists from natural paths, you know, from chiropractors, from other physicians. And I started creating this whole idea, this concept of auto-juvenation and realizing that there was so much that I wasn't taught. But I could use this information to help other people to look and feel their best by improving their health and clean the health of their skin. Do you think eventually you will not operate? Thank you to Paleo Valley for sponsoring this episode of the show. You guys have heard me mentioned Paleo Valley beef sticks many times. And that is because it is one of our absolute favorite snacks of all time. I do not say that lightly. These beef sticks are 100% grass fed, grass finished by the way. They also have pork. They also have turkey. And these are all fermented sticks that make them extremely unusual because they have probiotics and postbiotics because of the fermentation process. Again, they taste amazing. They have high quality protein, vitamin and minerals. You know, oftentimes we're turning away from packaged food, but let's face it. We live in a fast-paced environment and we have to be able to have food that we can grab these sticks are it. You can get 15% off by going to Paleo Valley.com slash Dr. Lion. That's Paleo Valley.com slash Dr. Lion. And you can choose a whole host of flavors and options. Yes, because even now, you know, there are these surgeons who, I mean, I have friends who love being in the operating room. But I have been loves it. Yeah, yeah. And for me, I don't. Like, I don't enjoy being there because the entire time I'm thinking about what's the worst thing that can happen and how do I prevent it? Whenever I go into any operation, that's my first thing. How do I prevent the worst thing from happening? Number one. And then number two is how do I get the patient the result that they're looking for? But it's always in that order. And so which makes it good arguably, which makes a really good surgeon. I mean, plastic surgeons get sued when I've every three or four years. You know, I've been practicing almost 20 years. I've never had a lawsuit not gone wood. And but you know, and some of that, I think is that I'm a careful surgeon. I do a lot of surgery, but I also always have patients there, their best interest at heart, you know, and and if I can get them happy without going under the knife, like with what I share and I mean, that's the way to go. And I have a couple of questions. The, I was looking at some of the, the research and just the data and cracked me if you know a different number, but there are two million individuals. I think that go through liposuction alone a year. Have you seen, have you looked at any of the data? Well, lipos going to be the most popular cosmetic surgeon because often you combine that, like if you're doing a tummy tuck most of the time, you throw some lipo in, you know, if you're doing, let's say a break of plastic and arm left you throw a lipo in. So that numbers, I think a little high, my guess is probably more like half a million, but it could be closer to a million, maybe. Maybe it's two million and again, I have to look, but maybe it's two million that get cosmetic procedures. So there's actually every year, there's five million people undergo Botox every year, even close to seven. I think the last numbers I saw the number one plastic surgery with like lipo and breast augmentation are kind of always number one and two. You're looking at around three or four hundred thousand potentially. I haven't looked at those numbers recently, but that was last I saw. Well, I was talking to my trainer before our interview and he said, you know, one of the number one questions that I get as a trainer is, should I do lipo? Is it going to actually help me lose weight? What's going to happen after? And I would love to hear your thoughts on love because it's not actually used for weight loss. No, no, it shouldn't be. And it's funny because I get patients come in with all different ideas. You know, I had a guy come into see me a couple years ago and he was funny. He was probably in his mid 50s and he comes in system. He has a huge pot belly and I go, well, I hit what, you know, I'm like, oh John is, I'll just say his name on. What can I do for you? What would you like to talk about? He can, this I stored it guys literally. I said he goes, I need to get rid of this blubber and he starts grabbing his stomach tummy. This is all visceral fat, you know. So first of all, liposuction cannot get rid of visceral fat. And so visceral fats have found the inside of our admin around our inner organs and all of that. And that causes a tummy to look round or like a lot of, you know, some men get. Liposuction, you are limited in general with how much you can liposuction safely. It's not five leaders. Exactly. So the FDA recommends limiting liposuction to five leaders in one setting, unless you have blood products available and or you're doing this in a hospital. Right. The reason why is because you lose so much blood that you and who wants to go undergo liposuction, they get a blood transfusion afterwards. Like this, just not the right thing. Yeah. So how much is five leaders a fat? Well, not all of that five leaders is true fat. You know, you're talking maybe 60 or 70% of it at the most. So you're literally looking at taking off maybe 10 pounds. And now you're talking about a four hour huge operation where you're going to lose 10 pounds and you're going to have weeks of recovery. Like it's it's not an easy way to lose weight. Ideally, liposuction is best done if you've got stubborn areas of fat that just won't go away. And even I know that people inherit fat deposition. Like, you know, if your mom has a double chin, you're likely to get a double chin. If your mom has saddle bags, you know, fan of the outer thighs, like your, like your, you know, likely to inherit it. If your dad has a pot belly, you're likely to inherit that. Meaning because of the aging, if you do nothing, the natural aging process or just the deposition of body fat. I think genetically our bodies are predetermined to hold fat in certain areas. Now, you can lipo some of that fat away. Okay. And that will make that go away. But I think those are also areas of fat that are the hardest to get rid of, you know. So once you know, I have patients of mine who are real thin, but they have a double chin. And their mom has the same thing. No matter how thin they get that fat just doesn't go away sometimes for them because it's genetically predetermined. Like you sometimes you sometimes that type of fat is the last fat to go. It if it ever goes. Exactly. Exactly. And I see that even with people and I get myself, you know, under I fat, you know, this puffiness under your eyes, that runs in families too. That is fat inside your eye socket that's protruding. I have, I've seen patients of mine who are in their 30s who have that. Their parents have had it. And then they have kids that come in who are like 12 or 13 and they've got puffy under eyes. We inherit fat deposition from our parents. Yes, with plastic surgery, you can treat that, but it's still going to be in your genes, you know. But that would be the way. So if someone you're saying basically, if they have, it's spot reduction. Exactly. It's only spot reductions. Not really about, again, the most you would ever be able to take would be 10 pounds max. And then you have to think about bilaterally right if it's, yes, both sides. Ideally best done in somebody who's at a healthy, reasonable body weight and they go, you know what, no matter what I do, I've just got extra fat in my arms and my mom has it to. And my dad has it to. You know, those are really, and that's going to be most, um, I think beneficial overall because once again, there are those areas of fat that, you know, we, you know, people used to believe that, oh, if you've got fat of your arm, you just do a lot of triceps exercise. That'll make that fat go away. It doesn't go away. No, you know, as we know, you can't spot, spot reduce fat by working out. And so, but I, they're still that belief. I think that people have. I get so many patients who come to see me and they've got, you know, a little bit of extra fat or skin and they're tummy after having children and their husbands, boyfriends, tell them, oh, just do more sit-ups. You're not doing enough sit-ups. And it's like, come on, like, that doesn't matter what. Get out of here, dude. Get out of here. What happens when, so you remove these fat cells? Do they ever come back? Do they ever proliferate back? No, but the fat that's still there because you can't remove every fat cell can in large. So there is a belief on the minority that if you remove fat from one part of the body that you will gain it in another area, there was a small say that came out like 12 years ago that appeared to show that, but since then, there have been multiple other studies, much larger ones that have disproven it. You know, I've been doing liposuction for 20 years. I have never had a patient come to see me and they're like, yeah, you took fat out of my thighs and now I've got pop-out arms, you know, that doesn't happen. 20 years I've never had that. Now people can gain weight afterwards and in fact can come back. Does it usually redistribute back to those places? Not necessarily. And the hope that, and what I try to explain to patients, the ideal is that you give them the shape that they're looking for. You take down those stubborn areas and then if they do gain weight, they gain weight proportionally with their body. So it's no longer sticking out because now those fat cells are less in number. They may still increase in size, but maybe there's half of what there was before. And is it a very invasive or is it a pretty... LIPOP? Yeah. Yeah, it's invasive. So you make an incision, which it's a small scar, which is good. Then we inject a bunch of anesthetic fluid into the area. We call it to messin and that has lied a cane for pain and up in effort into help constrict blood vessels. I was wondering the issues with LIPOP in the past was that the first type of LIPOP is you just make an incision, you start sucking out fat, but they would just bleed like crazy. Right. So the epinephrine helps to reduce the bleeding and then after that you put literally one or two stitches in the incision, then they have to wear tight garments afterwards. Usually the patients drain for several days or they're just draining, seeping fluid and it's sore. It's not like sharp incision sore, but it's like somebody beat me up type sore. Not that I've ever been beat up but that's... We could change our shame. I just get it out here. You up for it. In terms of the increased use of OZEMVIC, are you seeing that LIPOP a suction do you have an idea if it may become less popular because the non-invasive utilization? When I started my practice in O4 we were seeing a lot more like full body lipos. I don't see hardly any of them anymore, honestly. And I don't know if it's just my practice that we've already cleaned up everybody and mission. And part of it is that somebody comes in and they're overweight and like I try to encourage them, hey, you know, work on lifestyle stuff first. It used to be when I was more of a cut first surgeon. Yeah, I'd bring patients back and we do four liters of lipo. Like a leader off each thigh, you know, half a liter from the front of the tummy, half a liter from the back and then we do the arm stuff like that. I almost never see that anymore. But that's also my practice as maybe it has evolved. But I do think, I mean there's so many people on OZEMVIC nowadays. Which I think could be really, really great. OZEMVIC or Mungerno, especially if you're doing the you're approaching recommendation was too low. Oh, I know. But I won't call you out there. So if you guys get this book younger for life by my friend, Dr. Tony, the outroading recommendation is way too low. So you're going to skip over that. It's interesting because when I wrote that, which I wrote it about, you know, I mean, it's now it's coming out now, but it's been written over the past a couple of years. You know, it's interesting because it's gone and I myself too, my thoughts have evolved. I was wondering if you're going to bring this up. Because they're a longevity doc. Like, you know, I really respect Dr. David Sinclair, you know, and how you look at longevity and how protein a lot of them in these in some of their studies that they're looking at how that impacts longevity in one way. But then when you look at it in a different way and what are real world situations and one of the things I put in the book is, you know, as you get older, there's a study that found that at over the age of 50, if you break your hip, you have a 30% mortality rate over the like 12 months, 12 or 24 months. It's crazy. And it's over the age of 50. Like, I'm 51. Like what? And so one of the things that I think once again when you talk to longevity and quote unquote, anti-aging scientists, they may tell you, okay, less protein may increase your longevity genes and have you live longer. But then the question in real life is if you aren't having enough protein, how are you going to actually function with sarcopenia and all those great things that you have brought up. So my thinking even since writing the book, I'm honestly, I'm kind of torn because I think the science goes different ways to kind of how you look at it. I think from a real world perspective and especially when I look at my patients who are mostly women and most of my followers, I am, yeah, I'm kind of going in and I'll give you a pass this time. I'll also, you know, I have to say surgical recovery requires dietary protein and also when you're not able to do training, a lot of post-operative patients, you're not going to allow them to do any kind of load or weight-bearing activity. They have to maintain that muscle. You're losing muscle. And so all my patients, you know, one of the things that I did and one of the first things honestly that I did after I had that tragedy, my practice, was I started thinking about how my practicing as an actual surgeon and it used to be, and this is how I was taught, is patients would come in, they go, hey, I'm on all the supplements, what do I do? I say we just go off of them because I didn't know about supplements. I wasn't taught about it. And so I started actually looking into the literature in Bo, and I was combining the surgical literature and a lot of that was in like ICU and wound care with the writings of alternative health experts and I created my own pre-imposed surgical supplement protocol. I got to hear it. And so, yeah, and so basically it was combined the two and a big part of it was, I mean, no, as is, was proteins. And so it was glutamine, it was arginine, and so all my patients I started putting them on this pre-imposed op surgical protocol. Now, the big, you know, so it was arginine, it's evolved now. It has, you know, the interesting thing. So it was arginine glutamine, then we'd have anti-inflammatories like bromolane and, and, what's it called? Sarah Peptadis. Well, I actually know it's Synec, which is, I'm blanking on the name of the sun, that's the brand name that we use for it. Anyways, I'll throw that aside. We put them on Omega 3's afterwards, it was probiotics, and then what I found, so I started testing people on this, and I found that, basically, my complication rate dropped people seemed to heal faster. And honestly, I was getting a lot of people, oh, then we put them on a multivitamin that also had amino acids with it as well. But what we found is that people would have a lower complication rate afterwards, and I had so many people that would come to see me afterwards and say, hey, you're dumb with the supplements. So it was literally, they'd start two weeks before surgery, and they would complete about six weeks after surgery, and then people would say, I feel so much better after taking these supplements. Can I continue taking them? Well, one of the reasons why with protein is just like you said, is once you undergo a general anesthesia and so many patients are not moving afterwards, there's a significant breakdown of skeletal muscle. Yes. And if you are not eating enough protein, then you have to, you really have to make up for that. And because people aren't going to eat protein, because sometimes they're sick to their stomach, they don't feel like eating much in protein, as you've taught, it's not, you know, the easiest thing to eat. Like it's hard to overeat protein. Very difficult. You know, much easier for them to sit down and eat a bunch of carbs and stuff. And so for us, we put them on the supplements. And I never actually went public with it because, you know, I had some of our friends, say, oh, you should, you know, create this and it's the healing diet and the healing supplements and stuff because my worry was that a patient would go on this and then they would get a complication like a hematoma or something, which can happen to anybody. And their surgeon would blame it on me. And now the patient would be upset with me. Like all my surgeon said that you're the reason I got a hematoma from this gallbladder surgery or something. Right. Hard past, hard past. Yeah. Yeah, no thanks. I don't want to take that. But the amino acid, and I will mention you guys if you're interested in the longevity conversation, everybody, if they're listening to this podcast, they definitely know my stance. Oh, yeah. They are your follower. They might not. So we'll refer them back to forever strong. You guys can read all about it. The amino acids pre-imposed is very interesting. And especially the full spectrum of essential amino acids is amazing. Is there, if you had to pick one supplement or one strategy, do you think that there is something that really, really helps with recovery? I mean, I love the idea of glutamine. It's usually for gut health. Yeah. Is there one? I don't know that there's one specific thing. I mean, what we've done now is we are converting there's actually, so what's, what was, has been very interesting is I created this protocol. And for probably about seven or eight years, we had all my patients on it, and I didn't publicize it or anything. Now there are actually companies that are coming out. There's one called heel fast. It's a friend of mine who owns it. And they're actually coming out with these pre-imposed supplements. They're all kind of group together. And they're getting venture capitalists and stuff like that. They're trying to invest in them. And they're the same things that I had created years ago. But it's fine. It's fine. That's totally fine. Thank you to Bite for sponsoring this episode of the show. I want to share with you something that I love. I love clean fresh breath. You should love it too. And that is why Bite is amazing. Bite is exactly what it sounds like. Tiny, little toothpaste, almost like it mince. You pop it in your mouth. You chew it up. You take your toothbrush, get your toothbrush wet, brush it. And it doesn't have any of the fillers in it. No harsh chemicals. Nothing artificial and no preservatives. There's a lot of discussion about the mouth, microbiome. And that is one reason why we want to limit a lot of the chemical exposures that we are using, especially in our toothpaste, Bite makes a great one. It is also environmentally friendly. It doesn't use those plastic tubes. They come in beautiful, glass, tiny bottles. And I'm just going to throw this out there. They make other products like deodorant, mouthwash. And of course, toothpaste. And you name it. They make it. Please go to trybite.com slash doctor lion. And you will get 20% off your first order. So I don't think there's one thing. I think it, you know, there's things that, like for me, once you're going to make a threes, I think are really good. But you got to wait a couple of weeks after surgery. Then definitely start that. Yeah, because the risk of bleeding. I think that protein is huge, obviously. If I depict one and not because you're sitting here in front of me, but I do think protein is one of the biggest things. The other thing would be the probiotics, because so many patients are on antibiotics afterwards. And I've had a couple of patients prior to putting them on probiotics regularly. Now years ago, who had seeded infections after being on antibiotics. Oh, interesting. So for the listener, seeded is pretty impactful. Yeah, gut infection can cause chronic diarrhea. Yeah, it's not fun. And so what happens then is if you're on antibiotics, basically the antibiotics will then completely disrupt your microbiome, killing off a lot of healthy bacteria. And this potentially can allow clustering, dipocill to take hold, that can cause it basically a gut infection. And that is, you can get diarrhea from it, you can get horrible stomach pain and abdominal discomfort. And what you do, you treat that with another antibiotic. Right. Okay, I am, this is actually so I, um, part of my team made me do a quick fire round. And I definitely am. I'm on for it. Let's do it. So all you can say is yes or no. Oh, that's going to be fine. Then you can add like two senses. Okay. You get two senses. Julia, Mitchell is once for you. Is it called gwasa? Gwasa. Gwasa. Gwasa. Is it a get or no? Oh, I'm sorry. Yes. Okay, for what? So and what is it? It's a gwasa is a little, it's like a little stone that has a specific curvature to it that kind of, it's for some reason. It comes from, I think it's Ayurveda. It's, uh, but it has a special shape that you can basically, rub it along the sides of your face and it's good for pushing out like lymphatic fluid essentially. Now, there, I know, I'm, I'm, I'm not even used it. Why? You said I have only said yes or no. I want to know why? I'm, I someone sent it to me. It's beautiful. I put on my, like, here on my neck, my shoulders. I know that I'm not using it for anything specifically, but why would somebody use it? So the belief is that it can help give you a snatched face or snatched neck. That's the belief. I don't even know what that is, but snatching is one, like, everything is like perfect, like, straight lines, like, snatch. So a snatch neck line is like a straight line neck, like what you have. I would, I used to have maybe 10 years ago. I know a good person. And that body, technically is going to be like model type of. Okay. So gwasa is a, yeah, that, that looked like a question. It's, it's a yes, but it's, it's limit, there is a belief that it does a lot more than it does. It's not going to rearrange where your fat is on your face or anything like that. It really is a temporary benefit to reduce kind of initial swine. So if you go on a bender one night and then the next morning, I'll puffy and you're like, oh, I got to go see somebody, then using a gwasa shot can help to kind of push some of that fluid out. All right, threading. That's a big no. So I did that once. It was so, a pain, it was a terrible idea. Yeah. Um, that's a big no. Okay. Tell me, so tell us what it is. Okay, back in 2000. I can't believe I tried it. I, I, you know what I should have asked you. That's okay. So back in 2004, that's when threading first came out. And it's the idea of you get a barred suture barbs, sutures are basically smooth like they're like fishing wire. But if you take a knife and you cut little tiny bars into it and you run that under the surface of your skin, it can basically the connective tissue fibers and kind of stick to it. And, and if you pull it on your skin, it can make it look like your skin's being lifted. So back in 2004, they're all these doctors saying, this is a great, non-invasive face, it's amazing. They pull the skin up and they look at how amazing this is. And what happened is is because you're not truly changing the architecture of your face, that suture is not going to truly move something for a moment. So just to just to give people a visual, Matthew, are you listening to this? But you guys, Matthews, you know, is my producer. They put, I don't know, but they, they put like right under your skin. Yeah, yeah. A suture, a bar, like this, this suture where they put it in and they pull part of your skin and then hook it somewhere and then yeah. Well, because they're barbs in it, basically the barbs are the ideas it stays in place. And so instead of having just like one stitch that you try to pull and like suture it somewhere, like the whole thing, the ideas it sticks. But the problem is, is that the tissue will cheese wire through that within the span of a couple of months. And the initial sutures were permanent sutures. And so people will get like a three or six month result and then years later would come to see people like me and like, what is this sticking out of my face? And it was the end of their suture that's still there. I don't think that I, I couldn't have gone to someone that jabbing. So then that went. So then that fell off people are like, all this doesn't work. And so for many years it just disappeared. And something like, come to be a business, they stop making them. And then just a few years ago a new crop of plastic surgeons come to round and dermatologists and like, this is a great new way of lift the face, not invasively. Now the sutures now are absorbable, which is good. So they're not coming out years later, but it's still only last about three to six months. And I, you know, I don't think it's harmful specifically, but doctors need to be obvious, need to be honest and say, hey, look, you're going to spend four grand or six grand and you're going to get a three or six month result. And if that's what they want to do, then that's fine. But yeah, it's a big no. So it's a big no, no. And I don't even know why I did it. I mean, people, it's, you get sold. You know, there, there are doctors out there where their consultation is, let me sell you something. And it's just as terrible. It's terrible. Okay, anti-aging facial exercises. Okay, so there is science behind some of that. Stop. Okay, so the idea is kind of like face yoga is that you make all these, you make all these weird expressions. And they say that you are strengthening the muscles of your face that have gotten a droopy and weak. Now the truth is that it's the opposite of Botox. Okay, so what does Botox do? Botox prevents transmission of nerve impulsors and muscles causes muscles to, to basically weaken or to be paralyzed and those wrinkles smooth out. The opposite of that is making tons of facial expressions and the more expressions that you do, the more those wrinkles created by those expressions are going to get in set in. That's why like Jim Carrey and I love Jim Carrey, he's not going to age well because of all those facial expressions that he makes. So where's the truth behind facial yoga in this? Basically, in the end, what it comes down to is a more of these expressions, you make the more wrinkles you get but if you do a lot of that, those muscles will get a little bit bigger and there are some scientific styles that have shown an increase in volume in the face by doing those exercises. That would make sense because it's hypertrophy. Exactly. It makes sense. This is one for me, sleeping on your stomach, sleeping on your face, wishing you know with the pillow. Is there something number one does that cause wrinkles in number two? Do people need to use a? It does cause wrinkles and if you go with silk or satin, that's going to be a bit less and there are even special pillows and I've tested some of them. They sent me that I just feel they're weird where they create a face in a certain way so that you can sleep on your side and not scrunch up your face but sleep wrinkles are real. No, what do you do for that? I mean, just try to prevent them. So like, sleep on your back? I mean, you can or like a set satin or silk, I think that helps because you're not getting quite that friction and then there are these special wrinkles. There are these weird shapes and stuff and I use them. Yeah, and I just weird. I don't know. I'll do it if it means I'm not going to be mushed face. Well, there are some people who sell pillows that are between the breast. I definitely know that. I have you ever tried cozier. She's they're like so soft. They're bamboo. They're not they're like viscous. They're really, I mean, actually ask them. I'll see if it's anti wrinkle. Now we're going into some others because I'm curious cupping for the face. Do you see that cupping for the face? I have, you know, I think it depends on how aggressive you are. Like there are people who do real mild cupping where it's like a little suction cup and you run it under the skin onto the skin. You know, really with that, you're maybe creating some very mild exfoliation, maybe increasing a little circulation to the face but it's probably doesn't do a whole lot. I wouldn't be aggressive with cupping like they do on the backs and stuff because you don't want to get the bruising and all of that that could be potentially harmful. A lot of discussion about lasers. What's happening there? So lasers are a, I mean, there's so many kinds of lasers out there and I think that's what you want to consider is that there are non-invasive lasers that we call non-ablated that are very mild. What would that be? So there are ones like say there are ND ag lasers that basically are used to help increase the temperature of the skin to create some collagen synthesis. You know, those are very mild. Call to me like the, they're talking. Is it, uh, no. There's a lot of different, like, names. I think Moxie would be considered one of those. It's a non-ablated fractional type laser. And then there are the ablated fractional lasers where, um, so essentially the old style. Let me start from the beginning. The old style laser is basically burned all the skin off your face. And would it that be a fractal? No, no, so that's not. So the old fashion laser, like the CO2 laser, that's the most popular one back in the day. The Erbium was another one where literally what lasers do is lasers target a color. And they heat up that color. The color or wavelength. And the wavelength or the color that they initially used was the color of water. You know, believe it or not, water has a wavelength of color to it, even though we can't really see it. So anything that had water in it would basically burn. And so when you hit the skin with that, you know, our body is composed well, like 60% of the sudden percent of water. So basically just burn your skin from the top down. And the idea is you can exfoliation of the outer layer of skin and you get heat in the deeper layer of skin to cause that skin to tighten up. Okay. So all the laser treatments to and whether it's a laser ultrasound, radio frequency, they're all meant to create damage that deeper skin, usually via heat. And when you damage the collagen to a certain extent, that collagen will heal in a tighter fashion. It's almost like cornemesis in the way. And does it work? Do these lasers work? It does work. And so the original laser is basically heated by burning everything from the surface to the zone. The newer lasers now are fractional. So instead of burning all of your skin, they burn a fraction of the skin. That's like a fractional. Yep. Or pixelated. Like it's literally like tiny little dots that are burnt like columns of burning into the skin. That heals faster with the lower risk of complications. Because if you do a traditional blade of laser, some people it destroys sometimes a melanin of your skin. And you can look almost ghost like afterwards and stuff. And then there are non-ablative lasers that create heat, but without creating these columns of damage, those are not going to get you quite as much of a result, but they can still help. And an example would that be, what do they like broad spectrum? They're the pulse of time. So there's BBL and IPL is a separate category that's similar to lasers. Those are really good for spots. Okay. So if you're looking for just truly tightening the skin, just overall rejuvenating the skin, then you can get these laser treatments, which I think are very powerful. They're very good, but they come with significant downtime. And they're expensive. You know, because for me to buy a laser, it starts around $200,000. IPL also uses light energy, but it's a little bit different and these devices are less expensive. The most common use of IPL is going to be for targeting dark spots. So what they'll do then is they'll target brown. And so if you've got brown pigment on your skin, it can target that, zap that pigment, and then that pigment within a week or so gets darker and actually will slough off. And that's what IPL treatments are or BBL is the same thing. Is it fair to say that the more aggressive the laser, the more result you're going to get? Yes. Yeah, but also the higher risk of complications. You know, lasers are not the best bang for your buck, too, because they are so expensive. If you're looking at good bang for your buck, IPL is good, once again, IPL device may cost me $100,000 a buy. A laser, it may be $200. So the cost of the treatment is going to be passed off onto the patient. Micro-needling is going to be on the end. Okay, so that's going to be on the more affordable side. Did it yes or no? That's a yes. And that I would because maybe I only pay six or seven grand to buy micro-needling hand piece versus $100,000 for IPL, the cost of treatment is going to be much less. But the outcome from what I understand, so there's a few outcomes that people are looking for. And you know, you guys are listening and thinking, okay, well, you usually talk about how them wellness. But this is part of it. I am telling you people will do so much to maintain the health and wellness of their body and to look good. Well, I think it's so important because there is so much that's available that people don't know about to turn back the clock and get them. Yeah, and you're obviously an educated man, someone educated, because there's so much noise out there and it becomes very difficult to understand. What is going to work? What is a short term fix? So for example, if you do an ablative laser, the outcome that you're looking for from when I'm hearing that each laser or each treatment has a particular outcome. Whether it's a IPL for less brown spots, whether it's an ablative treatment for... That's going to be like acne-scarn. If you've got severe, like cystic acne-scarn from it as a teenager, then maybe doing one of those types of lasers, which is going to be the most powerful, that might be worth it. But if you've just got spots and some say, hey, do an ablative laser, like that's no. That's like you're at your... You're at a storefighting spot. You're going to store it and you're bringing it like a cannon. You know, that doesn't make sense. So the ablative laser would be things for wrinkles and skin to occur. For severe aging issues or texture issues, like somebody comes in and they've got just horrible age skin. They haven't taken care of themselves for decades. That's something that may be beneficial for them. But in general, I would say mostly for people who have bad old cystic acne because that's really, really hard to treat. And the less invasive options don't do a whole lot for that. Because I'm curious, if someone say they never want to go through with surgery, there are inevitable phases of aging, right? Or do we know what someone looks like who's never been in the sun and done everything right? You just have to look at your bottom that you're butt because that's not in the sun. Usually unless you're a new artist. So you compare the skin of your blood to the skin of your face or your neck or your hands. And that's in general, that's what your skin's showing. Yeah. So I think when you look at... You know, I think the exciting thing right now is that there's so much that people don't know about when when I look at non-invasive and kind of like where you want to start with, I really recommend as people start at home with something like a red light therapy. I think red light therapy is great. Is there a certain wavelength that you like? Well, so red light usually is going to be in, if I remember, right, the 600 nanometer wavelength. And you can go anywhere from 600 to like 630. I don't think that that's going to be that important. It's just going to be the device that you're using and whether you're going to stay consistent with it. And so for red light, there are handheld devices that I'm not a big fan of. They're not that expensive, but it's onerous. Like to be even around your face every couple times a week. The masks I think work pretty well, I use those. You do. Yeah, I've got one. It's kind of freaky. I mean, you're getting it's really good. I mean, by work on it too, and I'm Asian, so that helps. Wait, so the mask, my girlfriend, Raquel For Saleh, she does a lot of cosmetics stuff. She sent me one of the red light masks for Christmas, and you think that they work. So there are studies that actually have split face studies where you have a sham laser on one side of the face. And then the red light therapy on the other. And some of the studies, even in those little, is four weeks of using it a couple of times a week, have shown an improvement in the collagen and the elastin in the skin. And the outcome would be less wrinkles. Titer skin. Yes. Yeah, basically improvement in collagen elastin. Titer skin smoother skin, you know, that type of thing. When someone stops does a skin reverse or when you make improvement in the skin, the skin remains improved. Thank you. Thank you to inside tracker for sponsoring this episode of the show. Inside tracker makes looking at your individual blood biomarkers very easy. Things like ApoB, which is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Also things like insulin and thyroid function. These are markers that should be checked regularly. And most important, there should be a low barrier to entry, meaning it's really important to do and it should be easy. That is why I love inside tracker because it provides you with a ton of data. Very little time it takes to get it done. Not only that, but once you have a good understanding of what's going on in your body, you can pivot and make corrections because as a living, breathing, being it is a very dynamic process to figure out what works. And what doesn't inside tracker also offers tools for professionals. Inside tracker pro is a no-cost platform that allows your clients to share their inside tracker analysis with you, so that you can tailor their health protocols and training based on their results. And inside tracker recommendations, please go to inside tracker.com slash a doctor lion for 20% off the entire store. You know, that's a good question. I don't think it's not like you're going to like revert right back to where you were before, but the time keeps on ticking forward. You know, and like that with any of these cosmetic treatments is that unless you're having an operation, where you're cutting out skin, you know, the time is going to tick forward at the same rate as it did before. Hopefully, slower if you're, you know, making these lifestyle alterations and stuff like that. Very diligent about it. What about topical type treatments? So there's retinal. What do you see for if an individual really wants to maintain the health of their skin, and they don't want to get a facelift? Yeah, so the first thing is I recommend this and something that I have in my book is called The Two Minutes Five Your Shunger Skin Care Team. Two minutes five years. I'll take it. So very simple. And we tested on people where we put people who had average skin. So this wouldn't be with you. You're not going to look five years younger for two months like them. So we tested on people. I took them two minutes a day. And after two months, we actually took the before and after photos. We put on my Instagram and asked people, how much younger do you think they look? And they looked approximately five years younger. So every morning, you cleanse your skin with a cleanser appropriate for your skin type. If you've got oily skin, you want to use more of a foaming cleanser. If you've got dry or sensitive skin, then you want to use more of a milkier, hydrating cleanser. After that, you want to use an antioxidant serum. Antioxid fight free radicals and oxidation, which is one of the main causes of aging of our skin. Bonus if you add vitamin C and vitamin E together, that will get you actually more of a synergistic effect. That's one reason why. It's actually our most popular skincare product is our CE and antioxidant serum. But you're talking about topical as opposed to external. This is all topical. I vitamin C serum if you add vitamin E to it, that's an even bigger bonus. They're synergistic together. I recommend a sunscreen afterwards, especially if you're going to buy out in the sun. I want to talk about that because my mom was visiting and she always wears a hat. I'm just put on sunscreen before you go out and she's like, no, it only lasts 45 minutes. No, you should get a couple hours out of that. We have to come back to this whole sunscreen. What does the SPF mean? We'll talk about that. I mean, usually at least SPF 30, especially if you're going to be out. My dermatology friends will say, if you're sitting in a basement all day, still put your sunscreen on. I don't do that, but okay, you do you. And then that's all I have to do in the morning. Okay, cleanse and a Austin serum sunscreen. In the evening, got a cleanser skin. Super important. If you only wash your skin once a day, you have to do in the evening. You gotta get rid of the days worth of dirt and grime and pollution and dust and make up and all that stuff. And then you want to ideally apply some type of an antaging cream. The first one that I would recommend would be a retinol. You mentioned retinol a few minutes ago. Really if you were to ask Plask surgeons and dermatologists, what is the number one anti-aging skincare ingredient? They would say retinol. Now the studies, though, have been done on Tretinol and retinol, which is the prescription strength version. Prescription strength, retinol has been shown to improve fine lines and wrinkles to exfoliate the skin, to thicken the dermis or the deeper layer of the skin, to improve age spots. And to even reverse early pre skin cancers. So it's a lot that that does. Now retinol is the over-the-counter version of Tretinol. And retinol, reason why it's over-the-counter is that when you apply it, retinol is non-active. But then after you apply it to the skin, it undergoes two chemical changes to become Tretinol and to become a new idea. I think I'm no idea. So it goes from retinol to retinol and then to Tretinol. And so it basically becomes the same thing. It just isn't applied. When it's applied, it's not active. That's how it gets. That's why it's not. Does everyone's skin have that change equally? In general, I mean, it should work. I've not ever heard that certain people just doesn't work for it. But the problem with retinol and why it's not for everybody is that it can create some acute irritation. So one of the big benefits of these retinol is that they reduce chronic inflammation. Chronic inflammation being a huge part of aging of our skin. And so the idea though, to reduce that chronic inflammation, in some people you start off with some acute inflammation first. And so some people they apply retinol or retinay. Skin gets red and dry and flaky for a while. You kind of undergo what we call purging. And then within six to eight weeks that goes away and most people can tolerate it. But if you can, if you've got real sensitive skin, then you may want to go with Bacuchial. The Cuchial is a similar antaging ingredient. It's plant based from a plant called the Bobchi plant. That's actually been used in Ayurveda and ancient Chinese medicine for hundreds of years. Is this a new thing or is this relative? I mean, it's been around for a long time. But in skincare products, it's relatively new. So Bacuchial has been shown in a head-to-head study against retinol to have very similar antaging benefits very similar but less skin irritation. And so for those people who are like, gee, I've really sent this skin. I don't know if I want to use a retinol, then say, you know what? Go with the Bacuchial because you're going to most likely get a fairly similar result. Okay. I mean, that's pretty easy. There are more to the two minutes, five years. And that's it for tonight. If you want to play a moisturizer on top of it, you can, especially if you live like in New York City. It's February. Everything is so dry and biol means to a moisturizer on. But you don't have to. If you're in Louisiana and August, you don't want to apply moisturizer and biol means don't. And then just once or twice a week, you want to exfoliate your skin. I was going to ask you about that. That would be like a Koji pad. Something like that. Yeah. So you can use basically like a gentle scrub. You can use like a light acid type peel pad, that type of thing. That's fine. And then that glass skin trend. Have you seen the glass skin trend? Is that a real? I think it's more of like a cool. It's like a cool and there are treatments. You know, we have one treatment in my office that we call the glass skin treatment. Where we inject, we basically micro needle the skin with a combination of just a tiny bit of bowtox, a tiny bit of filler, growth factors and sometimes with the one PRP into it. And that's kind of a glass skin thing. But glass skin is really more of like a description of skin that is just like luminous. You know, it's more strized. It's smooth. You know, it's the skin that we all would love to have. And it sounds like it's a one could accomplish that by. By doing all of these things. And the first step, you know, for people who are listening, they're like, Geez, I haven't, you know, I just use soap and water. I just use these cleansers or whatever. It's just to start with that two minutes five, you're going to be in care of teen. Like that's the basics. And if you want to play more on to it than by all means to that, you know, you can add a toner to it if you want, but you don't have to. Like you stick with these basics, then you're still ahead of the vast majority of people. Yeah. I can appreciate that. What about there's a lot of talk about these topical peptides. Have you looked at the copper peptides, etc. So peptides are another group. You know, I say you apply an anti age and cream at night. The peptides are another group that you can use peptides. I basically, they are proteins that send cellular signals to our skin cells to create more collagen. The other group of anti aging ingredients that I haven't mentioned are growth factors. And they do kind of the same thing. So the idea behind both of those is that they send these cellular signals to create more collagen. Exosomes now are a kind of more. Yes. What do you explain that? What is happening in that domain? So these are also the same ideas that these basically are these types of clusters of proteins that create, you know, that cause your body to create these cellular signals to create more collagen. The exosomes, the idea behind exosomes, and I think why people are so excited about them, although there's still a question with legality in my understanding, is that they can do a lot more than just peptides. So the idea with behind peptides is just collagen stimulation, whereas exosomes may also be able to reduce inflammation and things like that, that that simple peptides cannot do. The benefit of peptides and like copper is something like that is that they're not that expensive, and they're very easy to tolerate. So if you let's say can't tolerate retinal, and you're on a really strict budget, a lot of the kind of like budget, drugstore, and Asian creams contain peptides. Does it matter how you layer the skin care? So for example, you put vitamin C, vitamin E, will that be deactivated by a sunscreen or a cream that you put over that? Not necessarily, but ideally you want to go two things. You want to go from light to heavy, okay? So you want to start with like the lighter serums, the essence is, and then go towards like the moisturizer afterwards, and then the sunscreen last typically. And then the other thing you want to go is active to inactive in general, because let's say you put a real occlusive moisturizer on, and then you apply a retinal on top of that. Like that, occlusive moisturizer may actually keep that retinal from doing what you want to do. So the right amount of what you first like to heavy in general. And sometimes you can't, it's not perfect, but that's those are the two things you want to look at. Now another question that I get asked a lot is this creepy body, like the, do people ask you about that too? It's hard. Okay, the body treatments. So there isn't a lot. There are some companies that have, and this is one thing that we're looking to develop for the immune beauty is a body like retinal cream, because really what happens is that, you know, 60 to 70 to 8% of our skin is composed of collagen. And that's the part of our skin that makes our skin nice and tight and strong and smooth and youthful. But we lose about 1% of the thickness of collagen every year. And women after menopause, you're looking at upwards of 2% a year. And that's why you have women who are in their 70s and 80s, and their skin sometimes is so like tissue paper thin that even tears. And so one of the big things we want to do is we want to increase the collagen in our skin as we get older. What was your question again? I'm creating it creepy skin. Oh, that's a way we're got. Well, because I was thinking, you know, I have seen that so often in the hospital, if they were on hormone replacement treatment, would that, I'm not, I'll look at, I mean, that is to see if it, that increase. Yeah, I mean, that may help, I'm not sure. But that's one of the things I do think that my understanding is that once women go through menopause, that, you know, the skin gets even thinner and I do, and it's, and the collagen degradation increases. And so the idea behind creepy skin is that you've got basically thinning of that collagen. And so what can you do? Well, you can eat more protein. I'm a big fan of collagen supplements. And we were talked about that prior to this recording. And then the other thing would be applying a, a good cream like a retinal that does help to increase the collagen of the skin. So I would look at those kind of three things that I could see just as very simple. Increase protein, you know, obviously prevent the sarcopene because collagen is a protein. It's a large protein. Yes, I know. I, I love collagen. I don't love it for muscle, but I do love it for skin. Yeah, well, and yeah, so I mean, and collagen that you use for the skin is not necessarily the same that's muscle anyway, because muscles type two, right? Yeah, yeah, so when you, I know that you have a collagen supplement. When you made that, did you think about that? Or type three, the type muscle is type three collagen. I mean, two is joints type three is muscle. I'm sorry. Okay. So do you, because the amino acids are very difficult to get into the bloodstream, but I do know that the collagen, again, I actually looked up the study that you had in your book, which was really well done, that you can increase the blood level of proline glycine, some of these other things, which I was actually very surprised about. Yeah, it was interesting. There's so many people I've talked about collagen on social media and so many people say, oh, I asked my family doctor about that, and they go, oh, it doesn't work. They don't, don't bother with it. Studies don't show that it helps. And 10 years ago, even maybe seven years ago, if you were said that, then that may be not an inaccurate statement, that there isn't the science there yet, but there's so much science now that is so pro collagen. There's actually a weight loss surgeon. He's a bariatric surgeon on TikTok that I follow. And he's got, he's an older general man with kind of a bushy beard, and he speaks with a lot of authority in his voice. And he made a video a couple years ago about collagen supplements and said, basically, if you are taking collagen supplements, you're wasting your money, just go to the store and buy some gelatin. It's the same thing. And I was like, interestingly, a few months ago, he had a follow video, and he's watching his first video. He swipes it away, and he says, you know, I was wrong. He said, I think there are leaves that we have that we go by. It's cool. And he was like, I looked at the science and collagen supplements work. So the key with collagen supplements and what you're getting at really is that collagen is a huge protein. And how do you know that you actually absorb it when it doesn't get broken down, does it go through? You know, how do you even know you absorb it? And so what I recommend are hydrolyzed collagen peptides. And that's why all the studies look at. And so hydrolyzed collagen essentially, you take that large protein, break it down into individual amino acids and peptides. And those are going to be much more bioavailable. You're gut can absorb that. And just like you mentioned, there are sites that do show that they put people on these collagen supplements. They take blood levels later, and they see those amino acids are increased in the blood. But also there have been biopsies of skin showing the same thing, and increasing pro collagen of the skin afterwards. And there's sites that show an improvement in fine lines and wrinkles and hydration and elasticity. So really, if you have people now that say the collagen somethings don't work or the same thing. So there's something that doesn't work or that the science doesn't prove it, they just haven't actually looked at the reasons. I am definitely on board for all of the things that you mentioned. I also think that the dosing that people are using is quite low. I use 20 grams, but I, this is all anecdotal. Yeah. I think that at least 40 is probably going to be a better target. If not more. Interesting. But the trick, the tricky part is, you know, it's not a complete protein, what are the ratios? It's not a substitute for, it's not a macro protein macro. Right. Yeah, you can't count that. Yeah. And I think that's something a lot of people don't realize is that, yes, you should not count that as part of your daily protein intake. Have you looked within your own patients the dosing of collagen? Do you see that do they do better with two, three scoops? We haven't necessarily, because we put people on the same amount just because that's what's always been recommended. And because I'm not conducting a true study, it's not something that we have really tried messing with. What about hyaluronic acid? So hyaluronic acid is a naturally occurring moisturizer of our skin. It's also what we base most of our injectable fillers from. And it's something that's often used in skincare as a humacdent, basically it helps to absorb water to act essentially as a moisturizer. So using a hyaluronic acid, like a serum, I think is great. And you'll feel it when you put on your skin. It's the good thing with hyaluronic acid is your skin's going to feel more tries but not greasy. Filler is a whole other story. And we can get into that if you want, but that really, the thing for fillers now is we use hyaluronic acid because it is so adaptable. And we can create really thin fillers for thin skin, like say under the eyes, or you can cross link it and make it much thicker. That's going to have more salidity to it that we can put, let's say, in the cheekbones and like in the chin and stuff like that. Do you have any concern about the, it seems like there's just an increase use of all of these things, whether it's filler or Botox. Do you have any concerns from a health perspective? And also just with our youth, it seems that it's getting younger and younger, the usage. Yeah, and I'm not a fan of that. I mean, in my office number one, anybody who's under 18, we just don't see him period. And even those people who are 18 to their mid 20s were careful with them because, you know, unfortunately, social media and a lot of the celebrities on social media have really pushed all the things. Really pushed all these procedures. For me, Botox, the worst thing with Botox really is that eventually you may, like if you do it when you're younger, I don't think it's necessary. It's kind of a waste of money, like preventative Botox. Right. But the worst thing that can really happen is you can get like a droopy eyelid maybe. And then later on, when you may need the Botox, you may be developing anobis to it because you're used for salon, and maybe it won't work, you know. So that's one thing. Filler is a whole other thing because that can be dangerous. If you improperly inject filler, people have gone blind from it. People have lost parts of their nose and their lip and stuff like that. So that's a whole other thing because you're, it's definitely a riskier procedure. But there are operations that are being done in young people that I have more of a concern with because now you're talking about irreversible operations. And I've gone publicly some of them because I feel like they just aren't worth it for young kids. So now you've got people who are doing this upper lip lift operation where they remove skin from the base of the nose to lift the upper lip. And they're doing this and people are in their 20s and 30s. Well, I just talked about how collagen reduces as we get older, you know, and what we see is that in people who are in their 70s and 80s, they get like a skin cancer on their nose. And we can take skin from their forehead and move it down the nose, reconstruct everything. And six months later, you can't even see their scars because the collagen in their skin is not so robust, you know, the scars aren't going to get thick. But you do that in so many who's 20 or 30 and that scar is going to look terrible. Thank you to first form for sponsoring this episode of the show. If you do not take a multivitamin, you should and first form makes a great multi. It's not easy to get all the nutrients that you need in your soil and from your food, which is why you should have kind of like an insurance backup plan. And one way to do that is to be taking a great multivitamin. First forms micro factor complete daily nutrient pack easy to travel with has a pack for anti-oxidants, co-cute 10, which is really good for skeletal muscle health, essential fatty acids, fruits and vegetables. And of course, the multi vitamin and last but not least, a pro biotic. You can get yours at first form dot com slash doctor lion that's first form dot com slash doctor lion. So now you have doctors where creating scars that the base of the noses and people in their 20s or 30s are trying to lift their lip a bit for a cosmetic benefit. You have doctors taking fat on the insides of the cheeks and doing all these other types of operations even doing browless with scars and their brows and stuff. And I feel like it's just getting really really excessive. And it's hard because I come forward with some of that stuff and I get placerns we get upset with me, you know, and breast and pine illness that's another thing. It's like you come come out with with what you believe is a truth and unfortunately that gets people who use that as their money maker and they're not. And they're not. What do you think about what are your thoughts on breast and plant illness? I mean, so it's a real thing. It's something that dogma and plastic surgery for decades has been that breast implants are safe. But the studies really have not closely looked at those autoimmune symptoms and systemic issues with them. And so now there are more and more studies coming out showing really there are there's it's we don't have it any study that creates a direct correlation. Between implants and all of these illnesses, but what we do have our studies is show that if you have a patient who has implants who develop symptoms of brain fog fatigue, hair loss, rashes, stuff like that. And you are from about 55 to 85% of them will improve if the implants are removed. We know that for sure, but what we don't know is what percentage of women who have implants will develop BII? Are there other factors involved? Are there genetic factors? Are there lifestyle factors? There's so much to it that we just don't know. And unfortunately, I think we're also in a time where there are people who are using patients who are sick like that as profit centers. It's terrible. There are doctors who are recommending operations that are not necessary for them. You know, doing these huge operations for a move. What we call capsules and stuff that may not necessarily be necessary. And they're charging huge amounts of money and saying that they're specialist at it. And I have even colleagues in mind who will sell huge detoxes and things saying, Oh, you're only going to get better if you do this detox. You know, and there's no science to show that that's true. And now they're spending all this money and they're desperate a lot of them because they're sick. Yeah, I couldn't agree with you more, and that is just reprehensible. And on that same side, there are surgeons. I have patients in mind. You know, I had a patient in mind who had implants. I put in maybe 15 years ago. And she thought maybe she was developing BII. And she said, I'm sorry, another surgeon because her husband was seeing this doctor. And that person told her when she said, hey, I've got the symptoms. You think it's my implants. And he said, let me give you the number for a psychiatrist. That's literally what she said. So on the same side, you got these other surgeons who are not taking their symptoms seriously. Part of it is because they're, are they, you know, because they're women. You know, it's possibly, you know, it's just it's not a good situation. Not at all. What do you think about the use of AI? Is going to play a role in surgery? Do you think that it will allow patients have better outcomes to see exactly? Do you think that there's, I don't, I think that outcome, and we still are, we're doing that already. We're, you know, using three to 3D printing and stuff like that to try to predict outcomes. You know, we've been looking at that for plastic surgery. And I don't think that there is a lot there with AI just yet. I think with other types of surgeries, robotics are huge, you know, when you're doing, when you're doing surgery inside the abdominal cavity, and you're doing it with the tiniest incisions and using robots. I think that's one thing, but with the procedures that we're doing, I mean, really what it comes down to is when you're looking at, okay, you know, here we've been talking about non-invasive ways to turn back the clock. When do you need surgery? The main time you need surgery is when you've got a lot of excess skin. Okay, because you can't, there's no injection, there's no food you're going to eat or cream or whatever that's going to make loose hang skin go away. You just have to cut it out. And we're never going to be able to get rid of that skin without cutting it out. When you cut out, you create a lengthy scar. You're never going to be able to heal without a scar because that's how our body's healed. Right. But I think what we're going to get to eventually is we're going to get to scar treatments that will help to really minimize them, like very consistently, but we're not there yet. So we don't, we don't have major treatments for scarring. You know, the fact is that the one thing that we love for it to be able to do is give us novel approaches to get rid of problems that we have. Well, the big thing we want to try to get rid of is excess skin because that's what always necessitates surgery. How's that going to do it? And yeah, that totally makes sense. I was just thinking in terms of AI, it again shows you the 3D. But that also gets dangerous because now you get patients who bring in these AI or these even just filtered pictures in the cells. Like this is how I want to look like. And then there's this little thing is that people don't realize is that if you've got a smartphone and you're taking a selfie. Study show that that selfie will make your nose look 30% bigger than it really is. What? Yes, 30% bigger. And so some people are taking selfies either. I want to get a nose job and it's like, no, it's because it's that your phone's making your nose a group cent large and then it is. And then you're going to get a picture from five feet away with the rear face in camera then see if you like your nose. Could you probably like it a lot more? Um, all of that is really good advice. When you were writing your book again, people will have to understand and recognize it takes years to write a book. Was there something that you came across that you weren't expecting from even a recovery aspect or just a science perspective when I when I wrote it. The thing I wasn't expecting was that it would turn into this program that really worked for people. Okay, because when I started writing it, I started wasn't to meet for me to create like because I've got something that book called a 21 day jump start. And it was something that I created after really writing the book. So I wrote the book because I'm like, look, there's so many things you can do with food with intermittent fasting with skincare that can really help turn back the clock. And what I ended up doing is compiling a lot of those into this 21 day jump start. And I'm like, well, let me create this. We'll test it on some people and see what happens. And so in this jump start, it's very simple. It's three weeks. The first week essentially it's cleaning up your diet. Getting on a limited array of very specifically chosen supplements and these are nothing crazy. Collegions is the only one that's even at all like controversial. And then putting on that two minutes five year younger skin care regimen. And that's it. So the first week cleaning up your diet, increasing the amount of healthy proteins, healthy fats, getting rid of ultra-process foods, sugars, all that stuff. And then the supplements and the skincare. And then weeks two and three, we incorporate intermittent fasting into it. And then what we did was I, after doing a lot of studying on intermittent fasting and it's effects on a top of G and all that. I started realizing that there are certain foods that can promote autophagy, even though they may break your fast. And so eating fatty basically healthy fats and then polyphenol rich foods appear to help stimulate a top of G, even though you break your fast. What we ended up doing is then for the weeks two and three, we had very simple. Just for two days a week, they would intermittent fast 16 hours. And then when they would refeed at noon on their refeiting day, we would keep them on essentially a healthy keto diet where it's healthy fats essentially lower amounts of protein and carbs. And then after three weeks, we would see how they did. And we tested our relatively small number of people initially and they did great. But we're just testing HSCRP. We weren't doing that. So it wasn't like an IRB study or anything like that. It was just like, hey, let's do questionnaires and stuff. And then we put, we actually put it out there for 10,000 people that we did it on. And what really surprised me was because I wasn't sure if it was going to work. And the amount of changes that people got in their skin where they would say, look, I went out to dinner with my friend and I'm doing this and they're like, wow, what are you doing with your skin? Not knowing they're doing this jumpstart. Or people who found that they had improved their energy significantly or they found like, I mean, really universally people said my energy level is like through the roof. And then a lot of people also lost weight that they wanted to get rid of this well. And so really, I think what surprised me was like, oh my gosh, it worked. I mean, I love when that happens when you read a bunch of research and literature and then you bring it to the bedside and you're like, this is amazing. See if this works, and it's like, I can't believe it. So we did on our smaller number for the book and then once the book came out, I did a group of like 10,000 and it was the same thing as like people just all same man. This is so great and it was easy. And this isn't like bio hacking where you're taking like 50 pills a day. So like that simple like lifestyle changes and people saying, look, I don't feel restricted in any way. I feel like, you know, and there's no calorie counting like you eat, but this isn't, you know, a restrictive type of the thing, but just really making those changes can make huge, huge changes. Hey, you're about to love that. Where do you think the field is going? Where are we going? With all of this, I think what we're going is realizing that there truly is a lot of value to preventative health and to what we consider alternative health. Alternative health is going to become mainstream and it already is. You know, there are people like yourself. People who are also more on the traditional side who are really kind of slowly dragging the traditionalist this way. You know, I had a friend of mine who's a prominent dermatologist in your city. Who has been for decades and I did her show not that long ago and one of the thing we're talking about auto-juvenation and using food and skincare and she's she's like, you know, food is medicine, Tony, and I'm like, oh my, and she's like an NYU, I'm going professor and everything like that. These are things that you and I and our friends have talked about like years ago and I think it's honestly it's our responsibility people like you and I who are Board certified where physicians to bring this to the traditionalists and gradually kicking a screaming they're going to come along. It's just because they know it's right. Yeah, I couldn't agree with you more and I love this idea of auto-juvenation. I'm so happy that you came on the show. Thank you, Gabrielle. I appreciate it. I'm very happy. So much fun. Where can people find you? So I'm all over social media. All over by the way, when he says all over, I think your YouTube has has at least five million subscribers. Yeah, five million. It's five and you will get lost in the rabbit hole. It's a lot. Yeah. So my jury. So the book is younger for life and we have a website auto-juvenation.com where if you buy the book we have a bunch of free gifts including a companion recipe book. I would guess if you have certificate to my online store at Un Beauty because we do sell natural and organic skincare products and supplements as well. Do you know I didn't receive any of those? You didn't. You have to sign go to the website auto-juvenation.com. Okay, I'll send you some of my stuff. I don't have those. Yes. Yeah, I'll send you some. Yeah, I should have a lot of time ago. I think what you're doing is great. And I love that you are a well-trained surgeon who is thinking about things outside the box. Thank you. And you just make the world better. So thank you so much for coming on. I appreciate you. And I love where you have come from because many years ago we first met. We are in very different places. It's great to see how far we both come. Yeah. Thank you, friend. Thank you.

Most people think heart disease starts with a bad cholesterol number. But the truth? The damage often starts decades earlier, before you feel it, before you see it, and before your doctor catches it. Bend the field of glycoculax is the first layer in the artery sector's injury. It's like the care in the coal mine free arteries. It's a protective gel coat. And once that early damage begins, it's silent, but it's not inevitable. You just need to know where to look and what to do next. It's a mitochondria of what keep your heart beating. Most cardiologists don't talk about mitochondria of oxide. They don't measure the O2 max. They don't ask about rip strength or muscle mass, but they should. Because muscle is one of the most powerful protectors of your heart. And mitochondrial health. That might be the key to your entire cardiovascular Because lithium function, arterial stiffness, nitro oxide, and inflammatory markers, not just cholesterol. In today's episode, you'll learn why standard cholesterol labs are being complete. How the loss of skeletal muscle speeds up heart disease. What biomarkers matter more than umbeo? And why diagnostics, and not guesswork, are the future of revenge? Sorgopina accelerates cardiovascular region. The strength training can reverse that trend. This is the medicine of what's possible. And my guess today is one of the few cardiologists practicing it. Dr. Michael Twyman, expert in mitochondrial optimization, arterial imaging, and a bioindividual muscle centric prevention approach. Due to max is one of the most predictive markers of longevity. Handaged trainable. So, if you could prevent a heart attack before it starts. When did you want to know how? You can't manage what you don't measure. And you can't prevent disease. We're not looking in the right places. Let's talk about what it really takes to become heart attack proven with doctor Michael Twyman. Dr. Mike Twyman, welcome to the show. Thank you for having me back. Has it been 40 seconds yet? Not yet. Okay. Well, as soon as it reaches 40 seconds, someone in the U.S. had a heart attack. And every 33 seconds, someone dies of cardiovascular disease. It's a horrible staff. You know, it makes me think how have we not gotten better at treating that? I think we're getting there, but it's still the number one killer. Yeah, we did this episode three years ago. It's got some change that much since then. And I think we're going to end up in a lot of the topics today that I think might be beneficial to really help people become more heart attack proof. Can someone actually die of a broken heart? Absolutely. That's known as Takahsubosindrum of broken heart syndrome. Takahsubo is a Japanese kind of fishing vessel. I see a fishing pot that they catch octopus in. And that's what the left ventricle looks like when people have this broken heart syndrome. So they present after an emotional event. Somebody in the family dies in a car accident. They smoke cocaine. Something happens where their symptoms that drive is very high. And they present to the hospital like they're having a heart attack. And we would rush them off to the cath lab, find out that they didn't have any significant blockers in the arteries. And then we read the left ventricleogram. The heart wasn't pumping very well. And so kind of supportive care. After a couple of days, you're just like the heart function returns to normal. But it's a high risk of sudden cardiac death when you have that. Is it mostly women or men? Generally women hold their women particularly. We hear the term heart disease all the time. But what is heart disease? That's the umbrella term. I mean, there's cornyard disease. There's heart failure. There's value of heart disease. So you really have to do defined terms. But you have vasca disease. You know, 60,000 miles of blood vessels. You gotta go looking where the disease is at. You know, as I was preparing for this episode, cardiovascular disease as you had mentioned, is still so prevalent. And it's not getting better, which is surprising. And it makes me think, okay, what do we know that drives heart disease? And again, it is an umbrella term. So perhaps we start with, I don't know, take your pick. Stroke. So stroke can be their eschemic or thrombin ballad. So eschemic means there's not blood flow coming to the tissue. And without oxygen nutrients coming to the tissue, that tissue starts to die. And in ballac event is where more of a blood clot forms. Many times, the heart patients, the student age for ablation, a clot forms in their left atatria. That clot breaks free. It gets lodged in the brain. And, you know, steals blood flow from the territory downstream. That tissue will die unless it's re-vasturized. So stroke also is probably more scary to many people because heart attacks if you survive to get to the cathab, usually do pretty well. But stroke can be debilitating for the rest of your life. But the same risk factors for heart disease are the same things that contribute to stroke in most people. And what are those things? I mean, it's the common ones. It's smoking. It's high blood measure, diabetes, high lipids, physical and activity. Those are probably the top five. But there may be 395 other things that can really damage your arteries. Do we know if we take smoking out of it? Do we know what would be the biggest contributor of heart disease? It's probably pretty close between dyslibidemia and high blood pressure. You know, lipids gets a lot of the headlines. You know, because there's a lot of dietary interventions. Some people can do that. Make their lipids change. But blood pressure is really that silent killer. You don't feel it often. You know, if you're starting to feel your blood pressure, it's pretty bad. Now, usually pretty close to having a stroke or going blind. So it's really called the silent killer for a reason. You're going to be getting pound of this high pressure for years and to start day to faster than it should. How would someone know that do you feel heart disease? Generally know. I mean, the unfortunate fact is that when people have heart attacks, that's often the first symptom that they had heart disease. If you're having chest pain, tighten this in your chest with exercise. So your shoulders are breath, their exercise and power. Those are often signs that you're developing severe catharsis and your coronary arteries. The arteries are provided the nutrients to the heart. But typically, you're not going to have that sensation until your arteries are blocked 70 to 80 percent with plaque. So most people have no symptoms until the pretty late of the game. You know, Matt, my producer and wingman over there, we were talking about exercise and then we were talking about obesity and heart disease. And Matt was saying, you know, if someone is struggling with obesity, they have a much bigger body mass and the heart has to work so much harder. When you add in exercise is that safe, how do we begin to think about introducing exercise without overloading the heart? It's a great question. And if somebody is truly been sedentary for many years, oftentimes they probably should consider cardiac evaluation to make sure that they're going to be safe and not to really push it hard with exercise. Yeah, if they're all doing bodyweight exercises or walking, I'm not really concerned for those people. But if they're saying, hey, I really want to get into hit training. I really want to get into heavy lifting. Okay, show me that your heart and heart mass resistance can tolerate that. And then maybe as simple as just, you know, getting a evaluation, okay, what is this person's blood pressure? Maybe they do a CT-corneal calcium score like do they have heart plaque and the arteries already. And then for some people, you would actually consider doing a stress test. And stress tests are good tests if people are having symptoms, as I said before, somebody has a 70% blockage in the arteries. Usually we'll pick that up with the stress test. But stress tests are no guarantee that you're risk for heart attack. If you pass a stress test, you can sell the heart attack later that day. But they can give somebody an idea of their exercise capacity. So, put them on a treadmill. It's often going to be the bruise protocol or every three minutes. It's going to go a little bit higher and a little bit faster. And you push them until they say, I can't do this anymore. Or you see somebody get you change to say, hey, stop. But if they can't go seven minutes on that stress test machine, they have pretty low functional capacity. And they're going to have to work out from there. But you're just making sure you're not seeing some high risk findings while they exercise. What would be a safe way to incorporate exercise? Someone is listening to this. Maybe they have seen a cardiologist, maybe they haven't. Is it safe to start with cardiovascular activity? Is it really based on the piece or the heart rate? Or would it be better to lift weights? Is there some kind of standard? I would say it's probably a combination of kind of perceived exertion. There's the border desertion scale, you know, 10, 10. Like you're only able to do this a few more seconds. You know, the tiger's chasing me like, or is this a patient could do it all they're long if you had to. But when you start kind of losing your breath, that's when you're starting to probably 70% or so of your maximal heart rate when you really can't maintain it much longer if you kept going higher and higher than that. So if you get to point where you have a little bit mild breathlessness, probably okay. But if it's severe or you're getting tied in the chest, you got to really back it off and get that worked up first. And when would someone think to go to the emergency room, right? Because if heart disease and heart attacks are really as robust and prevalent as we believe that they are, it seems as if they can be fatal. How many heart attacks are fatal? I mean, it used to be about 50% people had heart attacks, you know, that was a per sign and they didn't make it to the cath lab. So, you know, higher percentage than it should be. When should some of us see doctor? But we're quite sure about the ER. I mean, there's like over 8 million presentations that ER for a year for chest pain. And you got to build out the bad actors. Is it a heart attack? Is it a blood clot in your lungs, a pulmonary embolism? Is it aeritanism where your arteries are tearing? You know, is it a pneumothorax? You know, but three times out of four, it's not a heart attack when people have chest pain coming to the ER and there's a lot of dollars spent working these people up. But if you're having severe symptoms, where you feel like, you know, impending doom, you feel that there's an elephant on your chest, you actually can't breathe. Yeah, if that doesn't go away in a few seconds, you got to go in and get it checked out. Make sure it's not, you know, ST elevation in my where you've reputed a plaque in your coronary artery and those can often be fatal unless you're, yeah, reaskarized. But if you're not having symptoms, that's probably the better questions. Who needs to be screened? And who would you say, who needs to be screened? Essentially, everybody has a heart. It just, what does that question wrong? This is what age and what pest you to be really considering for those people. People with very strong family histories, my family included, my grandmother, my mom's side, started having cardiac events in her 40s. I had ultimately bypass surgery strokes, had preferred her disease, the revascularization. She died at 63 from the stroke, way too young. You know, my mom has a very high risk calcium score, but no symptoms, well, managed at this point. So people have strong family histories, really should get checked out earlier, probably under 40. I used to think 40 is kind of the starting point for many people, but I've seen more and more people in their 30s have very high risk calcium scores of best few years. And can you explain what a calcium score is and what does that mean to be high risk? So, you have 60,000 miles of arteries. The coronary arteries provide the nutrients to the heart tissue themselves. There's a test called a CT coronary calcium score that's a low dose radiation scan that looks at the coronary arteries and if there's calcium in the walls of the arteries. Calcium is supposed to be in your bones and teeth. If you have calcium in your artery walls, then that indicates that there's hard plaque in your arteries. The higher the calcium score, the higher the risk. So, as you live your life, you know, you can have a calcium score of 0, and I've seen people in their 80s with the scores of 0, but I've seen a gentleman who was 36 years old when I had a score over 1,400. That's extremely high for somebody at any age. But the general cut-offs are over 400,000 calcium scores high risk, over 1,000 is very high risk. And I was going to ask what's the high score of every scene? 7,707 is the highest score of every scene. You don't say that is really, really high. The calcium, where does the calcium come from? Is it dietary calcium that then gets deposited or is it damaged that then creates a cascade where calcium is then deposited in these arteries? It's kind of based in-game where the bodies trying to repair the damage to the artery. So, on the top layer of the artery, there's some called the glycocalax. That's a protective gel coating. Think of a fish coming out of water that's slimy. That's kind of what your arteries are covered in. It's a carbohydrate gel coat. Underneath that's the endothelium. One self thick. If you took out all your endothelium, which would be very hard to do, I'd be about the surface area of 610 scores. And those are kind of like the protective barriers to the lining underneath called the endomop. One thing starts getting to deposit an endomop, then you're off to the races developing plaque and the arteries. And the bodies repair mechanisms will include depositing smooth muscle into their arteries and eventually calcium. Think of a slight disforming bone to kind of solidify that plaque to prevent it from rupturing. It makes me think the vascular cure of the heart has a mechanism if there's damage and that's calcification. I don't know what that mechanism would look like in skeletal muscle. You know? I mean, because it seems like the body has these very interesting processes to protect itself. And the calcium deposit isn't, it's not the cause. It's the response to whatever's happening. Right, it's the scars, essentially. Yeah. You know, and in the brain, there's tau proteins. I, it just makes me think what is that like in skeletal muscle? I, again, I don't know, but it's it's just something to think about. How long have you been practicing cardiologists? I finished my fellowship in 2012. Okay. So that's a while. And you did your fellowship in preventive cardiology. The fellowship was in general cardiology. I graduated and was in invasive cardiologists for many years. So I was doing heart procedures in the cath lab, you know, during angiograms to determine how much blockage people had in the arteries. But eventually I got more adjacent in the program outside of things. In the last few years, now, by the way, you were wearing blue with those B, blue light black and glasses. They are. Now, this is a very different version. If you guys do not know Dr. Michael Twyman, who, again, is my cardiologist, and it is he's the guy that we send everybody to. Since I've known you, which how long have I known you now? I think it was around 2019. Okay. I have never seen you without those orange lenses glasses. Unless I'm outside, I usually have a month. Why? Helps with my security and rhythms helps with my sleep. So sleep's very important. At no, don't know. I've had that. I have a hard pass on that one. But do you wear it for circadian biology or does it affect cardiovascular disease? I think it does. I think it helps me with optimizing your circadian rhythms so that you're able to sleep better. And when you sleep is when you repair your mitochondria. And I've had a sleep tracker for at least nine years. And I've just noticed my data would always be better when I would do this. And the main thing is, you know, you're evolved to be under full spectrum light. So we evolved to be outside in some light. We were never evolved to be in front of artificial light that tells our body it's different times a day than it is. So I'm always just trying to let my body know, okay, it's daytime versus it's about to be evening. It's evening time. And these daylight glasses just help my body stay and kind of rhythm. Hosting the Dr. Gabriel Line podcast has allowed me to speak to extraordinary experts. And there's one unifying message that I continue to hear. And it's that we need a few core compounds in our diet that would be nearly impossible to get if we just ate. And one of those is omega 3 fatty acids. And even if you are eating high quality salmon or high quality meats, the amount of omega 3 fatty acids vary greatly. And we know that it is critical for human health. And this is back by science. It supports heart health. It reduces inflammation. It improves brain function. It can even help with mood. Piori's O3 Ultra Pure Fish Oil, which, by the way, is third party tested and certified by book, the Clean Label Project and IFOS. So that you know what you're putting in your body is safe, pure and effective. It's tested for over 200 contaminants and Piori publishes all of their data online and transparency matters. Piori O3 Ultra Pure Fish Oil, I've been using it for my dry eye and I have to say it is absolutely worked. And I have teamed up with Piori to sponsor this podcast and give you 20% off site wide. Just go to Piori Piori.com slash Dr. Lyon and you can also use the code Dr. Lyon at checkout. Talk to me about red light therapy and photo band modulation. So photo band modulation is using light therapy to change your biology. The target of red light therapy is the mitochondria. And there's various devices, but skin contact is better because the major issue with light therapy is the acronym RATS. Light reflects bounces off the skin. So we're like 60% of it just bounces off. The lights absorbed. The lights transmit it, which with the red light therapy, it's not going all the way through. It's not an X-ray or the light scattered. The light comes in, bounces around and maybe gets into the mitochondria or maybe it bounces and goes back out. So we want to try to maximize how much light's coming in. So ideally the device is on the skin. Horrors closes possible, is recommended by the manufacturer. But once the light comes into the tissues, the main location where it's working is the mitochondria. The mitochondria absorbed the red and infrared light. Side of chromsioxidase for the geeks out there. And that does a couple of things. There releases an hydroxide from the mitochondria. It increases ATP, which is an energy currency in the mitochondria and it decreases reactive oxygen species. And has multiple thousands of studies. Most of it's going to be based off of muscoescultal injuries in repair. But it helps lower pain. Implamation decreases swelling. Helps tissue regrow. So I do. We got it. We got it. We got to rewind on this. Photo by a modulation, red light therapy. But it has to be on the skin like those masks because I sit in front of panels all the time. So most the trials are using laser technology and then later LED. But that's the challenge is how do you know what dose you're actually delivering. And that's what's challenging with, I call it the Wild West, the red light company's right now, is because there's a lot of claims out there whether devices can do. But you need to know a few things. You need to know the wavelengths. What color of light is coming off of the device? That you probably be some form of red and infrared. What are the wavelengths that you look for? There's many about like 660, journaling the red, 810, 850, and the infrared spectrum. Then you got to look at what's known as the power density or their radiance. That's how many photons of light are coming out of the device divided by the beam area. So are using like a pinpoint type of thing on the skin or using a big panel? I've been to your office. Yes, you see a few of the world's largest panel. How big is that panel? 8 feet tall by 4 feet wide. Okay, number one, that looked very expensive. And number two, did you test the radiance? I don't have a laser power meter. That's what you would have to have to actually accurately measure it. But when they say that everything has to be at least 100 milliliters per centimeter square to be a benefit, that's not true. Most of the trials, at least in the cardiovascular world, they're using like 10 milliliters per centimeter squared. So you don't need these high radiances to get the benefit. So you have to know the power density. So like how many photons of light are coming out? And then the time, how long are using that device for? And then that equals basically the dose. And the dose is different for the tissue types. So if there was a cardiac trial, more kind of limited and scope, but very interesting was it was a Israeli trial where they took patients who were having ST elevation amazer. I haven't the worst kind of heart attack. They got rushed off to the cath lab. I believe there's 12 people in each group. Each group got standard care. They all got stands. But half the group got photo by modulation. During the procedure, a day later and three days later. It was a device that was utilizing 10 milliliters per centimeter squared. They used it for 100 seconds. One jewel. This is what's interesting. It was not over the heart. It was over the tibia. So their leg bones. Why would you do that? There are stem cells in those tissues. What they studied is that they gave the dose during the case, day later, three days later. The people who got treated had Japan and levels that were approximately half those that weren't treated. So Japan is a protein inside of the heart that gets released from the heart cells die. So when the heart cells die, it's like popping a balloon, all the contents spill out. If you measure to front of the blood, heart tissues get damaged and high enough levels can indicate a heart attack. So the people had half the size of heart attacks when they got treated. Everybody got the same treatment otherwise. How would that work? When the stem cells are activated, potentially, that's helping lower inflammation in the heart. You're also putting energy into the system while the heart is starving of energy because there's no blood flow going downstream. Prevent a concept study only at this point. Safe to use it. But very interesting. The think about that, they weren't even treating the heart. These people had quote smaller heart attacks. So this is why photo-bond relation was really fascinating for me. It's like, yeah, I'm a cardiologist. But where can most people use it? It's musculoskeletal injuries. That's where most of the data is at. So if you get injured and you can't train one that sucks, but too, then you're not going to be able to get the cardiovascular benefits long term if you keep getting hurt. So this potentially helps you recover faster and get back into the game. You mentioned that it has to be on the skin. Can the red light penetrate through the skin? It's preferable to be on the skin. It possible. So can it penetrate to muscle? So infrared light had best probably penetrates three centimeters. Most data shows that like maybe five millimeters is kind of a red and then infrared start hit, but maybe up to three three. But think it was like a lot of photons at the top of the skin and then only if you're getting down deep. So that's why it's kind of the recipe. So again, the time is important because you could use a higher radiance for one minute. You could lose low radiance for a longer period of time and get the same dose. So it's kind of the analogy of like cooking a turkey. You go low and slow or you drop the thing and a boring pot of water or and fry the thing. Hmm. But is it the effect on the skeletal muscle or is it the effect on other areas that then generate the help of the tissue? It's decreasing pain receptors. It's decreasing inflammation. It's decreasing swelling in the tissue. And it's potentially that swelling in the tissue particularly around the nerves that causes some of that delayed onset muscle soreness. And so this is why you potentially want to use it after training. Now there is some debate on like what is the perfect time after training because if you immediately run to the relic panel after do you know a strength training exercise you know you might blonde that inflammatory adaptation. You might not be a sore but you might not get as much hypertrophy if you use it immediately afterwards. Same stories like why you wouldn't do a colplunch immediately after doing a strength training episode. You know I've thought a lot about that and I would say to be fair the influence might be really small. You know like I don't know if if someone if you're going to use red light I would it from my perspective go ahead and do it. I don't think it's going to affect there. I don't think it's big enough for most people to make a big deal like you know if you're going to lipid athlete maybe you need to time it down to the minute but also get asked like what time of day think of these devices almost as a joke as a son plummet like son of the son of the son of the son down is when you ideally would like to use the thing. Yeah if you're using the even time just gonna be mindful that in some people it's not the wavelengths of light is the intensity the locks that affects their sleep so if you blast yourself particularly in the face with these panels, toilets for when it's better to bed and my defector's sleep in some mid-adages. I'll give you a wise no effect. Some people they sleep better with it. You just have to be kind of the biohacker and see what time of day works best for you. You know I was looking at some data it seems that there's a potential for certain red light to improve eyesight is that true. It is true. I don't know which radiances they were using in those trials but it's a very short period I believe that the treatment sessions only like three minutes long. Where else would you use various lights when we were upstairs all of us and you pulled out this device again I feel like this person is when you come over because there's all kinds of gadgets although you should leave some here. Yes I did. And you said oh this is cool you put it on because it's blue light. So blue light doesn't penetrate the skin very deep so it's for topical use only so the dermatologist will know about its benefits. So it can help treat acne but on skin contact it may help liberate nitric oxide and that's obviously one of my reasons of expertise and interests is that anything that can prove nitric oxide maybe helps our cereal elasticity or blood pressure. So I bought these wearable patches a couple of years ago and played around with them. I'm done in a day to with them to say that the absolute release nitric oxide yet but theoretically but I thought it was pretty interesting when I was reading up on them is how they kind of show that they did work is that they got some recruits probably some college students paid in 20 bucks and they made them stand in front of a tennis serving machine and they blast them 80 miles an hour in their quads. And so I was like I don't know if I'd do that for 20 bucks or whatever they paid them. But half the kids got the light patch, other kids didn't they got you know here's some Odre and some cold packs but the people that light there be they're like 40% smaller bruises the next day because it helps break up the hemocenter and so it just helps speed up that wound recovery. People talk about red light for wrinkles all those red light masks which by the way I think I have three or four does blue light help with wrinkles or skin integrity. It would actually probably make a worse light is oxidizing to the skin. This is probably why people who have... Oh, so don't put that patch on your face. Yeah, do not put the patch on your face and this is probably the reason why when people have a lot of screen time they tend to get a lot of fine wrinkles is that blue light is dehydrating their skin and it's oxidized. I don't think so. I didn't know that. He team did you know that? Absolutely not. So do put a flux on your screen. I usually have the different software my computers that pull it out and if you've been to my office I always always have in the corner I have a red light panel that's on and that this is not really for photo by my dilation but just trying to balance out the spectrum of light that's in my office so that red and never lights kind of bouncing off my computer monitor back into my eyes. Could you protect your skin and eyes with some kind of panel over your screen? It's hard because it penetrates the screen but if someone were to come to you and say hey I want to protect my eyesight I want to protect my skin. What do we do? So I don't know the companies that make it any more than when I use I think we're not a business but they're used to make these like orange acrylic plates and then you would just physically put them in front of your monitor for the people who don't wear the glasses from the reason or the first control over here. It's like the main recruits of the birth control glasses. Now it is the case where I got some of them because I have nieces and nephews and they're not wearing these glasses so I was like would they put these in front of their old school screen protector some would somewhat it but there's always options but the physical blockers they work well and then it's just being mindful that try to use some red light therapy when you're using a lot of blue lit devices. Does it have you red light therapy or could it just be a red light lamp? To lay it just helping more kind of bounce out the spectrum of light in the room but if you have the red light mask or you have a panel it doesn't have to be skin contact for the face mask but that helps stimulate collagen production which is decreasing the wrinkles that's why it works. But I mean so for example like last night I'm working on this book I have to turn my edits and I put the nighttime screen situation on you know you can you can switch it on your Mac but I also use a little lamp it's not red light per se with infrared and you know all of that massive intense red light it's just a little lamp. Is that helping to balance out the blue light or is it just something yeah how does that work? I would say that it's helping balance out the blue light and it's just helping maintain your circadian rhythms you want to dial down the intensity light. That's not. That's not. Sunset. Are there things that you've now introduced into your practice say over the last two years? I know that you're talking a lot more about nitric oxide you're talking a lot more about this endothelio glycocalix which nobody can spell. What is new on the horizon that you've really landed on? I think the Dithio glycocalix is the biggest thing where the past couple years is that when I kind of transitioned out of traditional cardiovascular care where you're more reactive and now I'm a little bit more proactive is you kind of go to that pathway where you find functional medicine and you realize that like nutrition and exercise or extremely important and there may be some supplements and instances that are helpful but eventually realize that that's not the whole story and so then you find maybe the bow hackers and the circadian biologists and you start doing some of those things but once I was down that pathway I came upon Dr. Mark Houston, Dr. Nithin Brian and they really taught me a lot about how nitric oxide was important to the vascular system that is released mainly from the endothelio Lyening but in the past few years it's been noted that there's another layer called the endothelio glycocalix. It's first visualized in the 1960s but only past few years is getting a lot more attention as people have potentially treatment options for it and some of the diagnostic testing that I offer in my office or potentially you can do at home that can tell you the health of that glycocalix and underlying endothelio layer. I think that's where it really at start is that if you have a healthy layer of glycocalix in Nithin the arm it's not that your arduous are completely bulletproof but it's much less likely you're going to develop severe atherosclerosis and I think cardiology is doing a great job treating people when they have the insect disease but sometimes it gets a little bit too lipid focused and lipids are important I'm sure we're going to talk about them today but if you keep the glycocalix in Nithin the other healthy you don't have to worry so much about the downturn effects. Does what I'm hearing you say is that this endothelio glycocalix is really at the root. For example I believe muscle is the root and health of skeletal muscle is the root you believe and correct me where I'm wrong that the endothelio glycocalix is in part really the root and if you can address the health of that then things like lipids, LDL cholesterol, ApoB are important but not necessarily at the root of heart disease is that what you're saying. Correct I think it's to my topic to focus on one risk factor. You know focus on the layer that is the first line of defense. It's your force field and before it's field this healthy you're not likely to develop plaque in the first place or if you've already developed plaque and you've picked that up on a calcium school or a CT endogram if you repair the glycocalix and non-dolying into the thealium you stop laying down plaque and then you have the potential for plaque regression which I know that's going to be a question you know can plaque be shrunk or regressed the answers yes but you have to subdo in the damage first and then part that's improving the nitric oxide pathways that help support that did the oglacocalix. How can someone who is at home listening going gosh my mom had a heart attack and she had a heart attack really early I am just entering menopause and menopause seems there seems to be major changes in LDL. cholesterol, ApoB, all kinds of things and they're thinking well how can I measure if my endothelio glycocalix not that how can I measure it. Sure we just got the egx going for it if you like. Father Egx yes so there's not a direct way you can actually measure the egx at this point there are some more research options where they're using certain type of intro vital microscopes typically in the sublingual space where they're looking at the how well the red blood cells are basically repelled from the glycocalix in the blood vessels under your tongue and that correlates with what's potentially going on in the rest of your 60,000 miles of blood vessels so they've done that for substances and there are some tests that are still researched where they look at the glycosamine no glycans, the gags that come off of the glycocalix when it's damaged so you can pick that up in my blood and urine but at this time there's not a commercial lab that does those tests. In my email to stay up to date I always get these medical lectures and I recently listened to a lecture from an academic MD PhD about magnesium I have to tell you it completely changed my perspective from a scientific point of view on magnesium one of the most common cause of headaches you won't believe it is a magnesium or could be a magnesium deficiency and you can test for this in the blood there are hundreds of biological processes that magnesium is responsible for and the absorption in our diet is not great and after listening to this lecture I am more convinced than ever the taking magnesium can be helpful also 75% of Americans are deficient that means three out of four of you listening to this podcast may be deficient and that's where mellow magnesium comes in it's a daily super blend that contains the three most bioavailable and nutrient-dense forms of key-laden magnesium and not to mention over 70 trace minerals full transparency med shares all of its third party lab reports so you know that the product that you are adjusting it has what it says it has so if you are someone like one of the 75% of Americans who are magnesium deficient go to helloneed.com that's HELLO and ed.com slash doctor lion and they have amazing amazing small travel packs of this magnesium mellow magnesium you will love it so you have to kind of look down to where the endothelium is and again that's one self thick layer that lines your entire artery layer it's kind of like the air traffic controller which determines what stays in your blood and then what gets into the walls of the arteries and testing that can look at that is you know one you could do blood pressure if your blood pressure is normal well you can find normal is under 115 over 75 115 over 75 that should be optimal 120 radius quote normal oh my gosh so good god Julia here she's on my team Julia what's your blood pressure 112 over 68 maybe awesome well what so what is 115 75 is where what's it's getting about that the risk about how those grosses increases but do some people have a higher vascular tone because I'm going to measure my blood pressure you're going to measure it actually with your very fancy machine that you you always come I love it when you come to visit because you have about 15 obscure items that could probably save my life on a plane that's the plan yeah um that number this 115 over 75 so if someone is at home and they're the well how do I measure their how do I measure my own blood pressure they need to sit down for 15 minutes we five we five minutes five minutes no caffeine right okay if you know nicotine yeah yeah yeah yeah feet on the ground back supported harm at heart level and on the bicep thick away from the ones that are on the risk as they're generally hiring an accurate so on the bicep take a measurement record the number and look at trends one number is not the problem it's the blood pressure load and so if you're consistently you know over 140 or 90 you need to talk to your doctor potentially an Indian beyond pharmaceuticals while you're working up the root cause wire blood pressure is a high but that is just one sign that potentially of low nitric oxide availability is for blood pressure starts to rise there's test trips the salary nitrate test trips they look like a littness paper you put them in your saliva the brighter red they are the more nitrates you're potentially giving in their diets so big beads greenly if you've had stables those compounds convince you become nitric oxide in your stomach and then there's pulse wave velocity which is essentially a marker of how stiff the arteries are so the aura ring can measure it have a device over here called the eye hard decome measure it so the arteries when the blood comes into them it's kind of like an accordion the blood expands them and then they snap back and these test can measure their arteries really elastic or they really stiff or they're like a lead pipe if your arteries are hurting stiff your arteries are aging faster than the outside one 15 over 75 and is that across all age groups that's the cut off where we start going about that the risk of acid starts to increase but what about so I did my thought you know you were from St. Louis I did my fellowship in geriatric and we kept the geriatric population closer to 130 over 90 maybe even higher for cerebral profusion for someone listening or watching that's blood flow to the brain correct and those trials like the chef trials in the past that was what was thought is that you know let the old their population run a little bit higher but more recent studies the sprint trial had shown that here's back to the age 120 radius really the goal for treatment dang speaking of treatment what is nitric oxide nitric oxide is a gas it has a very short life you know to around for about a second but it's a signaling molecule and a hormone from a vascular standpoint it is so important for its discovery in the vascular system that it won the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1998 for the three researchers who discovered that from a hard standpoint nitric oxide helps with arterial dilation so it helps keep blood pressure normal it acts somewhat like teflon preventing the cholesterol particles the white blood cells from sticking to the artery in the first place and I'm sure the question is going to be how do you improve nitric oxide well in part it's exercise is blood flowing across your that artery lining that glycocula it stimulates underlying the feeling of release nitric oxide the arteries dilate you know sunlight particularly the wavelength of UVA when that hits your skin the nitrates are liberated from the surface of the skin releasing nitric oxide and then dietary wise it's mostly the green leafy vegetables and spinach kale, the rugala and beets is those nitrates come into your oral pathways you know you chew them if you have the right oral microbiome the oral microbiome the nitrate reducing bacteria breakdown the nitrates eventually becomes nitrites and if you have stomach acid becomes nitric oxide so those are the three big life-solvings that can produce nitric oxide and then there's various neutersurdeocalls informaceuticals that can also help and the way that someone would be able to tell if their nitric oxide is where it should be is test trips test trips are starting point but there is a caveat is that if you have an oral infection they'll be falsely positively high so you can't rely on just one data point but if your test trips are low and white sometimes it's the person maybe they're carnivore they don't eat any vegetables so they're not putting any nitrates in maybe their vampire and they never read in the sun maybe they don't exercise okay you have all these redundant pathways but if they all start breaking you're probably starting developing vascular disease and that gets picked up by your artists get stiffer on these pulsewave velocity testing or you can start seeing people's blood pressure start to rise and it can start rising you know just very malleid beginning but you know they go get tested yeah they may have low nitric oxide support them those things can be reverse what is the most effective way so if someone is coming in and their blood pressure is over let's say it's 125 over 85 or something so it's not grossly high it's not emergent and you give them a nitric oxide precursor what kind of dose are we looking at because what I'm hearing you say is that one reason blood pressure potentially one reason that blood pressure gets high is that people are nitric oxide deficient is that a right correct word how would we dose in behavior again I understand that that's probably a very specific question in some people you know are more sensitive to the diet and they might produce more how do we go about dosing and course correcting blood pressure using nitric oxide so I would start birds with you know a good lifestyle you know history like you know are they exercising are they getting the greenery professionals you know what does their stress load double stresses and bad you know that's how we heal her resilient but are you chronically stress and not recovering from that stress do sleep poorly you know are you not a longer body to repair at night so figure out okay is there some obvious lifestyle intervention you can utilize if you've done all those things and don't see it then that's where blood work can come in you know some people have high home assisting you know it's an amino acid that went to side it affects some of these nitric oxide pathways if you have higher acid for numerous reasons you know you drink too much alcohol you you know in just too much fruit dose and have higher acid that your gastric and damage like glycocula disinfecting the nitric oxide pathways so sometimes it's getting the recalls of what's causing the nitric oxide during removing that and the nitric oxide gets back into homeostasis that is very helpful I see just everyone get nitric oxide strips just because it's fun you'll be very disappointed at your nitric oxide levels most of us I know that I was tell me about there's a lot of talk in the cardiology space about a few things number one testosterone and cardiovascular disease and also GLP ones and cardiovascular disease you choose what you would like to talk about first but again this is very relevant and then finally there was that study um that was the keto cta trial so cardiologist choice let's go for the low t okay oh I love that all right talk to me about that so something that when I was in training wasn't much discussed um I trained at Samus University for my internal medicine and we did have a well world famous jurisdiction there John Morley he's the one that actually came up with the Adam questionnaire the Andrews and deficiency in the aging male questionnaire which is still often used for people the figure out like are the symptoms due to low testosterone or not um he was a big proponent for people who were sarcopenec which was a term that I only learned because I was they had georetics I had slew but that was something that you know I just been the back burner for while they might cardiology training and then sarcopenec care people who were more on the high performance end and there you know kind of super physiologic testosterone like well we know that that can be a problem but what about people who are on the low side okay what is the risk well if you don't have a lot of muscle mass you're probably going to be more insum resistant you may have more inflammation um so those are not good things you know so you know always look at you know as low testosterone you know something that first has an easy reverse of what cause like the person sleeping for hours and night in abusing alcohol okay can you get them to stop those things in testosterone is kind of a biomarker like are they doing their lifestyle things that could support it quote healthy testosterone level but if they do have the right lifestyle things then it testosterone is 250 on a couple of occasions and they have horrible symptoms then it's reasonable to replace those people but in the past it was thought that testosterone was going to be cardiotoxic and actually the blackpox warning from that day for many years until the recent traverse trial came out um the traverse trial was done in men who were hyprogenatism middle age and above and they were using uh topical gel preparation which still is used but probably is not the most common way that most people replace testosterone and I really show that people did not have more cardiac events when they weren't testosterone didn't show benefit but didn't show harm which was a good thing but some of the caveats for the the traverse trial is that you know over 60% of the men who started testosterone stopped before the trial was done either because they felt better and they just want to come off and see what happened or the gel wasn't working well enough for them and maybe they went to something else don't know and the issue is that the doses that they put them on didn't really put them into really put optimal levels and there's might be a range of where people say it's optimal but the um 500 to 1000 is generally what I see kind of throwing around is that most people would best around that they barely got these people up to like 354 hundred on gel so did they get you know benefit no but they didn't have harm at the doses that they're placed into. It's a really important point and basically the traverse trial really addressed the risk benefit use of testosterone and there has been this long standing belief like you said that and especially cardiologists they at least before I met you for the majority of the cardiologists that I have known they were very anti testosterone and anti hormones and that seems like that's a bit outdated and always again takes evidence to kind of change people's minds over time but what they found at the traverse trial is that there was no increase risk of heart disease with the utilization of testosterone and I think that there's evidence that low testosterone is a risk for heart disease. Absolutely and they have higher calcium scores they have higher risk of diabetes you know all cause mortality so it's one of the things the check and egg is the low testosterone causing the things there's just that the person has so many chromanidities that their testosterone is low so the only thing I noticed is the patient is that think about your heart and brain being very energy dense you know they're going to take the line chair of energy if the body is kind of starting to fail it's going to take away energy from the sex hormone cascades and say like we don't need to think about reproduction right now we need to think about keeping your heart and brain alive so your testosterone level is going to be low for now. Do you think do you happen to know why they thought that testosterone utilization was contributing to heart disease? My interesting is that there's some poorly designed trials that had shown some potential increase risk but when they actually went back and looked at the data it probably was neutral at best but because of those trials the testosterone got at black box warning and many cardiologists you know they're busy you know they're taking care of you know whatever they're 456 patients a day and if some says it's a black box they're like don't use that stuff and they move on but the more interesting thing is like why is low testosterone a problem from a cardiovascular standpoint? Most likely it's because when you have low testosterone you don't have the ability to romanticize it into estrogen and it's the estrogen for men that's probably more cardio protective when estrogen is in more optimal ranges it helps support healthy nitric oxide levels and help support lipid lipoportines being more optimal you need the estrogen for brain function you need it for libido bone health so it's the estrogen that's probably the benefit and many of these guys that's fascinating and is there a range where you like to see estrogen we have a range I don't know is there a range that at least 30 yeah so we like 30 to 70 is it 70 it depends on the lab but I would say at least 30 I think that that's a good range you know there was a period of time when everyone was on an astrosol and so that is in a somewhat of an estrogen blocker decreases estrogen and people really felt terrible so things are changing what about GLP one and heart health it's very interesting yeah when the drugs came out you know they're first approved for diabetes and at that point yeah I was already a full-fledged cardiologist and so I wasn't I had many patients who were diabetic but they had endocrinologists or internists or family practice doctors who were managing it and most of the cardiologists were kind of hands off with their blood sugars at that point and so I didn't really pay much attention when they first hit the market you know I had to very wise attending when I was at slew who said like don't be the first doctor to use a drug and don't be the last one so let's see how this plays out so great data on people who are diabetic but yeah like I might current practice launch up in 2019 busy getting care people were more proactive and I honestly probably in one hand can count how me diabetic said my practice is so few so I see a lot of patients with this resistant pre-diabetes but those aren't necessarily the patients who are going to be on GLP ones so I didn't think much about it for a while but went to the American College of Criterology Conference back in 2024 and the selectraud recently come out and the selectraud was looking at GLP ones particularly a similar gluteide in patients who were not diabetic they were just overweight and you know be able to do this you know be am I a little bit of 27 or 30 and these patients you know had known vasca disease coronary disease I had pyrevants but not recent events and that boo is like 17,000 plus patients were evaluated on the trial and at the end of the blevus 40 months the people who were on treatment had about a 20% decrease in mace major adverse cardiovascular events so is the first trial and non-diabetics that showed people had less cardiac events and so that was really a game changer and so the push is related to be more aggressive potentially with these medications and the right population I don't think needs to be in the you know the water you know everybody being used in this stuff but it should be more liberally used in patients particularly that known coronary disease known coronary disease is there a range and does someone not have coronary is there a spectrum I guess is a better is a better question that's a great question and that's one of the challenges that trying to apply you know clinical trials to the person who sitting in front of you you know the classic terms are you know primary prevention and secondary prevention most cardiologists are living in the secondary prevention world so the persons who are dead are hard to take you're just trying to help them not have another one and very clear evidence you use your stand you're made of blockers your GLP ones you know there's a lot of new tools out there that can help those people not have another event the real question really is the primary prevention people the people have never had a hard stroke stand survive pass how aggressive should you be treating those people and there's a window is that if you don't look and you just pulled people's numbers into a risk calculator which can give some idea of you know risk but how more of them I'd say I've like look at the artist themselves you know it's if you look at the artist and the plaque that person's high risk you're expecting of what some locality that are says start treating a person more wrestling particularly they have a strong family history you know if your grandma started having heart attacks in her 40s maybe the family should be screened a little bit earlier and treat it more aggressively for their blood pressure or their lipids and so treat the person who's in front of you through the best your ability but based it off you know data they have that person has plaque on the arteries they're at higher risk of having events down the road and maybe they're not in so primary prevention mark and they're not secondary they may be like 1.5 you know there's a lot of backlash against statins could someone reverse heart disease that's not an exercise alone let's say that they have plaque and they have a greater than 400 calcium score could they do it with that next cell alone depends on where their their lip proteins are starting with and that's why I say it's one risk factor yeah if you have a 90th percentile apob for example your apob is 150 is diet and you know exercise is going to get you down to an apob of 70 there's no way it's not now hydration isn't just about drinking coaxero or sugar free red bull I'm saying never a friend or even drinking just more water it's about keeping the right balance of electrolytes on fluids during life's most demanding season that matters even more than ever so for example if you are pregnant or postpartum your body is going through massive changes blood volume hormone shifts breastfeeding demands I don't know crime kids all of it and this is a place where you need electrolytes like sodium magnesium potassium element was formulated to replenish what you actually use without sugar fillers or junk it's a clean effective way to stay hydrated for example through pregnancy postpartum and for men hey this isn't just for ladies it's not just about hydration it is about performance recovery mental clarity and yes energy whether you are hitting the gym chasing your kids or grinding through another workday dehydration can quietly sabotage your focus element helps you stay sharp strong and ready we use element because it works and it tastes great you can get a free sample back with any purchase that's eight flavors go to drink DRINK LM NT dot com slash doctor lion that's drink LM NT dot com slash doctor lion stay hydrated stay strong there's so much genetic control for you having those levels that high most of time I know what you have the Q to CDA trial in the second so those people you can do whatever life is on the pitch but most people unless they're on kind of like extreme dietary kind of platform channel their keto or they're extremely like high health carb making diet routine just doesn't have the biggest driver affecting their lipoproteins yeah I was reading some data and it's really it's interesting because we make these dietary guideline recommendations for example cholesterol recommendations which dietary cholesterol is taken out of the guidelines in 2015 but the saturated fat percentage when you think about those dietary influences it's really 20% of people that seem to be really affected by dietary fat and just nutrition it it seems as if there's a genetic predisposition remember Bob Harper yes for those of you listening for my Gen Z ears Bob Harper was the trainer in the base laser he was super fit very healthy and he was running on a treadmill and he had hardtuck and he again ate quote very healthy and it was he had genetic hypercosterolemia he actually had hypercotein with a lie oh how high do we know don't know and Leiboprotein little A Mike Dr. Twimey can talk about that those are it's a genetic marker again there's a series of markers that we look for out P little A a bobe yes LDL cholesterol which will then bring us into this keto trial are there other markers are those with those be your top and what are they so I usually kind of break it down into three big buckets so I look at test that effect or nitric oxide pathways so your ac acid homocystine like at urine microaddenment craddening old school test to look to see the kidney disease but if you have protein in your urine your damage in the glycocialics to the kidneys so we're damaging that potentially damaging the hard artery once so that's kind of one bucket there's a few others you know like the salivary nitric oxide strips and blood pressure second big bucket is box-a-fstress in inflammatory markers so HSCRP LPPL E2 activity which is a marker of inflammation in the artery milder oxidase which is a marker of white blood selective action which is potentially going to be damaging your HDL and the top layers of the arteries and truncinsic is an inflammatory marker and then there's a bunch of oxidative stress markers so often start with GGT gamma gluteal transarrase it's a pest simple it's on a complete metabolic panel but if the person has high GGT they have low glutathione they have low glutathione they have a lot of oxidative stress potentially and they can look at oxidized LDL oxidized phospholipidapobie if you look at those things those people are at higher risk and then you get into the lipids so I usually start like that is like okay we're heard the nitric oxide where it's oxidized inflammation now we'll take a look at the lipids so yes I was always looking at the traditional lipid panel it's free it's included so the person's total cholesterol is over 300 and the LDL cholesterol is over 190 they potentially have familial hyperlipidemia but the keto CDHR we'll talk by the lemastriper's monitors in a second but I'll look at their HDL cholesterol but it's not really that predictive for most people you know there's people with low HDL FR attacks if people with high HDL they have R attacks but sometimes it's an insight into the metabolic health and then the triglycerides which generally I like to see less than 80 you know if there's some genes what's an 80 that's that's pretty low that's very aggressive yeah but if it's not low 80 then you got your looking like it's this person likely in some resistant or you know what is they're kind of carbohydrate tolerance and then looking at the lipoportines themselves it's the lipid proteins that actually predict risk but are particles predict risk in the other way to say it the cholesterol is just being transported in these lipoportines the lipoportines can be measured directly you can get an LDL particle number but you can also look at apob or apolipoportine B so the example you use for patients is that the lipoportines that tennis ball the cholesterol is going inside the triglycerides go inside vitamins like AD and K and different fossil lipids which are building black tris all go inside these little tennis balls but on the outside the tennis ball that white stripe that's essentially apob is a structural protein holds that thing together in a sphere and then next like a little key to bind into different LDL receptors there's apob on the outside of every LDL particle there's an apob on the outside of L p l a V LDL I LDL so LPA is very similar to LDL it has apob but it has an extra protein apob lipoportine A on it and it's like a little quark screw protein and that protein allows it to kind of dig into that glycocholix a little bit easier to damage it what number would you want to see L p little A and why would you get concerned so it's generally better to measure this and that this is the one challenge that this measured in animals or it's measured in milligrams and you want to go for the milligrams for desolator variant and generally when see it less than 75 everybody has L p little A but there's a genetic control with it where about about 20% population has higher levels than that and it's almost linear the higher L p little A the more vascular risk and it can double your risk of having a hard attack or stroke compared to having normal levels do you think there's any way to predict who's going to have a hard attack yes but it's mostly based off plaque and vasco inflammation and low nitric oxide you can just almost see the people who are going to be the train racks. Gosh you know we are going to talk about the the keto trial I have a couple questions prior to that alcohol and heart health can people drink alcohol and have healthy hearts. The short answer is yes but the question's always going to be what dose you know alcohol is a poison yeah I tell you I'm definitely not a T totaler I have a very nice or what T totaler person doesn't drink alcohol I'm not yeah I have a very nice bourbon collection I have a very nice wine collection but it's measured at this point you know I have to have a very good reason good family good friends got a big good celebration you know I just had my 25th wedding anniversary I enjoyed the wine pairing said dinner it was great but congratulations well thank you but is it heart healthy that's a little more debatable yeah nobody who's not drinking should pick up drinking for some perceived benefit for their best regards. That's a very fair trial of wine. Correct they should not pick up drinking red wine just because it's going to be good for their heart. That being said is what is it doing to the person's sleep that's probably the biggest concern is that alcohol for many people once they get over like one glass it's going to start packing their quality of sleep and while you're on conscious without going bored you're not getting that repetitive sleep and that's the challenge you know you're in a very low HRV the next day likely without all onboard the night before yeah does it impair your decision to go train the next day like you know that's the thing that I'm concerned about when people have routine alcohol habit. How come alcohol then you know really heavy alcohol use this is what we're taught in training causes cardiomyopathy a bigger heart. It's basically it's an alcohol cardin malpathy and I definitely saw a few cases that in my career earlier and I don't know what the exact doses but yeah someone probably never did like you know a 12 pack of alcohol every single day for weeks on end. Makes for heart better. Well the alcohol directly poisons the cardiomyocides and then the heart becomes weak and doesn't pump well. Oh gosh what about caffeine and heart I just asked for friend that doesn't drink enough energy drinks to kill a draft tours but yeah I asked for a friend. Yeah I mean everybody is a different tolerance to caffeine generally if people stay under 400 milligrams a day probably it can be pretty neutral from a vast<|tr|> standpoint so a couple of coffee has about a hundred milligrams for my coffee. Yeah I have the super strong coffees but not everybody who drinks coffee or caffeine from any source necessarily has any heart issues but those that have palpitations they feel they're heart fluttering yeah they're measuring their blood pressure and they're seeing the blood pressure going up or they have some of these fancy toys that look at arterial stiffness and a certain threshold everybody's already started to have some kind of impact. Had then the other issue is sleep you know it blocks the denicene receptor so it affects how easily some people can fall asleep. So ballpark six odd 10 people or slower metabolizer caffeine so those people they need a bit more careful with that particularly under timing they should keep caffeine to earlier in the day so as a better chance to start washing out of their system before they're going to bed. You know I recognize that I didn't finish the question on statins you know like I was so excited about alcohol and caffeine. Be if an individual shows calcifications and again we share many patients together in our medical practices if they are given a statin can you reverse that hard and soft plaque. It generally will not reverse the hard plaque that I have seen some calcium scores going down on stands typically you actually see the calcium score going up on stands and the thought is that it's taking the soft plaque which is more prone to rupturing and causing it to become more firm and so the calcium scores will go up. If you do a calcium test and then don't make any changes the calcium test will generally go up about 20% a year. If you'd mix that. That's really high. It's 20% a year. Now wonder how it sounds dying of a heart. So that's where you got to look for it as early as possible in the beginning. Yeah. Yeah. Like I said I saw third. Six year old with a calcium score nearly 1400. A six year old? Thirty six year old. Thirty six year old. Yeah. And so that person didn't happen in from 35 to 36. It'd been happening since this Friday, it's 20. So the sooner you're confined to the sooner you can start intervening. But if you do an intervention and you see a calcium score stay about no more than 5% increasing you probably got ahead of the game and you've stalled that plaque buildup and there's a chance that the soft plaque will shrink but you're not going to see that on a calcium score that should have been the CT and you're going to see that part. How do people then you know when we talk about regression, what are we talking about? Generally talking about the lipid rich cores of the plaque shrinking down. So you can think of the plaque as almost like a pimple and it has a thick cap over it hopefully. But once they have thinner caps over it they're more prone to kind of opening up all that damage cholesterol, white blood cells, this smooth muscles, all that stuff supposed to happen in the blood and now the blood clots and you go from having a 50% blockage to immediate 100% blockage is the platelets are sticking in that area and that's what essentially most heart attacks are. The stand is helping that lipid rich core shrink and also putting a thicker cap over that plaque so it seals it off. Does heart disease cause erectile dysfunction? Absolutely can so the analogy is ED equals ED so erectile dysfunction equals endothel dysfunction vice versa. So if guys are starting to have issues with the ruckions oftentimes it's a vascular genic cause they're not getting a blood flow into the sexual organs to allow an erection to happen and it's due to low nitric oxide. When you see patients how early does this seem to start? ED can happen under 40 but it tends to happen more when people over 56 years old. And do you treat with phasodilators or do you use agents like Cialis as a cranial just? I do on occasion it's kind of the canary in the coal mine question is that if guys are having ED and they're asking for the low blue pill or sedinna fell or to dhalafill it's not that it's a problem that they need to use those things but it's a market that they don't have good nitric oxide to begin with and that's some of the myth is that these are not nitric oxide promoting medications. They just keep nitric oxide around longer. You have to get the nitric oxide at call like into the funnel. You have to be eating the greens. You got to be exercising. You got to be in the sun. You got to be taking nitric oxide promoters into the system and then the tidalophils and the vigras. They just keep the nitric oxide around longer so that it does have more effect on the vascular system. That's fascinating. I didn't actually know that and in my mind that seems like there could be a great combination of you know we use Cialis in our practice and tidalophil if you use that in conjunction with a I don't know beetroot juice or something like that seems that seems like that would be very helpful and just a real nerd note. Arginine increases nitric oxide. That is true. I'll hit that one in a second but that is a good point is that they'll those medications they work but I'm sure you've seen some non-responders you know you keep ramping it up and they said this stuff doesn't work or by time you get to the highest doses they're having headaches or back pain like I can't take this stuff. Well maybe you got the nitric oxide boosted up you could use the lorodose and they get the effect. But the question about arginine is that the greatest mature people are not division in arginine. So what happens with arginine which is an amino acid and the present oxygen you need this enzyme called enos and at the olinodric oxide synthase. The enos enzyme converts the arginine into citrally and nitric oxide. So you can shove all the arginine in one of the system but if the enos enzyme doesn't work you're not getting nitric oxide on the backside and a lot of supplements that's all they are is arginine. So if it does work for the person it's kind of a de facto that enos enzyme isn't working and after a major 40 that enzyme is significantly reduced in this capacity to kind of crank arginine into citrally. So that's why you have to kind of back up with the oral pathway or sunlight. You're doing something else to support people. This is why vascular disease gets more prevalence people's age because that enos enzyme comes less and less functional. How do you know that? Lots of training and learning and Dr. Nathan Brian taught me that many years ago. And with someone supplement with the enzyme? You don't not think that's unlikely. You would supplement with things that could support the enos enzyme recoupling turning back on or some of the product analogies when they heard lasenges. They dissolve. They release nitric oxide gas and that just gives it to you nitric oxide directly without having to have that hard genie pathway working. When I was pregnant and postpartum, aside from wanting my feet rubbed my shoes tied, my house cleaned, I also needed a good multi. Now I can't do the other things for you but I can offer you a fantastic multi vitamin with a lot of extras and that is where needed comes in. It is their starter plan. A comprehensive prenatal multi made with bio-available nutrient forms paired with sustainably sourced omega 3. These two essential products, the prenatal multi with their pregnancy approved omega 3, has just what moms need. Their products in the starter plan go beyond, of course, the bare minimum dosage and are designed to be taken together to optimally nourish both mom and baby before during and after pregnancies. It is an extraordinary product and for women that you are concerned is this just right for a pregnant or postpartum person. This is where needed comes in and it has also been tested and recommended and helped formulated by over 6,000 practitioners. So if you want to get great nutrients while you are pregnant or postpartum, this is the way to do it. Go to this isneeded.com and use the code Dr. Lyon at checkout. That's this isneeded.com and use the code Dr. Lyon for 20% off your first order. That's really fascinating. I can you do my favor? Sure. I hear a lot about niacin and HGL. Someone very close to me came home and I found a bottle of niacin ordered off of Amazon. I'm not going to say who ordered it, Shane, my husband and I said, honey, why are you taking that? And he's such a mewell, the flushing and it improves my HGL. Both are correct. The flushing definitely is going to happen. That means it's actually working for those people. So for the people who are going to take niacin, under the direction of their doctor, if you have the no flush niacin, it is not going to give you any type of cardiovascular benefit. You have to get the flushing because that means that the process of glandens are being released. But the theory that using some type of supplement or medication to raise your HGL is going to have a positive cardiovascular benefit has not been proven. You know, all the old C-TEP trials show that when they use drugs to raise HGL, the people who got those drugs, they died faster than the placebo group. How to shoot throughout that niacin? Not necessarily. It's just that maybe it's neutral. But what dose are you going to use? Most people aren't going to tolerate going up like 2000 milligrams of niacin. Most people need to. If they're going to have that significant effect on their lipids. So I use it on occasion. It still does work for some people who are standing in tolerant or just prefer not to be on a stand for any reason. But it's sometimes a harder drug or supplement to use because to get rid of the nurses that work, most people have significant flushing to they're like, I can't tolerate this stuff. But to be clear, it does nious and effect health outcomes with HGL. I mean, I when I was looking at the data I wasn't convinced, I felt like it might change HGL, but it doesn't seem to affect any significant health outcomes. That's the best way to probably explain is that like date shell numbers will go up. But is that mean that the person has less heart attacks, stands, strokes, things, patients care about? Probably not. And I don't think any of the trials today that actually show them that nice and does that. Do you think that there's anything that people are really missing that seems to be really toxic for heart health? Poor sleep. Yeah. Say that. I have two little kids. I've been sort of two and a half hours last night. Season of life. Season of life. Well, yeah, except my daughter is going on six. Um, and my husband's in residency. Right. I remember residency. Like the worst time of your life for sleep. I mean, you don't sleep in your bed. Except for every like their night. And when you're working, working 36 hour shifts without sleep, you do because you have to do it. But in hindsight, you're like, that's like the worst thing you possibly ever could do from, you know, a health standpoint long term. And so you do it when you're young, but once you realize that, hey, this is going to kill me if I kept trying to do this, you have to do something different. Okay. Aside from sleep. Yes. Aside from sleep. Would it be, for example, people are really into CBD gummies or CBD? There's just a whole host of things that there's always these evolving or, you know, the bio charger that's up in our bedroom, things can. Are there any items whether supplement, substance, drug, and or activity that someone would not necessarily think about being very damaging? I mean, the CBD one is interesting. I don't proclaim to be an expert. I have some patients that have utilized that. And I said that the biggest challenge is that like, it's not regulated in a way where there's a standard diet's dose that you know, okay, like this dose from this dispensary is comparable to this dose from this dispensary. At least relatively new to our CBD from an anti-inflammatory at an important, or if it can help the person sleep. But where the challenge comes in, but more is when there's more THC in the product. Now in certain instances, it's beneficial. I have epilepsy. I'm not talking about that or if you have cancer. It's just like the general kind of use case for it. There's definitely some increased risk of increasing the drug. There's increased risk of age for a relation, which is a hardware-themissue that potentially increases the risk of stroke. So that's something you probably don't want to play around with unless you have a strong medical reason to be on it. THC, I see. Let's talk about the epic lipid inflammation and controversy of the keto CTHRL. So I'm going to let you kick this off because I am certain that you've got an a ton of questions. Yes, and I've seen many of these lean mass hypersponders over the years. And what is that? It's a phenotype where the person is lean. I believe that the BMI has to be less than 25. They have no evidence of insum resistance or pre-diabetes. And then on their labs, they have this panel where before they went on to a low carbohydrate diet, the LDL cholesterol had to be less than 160 milligrams, that's there. And they didn't have to have any genetic abnormalities for their lipids. They started a ketogenic diet. The LDL cholesterol goes north of HIL, generally 190, as he even has highest 500 in my practice. LDL, let's say. LZF 500. But we're not before. Just 10. But before, just 10. Just to understand this for the listener of the viewer, a lean mass hypersponder is someone who changes their diet, goes to a lower carbohydrate diet, and is it a higher fat diet or just low carb? It's low carb, but generally it's higher for high fat. And instead of improvements, technically, they shoot their cholesterol changes drastically. Correct. There are a little bit of, it's still like they have the meal, the hyperlibidemia. And now there are other parts of their traditional hypopanol, their checklists are low, their itchial high. And they will often say like, well, you know, metabolic healthy, so this other cholesterol doesn't matter. Maybe not. And this is what they're trying to look at in this observational trial. I applaud them for at least looking at the arteries because in the past, it used to be that, like, why don't I have diabetes and some resistance? So I'm pretty protective from baskets. And it's like, I believe, yes, that there are other things that drive plaque and arteries other than just LDL cholesterol. But that is one variable that is like blinking red. Like the check engine lights on. You've got to go looking like, is it causing damage to the arteries? Because I used to get live patients who had this kind of phenotype, they'd go get just a calcium score, and I say, my calcium score is zero. So I don't have to worry about this. You don't have to worry about it right now. And maybe in the year. But if you lift your labs like this for the next 10 years, unknown, you're likely to have more plaque in your arteries. You know, it's based off of meddling randomization trials in the past that say that if your LDL cholesterol is here, you're more likely to have plaque. It doesn't mean it that you're guaranteed, but, you know, it's risk. It doesn't sound like you drive your car. You don't expect to crash your car, but you wear a seatbelt. This is sort of like, if your LDL cholesterol is 500, if it's causing plaque in your arteries, maybe you want to do something about that LDL of cholesterol. So at least in this key to CTN trial, they're actually looking at the arteries with more invasive, or say non-invasive technology. They're using a CTN geogram, and then they're using the clearly AI overlay on top of it. So clearly is a company that uses AI software to analyze the images and can quantify the type of plaque that's in our theories. So I believe it's like, 100 patients were in the trial. It's an observational trial. I think it was the volunteers from kind of like a social media outreach. So it's a highly selected population of people who are motivated to see what's going on with their vascular system. And then just think that these people had been on this tabidide for a couple of years, and they've had these high lipids for many years, and we're untreated. So either they've gone to a doctor, and the doctor said, like, hey, I recommend you stop this diet in certain meds, or they just said, like, I'm not going to go to a doctor because the doctor is going to yell and maybe because my numbers are so high. So they get a CTN geogram at baseline. They stay on the keto diet that confirm it by using the keto mojo strips and such and confirm that, you know, they stayed on that diet for the four year, and then they repeat it at CTN ge, at the end of the year. And the primary outcome in the initial study was supposed to be how much change in non-calsified plaque was present. So not classified plaque is soft plaque. Plac this more potentially vulnerable to rupture and causing heart attacks. It's not the hard case white plaque that's usually kind of a scar in the artery. So that was their initial primary outcome, but in the actual paper, they really kind of gloss over that, and they focus more on that, like, well, these people had high able be, and they didn't seem to have more plaque because they would be. But when you actually look at the actual graphs, the non-cassified plaque increased in almost every person in the study, and it increased, like, 18 millimeters cubed plaque in that time frame, which would be more than what a kind of general healthy population would be. So it's still kind of early, let's say, it's observational, it's kind of, you know, hypothesis generating, doesn't prove that this diet is healthy, doesn't prove that this diet is going to cause you to have heart attack next year. But it does mean that you have to look a little bit deeper. So that's why I always kind of go back to what we talked about earlier. It's like, it's the root cause. Like, what's going on with the glycocholics and the defiliament? If that layer is healthy, maybe you can get away with having these paleoclosures a 500 for years. But the second you see that the glycocholics is damaged and the defiliament of those functions happening, and your arteries are stiff, and your nitric oxide is low. That person's the time bomb ready to go off in a few years. And you don't want to reduce the risk of a heart attack in one year. You want to reduce the heart attack risk for the next 30, 40 years. You know, you had said something earlier that there's a 20% increase in plaque year over year. The calcium score. The calcium score. Was that the same as those in this keto CTHR? It's kind of opposite, or just because most people do not have calcified plaque at the beginning. Because they're two. They're young. Yeah, relatively good healthy. You know, again, you and I have been friends for quite some time. I want to talk about muscle. I want to talk muscle and heart health. I believe that skeletal muscle is the most important muscle, and you believe cardiac muscle is the most important muscle. We will probably have to come to some understanding. And I am very curious as to the muscle heart connection from your perspective. Let's just say that they're synergistic. I don't think one is better than the other you need both. And that's something that, you know, I have say other than my geriatric training. I didn't learn about a lot in my cardiovascular training. The only people that would talk about it would be the heart failure doctors. Because those patients, you know, who are ending up on heart transplant list, they usually were sarcopenic. They're caccic because their heart is failing. Their body is demanding all the energy resources being sent to this weakening heart. Their skeletal muscles are giving you up by all that inflammatory compounds that are coming from a failing heart. So those are the more guys that really worried about muscle health. Do you think it's important to measure VO2 max and grip strength? I think both are important. Yeah, grip strength is very easy. I check it out with every single patient that comes to my office. Do you check your on? I do. I'm pretty sure. It's like, oh, so Shane's my husband and Vio for a timeless nurse. He is a third year urology resident, which is pretty funny. He's, I won't say the joke. But anyway, he's always checking his grip strength. Where's the ad now? I don't know. Probably superhuman. Okay, I mean, he's way more muscular than me, but I'm pretty happy. I'm 130 pounds on the right side, one 20s on the left side. So I'm top 1% for my age. Okay. Looking great for 25, friend. Looking great for 25. Do you routinely, you know, in our clinic, we don't even know our clinic is largely remote, except for my private patients. We don't measure VO2 max. We, I just a lot of patients they don't want to. They can, but, you know, we have people that will measure it for us. I am curious from a cardiovascular muscle connection standpoint. Do you think it's necessary to measure VO2 max? That's, sorry, probably not beneficial. Yes, if you're willing to do it, I've done at least two on myself. Yeah, and they're not fun. I mean, you go to, you absolutely feel like you're about to die. And then like, okay, you can stop now. And then, you know, at that point, yeah, when I did it, they're like, you're average range. And I'm like, great. I'm not trying to be in Olympian. Like, I want to live well. I don't want to be at peak. You know, we're capacity all my life. I don't have that much time to train to be in Olympic athlete. I don't know. You're probably doing it. I could probably do it if I wanted to. I'll tell you a funny story about one of the distresses was in the fellowship. In the minute, but the video to Max, it's a good metric of, you know, your aerobic capacity. You know, how well can you mitochondria engines actually work for you? So, you know, it's very similar to, you know, doing a regular stress test on treadmill, but you have a mask on that's capturing your expired gases. And they can be like, well, where is your capacity to continually utilize that oxygen? And then we're do hit that threshold. Ballpark, you know, 20 to 40 is kind of like where most people are going to fall. If you're about 40, you're doing something right. If you're under 15 and the cut off is 14 when I was still doing kind of like hospital work, if you're real to Max's under 14, and you had a bad heart, that was kind of a cut off saying, like, yeah, we should list you to get your heart transplant. And you don't routinely just to kind of close this out. You don't routinely measure a view of two Max's. If patients are very interested, I will send a for it. Yeah, I've had the frontier X2 chest strap, which is probably the most sensitive heart strap you can use for exercising. It can measure a EKG water exercising, and they'd claimed to be able to kind of relatively accurately measure estimated view of two max off of that. So, I think it's good enough for most people, but if you're really hardcore, gotta go do the real thing. Why don't you think more cardiologists focus on skeletal muscle health? Because they're focusing on cardiac muscle. Yeah, the the the the the the time is muscle and the catholic have, you know, when your arteries are, you know, open, they're rushing to open those arteries up because the muscle cells and the heart are dying until they get their restored blood flow. So, at least they use an allergy time as muscle, but they're thinking about cardiac muscle. If you, you know, you've covered a lot on how to protect your heart. And really, if we were to sum this up, it was lifestyle, be active, sleep well, I'm going to fight you on that one. This is a lot of parents don't have an option. Get outside where, um, blue black and glasses maybe. Eat a diet that augments nitric oxide. Keep your blood pressure low. Keep your stress under control. Don't drink alcohol. Caffeine okay drink alcohol moderation. Figure out if you are a high or low metabolizers of caffeine. And if you are high, 400 or more is just fine, just kidding. Check with your doctor. Do you have anything? No, that's an XR of you. And it's the basis of, you know, test don't guess. Like, everybody has their own individual, you know, story, their individual genetics. And then they go out in the world and do the things they need to do. But some people are at high risk of astrysis and others. If you do the right testing, you figure out who those people are and which labors you can pull back on to reduce that risk. If you could pick three tests, you covered the blood test that we talked about were LP little I, APOB, LDL cholesterol, HSCRP. Yes, and then also you talked about my low proxitys. I will say that in our clinic, almost every woman seems to have higher levels of my low proxitys. Is there a reason? It's associated with autoimmune conditions and women are at high risk for autoimmune conditions. High and mild proxitys can be a marker of HDL dysfunction. So just having high HDL does a mean that it's necessary doing the beneficial to your vasca system. You know, while the roles HDLs go into the arteries, pull out the cholesterol and take it back to recycle it. But if you have high mild proxitys, it keeps damage in HDL and the liver has to keep replacing it. So HDL numbers are going up in your blood, but they're not actually working. But if you have high mild proxitys, you gotta look and see if you do that. So they have an autoimmune condition or some other chronic infection that's driving that. And if they don't, how do you fix that? Pomegranate potentially helps. Okay, you know, I wonder if it's pomegranate or I wonder if it's your 11A? Probably that. So for those of you listening, we work a lot with timeline and mitochondria is clinically tested your 11A. Are you taking it? Not yet. Okay, well I have some. I'll give you some. But I think it's probably maybe it's not the pomegranate, but it is the, I don't know, I mean we shouldn't probably finish in. Yeah, look into that. The other tests and you know, I'm curious as to what home tests are accurate for looking at heart health. That's a great thing that I kind of look into that because the contents of your blood, it's easy to obtain from those people, but it doesn't tell the whole story. It doesn't tell you what's going on in the arteries. And so you know, yes, I have a whole fancy, you know, lab of equipment in my office at a polycardology, which you've been to a few times and we put you through the battery of testing. I'm due, by the way, on time or in another year. What do everyone come happy to have you back? Yeah, but in the office, yeah, the biggest test that we probably do is the endopath test, which we didn't talk about here today. And that's probably the gold standard way to really test what is your nitric oxide availability and ability for the arteries to dilate. So for those that haven't heard of the test, which most people haven't, the endopath test is an anonymous of test takes about 15 minutes. Your laying down comfortably, your fingers have probes on them and they're measuring the flow in your fingers. They're going to a five minute warm up and there's a five minute period where we have a blelpricicoth on your arm, pump it up higher than your systolic blelpricer and the flow cuts off. Your hand goes numb, generally, not dangerous. And after five minutes, you open up the stopcock, the blood rushes back down into the arm. This simulates exercise. The blood rushes back down into the arm. It stimulates the glycocalics. The glycocalics says, oh, here comes a bunch of blood, bound to lying into the theon releases nitric oxide. This smooth muscle and the artery copens up and the blood rushes back down into your hand, your hand wakes up. And then the test can measure how much do the arteries dilate with that response. And your arteries should at least double in size, but optimally triple or quadruple in size. If it's less than 1.68, so your disallionary dilating 68%, the average soon is into the oldest function. The arteries can't at least nitric oxide on demand. It's kind of like the force field is down. Your more prone that whatever's floating through your blood, the cholesterol particles, the light blood cells, the more likely the stick to the artery, and you're going to develop plaque in your arteries unless you do something about it. So it's the stress test for the arteries that we do in the office. Now you can't do that at home yet, but the heart testing you can do that can give you an idea is this a problem. And so we talked about it and we got some of the other, here comes the toy. All the toys that are there. All right, so for those of you who are listening, not watching. Oh, the scribe. So, let me try that. So I just drink stuff. You're not supposed to drink it. It's supposed to wait at least 15, 20 minutes, but. Oh, it's an earthy earth. It's an equal. All right, you talk about this. I'm going to... She's going to play around this. I'm going to play around this. Okay, this is not going to be accurate because I just have been drinking. So they look like a little bit of paper strips. There's a little pad on it. But saliva, you then bend the tab over. There's a little developer pad on the other side. And if you have nitrites in your salary pathway, the thing will light up red. If it does, that means you're generally giving a lot of nitrates into your diet. And you potentially have good bacteria in your mouth. You have the nitrate reducing bacteria in your mouth. You're able to break that stuff down. That ultimately comes nitrites in nitric oxide. Not everybody has high nitrates in their diet because they're not even green leafy vegetables or that dyspiosis of the or a microbiome because they're using mouthwash, they're using things with fluoride and her numbers are really not red. So she's getting good nitric oxide through that pathway. So that's step one. I talked about pulse wave velocity. So I'm wearing an urring. The reason I got the gin three was because they did at a future last year the cardio age, which is measuring pulse wave velocity. So as the blood rushes past the ring sensors, it's looking at how fast the arteries expand to contract. And you can look at the waveforms and it can determine how stiff the arteries are. So you want your cardio age to be close to your biological age. Mine is aligned, which is normal. And this is a pulse ox. It's not a pulse ox. So this one's called the high heart. So this is a little black box that looks like a pulse ox that I have in my emergency travel kit. Correct. So it's going to give you your heart rate and oxygen sets. But I'm not going to pull my phone right now. But if you had the app running, you do like a 2 1 1 1 1 4. And it will measure the arterial stiffness and we'll give you a vascular age reading, which can change throughout the day. But generally when I do this it's usually at my biological age, you're much younger. If it's higher than the biological age, don't freak out. Like look at your legs and pass the current head. Yeah. Look at your knee, if you'll do anything. Yeah. Yeah. If you go, why it might be high like, oh, I can help slip. Two hours last night. I, you know, just do a bunch of nicotine before I jumped on this podcast or something. Whatever, that's probably going to happen with this. Oh, bad as nicotine. We have a lot of people that let me see wait. Let me see. So we have a lot of friends and people that we know Matt, producer, who use a lot of nicotine. What does that do? It's a vasoconstrictor. And so similar to caffeine, you know, we can cause people that have higher blood pressure and cause palpitations. And so it's one is again like pastel gas like certain mind nicotine. Maybe it doesn't affect your blood pressure cause you to have, you know, issues with palpitations. But, you know, if you're going at a person level, a level of art is, got to dial it back. Yeah. And I'm telling you, it's a new tropeic for some people. You know, it is a cognitive booster. But, you know, but it can also be a vasoconstrictor. So, so people have corner disease. Sometimes they may contribute to the mapping chest pain with activities. So everyone is throwing their zins out the window. Matt is six, six milligrams. I tried to just try it. I almost threw up like immediately. Yeah. Yeah. And if you're not sensitive to it, or you should say, if you're sensitive, you're like, you know, less than a milligrams, most people pretty nauseous. Oh, it was a terrible idea. And of course, I tried it again. What else you have in that? Next toy. So this is a new one that I'm pretty interested in. This is the ConnectQT Paul. It's a little box that, you know, measures blood pressure. So it has a, you know, break your blood pressure cuff. So you'll get your traditional number. You know, it's going to say whatever you're going to want to know ready, which is a good starting point. But that's a blood pressure just going down to your hand. The thing that this box does that no other one to the market yet does is it measures central blood pressure. So when I was still in invasive cardiologists, we would feed a catheter and do radio artery or film artery and put a pig tail catheter in your order. And we can measure blood pressure in your order. And then measure the blood pressure in your left ventricle. Why would someone want that? Well, when you're doing a procedure, it's going to have a good idea to know kind of like how well the hard working, how hard is the pressure coming out of the heart because the higher the pressure in the order, the higher the pressure in the corn your arteries, and the more likely that high shear stress can damage the corn your arteries. So nobody wants me putting catheter using them to measure that pressure. But this device can assess what that pressure would be. So the cuff is on your arm and after it takes the regular measurement, you'll feel it kind of pulsating a little bit. It's basically assessing how stiff the arteries are because, for example, if your heart's beating 60 beats the left ventricle pumps, the blood comes out of the heart, goes down to your legs and this can hit those arteries and your legs, the the early acardis and it's going to be a reflection wave. So it's kind of like splashing water out of the wall, the water comes back. You can measure how fast that blood is coming back and that it estimates what is the blood pressure is coming out of your heart because that's the central blood pressure is what the blood pressure that you're brain when you talk about the patients, your geriatric and you know, you don't want to infect their central profusion. It's at central pressure that you want to focus on. That's the pressure that the coronary arteries, the heart arteries and then else your kidney arteries, that's what they sense. So if your central blood pressure is normal, less than 120 radii, but the arm is 150, leave them alone. They're profusioning the brain is perfect. Don't mess with them. So you want to treat their central blood pressure. You don't want the treat just break you. If we were to kind of pause and think about that blood pressure medication, beta blockers, what else, what is first line that you're using? Only asymptotipeters, antitens and receptor blockers or calcium cell blockers or first line. Beta blockers, interesting. Yeah, particularly the older ones, they lower brachial blood pressure, but they have no effect on that central blood pressure. So you're not really getting the benefits, but the asymptotipeters, the antitens and receptor blockers, calcium cell blockers, they lower both brachial and central. And what are the main side effects of those drugs? It depends which class, but ACE inhibitors, generally it's cough, antitens and receptor blockers, not a lot. Sometimes you say, if you get your blood pressure too low, then you just get back off in the dose, calcium cell blockers, getting those peripheral swelling in their feet. Sometimes, got some constipation at higher doses. And the beta blockers, classically, pretty hard to use, particularly younger people, particularly people who are very active. They're going to block cataclysmines, so they're blocking a journaling being secreted. So it can be used for big level of a lot of palpitations or you know, performance anxiety, but for blood pressure, they're really worth that potent. And then the person is probably going to have exercise and tolerance. Their extremities might be cold. They might have sexual dysfunction in guys. So hard to use. But the newer class of beta blockers like Nebivolol, training in bicedalic, it does have an effect on blood pressure because it affects the nitrogoxide pathways. So it's pretty much the only blood pressure medicine in the beta blocker class that I'll use if we're going to be using. But it's going to be probably third or fourth line effort. They've exhausted the injured, tens of seven blockers and calcium cell blockers. The reason I actually have that question is if someone is just getting a break-o artery blood pressure, which is what would be standard, and one an individual is treated off of that, is it true that they might not need it because it's not actually measuring the central blood pressure. Correct. And that's sometimes the case is where the person says, like, I'm taking the medicines, you know, I'm getting really light head and dizzy, how I don't feel good. And you check the blood pressure in their arm in the office and they're like 125, you're like, well, your pressure is a little bit high. Their central pressure is probably like 100 over 60. And the brain is like, hey, I need a little bit higher, a profusion pressure. So maybe need to back off, let the breaker run a little bit higher. So that's why this device is going to probably a game-chained for many people who are at high risk or are just very interested in the basketball health because this is kind of like the check engine like going on. When your central pressure starts to rise, you have a problem. This device also will come measure things that will look at the stiffness of the arteries as well. And this is a good kind of add-on to somebody who has a calcium score of zero. Great. You have a calcium score of zero. But a calcium score of zero means that you haven't developed hard-pucking arteries yet. But this is the kind of tell you like, if your arteries are getting stiff and your central pressure is high, you're more at risk for that. So for those people on that ketoCTA trial, there's might be an interesting device for them to have. If you're because I know that going into the trial, they had normal blood pressures, which if you see a cardiologist in the real world, everybody has kind of the triumph grid. They got high blood pressure. They got diabetes or pre-diabetes and they got high lipid issues. Nobody just has just lipid issues and the real cardiology practice. But if you have stiff arteries with this type of device, maybe you want to start backing off on that kind of keto die because maybe you're making a ton of oxidized LDL that's affecting your arteries. That's really fascinating. And that's called the connect- Connect QT. Okay. Well, hey guys, we're all trying that immediately. What? I just have to say what we can. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Julia said, we'll put links to all these devices. Just to close out. Are there a handful of supplements that are evidence-based? Not anecdotal, but that have a randomized control trials and evidence in humans that you think are valuable for heart health? The short answer is yes, but it's not a blanket statement where like everybody should take all of these things. Yeah. You have to look for deficiencies and you have to look for tolerances of certain ones that start again with the health of the glycocalics and the endothelium. If you can't make an electric oxide, there are products other that can help with that. There's products that can support the glycocalics. If the glycocalics is giving damage, there's supplements that can help regenerate the glycocalics. Then there's- That'd be like a beetroot juice and neo. You sent me like a neo 40s is a little tab. Yeah. The little tabs, yeah. The neo 40 that was initially that product that Dr. Nathan Brian developed, he now has a competitor that is in his own company called Imm1L1, which often utilize. There's an apricot called Vascanox from a company Calderoy. Full disclosure, I speak for them sometimes, but- That's an epic thing. Doesn't impact your ability to talk about because I often- I'm taking that product myself because I've looked at the research and it works well for me and I do this testing and my numbers are good. So I'm a pretty good bi-hagre. I try almost everything on myself first and make sure it works and then I talk about it with my patients. And then, you know, they're saying like, co-cuten, co-cuten, you know, may help with people who have muscle symptoms when they're on stands, you know, omega-3s, prefer people eat their seafood then supplement, but if they're a supplement, you know, only 2 grams a day on fish or else. But it's also really hard to get enough omega-3s. It's generally good. The co-cuten is our dose and is there a form? So generally you want to just target blood levels over 3. Yeah, you can either do your bicarneol or your bicarneol, the nupical and all should be absorbed a little bit better, but it's more expensive. So I just tell people, like, okay, yeah, pick a good brand that your doctor works with, but check the levels and then whatever it does it takes. So, ballpark, you know, a few are deficient. You're going to probably need between 100 and 300 milligrams a day. If you're on a stand or beta blocker, add 100 milligrams per drug that's on the depletes, co-cuten, magnesium, porn for 3 to 4 different reaction of the body. So anybody has the upper ratios, palpitations, corned or disease, sleep issues, or 75% of the Americans are deficient. Yeah, consider a magnesium. Yeah. And, you know, what forms basically moth oxide, because oxide isn't absorbed from the gut, if you're a constipate, take oxide, but if you're not. But if you have a big event, do not take magnesium oxide or if you are going on a plane or any kind of long trip. Correct. That's a little work. Not ideal. Yes. Those probably are the big ones that I would say. Well, thank you so much, doctor, Michael Twiman. You are just a wonderful human, a wonderful doctor. I am so grateful that you are willing to take care of me and our patients and just you do such a fantastic job. Thank you so much for coming on. Thank you. By listening to this episode, you're already doing what most people never do. Thinking about prevention before the problem starts. Most heart attacks are preventable, but only if we look deeper than LDL, only if we challenge outdated norms and only if we value data diagnostics. If this episode shifted your mindset, send it to someone you care about, because heart disease doesn't wait and neither should we. If you haven't already subscribed to the show, thanks for being here. See you next time.

What would define high quality healthy muscle versus unhealthy? Non-functional, as in it's not strong. It can't produce any function. The classic visual image is going to be marbled, meaning you have fat infiltration in that, right? You're going to have other bi-products inflammatory responses, suboptimal ones, right? The bigly sensitivity, beta-adrenaline receptors. Every hormone receptor is either way dialed up or way dialed down. So insulin, antibiotics, estrogen, all these things are typically off. Bi-products, basically every marker of healthy functionality might a conjury of health, metabolic properties of them damage, not always every case, but the gills. Typically, especially their at that point. So let's go back to say, like, I don't think that's true. However, I don't think there's a strong argument that once you and men get passed about 20 to 21, they're getting any more will exceedingly increase your health span. I think that's hipers off. I do think from 14 to 21, 22, it helps. Going from 22 to 25, 22, it's like 25 is a lot. That's really big on a muscle. I don't think any health here. I think at that point now we're looking at all their aspects of your health, your metabolic health, your immune to max, your lifestyles, your mental health, like your sleep, okay, great. That's not the case though, first rank. That's not the case for me to max either. There are multiple, multiple giant datasets. You're talking about meta analyses on top of meta analyses. One just came out like this week. It was some insane number of papers. It was some carmel. It was like 5,000 papers in this meta analyses. If you look at Jonathan Myers work, all the way back to Steven Blair's work at late 1980s, early 1990s. You typically will see no upper limit to benefit for leg strength, grip strength, or Vyautomax. Almost never. That's a pretty big statement. It does not stop. So if you are, that's like we've seen our coach and practice all the time, like, you know, if you're viewed to max is great, it's not good enough. Why? Because like there's no number, you could put on the way black. That's good enough. I mean, yeah, I understand. That's the number, right? So what you'll see is those numbers don't tend to stop, right? And you'll actually see like in these papers, the classic one that I always think of here is Jonathan's paper is actually from the VA. Like there's like 750,000 people in this study, 174,000 died. And of course, it's study not because intervention, but you know, this is where it's great. Yeah. So it's hard end points. This is the point. Like who lived, who did not die or who did? And you see this is when you see these like classic homorbidities stack up, right? So you see diabetes, you see smoking, you see coronary artery disease, all stacked up against Vyautomax. Right? And you're looking at like those things are increasing has a ratios for all cause mortality like 1.2, 1.4, like that's not good, right? So you can kind of, it's not how it works friends, but like to be very quick. It's like a 1.4, I mean like a 40% increase in risk. It doesn't mean like 40% chance you're going to die, but like it's a, so don't over interpret that. But you stack the Vyautomax numbers up. And instead of being 1.4, it's like 2.6, 3.8, 5.2, like the numbers are, that's dwarfing. Yeah, smoking. They're dwarfing diabetes. They're dwarfing, stacking those things together, right? These numbers get large. And in that, you go from the, so imagine, think about this way. This is not what they did, but I'm trying to help folks like collectively understand what generally the research will say here. So you take all of a sudden or let's make it a million, make numbers easy. Great. Put a million people in this database. And we say, okay, we're going to break this into courthouse, which means the top 250,000 scores, you're in the top group, you're a group A. The next 250,000 scores group B, you're in the 50th to 75th percentile. So it works. Bottom 3, 250,000, you're in the C group. I mean, see the 25th there and in the bottom. Now I'm doing well, friends. Means we're in the bottom 25th percentile. Bottom 25th percentile means 75% of people are better than you. 20 means, right? All right, awesome. If you're in that bottom group, like, you're, if you go from the bottom group to the second highest group, that C group, right? You're still 30th percentile. 70% of people are still higher than you. You're talking about risk reductions of half. You're cutting your risk of dying in half by going from just the terrible group to the still terrible, but not as terrible group. Like, that's what you're really talking about. You can pull different papers and you'll see different numbers there, but like you're getting the same general point. So I'm breaking into quintiles. You know, 20% 20% 20%. So I'm doing 25%. So I'm doing quintile. Like they're, they do all different things, right? Different database, different populations, and numbers differ, but it's all generally going to say the same thing. If you go to the top though, and you say, great, let's stop the group at the 90th percentile. Those are the 90th percentile and compare those to the 99th percentile. You still see, you still see, wow, less reduce in the 99th percentile. And it does not stop. And so even going from 90th to 99th percentile still confers the survival advantage for the two max. And the same thing has been shown in grip strength as well. So there just appears to be no upper limit to benefit at the population level, like very clearly at the population level, to continually getting stronger and getting your Biotimax higher. And I mean, that's a really important statement. The idea that cardio respiratory fitness is extremely important for overall health longevity. Yeah. And literally, it's almost outside of having an infection or actual acute disease. There's just, I can't make an argument for anything else being more important for how long you're going to live. Well, the controllable factors, nothing is going to beat that. And Viotimax people are probably thinking endurance, but there's multiple ways to increase your Viotimax, whether it's high intensity interval training, we know that that's effective. Now, I've read a few papers. There's not that many. And maybe there's more now the relationship between Viotimax and skeletal muscle. Have you, I mean, so as a trained jury tradition, what we would look at is in terms of Viotimax, we looked at papers and data sets that really, it seemed as if that the more healthy skeletal muscle muscle mass they had, the better their Viotimax was. Okay, so that's a manipulation of math a little bit. Okay. So Viotimax is measured in a metric of leaders per minute. So how many leaders of oxygen can you bring in per minute? That's absolute Viotimax, right? Typically, we talk about Viotimax expressed in a relative term, which means mill leaders. Now, we got from leaders to minutes. You got to do a little bit of unit conversion, but it's mill leaders per kilogram per minute per minute. And so by default, bigger people have a more skewed Viotimax negatively skewed than smaller people. This is why, like if you take an NFL player, not even that, like it's just a guy who's over 100 kilos. You tend to like get a falsely set a false sense of their Viotimax being lower than it actually is because their body mass is being the denominator. It's getting them smashed. So it's actually not a linear thing. If you look at like power lifting and weightlifting, Olympic weightlifting, you don't just see, like who's best left or take your body weight and divide it or take your however much you lift it divided by your body weight. They have to actually correct for it because it doesn't scale that way. Like a strong lift or who's your size, you know, 70 60 kilos 50 kilos, something like that. You lifting double body weights not that hard, but somebody who's 100 kilos lifting double body weight is really damn home. Totally. It scales that way. So Viotimax plays a little bit of that same game. Bigger people will get falsely represented a smaller Viotimax because everything is being divided by their body weight. So if you're looking at relative, you're going to, you're going to lose like the math is going to get you a little bit there. In addition, when you're smaller, you're physically total body mass, you're less likely to have, if you're smaller, you're more likely to have a better body composition, just because it's hard to be 120 pounds and be 50% body fat. But you can do that at 280 pounds, like pretty easily. Yeah. So it's really, really hard. So most likely smaller people are generally most likely leaner in those equations. So your, your misrepresenting that misrepresenting. Yeah. So what you're saying is it's, there's not a direct correlation between skeletal muscle mass or even healthy skeletal muscle mass and Viotimax performance. There is. Oh, they're it. Oh, for sure, there's a relationship. Okay. No question. You will not see somebody or put this way. If you go the inverse here, when you run a counterfactual, you will not see somebody with the Viotimax of 75 with unhealthy muscle. No way, right, because Viotimax is too far. It's a central peripheral, right? It is the equation for that is your cardiac output. What's cardiac output is two components. Your heart rate. So how many times you can pump multiplied by your stroke volume. How much blood comes out per pump. Okay. That is hard. That is cardio pulmonary. I have to be able to get things in. So this is where back size long size matters. I have to bring air in. I got to get that oxygenated air cardio pulmonary in my heart. I got to get that thing pumped out. Okay. Then the second half of the equation is A, Viotim difference. So it's a difference in oxygen between the arterial and Viotimax side, which is basically saying how much can actually extract into skeletal muscle. So if you have bad muscle low capillary density, probability use it, hormonal, collateral function, myoconular function. I'm you have a backup of a oxygenation. So we start running. We have to kick over the anaerobic side. Then you're going to struggle to handle that sort of equation. So it is two components to it. And there is no way to say you can have dysfunction on one side and still have a high total. It's half the equation. It won't be there. So you can be okay. Just like you can have really great muscle and pork cardio pulmonary. So it might be okay. You can't have great and be terrible in the equation. Same thing to say. If you take somebody who's got to be able to max its low. And if all you do is train their musculature, you can see huge improvements in Viotimax. If that muscle quality is really really really poor for that exact reason. Right? If it is an oxygenation, I'm thinking about this way too. Imagine going upstairs. And if you're going upstairs by the time you get the top, you're like half an puff and you're like 70, 80%. It's probably not because your cardiovascular system is unfit. It's often times because your legs are weak. Why? Because every step now it took 70 or 85% of your 1-art max. This caused such a large amount of muscle mass to contract. It caused large amount of energy production that you had to kick energetic demands of so high. If you got your muscle super strong and now walking up those steps represent a 10%. If your cardiovascular system didn't change at all, you're now way more important than you are. That makes a lot of sense. So really they're interrelated. 100% of the equation.

should we be able to live without some of the modern common comforts? Would we be able to live without electricity? Should we live without having cell service? Can we live without being able to have transportation somewhere? Can we live without communication? Without can we do all those things? I think those are important questions to ask. And it's not that, oh my gosh, if I can't do that, you're going to die in the next year, but no, but how prepared are you for any given scenario? That's education. By the way, even if OK grid doesn't go down and everything's going well there, but all of a sudden, everybody realizes that the Fed has been screwing us this entire time, and money goes away and now it's a digital, you know, sort of cool, cool. What are you going to do with that? How prepared are you? Do you understand how money works? Are you actually protected? Are you just going, I don't know. I was told to just go to work for 30 years, throw things in a 401k. OK, cool, how about the market crashes? What are you going to do? Every single bit of this, it's going to be on just physical. This is just preparedness in general. Thank you to Paleo Valley for sponsoring this episode of the show. Paleo Valley beef six are some of my most favorite go to high protein snacks. They are 100% grass fed and grass finished. They are sourced from small domestic farms. They use organic spices. They come in different flavors, whether it's original or karaoke or summer sausage or even garlic summer sausage. They are fermented, which is probably one of my favorite points about this product, which creates this naturally occurring probiotic. And of course, they taste amazing. Paleo Valley is offering my listeners 15% off. You can use the code, Dr. Lion, or go to PaleoValley.com slash a doctor lion. These Paleo Valley beef six are amazing for on the go. People and patients ask me all the time, how can they plan for travel and just being out and about? This is a great way to do it. You're 15% off PaleoValley.com slash doctor lion. Matt Boudro. I nailed it. Thank you so much for coming and sitting down and talking with me. I know that your message will impact many of the listeners. You are on a mission to change the future of our children. Is that accurate? Extraordinarily accurate. Tell me, what are you doing? So everything we're doing is under the Apigy Strong umbrella. We talk about our mission as getting back to sovereignty and freedom by educating the entire family. That's the biggest blanket statement I can give you. We'll talk about all the different verticals of how we're doing that. But that's really what it is for us. Tim and I put this together with the idea that sovereignty and freedom, these are not things that people talk about. We don't understand how to pursue it and you understand how to pursue it through being educated around what that means. So everything we're doing is education. The primary individuals that you are educating because there's a difference between schooling and education. But you have this Apigy is essentially, how would you describe it? It's not a school. We got physical campuses coming. We've got all these different verticals that are designed to be able to stand alone. And they all culminate and come together through our physical campuses too. So we've got mentorship for young men. Why would that be important? So why would mentorship for young men? Holy moly. So schooling what you said, schooling and education, right? Vastly different things. Scooling is the biggest religion in this country. We've been taught that school looks a certain way. You go at a certain age. You do a certain thing at a certain time and hey, by the way, young men or young women, that's what everybody does. Right? And it looks exactly the same. And if you don't play that game well, something's wrong with you. How does it end by the way? Yes. And schooling, would you say that that indoctrinated the way are you think? It's a hundred percent indoctrination. That's what, so by the way, that's what it's designed to do. But it's not even just indoctrination around the agendas that we're seeing play out. And you get a lot of people that are being very, you know, vocal rightfully so about the agendas that we're seeing playing out in our schools. But for me, it's a sneaky indoctrination of the design of the whole thing in the first place. Right? Now you and I both know people that did really, really well in the school. They did really well. And they're struggling in life. We both know people who didn't do well in school and are crushing it in life. Well, those are two very different games. School and life are not the same, obviously. But we've got this belief, this emotional attachment to the belief that school is designed the way it is based on some sort of human development. And based on the fact that you've got to get the development to look exactly like this for life to work out that's provably garbage, right? So the indoctrination that I'm most worried about are the habits that you build for 12 years. The habits that you build of blind obedience. The habits that you build of, who's the authority, the habits that you build of going, hey, government, tell me what to do because the government's telling me what to do and when to do it from time on five years old none. So we've got that habit that's built. You're getting that habit of going, hey, I'd love to write my own story, but I'm going to go ahead and hand the pen over to somebody else. They're going to write the story for me and they're just going to tell me what to do. You do that for 12 years. It's really hard to be able to think for yourself to educate yourself, to move forward in your life without going, hey, somebody tell me what to do and when to do it. That's the indoctrination I'm most worried about. Going back to one of those original questions, young men in particular are not suited for that. So what are we doing in our schools? We go, okay, well, he's five. You know, yeah, he wants to be outside, he wants to be running around, he wants to be playing, he wants to be a five year old young man. He wants to be physically active, but what we need them to do is sit here for six hours. We need them to sit down, we need them to be quiet. We need them to listen to somebody who would bore the hell out of basically anybody right in looking at there are there's brilliant teachers out there. I have nothing against good humans who are teaching, but the system says follow this script. And so somebody can come in step in and follow this script and go, no, no, no, no, sit, obey. Do it right, we're taking them out of the natural environment and when he has a trouble doing that, we go, ah, he must have a method and fed him into efficiency. All right, so I think that's what it is. We better get him on some meds. He better get him on some meds quick. And so it's we are we're literally attacking the foundation, the factory settings of these young people. We are attacking the foundation factory settings of the young man. That's exactly it, man. We are disrupting it's like if you took a phone, you get your factory settings. And you start adding a bunch of malware and a bunch of garbage apps and you get a bunch, what happens that phone eventually? It does not function. Do you think that that is why we are seeing what we're seeing in the world, for example, 70% of Americans, either overweight or obese, the way in which we function, just the honor and integrity and just the things that we're seeing. Do you think that that's the root cause? It's a, I believe it's a multifaceted issue, but I do believe that's a huge part of that that doesn't get questioned enough. Right, we question the agenda is the sexualization of kids, the pornography and schools and rightfully so. We are questioning those things. But we're not questioning the system as it's designed as becoming this thing to make somebody apathetic. So then you are now more prone to being, you know, to to suggestibility, right, of any kind of outside source. And because you are living a life where you're just kind of apathetic, then you get out and you're looking for, how do I just distract myself? You know, people, it's just, I guess I'm learning while I'm over here. We confuse schooling with education. I guess I'm learning. And I kind of hate learning. I need something to take my mind off of it. TikTok video games, right, distractions or a plenty of stuff. It's this multifaceted thing. And so then you got a group of parents who are now, you know, they grew up in the same thing. They're going, hey, Johnny, you can be anything you want. While Johnny also hears them say, it's Monday. I hate my job, I hate my life. I hate the parents aren't leading by example. Right? And so it's been this. Parents are not leading by example. Would you say, you know, and people will say, maybe you guys will skip through this episode because you don't have kids. That's the wrong thing to do. Oh, I don't understand. Because you have also gone through the traditional schooling system. So every adult out there needs to hear this so that you can begin to reevaluate the way in which you are processing the world. 100%. So here's the deal. If you are not a sovereign human, and when I say sovereign, what is it? So again, sovereignty to me in the definition of terms always matters. Right? Socrates says the beginning of wisdom is the definition of terms. So definition of terms always matters to me. Sovrenty to me means I'm going to have the ability, understanding and bravery enough to do what I want to do. When I want to do it with whom I want to do it with without infringing on the rights of other people. Right? I don't answer to anybody. I don't work with anybody I don't want to work with. I don't work for anybody I don't want to work for. I have control over the things that I can have control over. That all comes through education. I've got to be educated on how to be physically sovereign. I've got to understand what health and fitness really looks like. So I can embrace that. I can be brave enough to make that a consistent part of my life. And I can move forward. I've got to understand how the financial game actually works. What is money actually? Like what can you do? What does that game look like? I don't have to be in the 1040 tax world. Like everybody else. I can look at the 1041 system which allows me to save more money and give more money. I can there's so many things to be educated upon. So if you're whether you have kids or not, if you are not a sovereign being, you've got work to do. And hey, by the way, if you're a sovereign being, you still have work to do. Growth is the natural state of a human. We stop growing. You start dying. They're like nothing isn't a neutral. My question to you is, why you? Why now? And before you answer that, I want to just mention a bit of your bio. You've had an extensive bio. Not only have you, you were named by the way, corporate trainer of the year at Stanford University. You've spoken to over a quarter of a million people. You've done a two time, or your two time feature TEDx speaker. You've just done so much. You've educated in and utilized the secretic method, which we are going to have to talk about because embarrassingly when I was prepping for this, I was only aware of my shortcomings through education on a very superficial level. And that's one of the reasons I'm so excited to sit down. And I consider myself educated, successful, capable of defining and working through a life that is by my own design. And even through that, I have fallen. I don't want to say victim, but almost indoctrinated into the traditional way of thinking. Don't why you, why now? It's a great question. That's a big question. It's a heavy question. Because I'm not, I'm very comfortable in saying that I know the game inside and out. And when I say the game, I mean the game of school and how that differs from education. And my background there, you know, Naval talks about specific knowledge. So my experience is the things that I know, the things that I can bring to the table. So my experience in at-stampered in public schools is a public school teacher and public school administrator in private schools as a teacher and administrator. Starting my own campuses, speaking to all these organizations, when you're talking about the number of people, speaking to them, speaking to, you know, US Air Force and Lockheed Martin and Purina and National Security Center and American Eagle. And, you know, Amazon and Google. And these are all my clients. And so I'm speaking to these organizations and I'm hearing what they wish they saw from young people, what they're not seeing. So I've got a unique- That's interesting. That's interesting. Very much so. They want something different. 100% they do. The people that are moving the needle in the world are wanting a needing something different. You bet. But, these kids have been putting into a pipeline with the same thing. And the organizations a lot of times are still asking for this. So like, that's part of the frustration, right? Is they're going, hey, we want something different. But what are they still recruiting the same way? They're still asking for resumes. They're still asking, but you start talking to these guys outside of it. And they're like, we don't really care about the rest. We don't even care about the college degree anymore. We don't really care. I mean, that's the normal thing. We want somebody who holds our same set of values, who comes in and provides value right away, who has an idea of how this whole operation works, who hasn't, like, we don't care if they're asking questions. We want them to ask questions, what them be? Okay, with making mistakes, we want, they're saying these things, but they're setting up a system that makes people believe, okay, it's still the whole traditional round of you. You gotta go to college, and you gotta go to college. That's a whole game in and of itself. So there's so many of these conflicts. So as far as why me, I don't think it's a me. I think it's a us. It's a us, right? So I can speak from that perspective, but I can also speak from the perspective of being a parent, and watching young people thrive, working with thousands of young people over two decades, seeing who's thriving, who's not finding these patterns, and then getting to work with so many of me, you know, we know we're talking about all the amazing individuals that we have in common, right, all the friends, mutual friends that we have. These are high level human beings. So watching them, figuring out how they operate, and going, okay, what are the patterns of success, right? Having that at our fingertips, and Tim and I can go, okay, here's what we're seeing. Here's what we can offer. We're giving you a roadmap for you to eventually get to being, at a point of educating yourself. And we've got a lot of people who are seeing this too. So I think that the us really comes down to, we have the ability to see all these things, bring these people in, but also get to the masses and get this going quickly. This can't be something that's done in the next 20 years. This is something that needs to be done now. Desperate, desperate. Desperate. I love and you referenced Tim. This is, we're talking about Tim Kennedy, love Tim Kennedy. No, great guy. What is the program that you've developed? So we start, so I love to, I would nobody else, I'd rather do this mission with, man. If you don't know Tim Kennedy is remissing out, he's exactly what you think he is to him. And he is that wild, he's that crazy, but if you listen to him, he's that brilliant, he's one of the most intelligent humans I know. He is one of the most intelligent humans I know. And his heart is as big as freaking taxes. I've spent time at his house. He's a phenomenal husband, he's a phenomenal father. So nobody all type wanna be on this mission with. So we started, after you strong, I started a couple of schools, three schools in California, and I had the largest, socratic, base K through 12 in the nation. So I started that for my kids and invited other people to come along and we had been wildly successful and whole lot of fun. So did that Tim, I heard Tim on a podcast saying, he wanted to start a school on my K. I don't know how to do that. Let's connect, so help Tim start getting, go in an Apigy Cedar Park. But we went, hey man, we've got so many mutual friends, we have so many guys in our corner. I have good men at my thing that I can call that I can pick up a phone and go, hey man, and they're gonna answer the phone. They're good men doing good things in the world. Tim obviously is connected to a lot of good men doing a lot of really good things in the world. We talked about the problem earlier for a young man. They're not being given these great role models. They're not being, you know, how to the fire and go and look man, here's what it means to grow up to be a good man. So that's where everything started, knowing that multiple dominoes would fall. We started with the Young Men's Mentorship Program, virtual mentorship program. We started that three years ago. So the Young Men's Mentorship Program grew very quickly. We've got hundreds of young men all over the world. And we kind of focus on that 12 to 18 year old range. And they've got a very specific 12 month road map that they go through. And we're not saying that this is the 12 month, we're just saying it's a really good 12 month road map of actual educational experience. There's sales, there's marketing challenges, there's public speaking challenges. And they learn to getting contact with an interview, you know, LEO and military and CEOs. And they start putting together this digital portfolio of their journey into leadership. It's not school in the least. I love it. Journey into leadership. Exactly. And they're documenting the entire thing. So they got this road map. They're going through that got recommended readings. They've got workouts that were sending them. They're in a private platform. We're pouring into them every single day. And then every week we are bringing on the best of the best to speak with them. And when I say best of the best, I mean, you name it. We're talking about Bayed Rose. I'm not ready. We're talking about Andy Fersella. We're talking about Patrick Betdabe. We're talking about, I mean, we've had all these guys come in and speak with these. Not speak to speak with the young man or on the calls with them hearing from the best on how to be the best. So we started out there. And by the way, if a young man pours in for those 12 months, if he actually shows up and does the work, we'll work with him forever. No charge. They stay with us. They had young men who have now been with us for three years. We will continue to pour into these young men forever. So we started there inevitably. And we knew these would be the dominoes. We had dads going, any chance you want to do this. I was in average. I was schooled. I was an educated. I'd love to have something for men. I'd love to have something for men. And maybe even have a roadmap that also talks about marriage. Talks about relationships. Talks about raising the next generation. Talks about business. I don't know how to do this. I'm afraid to step out and start my business. I've just followed the path. And inevitably, we had all these dads asking us to develop something for men as well. So now we have about a thousand men from around the globe, going through a very similar process, speaking to the same caliber of humans. Their challenges, their projects are more intense for sure. Good. As they should be. But it's an amazing opportunity for these guys to grow. That turned into, we have our ladies program. We've got our young ladies on the way. We've got about 300 families around the world that we help through home education. We have some mutual friends of ours that do that that are in that program too. And now we're launching our physical campuses. We've got our Apigy Cedar Park that Tim runs in Cedar Park, Texas. Yep. And then we went, hey, we need to bring this physical location, because we have some people that are like, I'm just not going to get out of the physical space. I need a physical space for my young heroes. We went within affiliate model, much like CrossFit. We have people apply to be able to run one of these and we give them the keys to the castle. Like here's how to do it. Here's how to do it well. We have a massive support system. We're building out the entire year for them. But they had the intellectual freedom to say, hey, okay, I kind of want to tweak it. I want to do this. We've got about 50 physical campuses, K-12s, young men, young women that are launching in the fall. And we think we're going to have probably another 100 that we'll do next year. We're asking for just good humans who believe in this mission of character and values and real education to, to challenge. See, if you want to bring it to your community, oh, and by the way, mom and dad, when your kid goes to one of those campuses, you automatically get to go through Apigy Man and Apigy woman so that we make sure we are educating the entire family. I'd like to take a moment and thank one of our sponsors, Ned, Ned makes an incredible magnesium product called mellow magnesium. And I first heard about mellow because I was having trouble getting to sleep, staying asleep, and mellow magnesium has helped me do that. Many Americans are actually deficient in magnesium. And this is a mineral that is essential to hundreds of functions in the body. Ned's mellow magnesium was designed to address the fundamental deficiencies that come from our modern lives. Mellow magnesium is a daily super blend. It has three forms of curated magnesium, has GABA, Alpineen, amino acids, and over 70 trace minerals. For me, it's help improve my sleep, reduce stress, improve my mood, help with my gut, and potentially even strengthen my immunity. This is a full transparency product. Ned shares all of its third party lab reports, which I think is amazing. Go to helloned.com. That's HEL-L-O, and ED.com slash doctor lion for 15% off all Ned products. It's critically important. I care about this because I care about our world. And I have a three year old boy and a five year old girl. And I watch them and they are in a private school, and I watch them, and they come home, and I think to myself, who is raising this child and these children to be, again, I care about my boy, I care about my girl, and I want to know how number one I can instill habits. So you'd mention that there are faults in the habits that these children are indoctrinated. And if I were to think, and my children are very physically active, if you were to tell me the top three to five habits that we need to instill in these children, whether it's my little boy, my little girl, and then I want to know that first. And then I want to know the top three to five habits that we need to watch out for, that we need to potentially undo or challenge. Gosh, I love that. So leading by example, you guys leading by example is by the way, it doesn't matter if they go to school, if they don't go to school, you are the primary educator in their life period and the story. Always have been always will be. Right? Kids will do what you do before they do what you say. So it is wildly important that you, your husband, right? Any parents, show up and they are the people that they say they are. No hypocrisy. Open honest, moving yourselves for. So as far as habits for these young people, ultimately what we want to get them to is self-direction. Right? You don't want them to be in 40 and haven't to live with you. Right? I mean, you love them. You're right now, I think. Right now, it's not clear. Right. 100% and by the way, it always sounds great. If you do it right, you have a girl relationship, of course. But the reality is you want them to be sovereign individuals too. Right? Ultimately, you want them to have the knowledge and the capability to go pour into the world, to go serve other human beings, to go build a life of their own design and the byproduct of doing that, being active in living with a purpose, the byproduct, then's that being joy. It's not chasing joy. We don't chase happiness. You chase a purpose. Happiness becomes a byproduct. You chase a purpose and happiness becomes a byproduct. That's the way it actually works. So the biggest thing you can do is we want to remain as close as possible to those factory settings. So when we work with these young people, what we're trying to do is we're trying to keep factory settings where they are, where they come out with this factory setting, we're trying to keep that. And when we work with the adults, we're trying to usually get them back to fact. It's a lot of times it's a addition by subtraction. It's getting rid of the garbage. And then we want to get them back to that. So what do we mean by factory settings? Well, health is a factory setting. You come out, God willing, no complications. And I understand there are scenarios. Obviously there's the one off kind of things. But you come out as a healthy, capable human being. So we want to maintain that health. You can speak to that better than I can, but real food matters, activity matters, sunlight matters, sleep matters. So building the habit of understanding or physiology and how much that plays into your ability to grow as a human matters. It's one of what we call the meta skills. So understanding that matters, by the way, we talk about mental health for our young people, obsessively. Well, physical health is the precursor to mental health. There is no avoiding that. If you say, I want my kid to be mentally healthy, but you're feeding a Mickey D's. They don't have a normal sleep time. You're letting them stay inside all day and not get suned. They're not active. They're sitting on, you don't care about their mental health. Period. So that's one of those things. Maintaining curiosity is one of those habits. That's why we use it. That's very much so. So what are kids? You're three and five real prime examples right now. Why? How? Can I? How does that? Why? Why is that? Cool. That's awesome. That gets trained out of us in school. Because school says, give me the right answer. There's one right answer. Give me the right answer. I'll like care about his answers. Regurgitate an answer. Why does it? Because I said so. Why does it? Because it's on the test. Why does school trains you to stop being curious? Curiosity is the natural state of a human. We are wired to want to grow. We understand and hearingly that growth means life. We have to. At the minute we stop growing the minute we stop learning, we start dying, whether your body gets buried or not, you've started to die. So maintaining that curiosity, the habit of taking on responsibility. When is it too early to start that? Never. What would be an example for my three and five year old? They're going to come into, you know, they're going to come into a kitchen sometime. They're going to be like, hey, mommy, can I help you cook? What do we do as parents a lot of times? And I'm guilty just when I say this, please understand. There is no such thing as a perfect parent. I am far from a perfect parent. No such thing as a perfect. There is no such thing as perfection, but the pursuit of perfection should always be the goal. Right? But they come in and they're like, hey, can I help you cook? What do we want to do? No, go ahead. That's what we should be doing. No, no, go ahead. That's what we should be doing. Is going, yeah, cool. Sounds good. Let's go. What a parent's mom. That's going to take too long. Oh, it's going to get messy. I'm going to break the egg. Right? And so we squash. We start slowly squashing curiosity. We should be going, yeah. Awesome. That sounds good. But as they get older, what are the jobs around here? They can fit. Is it cleaning up their room? Is it vacuuming? Is it there is no. And you think that's why people are facing it. Is doing wildly important. And they want to help. They want to contribute. They find value in there. Right? They get self, they self esteem. Self confidence is something that always has to be earned. And it's earned by doing things that matter. That's the way we're designed. It's not earned by somebody telling you you're the best. No. It's not earned by yours. You're awesome. You're fantastic. And all these affirmations. It's great. But in their mind, their subconscious, they need something to attach it to. So attaching it to a process of looking, you are helping others, you are being a good human, you are providing value, you're doing the right thing. That's where self esteem, self confidence comes from. So we've got to give them that responsibility early and often. I love that. So far, I have self-directed activity. And that means in my mind that, for example, my little children that they should be able to play and do activities where I am not having to show them every little thing to do that they should be able to entertain themselves and have some kind of self-directed capacity. The other thing that I heard you say was get back to factory settings, meaning and that actually sounds like that comes from the parent. Getting them outside early, making sure that they're physically active, providing healthy food, etc. The other thing would be the third thing that you had mentioned was maintaining curiosity. And finally, and I'm sure that there's more, is allowing them the process of responsibility. You bet early and often. Early and often. My third as we speak right now, my third senior old is that work. She works, like, show work 20 hours this week. What are some of the, and you've been in education for 20, about 20 plus years? About two decades. Congratulations. Yeah, thank you. There were two things you had mentioned this, Cicrotic method. And I would love to hear how important that is, what it is, and should we as parents at home be utilizing it and even as adults with no children should be thinking about this as a framework for thinking in and of itself. Well, you bet. That's what you're so. This is the framework for thinking. So we talk about, you know, school say, um, we want to build critical thinkers. So what they say is the cliche is what you're supposed to say. We want to build lifelong learners and critical thinkers. Okay. But the system is designed to do exactly the opposite. Critical thinking means you're thinking about you thinking. Why do I think this? Why do I believe this? Why do I say this? Why do I believe what I say? I believe in my emotionally enough and control to take a look at other evidence and weigh it and consider it and then make a, and educate a decision and go this is the best evidence that I have right now. So I'm going to go. That's where we ultimately want to get. But again, maintaining curiosity is the precursor to all of that. So the Socratic method at its most basic form is that, well, why? Why? Why? And taking that down to the root of the foundation of whatever it is that you're questioning. Right? Why does the human body respond well this sunlight? Why what would happen if the sun doesn't come out? What would happen if I lived in Seattle? And I never saw this on. How is that impact my mind? Like, anytime we're questioning and just going down, that's, essentially, a precursor to the, to the Socratic method more intentionally. What I like to do with my kids and what we do on our campuses is we'll do a more tactical kind of a Socratic approach where we'll utilize books, stories, movies, the lives of people we know and go, okay, we'll now hear them. Now you're this person. You're the protagonist in the scenario. You've got option A. You've got option B. What are you going to pick and why? And start getting the reps in on, okay, I would make this decision in this kind of scenario because my values determine that I go this way and the ripple effect would be, right? So there's an element of who am I and what happens if I make this decision. And you've got to weigh both of those when you start getting really good. What you do is you start having scenarios where it's like option A option B both equally great. But they're very different and you have to defend one even though your answer is right here or both equally suck. And you've got to pick one because the answer is really in the middle, but you got to pick one and you got to defend it. Why it makes you think about your thinking. And so really all of it, the root of all of it is just allowing for questions and going, okay, what if what if without having to even force a predetermined answer. Let's talk through making these decisions. You get reps. What happens when you go to the gym? You get reps at movements. So you get better. Yes, you get stronger, but there's a neurological adaptation and there's all right. So you do the repetitions. All we're doing is doing the repetitions on the thinking and making decisions. Those are things that life always demands and you're learning how to control your emotions throughout the whole thing. You're learning how to be effective. You're learning how to see patterns more quickly. But we need to have those conversations with our kids. So it's the way that's the way we're designing. Fascinating. And it's never too early to start. So even, we read stories to the kids and we read these ninja books and these ninja books, talk about hard work. They talk about making mistakes. And I'm going to take it up and launch as a parent and begin to ask them, what would you do if you were this hard working ninja? How would you respond to this? I really, I really can appreciate that. What about this idea of, so this is really framed around the conversation of sovereignty, and the way I interpret that is being in control physically and mentally of your body and the direction of your life. Would you agree with? Very much, very much so. And that, by the way, came from Kashmir. I was probably 10, 12 years into working in schools was on the precipice of really getting to the point where I was kind of like, you know what? I've got to do something different, not just for these heroes that I'm serving, these young people. I can't look myself in the mirror anymore, right? And do what I'm doing here because I don't believe I'm perpetuating real growth. And I sure is hell. I'm not going to do this for my own children, right? So I got to that point where it's like, I've got to figure something out. It was right about at that point where I talked to a gentleman, some of the listeners, they know named Seth Gauden. Seth is a brilliant human being in Seth asked me a question that I'd never been asked in all my years in school. He said, what should education be for? And I went, oh my gosh, I've actually never been asked that question, right? I love those questions. I love those questions. And it's so simple. It's so simple. It's like, what should education be for? And so I had to sit and think about like, man, what should it be for? Because that's a wildly personal endeavor. It always is, right? It has to be because it's got to be based on your circle. It's got to be based on your goals. It's got to be based on your life and where you are now and where you want to go. It's got to be based on your inherent abilities and loves and likes and dislikes. It's got to be based on that. Part of the root of education that we're in at Jakarta is to draw out. It's got to draw out something that is unique to you. I'm really good at things that you're really bad at. You're really good at things that I'm really bad at. That's great. That's awesome. Let's celebrate that. So how do we draw out the best and you draw out the best of me and then we go, okay, is there a way for us to work together on these things, right? Like that's how it works. But it's also wildly personal to your scenario. We live on a farm now in North Carolina. I'm a city kid. I'm a city kid from the Bay Area, man. I love it. I love it. My wife, city kid from the Bay Area. She didn't know anything about farms. Now we live for two years. We live the top amount on the farm. We've got a processing facility on site. We're raising animals. We're processing animals. We've got thousands of trees. Tree goes down. Takes out the electric fence. Guess what? I have to be able to self educate on. I got to figure out how to fix some brick and electric fans and get out there in lumberjack. And that's, but I am confident in my ability to learn what I need to learn when I need to learn it. So that's what education is. So Seth asked me that question. He's like, what should education be for? And that's ultimately what I got to is for sovereignty. It is to be able to be the person that I need to be and be the person that I want to be. Those aren't the same. But I need to be able to do both. And I need to be able to do both of those when it needs to happen. And then I gosh, extra level. What if I can help other people do the same thing? What if I can help my kids do the same thing for themselves? What if I can help, right? Then it's now it's leadership too. So yeah, that's what I say sovereignty. That's where that all came from. I mentioned that you were in education for a very long period of time. Was there a moment, because it's unusual. I think many of us don't question the educational system. Was there a moment that you just said, you know, we're doing this wrong? It's a great question. There are many. There were many. But there were specific defining moments, you know, for sure. It was working with a brilliant, brilliant young man. It's about 13, 14 years old, brilliant young man. And we were in kind of a gang, land sort of area of California. He was being raised in a gang. His family parents both in the gang. And he was so brilliant and so cool and so funny. So freaking smart. So freaking capable. Like love this kid. And horrible environment. You know, when he's being taught when he goes home, it's not homework. No, it's you get on. You get on to go start slinging. And I'm pouring into this young man making track and develop a relationship. There was multiple relationships. I'm trying to develop and I'm talking to him about, so I got him in a class. I'm like, do you know what I want you to? I don't have to do homework. I'm not going to send to this homework. Here's what I want to do though. Let's talk about what you're going to talk about. See how you can develop some of these other habits. You're really talented. Here you're really interested in this. What if instead of homework for my class, what if you just want you to go to YouTube as a new thing? It's like, what if you go down this YouTube thing and you start looking up videos around this and what if we start starting to start solving these conversations? And I get brought in and it's like, no, he's got to, you can't give him an A for that he's got to do the homework. He's got to do like everybody else. Like he needs algebra. I'm like, no, he doesn't need out. Like that's not what he needs. That's not what he needs. He needs guidance. He needs mentorship. And then it's like, oh my god, like every single human here, good parents back, they all need that. But the system is not designed for that. It is a one size fits all. So then I start going, okay, well, what a doctor would be like, hey, by the way, when you're five, I need you to take this medication and that's everybody across the board. When you're six, I want you to take this medication. Everybody across the board. It's what? Nobody would do that. And by the way, you're allowed to go to the grocery store. You can only go to six aisles and you got to go to the same six aisles and that's it. That's all you can pull standard across the board. What nobody would go for that. But we've been convinced that schooling should look like that. All right. So it was really dealing with him where I started going, okay, how did the system come to be in the first place? And I started diving into the work of guys like Ivan Illich and John Taylor Gato. And I started looking at the history of schooling. And why we brought schooling over here from Prussia and what it was designed to do? It wasn't designed to build thriving humans. Well, it was designed to get obedient. It was designed to get obedient. So it was designed by the Prussian military to get obedient soldiers. That's where school came from. That's where schooling model as we know it was essentially designed for that. With brought over here by the industrialists who then went, okay, well, this, we can take advantage of this. We went a nation of workers for our factories. So Rockefeller poured in what was the equivalent of about $1.3 billion at the time. He said, I want a nation of workers, not a nation of thinkers. They said, what are you going to teach the kids then? He says, I'm going to teach him much about nothing. Basically, I'm going to waste their time for all of these years. I'm going to keep them out of, you know, out of work. I'm going to pull them out. People think it was like a child labor law thing like it was in each like, oh my god, all these factories and the kids were to, no, the kids, kids want to work. They want to get at it. What was happening is they're going in and they're wanting to innovate and they're wanting to change things and they want us to like, no, let's get them out of here. Let's go make them docile for, you know, for these 12 years and get them in the habit of just listening to what we want them to do. Like Pavlov's dog, ring a bell. You know, here we go. So I started seeing that. I'm like, okay, cool, why can't perpetuate this? All right, I can't do that. So that was one of the moments. But I naively went from public to private because private doesn't have to follow the same state guidelines. So I went, okay, they're probably going to do things differently wrong, right? They're afraid of upsetting the apple cart. So they're going to design their system to be the exact same. It's going to look exactly the same. Most private schools look just like the public schools. They're afraid to do something different. Everybody expects that, but they just, they expect it to look the same, but they expect, you know, the demographic to be different or the people to be better or, you know, the academia to be more rigorous because they've been trained to believe that's what they want. So go over to private schools. I'm like, okay, this is I'm struggling here too. So the next moment was after a few years running these private schools was sitting in my car at the end of a work day, reading Seth Goadins, stop stealing dreams. It just confirmed everything I already knew, but it gave me the kind of the the Kahone's to go, all right, my oldest is about ready for school age. I just, I can't. And I won't. So the next day I went back into the office. I said, hey, I'm going to finish out this year and then I'm done. I have to go create something else. I got, I don't know how I'm going to do that, but I got to go create something that my kids can go to. I have to. Because you wanted to build a world of thinkers, not worker. Have to have to. Like have to. Can't look at myself in the mirror if I'm not trying. We've got a family contract in our house. It's a, it's the Baudro family rules, right? And what it is is something that we can all hold each other accountable to. One of those rules is no complaining fix it. If it is something worth pointing a finger at and going, hey, somebody should, something needs to change. Somebody should do that. Somebody should, then it's your responsibility to do it. Otherwise, shosh, otherwise, be quiet. And this was something that I was able to complain about, I had nausea. So I needed to do something else. Thank you to Mudwater for sponsoring this episode of the show. Mudwater has come and swooped in to replace my afternoon coffee. And I'm so grateful it did. Mudwater is a healthy alternative to coffee. And it tastes incredible. It has this kind of chai kakau flavor. It's essentially hot chocolate for adults with a hint of caffeine. No jitters. It also has corgisept mushrooms in it. This helps promote natural energy. It has chaga and rishi. Which has been shown to help support a healthy immune system. Non GMO gluten free USDA certified organic. It is an amazing product. If you want to replace your afternoon coffee and do I dare say, if you wanted to replace your morning coffee, this is a delicious way to do it. You can try Mudwater now for 29 bucks. That's less than a dollar a cup a day when you go to mudwater.com. That's mudwtr.com slash doctor lion. I was going to ask you, should one of my questions here on as I was thinking about this, should we have a family ethos? And I want to know about how we develop and what we're being example of a family ethos versus family rules. For example, in our little family, it's always be respectful to mommy and daddy. You always tell the truth. They're very basic. No hitting, no grabbing things. There are no secrets. We have certain, you know, we just have a handful of things, which ultimately I believe will evolve to. I'm getting on my picture right now. Sorry, you keep going. I'm getting out. Yes, ultimately will be to, and by the way, I can see it because I have special magic eye drops right around for this. That is that obviously they have to be age appropriate so my kids can understand it. But our idea is how do we build in a family ethos that then continues to evolve with the family and what age and how does it look as it in ethos versus family rules? Is this something that is repeated every day? This is what we do before we sit down for dinner. What are some ways that we can be very effective to get the end result, which is confident, capable children, and also in even ourselves, becoming more structured and disciplined as human? So good, man, does all the right questions? So our family ethos, our family rules, it's one of the same. That's it is the thing that we call the family rules because it looks cool on a plaque right? And so I'm just showing someone to go through and actually show you what we have there. We're going to be getting this on. But that in today. We're going to put it in there. That is it is hanging on the wall in our house in the most prominent area so that we all see it. Let me just read a pop up. I'll have to hear a couple. So it's 11 rules. So it's be honest. And that starts with yourself. So everything's got a little bit of a caveat in there. So be honest, starting with yourself, which means we're not going to lie to each other ever. We're not going to lie to anybody else. And most importantly, we're not going to lie to ourselves. So it's a not a disulfurverness. So being honest, be a copycat. And what that means is you've got people who are doing things you want to do. They are impacting the world in ways that you want to impact the world. So what are their patterns of success? You never want to be anybody else. You don't want to try to be anybody else. But you can look to amazing people and go, OK, what is it about what they're doing that really resonates with me and why and how do I implement that in my own life? So being a copycat, being an emotional ninja, emotions are great. They're, they're indicators that something else needs to happen. So we want to acknowledge them. We want to accept them. But then we want to go, OK, what is it trying to tell me and how do I go for it? How do I not be controlled by them? So being an emotional ninja, be the hardest worker in the room, be the kindest person in the room, no complaining fix it. Think because most people won't discipline equals freedom. Thank you, Jaco. Momento Mori. I mean, remember that you are this right-ends, like remember death. It's not a fascination with death. It's an obsession with life with actually living. Remember, you are one day closer today to being done. So let's make today count. You are personally responsible, meaning it is your job to do what needs to be done. And doing the right thing is always the right thing. So those are the 11 in our house. Those were the generated from a conversation, my wife and I and our two little girls, our young man was, I think he's only one at the time. We didn't have any input on it. But if you're in person, you're right. Yeah, it would be 100%. But we sat down, had a conversation and go, hey, how do we want to show up in a world? What does a good person look like? And kids, well, they know, oh, you got to be nice to people. Okay, cool. What does that mean? What does that actually look like? So we have this conversation. We get a general idea of what we want to put on there. And we're allowed to make that, you know, valuable. We're allowed to make that something that can continuously adapt over time. That's fine. It's not something that's like set in stone. It's not the 10 commandments. It's this is how we believe we should show up and look at the world. So we put that. We put that up. We have the definitions for us as a family. What does that mean? How does that actually look? But the important thing is one that you revisit it. So that is a weekly conversation. It is a weekly family meeting for us, right? Just weekly meeting of just going, hey, how are we doing? How are we showing up on these? Are we doing the things we say we want to do? Or we're showing up the way that we say we want to show up. We have those meetings. Is there any one of those that we need to focus on more this week that we're missing? I like that it's weekly as opposed to the pressure of daily. Yep. I think that's a great idea. And it's just a quick check-in, too, right? Because they all know what everything is. So it's just a quick check-in. It's all of that. But where it gets to be really, really powerful. Mom and Dad can hold each other accountable to these. Mom and Dad can hold the kids accountable. Kids can hold each other accountable. Where it's really powerful is when the kids hold the parents accountable. When my son goes, Dad, you kind of sound like you're complaining on something right now. Do you have a solution? And he says it respectfully. And then I go, hmm, you're right. Okay, let me see. Do I want to put a solution to this? Or do I want to just be quiet? And he knows that our relationship and trust what Dad says. He knows that what we have there in this family value, that it, like, they mean it. That's real. That's really how we got to show up. And they watch Mom and Dad show up like that in the world. So that is how they decide to show up. Because again, they'll do what you do before they do what you say. So are you the people you want them to be? Fear does discipline come in. I think that discipline is very controversial, whether it's yelling, speaking, etc. Where does discipline play a role in all of this early on? And then as they become young and young girls. So we reframe the word. People ask me all the time and they mean my kids, how do you discipline them? Oh my gosh, they're so well, like they're so well behaved, right? But they're also, they can have conversations and they're articulate and they're clearly very comfortable in any scenario and clearly very comfortable around adults and they're comfortable leading and they're like, how did you discipline them? And what they're asking is, did you yell at them? Did you not yell at them? Did you do the thing where it's like, okay honey, anything you want, right? And just like the whole LAZA fair, like did you where you super like stripped a Thor technically? What did you do? What did you do? None of that. We taught them to be discipline humans. That's a different thing. You don't have to discipline them. You teach them how to be disciplined by being disciplined. So what does that look like in our house? It's all of those family values. But it is always pointing toward, it's not compromising. Like we point towards the ideal. We talk about how to handle a certain scenario. What is the right thing to do? And anytime we see them doing the right thing, we go over and above, especially foundation of those first five years, like overboard going, yes, like we praise them inspirationally. So my son, you know, we go outside, we got, and taking care of animals. And he goes over and he pulls the gate back and lets his sisters and his mom go first, right? Dude, I will not miss a time. I will not miss a time. When I see him doing that, you are a good man. That is what a good man does. Like that's like I will make sure he knows that's the thing. So what happens now? Anytime we go anywhere, my son is notorious for he will, if they're, he will hold the door open for everybody, especially if it's women or girls or children. He won't miss it. And every time, I'm like, I literally, my good, he doesn't, I bow to him with his tone. Thank you. I'm like dude, that's it. Like that's the man, right there, right? I will praise him, especially anytime they go up and they're just like, hey, here, my name is, you know, so nice to meet you, took a design. That's it. That's how that's how a leader acts, right? That's how a leader acts, right? They're exactly what you just did to keep doing that. Right. So we set the standard, we praise them, inspirationally every time they hit it, especially for those first five years. And then again, five to eight is kind of the next developmental range. And you give them a little extra responsibility, praise it, praise it, praise it. When they miss the mark, because they will. Especially for example, within that three to five, what do you do in there? Cause they are off the rails. But they don't have to be off the rails in every scenario, right? Oh, my kid, my three-year-old is, when he was, are my eight-year-old when he was three, did he was a, he is your stereotypical, like, dude, is wants to be in a tree or fighting something? Yes. Like, let's fight a great man. Let's do it. But all day long until it's time to not. We have this weird thing where it's like we can't. But they just want to, cool. But they also are really smart beings and they will understand when you say, hey, that's awesome. Like, I want you to be able to do this. Here's what we don't do. When we go into a restaurant, this is how we behave. Watch this. Let's make a game out of this. Watch daddy. I'm learning so much. You just, you're in tension. And they will just gravitate towards it. I love one of the things Jordan Peterson talks about. He says, your job up until there are five years old is to make him somebody worth being around because if you make it to where nobody wants to be around them, you're actually setting him up for failure. Nobody wants them to be around anymore. That sucks. They're going to treat them differently. They're not going to invite them to things. They're not going to have as many opportunities to grow as a human. So manners still matter. I want my young man to be a whey. He's out of American top team. Now training a couple days a week. He's doing ninja warrior like he's out of my wife's. Send me a picture this morning. And he's way up in this fricking tree in the pasture. He's doing all the things that a young man should be able to have the opportunity to do. But somebody comes over to the house. He knows he goes over. He shakes her hand. I am loud and nice to meet you because that's the right thing. He doesn't have to know why yet. He doesn't have to yet. He just needs to know that that's what we do. And basically, it's continued to praise the good. Put boundaries on the bad. Put boundaries on the bad. And when they are throwing and I understand that this is. A very specific question. But I also think that a translator needs to us as adults. When they are absolutely throwing a fit about not being able to. Have candy in the morning. For example, this happened this morning. And I just said, you know what? I, yeah, that's really upsetting that you can't have it. But here's when you can't. When you can't have it, you can have it this afternoon. And you know, they just fall on meltdown. But they have to be able to learn how to control their emotion in that. 100% in that way. 100% to do. And we'll speak them very like, we have this weird thing that kids are. This this concept in our minds that kids are like they're learning to be people. They're people. They just, they just got less experience than we do, right? Does people experience? So we can talk to them and say, you know what, you're kind of throwing a temper tantrum. You know, ever see mom and dad do this. And I'm not going to honor that. We have a, you know, in our house, there's freedoms, but freedoms come with responsibility. There's responsibility first. Right now, the responsibility you're taking on is throwing a temper tantrum. There's no reward on the other end of that. So you can do that all you want. But I want you to understand what you're throwing a temper tantrum for. You're automatically not going to get it now because there's a temper tantrum. If you would come up and ask me calmly, then we can have a discussion about it. Right? I promise if you have those conversations a few times and you're consistent with your message, sometimes they get the temper tantrum and they get what they want, sometimes the temper tantrum doesn't get what they want. They're going to test you. They're going to test you. Like, which one do you actually mean mom and dad? Yeah. Because you're not, you're not being consistent. If you're consistent on it, it won't take more than a couple and they won't throw temper tantrums anymore, assuming factory settings are still solid. So they're able to get out and get exercise. They're able to be fit like they're not getting fed a bunch of garbage. They're not sitting down and looking at screens all day and they're not doing all these things that make it squirrely, you do all those things. You're going to have more temper tantrums. And how would that translate to an adult who has already raised themselves and they don't have children, but they want to get back to some of their factory settings. Hmm. That's a really good, well, a lot of your work that you do is around that. Right? I mean, a lot of that. But it's harder to get an adult to do it. I mean, that's really the issue here is one of my favorite quotes, Frederick Douglas said, it is easier to build strong children than fixed broken men. It is, I love that. It is easier to build strong children. Fixed broken men. And that's, and of course, that applies to men and women. It is that those are the habits that you have developed for the long, you know, the long haul. So it is really getting to where you're building new habits. It's essentially a neural, an entire neurological reprogramming that we have to, and this is what we're doing with our men and our women. Does the physical come first in the physical or the mental? We do it simultaneously. We really do. And I've seen it work both ways where, you know, somebody really does into the mental and that goes, okay. So the mental, I get it now. So now I'm going to tackle the physical because I was too scared to do it. I've also seen it work the other way, where somebody is like, okay, the physical is giving me the confidence and the clarity to go ahead and go mental. You know, a lot of our good friends in this space, you know, are very much around like, hey, fitness is the gateway drug to the mental side. And I've definitely seen that be the case. But I have seen it be the case where people go, okay, let me actually start to redefine. What we said earlier, right, soccer, T says the beginning of wisdom is the definition of terms. We have our men and women define what it looks like to show up as the husband or the wife or the person at work or the mom or the dad or the person at the gym. Like, who do you actually show up as? What is that ideal person? Played ahead this concept of what he called the forms. And it was essentially what is the ideal me look like in each one of these scenarios? Because Matt sitting here talking to Gabby is very, this is, I'm Matt, this is very much me. This is very much 100% me. But it's a different relationship than when I'm 100% showing up as the husband, right? And here, and as the dad and as, you know, if I'm on a stage and speaking to 5,000 people or I'm all of those are me, but they're different versions of me. So we define those ideals and go, what does that person do? How does that person speak? How does that person dress? How does that person act? How does that person treat other people? How does that person think? Like let's define, doesn't mean you're doing it yet. It just means let's define that. Right? Who are the other people? This person follows to get the patterns of how to, but we start to neurologically reprogram. And then we start to go, okay. And now what are the habits around that? Like what does that look like? What does the schedule look like around that? Bad habits don't go away just because you want them to go away. They actually have to be replaced. They don't? Yeah, right? Yeah. So you actually have to replace it with something better. You have to replace it with something that moves you forward. So we're walking our men and women through that to get them back to those factories. That must be very, very rewarding. Very much so. It's also frustrating is how when they don't do it. Right? Like when you see somebody that you're like, oh my gosh, I see who you are and I see who you can be. Like I, oh my, if you would just believe in yourself as much as we believe in you, oh my gosh, you've got all the tools you've got it right here. But they get sucked back into the old version. They get sucked, that's frustrating as well. Yeah. And I have a sense of what I think your answer is going to be. But I, you know, I have concerns about the young women. There's certain things that I swear I feel like as if they make bad choices. And again, I don't know if this is a developmental thing where it seems as if young women and I say young women because again, I'm a physician. I see behind the scenes on, it is a privilege. It is a privilege to see behind the scenes on the inner workshings of people and families. And it seems as if young women struggle with this self-worth. And when they struggle with this self-worth, it leads them vulnerable to exploitation, physical, sexual exploitation. And especially now with Twitter, Instagram, the social media, a lot more predators. And also bad young relationships or even physical assault. I mean, there's, is there number one, is this an age type of thing that maybe when young women hit their teenage years or to through their 20s that they, it's a natural thing to question worth or is this something that we can address? And if there is a young woman or even adult listening, can they go back and, in a draw sought? Yeah, that's a really good question. It's an important question. It's an, it's a yes and as far as the answer. Is it normal to start to, it is, it's normal to be able to, and that's not even just a young woman thing, but it very much, very much a dominant mental state as they get into kind of the 12, 13 year old range, because there's an extra level of brain jump. We talk about like the, uh, brain is not fully developed until you're 25, right? Like we talk about that all, and yes, true, very much so. But there's a huge brain jump that happens at eight and that one happens at 12. And the one that happens at around 16, right? And so that's kind of blanket statement, but it's roughly right around that time. So, um, young ladies, you get throttled at 12 or 13, because your brain jumps. You can start to now see patterns more clearly. You can start to think more, uh, in an abstract fashion. You can start to answer the kind of the wood ifs, like it starts to actually make more sense. You start questioning the world around. You start questioning where you fit in that plate right? You start having all those questions. So the brain jump happens and then oh, hey, by the way, here's a rush of hormones, too. And now you're going through puberty and now your body's changing and you're like, what? The, who is going to light? So you just turn into this hot, hot mess of a human. So how important is it that we make sure that they've got relationships that have been established if we can. We'll talk about how to go backwards as well. Some of the, some of the things that I've heard quite a bit as like, oh, just wait, man, you got a teenager. Right? Just wait. What are you going to do when she's a teenager? What am I going to do? I'm going to make sure that the first 12 years of her life I have been extraordinarily impactful and have been extraordinarily close to her so that she knows. So guess what happened when she turned 13? Nothing. Right? It was like waiting on edge of my team. Not to have me. Nothing different. Nothing because we have a great relationship because it's always open because you know, when she started her, when she just started her cycle and it was like, oh, hey, by the way, yeah, this started. Um, we're like, all right, cool, man, what do you need? You know, whatever. And just like, yeah, you know, I'm good. I understand, you know that. And it was just like, all right, cool. It was like she was saying I'm going to make a sandwich. Like it was like, because we have that relationship established already. And we make sure that it's attractive to grit older. We've made it very unattractive to be an adult because why? Well, adults seem like they're miserable. They seem like they hate their life. They seem like they hate their job. They seem like they're always arguing with somebody over something. They seem like they're always pointing the finger over here and going, oh, this sucks this sucks. This sucks. We have made it very unattractive for them to want to grow and be adults. And so then they're like, oh, that sounds awful. And then I look over here, the news and the news is saying that the whole world sucks. And then I get on social media and that's giving me a false sense of, of, you know, what somebody does to get value and I'm going to get to like, so we're we're overloading them with all this garbage. Right. So we make it attractive to be an adult, meaning my wife is a really freaking awesome human. And the people that we bring into our lives that come over to our house, that we will engage with, that we will point, you know, our finger too is as as my daughter's inner voice stops just being mom and dad's voice. And she's now developmentally inherently looking and going, what other voices are out there, we go, hey, look, here's some other great voices. Here's some other people listen to. Here's a great book to read. Here's a great right. We've got that established so she's seeing examples of other people, but there are examples that fall in line with that family ethos. We're making it attractive to grow. It's we're making it okay to question. We're making it okay to change. We're making all of that available to her. We're being very specific and we're keeping the distractions away. She's not at a conveyor belt school where she's got the influence of a bunch of other people who I, I don't know where that and that's not sheltering, by the way. That is taking control, taking control during those developmental years, that are really strong foundations of it. She becomes a woman who then can see evil when evil is presented or something ridiculous when it's presented. Right. We're giving her that foundation. So she's not exposed to that. She doesn't have social mediation. She's not going to have social media. You do that as soon as you want your kids childhood to end. That's not happening for us. It's all those things. I absolutely agree with you. This is certainly such an enlightening conversation. The world needs more of you. I have so much respect for what you and some of your teammates are doing just extraordinarily high amount of respect. Thank you for that. And I want there's a whole lot of really good humans out there. Right. And there's a whole lot. So when you're doing you're talking about this, this changes, this changes family bloodlines right here. I'm understanding how this is a little. This is a little. This is right with the health. This is part of educating the population too. And all we're doing is teaming up with people, all the people that are coming to us. And they're now launching campuses in their community. They're teaming with us on this. All the guests mentors that show up. They're teaming with us on this. There are so many of the media will tell you otherwise. But the reality is you look around there are so many amazing humans who want to perpetuate this solid message for the next generation. And we're working together. Do it. We just need to put a highlight on more of them. And well, we're doing it. We're doing it. Thank you to Inside Tracker for sponsoring this episode of the show. I will never be done talking about the importance of understanding your blood work and knowing your own biomarkers. This is an necessity. An inside Tracker makes it so easy to do. We all know that we face different insults in our own life. Whether we are up to late or we are exposed to foods that might be less than ideal, there are many reasons as to why people age differently. It is your responsibility to know how you are doing that. And that is why I love inside Tracker. You can go to their website. They make it super easy. There's a whole bunch of different programs that you can purchase to look at biomarkers. It also analyzes your blood DNA, fitness tracking data. You can get it directly. There are markers like ApoB and a full CBC blood count and insulin and thyroid. You name it. If it's meaningful, they have it. Go to InsideTracker.com slash Dr. Lion. You'll get 20% off, which is very generous. That's InsideTracker.com slash Dr. Lion. What are some of the physical necessities that every family should be able to do for just what are the capacities? For example, should everyone be able to defend themselves? Should what are the things that we have to think about? You know, I in my spare time, I love weapons. And I've really struggled with. Is that something private? Do I share that with people? Do I not? And I came to this conclusion that the more open and transparent that I can be, the better it's going to be for the people that are even interested in what I have to say. And I'll tell you exactly why I do that. I love weapons training. Number one, yes, it's fun, but number two, I find it in necessity. I need to be able to protect my family. Even though I'm married to a stud seal, I want to be able to depend on myself should this situation ever arise. And my children should be able to know if there is an emergency, we have a game plan, we have a code word, we practice, we know how we're getting out of the house, how we're getting in the car, how should a situation arise? These are physical skills, how long is it going to take us to get out of the house or into the car, etc. And by the way, I got criticized for saying the word et cetera. You guys are jerks. But totally out of the house. What should we as parents as adults? And the level to which our children should be between, what should physically we be capable of doing? That's a really good. It's a really good question. And there's the physical side and there's just all this. What we're talking about is these meta skills in general. So we emphasize meta skills on all of our programs, on all of our campuses, and meta skill being something that always matters and always will, essentially. So when I ask people, what is that? Why isn't school addressing that? Two, I'm like, okay, really? So 2040, this is 2024, we're talking right now, right? So in 2040, what is the job that's in highest demand? I don't know. Of course you don't. There's no way to know that. I don't know either. So what will matter? Well, their physical health is going to matter. Their ability to take care of their own physical health to understand their physiology, to understand how to gain muscle mass and understand how to get lean if they need to understand how to avoid illness and understand how to take care of injuries and understand like all of those things are always going to matter. So that's going to matter. How about taking care of somebody else who gets injured and you know, emergency preparedness. So they need to understand what that looks like, how about defending themselves? You bet. Take it to step forward. If we're really talking sovereignty, it's not everybody just go to the grocery store to get food. What happens if grocery or such now? What happens if 2020 happens all over again and store shut down? And now you've got to figure out how to grow some food for yourself. Do you know how to do that? What if a grid shuts down and you no longer have, I think Tim said something the other day where it's like an estimated power was to be eradicated from the United States within one year, 90% of the population would be dead. Okay. So not in a fear-based mentality, but what if that happens? Are you good? Can you survive? Can you grow your own food? No, we can definitely not grow my own food. We'll just get off there and keep my hands on a line. So like that. So let's talk about like should we be able to do that? Should we be able to grow and harvest our own food? Should we be able to live without some of the modern common comforts? Will we be able to live without electricity? Should we live without having cell service? Can we live without being able to have transportation somewhere? Can we live without communication? Without can we do all those things? I think those are important questions to ask and it's not that, oh my gosh, if I can't do that, you're going to die in the next year. But no, but how prepared are you for any given scenario? That's education. By the way, even if okay, grid doesn't go down and everything's going well there, but all of a sudden, everybody realizes that the Fed has been screwing us this entire time and money goes away and now it's a digital, you know, sort of cool, cool. What are you going to do with that? How prepared are you that? Do you understand how money works? Are you actually protected? Are you just going, I don't know. It's told to just go to work for 30 years. Throw things in a 401k. Okay, cool. How about the market crashes? What are you going to do? Every single bit of this, it's going to go beyond just physical. This is just preparedness in general. In general. In general. And again, then can on the physical side, can you maintain health? Can you protect yourself if somebody attacked, you know, was to come to attack you or try to take your stuff like all of those things. And to be clear, you believe it matters. Always. And this should be something that we should be educated on. 100% we have to educate our selves on that and bring our families through that. It's our moral. It's not even the sounds cool. It's our moral obligation. It's our moral obligation if we're taking care of our young people to the best of our ability to give them a sovereign as a scenario as humanly possible. And again, you can extend the outside of the physical, which you should be able to understand how to generate income. Like, what does it mean to build a, you're just relying on somebody else. All right, how many people got stuck in a bad situation when they're like, ah, gosh, I really don't want to take the jab, but I'm being forced to, if I don't do it, I'm going to lose my job, you're not sovereign because somebody can take it away from you. With your help, people are going to be able to be capable in our next generation is going to be better. And I want to circle back to the program, the apathy. I want to talk about what that word means. And very specifically, the kinds of children entering the program is this available to everybody. Do they share characteristics or demographics? Are there trends? Again, I know that that was a lot of questions. A lot of great questions. So, apathy means the highest point or the culmination of something. So, we take it, like, you're climbing a mountain, you know, getting to the top of that and you're getting to the apathy of that mountain. And it's not to mean that you've arrived because once you get there, then what's, you know, your viewpoint is now there's a bunch of other mountains to climb. Right? And so, but the apathy is getting to the highest point of something. Like I said, perfection is not possible. And we always say this in our organization, perfection is not possible, but it remains the standard. Right? We can always work towards it. Not possible, but it remains the standard. There's always growth. So, you can always continue to move closer and closer and closer to the apathy of any of these meta skills that we're talking about. So, within the program, we tend to have people who, and this is people who are like the young men are usually being signed up obviously by their parents. You know, the men, the women we tend to have people who lean towards an understanding of personal responsibility matters. They're leaning into this idea of, I don't want the government to have to take care of me on everything. I don't want to live 30 years in a cubicle. I don't want to have that pen that maybe I gave away or maybe I didn't even know I gave away. I don't want somebody else writing my story for the rest of my life. They tend to have that general belief. And that tends to, you know, people want to make everything political and it tends to be on it. More of a, quote unquote, conservative side, I guess, but we have people from all backgrounds. We have conservatives. We have people who are, you know, people on the right. We have people on the left. We have people who are very much down the center. When it comes to politics, we have people who come from faith-based homes. We have people who come from non-faith based homes. We have people like we see the full game. We have, you know, special operators. We have Olympic athletes. We have guys who are working three jobs in trades just to make the end of the meet. We've got literally, you know, everything in between. But that's what it comes down to is we have a shared code, a shared set of values. It's really that like Bashito code of honor and loyalty and commitment and politeness and, you know, live in towards a purpose. And like that is what we all agree on. And then everything else is a general roadmap to see where are we sovereign, where are we not, where do we still have room to grow, where do we not, like that's the whole thing. Now accessibility is something that we're really, really focused on. So the programs themselves from the virtual standpoint are stupidly wildly affordable on purpose. We've had a number of people be like, hey, that's dumb. Like you should actually make that more special. For like what you're doing, you're actually going to kill. So we get that. But again, we're playing this longer-tail game and we're wanting to go wide, especially with all these campuses. We're going to have live events in every state to kick off all of these campuses launching and we want to get, you know, 500 campuses just here in the US alone. But we want to make it accessible to downside to any sort of privatized educational endeavor that somebody's got to pay for it. Right. Right. That's a downside. So then, here at Lay Limit, some people who don't come from a background of being able to pay for that. We want to eradicate that. So we're working on building essentially an endowment that can make this accessible to anybody as long as they agree to that code of conduct, as long as they agree to be a good human being. As long as we can agree around that basic standard of like work, we're going to tell the truth. We're going to, you know, work hard. We're going to treat each other well. We're going to go try to serve other human beings. We're going to be honorable. We're going to be committed. Commitment is a word that just gets thrown around right now. Right. No, committed. I'm going to do the things I say I'm going to do. I'm going to say what I mean, I'm going to mean what I say. You find those people we want it to be accessible. So we've got two different foundations that people can donate to. And one of those foundations is a public facing charity where we can start to take a look at state grants, you know, school choice money, things like that. And we're open to that as long as it doesn't go, you know, we don't have to bend the knee to a specific politician or to a specific state standards are required like not going to play that game. But we want to be able to do that important to our campuses and into our families and the communities. And then we have a private foundation, 100% of that money that comes in goes right back out. People can donate directly to it. But one of the ways that we have created that I think is going to be the most effective thing that no other school system is doing is we created a payment processing system. Now, part of this was because stripe how will our money stripe actually in a live event that B and I did stripe was like, no, we don't like that you guys are doing this around men. They shut it down, gave back like a hundred thousand dollars worth of ticket sales without telling us like, wow, we've had issues. That's an it's unfortunate because the conversation that we're having right now is not a political conversation at all. This is about a strong foundation for human beings. It is this is not are you conservative. Are you liberal? Are you on the right or the left? This is about raising and being capable humans who want to serve humanity. We go, but we were targeted on that. So we went, okay, well, one of the rules was rule number six, no complaining fix it. So we're like, okay, what are we going to do? So we created our own payment processing system. We actually work with an organization that's been doing it for like 12 13 years. We created Apigy Pays. Apigy Pays allows any business that uses stripe or PayPal or has a point of sale or whatever we go in, we can match the exactly what they're doing now, match the rate, whatever that looks like now. And set of us making money on the margin like Striper PayPal does. That money goes directly into the Apigy Strong Foundation. So just by doing business like you've always done business, you are helping us to make this accessible to everybody. And as people are listening to this and they're probably thinking, what is the difference in the structure of the education? For example, when when I heard about this, I think I contacted you. I actually think that that's how we were first connected again. We have many, many new friends. I remember how we got connected by that. I was so interested in we were moving to Houston and I think I message you and I said, is there an Apigy School in Houston for the children? And it's not at a place where it is available yet a campus yet that I know of. I know that they're coming, but the question is, are they going to learn foundational things like mathematics or music? What are the things that they're going to learn in the curriculum? And what are the things that you feel again having been an education for two decades that you think are critical to understanding and development? That's the best question right there, right? So what are the things that are critical? What are the things that do need to be there? Because what'll happen is everybody has their idea of what they want their kids to learn based on their own perspective. I want my every kid needs to learn music. And then some families are like, no, not every kid needs to learn music. Some people, every, you know, I want my child to learn to take apart a freaking rocket ship and I want my child to be able to perform surgery and I want my child to have somebody has their various, their bent and there's no way any educational institution can do all things for all people at all times. So it is how do you structure it so that you have what we're talking about here, a capable individual who has self-confidence and self-awareness right now is building these fundamental, this fundamental foundation, they're rooted to those factory settings and then as the world continues to change as they go forward, they are aware enough confident enough capable enough to adapt along with it. They can learn what they want to learn when they need to learn it and they can unlearn something that's no longer relevant. They can't, it's like, that's what we're doing is building that foundation. So on our campuses, which by the way, I'm, um, Tomble is the closest one to you. How far is that? 24 24? I don't know. I think, and within an hour probably, but 2025, I'm Woodlands area, um, huge, like we've got people that are applying on this area too. So I, that'll, it'll be here. You'll soon arrive on the next day. Yes, man. Dang right. So, um, from a foundational aspect on our campuses, we've got a few buckets. We don't, school says life works in subjects. Obviously, that's not true. So we have, we have buckets. So one is that physical education bucket. Yes, physical fitness, health, fitness matters. So depending on our affiliate. So again, these are independently owned and operated. Some of our affiliates own cross victims. I was just wondering, are they going to learn to get you? Are affiliates own cross videos? Some of our affiliates. So it's a yes and physical fitness on the daily. Might be calisthenics. Might be kid boxing. Might be jujitsu. Might be cross fit style work. It doesn't Yes, physical fitness matters. Not freaking dodge ball. It's not let's sign your kid out. So they don't have to actually work. No, we want them to actually be physically active. That's something that's a non-negotiable on campus. Another non-negotiable is what we're talking about earlier, like the Socratic Method. So having Socratic Conversations. So having daily Socratic Conversations speech debate, logic rhetoric, those things matter, understanding how to think logically, actually giving them the building blocks of what thinking looks like. Which is super cool. And also many adults don't know how to do that. They absolutely don't know how to do that, right? Nor can they engage in civil discourse, which is a part of that too, right? At the end of the day, you and I will agree on much. At some point we could find something we disagree on. And it's the way in which you handle the disagreement. How do you handle that disagreement? Right? I'm okay with the fact that Gabby is going to disagree with me on something. I would love to hear your evidence. I'd love to share mine. Maybe I changed my mind. Maybe you change yours. Maybe neither one of us changes. We still go forward and go cool. We're still friends. Let's go to the light. Like that's a thing that you can do. And not be emotionally wrapped up in all this kind of stuff. Which is all we see online. That's all we see online. And by the way, that's always seen a lot of times in person with certain people. I mean, that's unfortunate because that's where we've gotten to, right? So understanding that understanding logical fallacies, how to actually articulate and communicate your ideas matter. So that's it's own specific bucket. It's kind of that critical thinking bucket and daily exercise around that. The academics are a part of that. Academics are great. But academics are put on a pedestal as if all people need all these things that the exact same, it's again, probably ridiculous. But the academics matter. We're just not going to have somebody sit there and lecture everybody. We're not going to pretend that everybody needs algebra at 12. So you have academic options. Sure, if you want to use a textbook, great. Most people, when does the last time you use a textbook? Oh, it's not. So I'm the wrong person out. Yeah, that's a good point. You're because you're an academia. You're how's going to be the same thing? Yes, I can. The vast majority of people, how often do they use a textbook? In fact, I just purchased a new one. No. All the exercise. Exactly. Exercise, metabolism, it's absolutely awesome. Yeah. But very few people will do that, right? When I say that, though, I do question everything in the textbook. I get the textbook. You've been taught to do that. Which is great. That's what you should be doing. But I use a textbook. The textbook is not gospel, because I need to understand the holes in the thing. I should be able to. I'm not blinded. I should be able to deal with every source for everything, right? So, but if people want to use textbook school, we can use textbooks. There's also, you know, when you're talking about the basic academia that kids go through in schools, right? Salcons, then a great job in chronic academy. It's freaking free. It's free. It's free. It's free. It's three times the amount of work that you will do in any conveyor belt school to earn your way through to another level. Three times the amount. I know Sal personally and it is the conicats. The online learning I've watched. I've watched all. That's all there. There's a number of the synthesis. When what Elon's developed with synthesis is pretty legit for math and actually incorporates critical thinking in math. It's great. There's the traditional academia. It has its place. There's its own bucket. That's great. How about collaborating around projects that actually matter? Taking on a real-world project. This year we've got seven sessions in our school years, each session is four to six weeks. There's always a themed project. This is where we're exposing them to all kinds of things in a real-world fashion and we're allowing them to collaborate to create something not just consume. Schools all about consuming. Education means you learn through creating. You actually have an experience of doing something. They're going to create a Renaissance fair based on this entire concept of what does it mean to live by a code? What is the history of looking at how to culture's develop a code? How to families develop a code? What does that mean to incorporate that? So they're going through an entire project based experience and then they're putting on a Renaissance fair for their community to talk about the history of building on a code and what is the code they want for their campus? They're going into like a CEO of my own life where they're talking about time and energy management. They're figuring out how to structure schedules and goals. That's also when we're going to put in a campus economy during that session as well. So that there's, hey, you do a job, you get paid for the job. You do a harder job. Maybe you get more money for the job. You want to try to fit like actually weren't learning how money works. We have an internal economy that they're going to take on. The next one is health as wealth diving into human physiology and understanding breath work and understanding what nutrition actually means. What it looks like, how do you actually cook real healthy food? We want to eventually get our chefs on campus to be kids. One of my campuses, the head chef on campus who's making real food every single day. He went down work with a SNA price, came in. He's responsible every day for cooking all of the meals on campus real food every day. He goes to the store. If figures out a source, it runs the school lunch program. Hires middle school students, that's a su chef. All right. So they're learning how real skills and they're putting out real food every single day. So for our kids, health, nutrition matters. Going into a session on like building shelters and building fires and how to actually grow your own food, going into a shark tank session where you're building out a mock business. You're having to learn what a PNL is, you have an source real materials and you're having to go give a pitch to local investors. Then we have a real business fair. They're actually all starting businesses. Not that everybody should be an entrepreneur, but the entrepreneurial skill set always matters. So they're starting a real business, taking projects and services to the public. Like these are real things that matter. So they have projects around real world scenarios and then massive responsibilities from cleaning campus to taking care of things to internships and apprenticeships and fields. They think they want to work in. Again, as much exposure as humanly possible to all the things that are going to allow them to know who they are and have an idea of where they're going. I don't know about you. I had no clue. Even with my straight days, I knew I was good at meeting girls and I was good at playing sports. That's what I was good at. So then I'm like, guess I'm going to college. Got better at girls, got better at sports. Still got my straight days. And then went, cool. Now what? I don't know. I don't want to play school. I don't know who I am. I don't know what I have to offer the world. Somebody helped me. I was told I get this college degree and jobs are just going to be, you know, coming after me, man. It's not the way it works. No, it's not. Thank you to a first forum for sponsoring this episode of the show as we talk about families and children. I wanted to highlight their M factor kiddos mixed berry multivitamin. They are delicious. I may or may not have tried them myself. Okay, I did. And each gummy has vitamin A and C and D and E and B6 and folate B12 things that growing children need. It's really important that we understand our kids kind of eat a little bit. Whatever they want. And that's why I think it's really important that kids take a multivitamin. First form does a great job. Their M factor kiddos taste amazing. Your kids will like them. They look like gummy bears. Grab yours. Go to firstform.com slash a doctor lion. That's firstform.com. slash doctor lion. What is the ultimate vision? If you were to sum it up in one to two statements, I know your mission statement and I want to hear, what is the dream? How many people are doing this? Are we challenging traditional schooling versus education and who are we producing and in what time range? Yeah, it's a really good question. Tim was just on Sean Ryan's show and I haven't gotten to listen. I got the episode in the queue for the for the flight home and one of the things that I heard him say that he not talked about quite a bit and he says we want to just completely abolish the department of education. I'm all for it. I don't think that's going anywhere anytime soon, but we want to rival it by creating something that is better and still as accessible. It's that foundation that we talked about to make this enough of an endowment process to make these campuses available to anybody who believes this is what education should look like. One of the best things CrossFit did was as they spread, you know, kind of this grass roots organization that spread, they invited community and they invited people to do things a way that wasn't being done. They didn't try to go in and do it inside your big boxes, your bat lesre 24-hour fitness, your gold gems. They didn't necessarily go in there and do it again. I'm saying I love CrossFit. I don't love CrossFit. It's not the point. The point is the model. So they went and they did something that people responded to and people had good results with and what happened was a lot of your big box gems started incorporating CrossFit style classes. For us, conveyor belt schools, public schools, government schools, they're not going away. We know they're not going away. But what if we just make the alternative so well known, so attractive, so just written with stories of transformation that it can't be denied and they have to start going, maybe we'll add some more projects here. Maybe we'll start and they then corporate America starts going, hey, we already have this by the way. We have corporations reaching out going, hey, I heard this young man on the podcast, I heard a mask and questions, how old is he? I'm like, he's 18. Cool. We'll move him. We want him. We'll move him out here to Texas from Florida where he lives. We want him for this job. He's brilliant. He's articulate. He's phenomenal. And I'm like, yeah, here's his digital portfolio of leadership, right? So extraordinary. So extraordinary. We want hundreds of campuses that are educating the entire family. We want mom and dad to learn to be more sovereign. We want mom and dad to learn to be able to start their own foundations to go be able to give in ways that they want to give to get out of the 1040 system, get into a 1041 system. We have more control over their life, more sovereignty, more freedom. We want the young people to grow up, knowing who they are. We want all of them impacting the communities in ways that they want to impact the communities. So we want, you know, really in the next five years, I'm hopeful for for 500 campuses. I'm hopeful for an endowment that makes all of those things accessible to every single person. I don't make it damn dollar on it. And I know Tim feels the same way. I don't care. I want to Apigy to go down as a household name here in the next five years of going, well, this is it's you got school or you have an Apigy campus and pick one. Well done. Well done. Matt Boudro. Got it. Yeah, nailed it. Thank you so much. Thank you for coming on sharing your mission, your wisdom. You are truly a purpose-driven individual. Thank you. It is inspiring and it is necessary. It's more necessary at this moment than any other time. Where can people find you? We will of course link everything. This will go out in the news letters. This will we will make you available and the Apigy school online community available to everyone. Thank you so much. I appreciate that very much. And it says definitely an honor and thank you for being on the same team. And anytime we get a platform to just speak about what we're doing is a blessing. So Apigy Strong APO GE Strong.com is the place to go. That'll link it to a little documentary that's on there. You got all of our programs again designed to stay on the loan or come together. You're able to get a map to where all the campuses are located. There'll be a section to start filling out where you say, hey, I'd like to maybe bring one to my community. So we'll start having conversations. So Apigy Strong.com is the way to go. If you want to look at how your busy, your an entrepreneur, you want to look at how your business can help perpetuate the mission. ApigyPay's.com is the way to go on that Apigy Strong Foundation.org if you want to donate directly all those places are great. But it's an honor for anybody even check it out. And even if they just hear this and have nothing to do with that, but it makes them be more intentional with how they lead in the household and the young people and it's a win, man. Thank you so much, sir. Yeah, thank you.

Did you ever have to go to a dark place to maintain that kind of motivation and focus? I feel like the dark place was all around me. Me being away from the sport and then having to come back into the sport and having to deal with the juggernaut, like you say in bolt, and the media was always like white hat black hatting us because I was his rival. But at the time I came back he was winning by far. No one wanted to challenge him. He was out there just having a great time. Is that why you came back into the sport? I was so inspired. I saw him break the world record in 2008 and people in the sport were like so scared. A lot of sprinters like stop-spending and went into other events or they just didn't compete at all anymore. For me it was different. I looked at that screen and I remember seeing it in a bar and I looked at the screen and I was like I want to raise that guy. And that's what got me really inspired to come back into the sport more. What had you been doing? Take me through a little bit about where your career was at the time and how you decided to come back and you saw him. You were inspired by greatness. I will say that the best of the best individuals are always inspired by greatness. They are not afraid of it. They're not intimidated by it but they're inspired by the greatness of others. You smell it. It's like it's a different energy. Greatness and another person recognized that greatness is like an energy you feel. So watching that I was attracted to that energy and it made me more relentless. I was like I could come back into the sport and I could compete but now I was like I come back into the sport and have a goal. I want to I want to stand shoulder to shoulder with this guy at the start line and I made that happen. So take me to where you had been in your career when you decided to get back in the game. So you started racing professionally. Your first big win was what? Before when I came back into the game? No, before. But the initial part because again you've had a career, you know, 2001 you won gold at the outdoor championships. So my first part of my career was a fairy tale within itself. So I turned pro in 2003. I went to indoor worlds and I won indoor worlds probably like two months after turning real, right? So that's my first gold medal. 2004 is the Olympics. So I made the Olympic team. I win the gold medal there. 2005 is the World Championship year. I win not only one goal but two goals, 200 and the 200. Then 2006 I break the world record in the 100 meters. So it was constantly like like I said I had a list of things I wanted to do. I was checking off the boxes of what I exactly what I wanted to do. But I wanted to achieve and I've really, really sent my attempts of doing so. And I never in and in my self with multiple goals at once, right? So if it was a Olympic year, that's where we focus on. I'm not focusing on breaking the world record and getting the Olympic gold. I wanted to focus on how laser focused on that moment, which was, let's win this Olympic gold. And then we can mature ourselves to go on breaking world record. I mean, that's very insightful. And how old were you then? So 2006. 21. Wow. I believe, yeah. So I was just legal enough to celebrate my win. Isn't that isn't it crazy looking back? It is. At the change in the amount that you've become. Did you have any challenges with that first leg of your career? No, not really. I mean, one thing I saw other athletes in greatness is observant, very observant. The people who possess greatness, they're aware of everything around him. Like Tom Brady, he understands every aspect of defense that he plays against. Usually you think in like all he doesn't just stands his offense. That's all he needs to understand. No, he understands the whole game. It's the same thing for me. I understand the whole game. I know each and every one of my competitors, what their attributes are, what their flaws are, how their season's going, how they're running, what their PR's are, what. So I know that I can be able to eliminate certain variables. So when you go out there and compete against them, I know exactly how I'm going to fare against them. I only get nine seconds. I don't get four quarters. I don't get two halves. I don't get 90 minutes. I get nine seconds to go out there and show the world what I'm made of and go out there and beat seven other of the elite world athletes. So I have to know all the variables that's in play. Did you ever try to get into their head? Could you? I, I, mental warfare. Yeah, that's exactly what I'm getting at. Mental warfare. Because it's not, I can't imagine you guys are all hanging out together. So mental warfare is way different in track of field than other sports. So I'll take you through a mental warfare looks like. So let's just say we have the Olympic trials, right? And mean you're competing against each other. We're the top dogs. So what I'll do is I have a prelimbs, semi-sandfinals, so do you. We probably are not in any, any of the rounds together. We'll see each other at the finals. So what happens is I'll run my prelimbs. I'll try to conserve as much energy as possible, but still dominate that race. So what that look like is I'll get out hard and then I'll command the race halfway through the race. And then as I'm running, I'll look around, make sure no one's beside me and then I'll shut down. And I'll start to like, try to cross the line. That'll show my dominance. That's the mental warfare. So anybody is watching in the warm up area at home or your competitors getting ready to come on to the track too. They see how fast you are and you're holding back. So when you go into the semi-sandfinals, you do the same thing. If I gave 50% in the prelimbs, I'm giving you about 75% in the semi-sandfinals, right? So then I do the same thing. I get out hard, I dominate the race. I might have someone to be able to go against me like at 65 meters and then I dominate them and then I come across the line and then I look at time, I'm running pressed, even those fast time and then I walk off the track, right? Mental warfare. Is that an unspoken? It is. That's very unspoken. It's unspoken. It's very unspoken. That's the way that you get into your competitors head without directly walking out there. Good days are bad days and one of my competitors always told me it's like, I hate to go against you because I can never read you. You always have a poker face on it. If I was fast at that point in time, I was still bad at the same face even if I wasn't ready. You gotta have a poker face. We're all sitting in a room like a room we're sitting now. So imagine five other individuals in this room that get ready to go run and try to beat you. They're looking at you. They're ironing you. They're trying to see if you're sweating too much or if you're looking away or if you like intimidated, like you same will walk back and forth in the room as if he's hosting a party. How you feeling? You good? How's everything going? He'll start trying to have like banter one of the guys to take him out as my mindset. Now you say my set was to relax and have fun. That's where his super power line. Mine was to dial in if they focus day hungry. So he would never would approach me on that matter because he understood what I was. But that's how mental warfare in our sport is. Just like that. You gotta know who you are and you gotta play that game very, very well.

You are in the business, yet making sex better. How does a woman or a man introduce herself? I would discourage people from being too focused on touch and where you're touching and how. More focused on who you are in the bedroom, how often should a person have sex. So this is such a great question because people argue about this all the time. Women can feel pressure to have an orgasm like during sex. But what is interesting is there's little pieces of research here and there that talk about things like her anatomy affects how likely she is to have an orgasm during sex. I never heard that. Yeah. Women also will often find it almost intrusive to be touched before they're turned on. God, guys, yes. Every man needs to understand this. Yes, they do. But people are having less sex, but they're masturbating more. One thing that people don't realize is they find that their orgasms when masturbating are better. If you're masturbating, you know what you're feeling. You know what exactly how to change your touch or modify speed and intensity to have the best orgasm. Does that make sense? Yeah, okay. I mean, I'm just still stuck on female erections. Right. Their guys listen to this are going to be like, we even have erections. And the women listening are watching this are going, wait, I do have erections. How does a woman or a man improve their sex life? People get off track with that and that they think, well, there must be some other way to touch. Or there must be some other activity to do in the bedroom. That's really going to make the difference. Really the difference lies within us. It's an internal difference. So what I would suggest to people is why trying something new, which is what you always see in the magazines. There's nothing wrong with that. That's great advice. But the more important thing is to recognize who you are in the bedroom, what you're bringing to the situation. And it's going to involve being focused. So where is your attention? So that's one point. Becoming a better lover is about bringing your attention into your body. We call that embodiment. So that's one very important piece of the puzzle. Also, as important is what sort of personality you bring into the bedroom? And I would suggest that it's very helpful for people to develop a few different kind of sexual personas so that they can keep their sex life interesting over time. So what I tell my patients and I think it can be difficult to learn, but after people learn it, it really works. Is there a decrease, for example, in overall women's orgasms, men's orgasms now versus what we've been seeing in the past? People are having less sex, but they're masturbating more for the most part. So if we're talking about frequency, I would say no real decrease because people are taking matters into their own hands more. So there's so many inappropriate jokes that we're going to be making. I promise we're not going to have to swear, so if there's children around, you may or may not want to turn this off. One thing that people don't realize is for the most part, they find that their orgasms when masturbating are better. And people worry about that. Like why is this? What's wrong with my sex life if my orgasms are better alone? And of course not everyone will agree with that. But it's simply the fact that if you're masturbating, you know what you're feeling. You know what exactly how to change your touch or modify speed intensity to have the best orgasm. So with the exception of new relationships when people are generally so excited that anything works really well, over time people find that masturbation can be more sexually stimulating. How often should a person have sex? What is a normal kid? Well first of all we know there's a wide variety of what people find comfortable. 15% of people, um, orgasm at least once a day. Male or female. More male than female, but this statistic comes from a group of both, but that's more likely to be male. So of adults, 15% of adults, orgasm at least once a day. Among college students, 40% of males and about 4% of females, orgasm once a day. Why such a huge difference in number? In percentage. What we know is that in just about every aspect of sexuality, guys do it more, you know? So it whether it be fantasy or masturbation or engage in a fetish or desire for sex or interest in sexual creativity or willingness to pay for sex. I mean it goes on and on. Men are just more engaged sexually in all of these ways than women. Now it is common for people in our culture to say yes well women were, you know, sort of trained not to like sex. So for example, particularly religious environments, they sort of discourage women from being sexual at least at a young age. That sort of thing. But the real truth overall is that there are some very real differences between male and female sexuality that we tend to ignore in this culture, but I think they're super important for us to understand if we're trying to create a satisfying sex life with our partner. These differences are critical to understand. So how can a man please his partner? Is it a G spot understanding? Right. So I would say the G spot is one of those examples where we get over focused on the body and under focused on who we are in the bedroom. Some women feel like they have a G spot. Other women don't really feel like they have that. I would discourage people in general from being too focused on touch and where you're touching and how. More focused on who you are in the bedroom. I want to give you an example of a homework I give my patients. It really works, okay. I suggest to them that they find a piece of music that they would dance to at a wedding, like so romantic and they find a piece of music that they would enjoy in a jazz club on a Saturday night and they find a piece of music that's really kind of hard and angry. All right. And then they practice on their own, like lock the door and practice with each of these pieces of music, how their body would move to that music. And people can feel kind of silly when they're doing that. I would be very embarrassed and we have cameras all over our house. Right. So yeah. So maybe go to a hotel room for a night. I'm just I'm being totally honest and straightforward. But what happens is people learn how their body can bring a different energy into the bedroom. And if a man wants to please his partner, the chances of him engaging her are so much greater. If he can sometimes bring a real intense personality and he can sometimes bring a really sensual personality and sometimes bring a really loving personality. So he can like gear how that experience goes based on his persona and he can put music on to help. But he will see that his the way he looks at her based on these moods, the way his body moves. I'm going to argue that he's going to find a huge improvement in his sexual experience with her because he can open her in each of these ways and it's a different experience. So I think another important point here is that stress closes us and we're also stressed. Is that why people have less sex now? You said that people are having less sex now. I think that's a very important reason. I think there are a variety of reasons but that's one. So you can't have good sex from this place. If you just looked on your phone, you got yourself agitated. Is that true? I think men men are able to and again I talk to I hear from number one, we have a medical practice. And I hear from female patients and male patients all the time. That for guys it's a bit of a stress release and for women they go, oh god. I have just spent my entire day working doing everything and now you're in a sex. So that is absolutely correct. What I say to my patients is for a woman even though she enjoys sex. Having sex is often like gathering information for going to for a run. You love exercise, you love going for a run. But you're not going to spontaneously go for a run probably. You had 11 o'clock at night when you've just finished dinner in the dish. It's like going for a run. There's no pleasure in a run at 11 o'clock at night. It's that same thing. But for a guy it doesn't require that level of energy. So he's fed by that at 11 p.m. or whatever. Sex feeds him for her more than likely. She feels like she has to gather energy to enjoy herself. It doesn't mean she doesn't enjoy herself. It just means that it requires something to give. If you listen every week and feel like we are in this together, which I believe that we are learning, growing and building strength. Then I created a way for us to get connected even more closely. It's called forever strong insider. A premium community for listeners who want to go deeper. You'll get an app for your episodes which I know you'll love. Bonus Q&A is where your questions shape the conversation. Behind the scene moments because what's facing off-larious from my daily life and written takeaways is to keep either fingers. But more than that, you'll be supporting the show so that we keep creating content and matters. If you've ever wanted it to feel part of the inner circle, this is your invitation. Join us at foreverstrong.supercast.com or through the link in the show notes. What can a man do? And I get the, there's the music component. Is there a particular way that he can touch her? Is are there things that are biological in humans? For example, let's say, I don't know, woman strokes him and his penis. He probably is going to get an erection. Right. He doesn't have to do anything. He could probably be watching puppies jump over ladders or fences and you'll probably get an erection. Fair enough, he's there. The equivalent to that for a woman. I would say no. And women have erectile tissue just like guys except that much of her erectile tissue is hidden under skin. So the clitoris, the part that we can see is very small compared to the amount of that erectile tissue that's in her body, but it's under the skin. So first of all, it's going to be more challenging for her to have an orgasm probably because it's just sort of like trying to touch that tissue is like if we were massaging a man who was wearing five condoms. It's not going to be a stimulating, right? So the skin serves that buffer. So you have to approach her body. I think does that make sense? Yeah. Okay. I mean, I'm just still stuck on female erections. Right. I mean, this is stuff you talk about every day, but the guys listening to this are going wait. Like women have erections and the women listening or watching this are going wait, I do have erections. Yeah, erectile tissue. Not necessarily translated to you. But again, I don't actually know this answer. Can the clitoris become a rares? Yes. Okay. Yes. Yes. So what, for talking to heterosexual couple, he will do well to remember that it's a more challenging for her to have an orgasm just because so much of that tissue is hidden. So again, if you approach it like how would I feel as a man if I was wearing five condoms, you know, would it be harder to have an orgasm? Yes. Okay. So women also will often find it almost intrusive to be touched before they're turned on. God, guys, yes. Yes. Oh, please say that again. Every man needs to understand this. Yes, they do. So touch before she's ready feels intrusive. Yes. She needs a lot of build up before touch feels pleasurable. And unfortunately, when people cut out like things like foreplay or any kind of sensual sexual dance before sex, she hasn't had the prep time she needs to want that. Now, it's different at the beginning of a relationship because she's sort of been prepping constantly because she's just turned on. She's got a new partner. She's excited. So what people learn in that first year of a relationship is wow, my partner excites me so much. I don't even need foreplay. I'm just already ready, right? And guys will say that about their, their women. She's already wet. Can we say that? Yeah, I can say yes. Okay. We've officially prep people prior. Are we really talking about it? Okay. That's who they expect their partner to be sexually as a relationship ages. It's not. That's what happens at the beginning of a relationship. So now, let's say year or two in, she's not just automatically ready anymore. And so there needs to be a process of her getting her body ready. So that touch feels good. And so I encourage women to play a role in that, like, to kind of stimulate themselves in certain ways before they enter a bedroom. But he needs to recognize, again, if we're talking about heterosexual relationships, he needs to recognize that he's got to start slow. Like he can start by rubbing her arm or her chest. But not her breast yet, not even her nipples yet. Like give her time. Rub her vagina. Do not go straight in. Do not. It feels, it feels intrusive. It feels intrusive. And so the problem that some people run into is then they think, okay, well, I'll give her a massage first and then we'll have sex. Well, she's tired and you give her a massage. She's falling asleep. So that's really not the answer. You have to find this happy medium between, like, too much relaxation and enough to get her interested. So like inner thighs are a great way to start. I would say start with her panty zone. So she's not thinking she's about to get touched and she can relax. Okay, if she's completely nude and you're playing with her inner thighs, she's waiting any moment for her to for you to touch her clitoris and she's not ready, right? But if her panty is around and you're touching her inner thighs, she can kind of relax into that. That's what you want. So if she's like relaxed into that, when you move into her breasts or nipples or genitals, she's ready. Pretty sure you just solved 50% of all relationship problems right now, incredible advice, truly incredible advice. And as a culture, we don't talk about this stuff and we don't think about it. No, it's all about, I mean, the topic of porn and sex and AI, which we're going to get to, I think, is really starting to emerge. But how to pleasure a woman and to understand the steps is not, we don't really talk about it. We don't talk about it and where people are learning truly is porn and this is absolutely never, ever, porn doesn't approach this kind of education at all. And what men are trying really hard, I think, to please their partners and their very frustrated because all they know is what works for them and what guys they have to remember is what works for them is probably not what works for her. That doesn't mean he's doing something wrong. It doesn't mean she's doing something wrong. We're just different sexual animals. And so we just have to understand those differences. So he thinks when he walks by his woman and he grabs her breast, she's going to think that's fun because if she were to walk by him, I'm sure for that. Right? Yeah. If she walks by him and grabs his crotch, he thinks that's fun. So he's trying to do it again. I'm ready for you. Exactly. He's like, let me give her this gift and grab her breath. Is that ineffective for a place strategy? Not at all. I can't tell you how many patients say to me. It is. My God. You know, I'm in the kitchen. I'm getting dinner raised grab my breast. He's grabbing my butt. They hate it. Okay. This is extremely helpful. And, you know, I've got some statistics here that I wanted to share with you because one of the things that I hear is that some people are more or less sensitive. The tissue, whether it's a clitoris or the people that they find that they're less sensitive, what can someone do, what could a female do if she's experiencing that? So if she feels less sensitive, point one is if she used to feel more sensitive, she needs to get her hormones checked. And not just checked because she needs to get her hormones checked by someone who knows because if she goes to a general gynecologist that isn't really well versed in all of this, the chances are that gynecologist is going to say your hormones are fine. And that's all she's going to get. She needs to go to someone in sexual medicine who has an understanding of hormones and how they work in the body because it's not necessarily that her levels are low. They may be just low for her. So that's point one check hormones. Is there, can I talk you really quickly? Is there one particular hormone? Would you say testosterone would be the hormone that seems to have the biggest impact in sensitivity? Gosh, I'm not sure what to say about that. It's going to be estrogen or testosterone, but it could be estrogen. So I wouldn't necessarily, and maybe there's research that I haven't seen on that. Okay, so I'm I'm going to say to you, I'm not positive, but what I am positive about is go to someone who is educated in that so that they can be helpful. So and if people are worried which they shouldn't be, most likely, but if they're worried about systemic effects of hormones and they don't want to take hormones, which you do podcasts about and we treat patients with the clinic. Right. There's so much research out there that shows how healthy hormones can be, but if still if someone's concerned or if she's had breast cancer and she doesn't want to go in hormones, there are hormones that you can apply topically just to your genitals that have very little impact on the rest of your body that can help with sensitivity. I love that. Is that the same for a male? So if a male is experiencing less sensitivity, I would say, what do they do? I would say that's absolutely. So before we leave women, let me say that if she's having a hard time feeling turned on, I would suggest that she tries something like lay a warm wash cloth on her genitals for a few minutes before she enters the bedroom and perhaps that'll bring that's intended to bring more blood flow to her genitals and she may find that helps with sensitivity. She may not, but she could. And another thing of course are sex toys and finding the right sex toy for her because there's so many out there now. So there are sex toys that bring blood into her purse. Yes. Without creating, would it be to not create direct stimulation? When I think of sex toys or sex toy, I typically think of, I don't know, one or two, but there are different kinds that do different things. So many different kinds of two different things. And you can actually find them on any platform that sells stuff. You don't have to go to a sex toy shop anymore at all for these things. But some sex toys, for example, will suction. So they'll bring blood flow to the genitals or blood flow to her clitoris. And for some women, that amplifies sensation. So she could even do that a little bit before she joins her partner. Those are the things I would encourage her to try, but some people, like you said, are just more sensitive than others. And that's just sort of the luck of the draw. You know what else is interesting about women is, women can feel pressure to have an orgasm like during sex. And that's a whole topic we can cover if you want to. But what is interesting is there's little pieces of research here and there that talk about things like her anatomy affects how likely she is to have an orgasm during sex. So, for example, the farther her clitoris is away from her vagina, the harder it's going to be for her to have an orgasm during sex. So it's geography. She has nothing to do with that. And it makes that never hurt that. Yeah. Everyone's getting out of her team. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Is there an ideal placement? I mean, I guess what you're saying is the clitoris is to the vagina. Do we know that an X centimeter, X millimeter that she's less likely? I think it's going to depend on the partners together and how they fit. So no, we don't. And I don't think we're ever going to have that. But the bottom line is the closer her clitoris is to her vagina. But more likely it's going to be stimulated during thrusting. And there you have it. There's a lot of confusion about protein. What kind, how much and what? This episode is brought to you by Body Health. And we're going to talk about what the science shows. Total daily protein intake is the foundation for building and maintaining muscle. But factors like amino acid profile and how quickly those amino acids are delivered and influence how efficiently your body uses that protein. Her body breaks down protein into amino acids and then rebuilds new proteins into muscle bone and other tissues, the body requires nine essential amino acids. And each due a different thing and that's where perfect amino acid comes in. It delivers all nine essential amino acids in the precise ratio your body needs. Providing rapid absorption and of course, high utilization. So if your goal is to build and protect muscle, while of course optimizing recovery and body comp, perfect amino can help make every ground count. Head to body health.com and use the code Lion20 to get 20% off your first order. Does masturbation increase her likelihood of having an orgasm? I'm also hearing you say we don't want to focus just on orgasm. That's true. We don't want to focus just on orgasm. Are you asking, will masturbation regularly increase the increases of having an orgasm with a partner? Yes. Okay. Well, she gets better at orgasming if she is mastering. Well, that's absolutely something we recommend she tries because the more she learns, what feels good, the more she can teach her partner. So that's just kind of fact. So yes, I would encourage women to try different kinds of stimulation, different kinds of vibrators. For some women, a lot of stimulation fast actually can go the wrong direction and turn her off or shut her down like she gets too kind of overwhelmed and then kind of flat lines with stimulation. So she's got to be willing to really experiment. And if she feels like the stimulation is too intense, she can just lay a sheet between her body and her sex toy and try that. But there's so many different speeds of sex toys and stuff. Really, to have a good sex life, you can't be lazy. You simply cannot. Like you have to be able to be willing to put the time in to learn your body and have the patience to engage your partner. I mean, requires effort. I just another vertical. Another vertical to do, but probably extends life. So I love you saying that because we have so much research that shows when people are sexually satisfied, they're more satisfied with their relationship. They're more satisfied with their life in general. So this is so much bigger than people's bedrooms. What we're talking about today, so much bigger. Men. A man is feeling less sensitive. Can we define that? Is it just his penis that should be feeling sensitive? Is it also his scrotum? Is there a different domains that a woman watching this can go? You know what? I really want to turn my man on. I don't do that. And I'm just thinking, wow, gosh, I'm thinking of all this. It's probably pretty easy. Just walk by and grab their crotch. It's often time is very easy, but not always, right? So I would say a few things to her. First of all, I would say don't be afraid of his genitals. They're very different from yours. But you can bring some power to the experience. Now watch how he responds. But it's amazingly how strongly you can like grip a penis and not hurt a penis, right? So she should be willing to experiment with different kinds of touch. Also be aware that his testicles may be very different in sensitivity to his penis. One way or the other. So experimenting with skin around the genitals, different kinds of touch to the testicles, different kinds of touch to the penis. And make sure that there's enough loop going on. So if her mouth's not involved, she probably means loop to make it all feel good. So if we all bring just a little more time and patience to the experience, that's really going to go very far. Just level of experimenting. You know, and it makes me think about a reptile dysfunction. Again, we've had many or all of this on the show, including Dr. Abe Morgan told me. My husband may not be sitting right over in the corner. I'm not paying any attention to. I'm totally kidding. But when you hear these, you're all just talking. You will hear statistics like 40% of men at age 40 have a reptile dysfunction. 50% of men at 50. Yes. And I also had Dr. Tobias Coleron and he discussed that a man's penis can shrink. If it is not being used. Yeah. So my question is, where does a reptile dysfunction fit in? Let's say, for example, I don't know, there's a diabetic. Yes. Cannot get an erection. Right. So does that affect if a guy is listening to this? If he is 40, there's a 40% chance that he has erectile dysfunction. Right. Even if he's healthy in many, many ways. So this is just the body aging, body's age. And I'm telling you that. I know. I know. I hate it. But how can guys fix it? So his erection can be impacted by all kinds of stuff. These are not even thinking about. So medication side effects. If he asks his doctor, does this affect my sex life, his doctor may not know. And so you know, it doesn't. But in fact, it would. So there are things like how much you exercise that can affect your erection. So generally, if you're muscle mass, more muscle, more healthy muscle mass, we actually just publish a paper on this. Oh, wow. More healthy muscle mass, which I was hoping actually we presented at the end of it and said, yes, more healthy muscle mass, great better. I don't want to say greater, better sexual function. That is increased testosterone because of its effect on nitric oxide. Oh, it's effect on metabolism. Obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, these metabolic dysregulations, they actually begin in a skeletal muscle. First. Wow. If you're a skeletal muscle, yes, if you have healthy skeletal muscle, you're better erections. Okay, that's wonderful information. Really fascinating. I read this statistic. It said, men who spend five plus hours daily on TV or computers have nearly three times higher odds of erectile dysfunction than those under an hour. So I would assume that has a lot to do with a sedentary lifestyle. So exercise is great for your erection. And we know that if, for example, you are using fayagra or cialis or medication like that and you're finding that it's not as helpful as you want it to be, we do have studies that suggest that if you then, if you add exercise and, for example, a Mediterranean diet or a healthy diet to that, to your regimen, it's very likely that your erection is going to improve. So it's really sort of a whole body experience that you want to bring to the table. Also be aware that if you're struggling with erection, at least eventually you're likely then to start to have anxiety about it. As soon as you start to have anxiety about it, it's going to make this whole thing that much more challenging. So being conscious of what your emotional reaction is to those challenges can be very helpful in finding ways to work with it. And when I'm working with a guy with ED, I also suggest he look for a sex toy that adds stimulation for his penis. So they have sex toys that fit like on the base of the penis that just add a little more than a ring, it's a ring with a vibration to it. And it just adds more stimulation to the experience. So for some guys, that can be really helpful not everybody likes that sort of thing, but that can be helpful for a subset. It makes me think our men are more opposed to using sex toys with themselves than women. So I would say yes, but that's changing because there are so many sex toys out for men now that offer really, very intense, pleasurable stimulation. And guys are kind of starting to get the memo on that. So even if they go to just a typical store where they would buy toothpaste, right? They're going to find potentially online. Oh, they're not. Are they really in person or online? Online. OK. OK. So I've been to CVS a hundred times. I have never seen it near the toothpaste. But we will soon. We will soon. But at any rate, if they go online, they're going to find toys that look sort of like slash lights that are, that they put their penis in and they have ability to sort of mimic the sensation of oral sex, anal sex, whatever. So, and it gets much more even advanced than that. So something more advanced than that. There is, you just wouldn't even believe what's up there. I don't believe, it's like, we got to talk about under the table. Is this just right crazy? It's crazy. crazy. Like what? Well, you can buy these toys, for example, in a platform where you can actually have someone else that you don't even know in another state use your toy or you buy the remote control. Yes, yes. And not just remote controlled with your own lover, right, but remote controlled with someone else, or you can buy these toys in a platform that offers VR porn and the toys are calibrated to the porn. So that you're watching the porn, you feel like you're in it, you know, VR porn is so intense, but your toy moves the same at the same rate as sex or the oral sex or whatever's happening on your screen, your toys doing it. So the it amplifies there are ways to amplify stimulation that that is mind blowing for most people until they cow right. My first thought is for long-distance relationships. Yeah, it's good. It could be a way to connect that potentially wouldn't be the traditional routes of what are they called? Stex, texting, or whatever it is. You had actually creating a long-distance sexual relationship. Absolutely. And that's right. And that's really how they're marketed is there are real benefits to all of this technology. But it's so powerful that we also have to recognize that they could actually, for at least some people, negatively impact their sex life, ultimately, if they value human relationships. Oh, sorry, it's time to record an ad to the show. Thank you to one of the sponsors of the show, timeline and listen, my kids still sleep with me. And after 470 nighttime snack requests, bathroom breaks, my husband snoring, myself. They're like a yo-jee. We're tapped out. Enter, might appear. Timeline nutrition is one of the most thoroughly researched products. I've come across an over a decade. Look, to carry it in my purse, they have peer reviewed published science. And this is where it's really interesting. So for those of you who are following the muscle centric lifestyle, when you increase bio energetics, you improve muscle function and how in adults 40 plus, timeline has been shown to increase muscle strength and endurance and no change in activity. So whether you've been active resistance training your whole life or you're just getting started or you're not getting a lot of sleep and you've got a million requests, your muscles and your mitochondria need help. And they have just launched their low sugar vegan non-GMO gluten-free gummies, which by the way, I am eating by the handfuls which I shouldn't, but they taste delicious. Timeline is offering our community 20% off your first order. Go to timeline nutrition.com slash doctor lion and use the code doctor line to get 20% off. I recommend trying their starter pack with all three different formats. It's kind of course their gummies which are incredible. We, I had a guest on doctor Ben Rain and he is a neuroscientist and he was talking about the necessity of human connection. And that there are now AI chatbot friends. Right? Absolutely. What I'm hearing you say is there are now AI lovers. Correct. Many of us would hear that and say no one's really going to like that or they won't prefer it over a human partner. But these chatbot lovers have become so complex that first of all I would say to you, it kind of doesn't matter if you prefer human partner like theoretically because these lovers are so intense and powerful and they know exactly they are computer-generated to be a pleasure and probably I don't know really socksy toast and and create all these correct. Unnatural bonding with a machine is that clear to say that is fair to say. And that's terrifying. It is terrifying. What terrifies me the most is the impact of this technology as children get a hold of it because even just traditional porn kids are getting a hold of at age like 12. That's a big deal. I mean porn isn't always comfortable to watch and these 12 year olds can hardly metabolize what they're seeing and it is impacting their sex. Like we could talk about that if you want but it is how I know. Before we go into that I want to also get a framework for how long or do we know how long sex should lot. That's a good question people always ask. They do okay. Yeah okay but no it really depends on the couple and what they find comfortable and this is one of the ways I think sex is challenging for guys because women have very different perceptions on how long sex should last. So one one female would say five minutes of thrusting. Another one would say 25 minutes of thrusting and women who like to orgasm during sex require more thrusting. So like at least 15 minutes if they're going to orgasm during sex. So guys are like you know what's this partner want. You know there it's a lot for them. Okay. Yeah. We should be more sensitive to a man's experience because I do think that men tie any of them. I'm just speaking from what I hear in the clinic. I don't think women tie their confidence to the bedroom. Uh-huh. Would you say that that's fair? Not as much as I say it's fair in degree compared to men but I sort of I feel great sympathy for guys around this because for a woman if she's having an arousal issue she can still have sex if she wants. So for the most part if she's having arousal issue she gets some lube and she's if she wants to have sex she's probably okay. But for a guy if he's having an arousal issue meaning he can't get an erection or he loses it fast or whatever um sex is off the table or at least intercourse is and so they are there there egos can be involved in that but for a woman like she has a very different if she has an orgasm and she's done with orgasms she can still have sex if he has an orgasm chances are he's done with sex so it's just like so much more pressure on guys to make that experience feel good for everyone so I feel for guys who's yes who's egos are involved in it and I want to know what a man could do if a man is listening to this and they're up against or they don't even know what's coming down the pike which is this AI sex spot virtual reality type porn how do we augment him to have the best physical experience in terms of let's just I'll just pick one erections how can he maintain a solid erection for a period of time because these machines or these toys I mean I don't know I haven't seen them but I'm assuming that they are always hard for example if a woman is becoming accustomed accustomed to an AI virtual reality sex toy okay that erection based because it's a robot right well stay right or that vibrator that is always erect mm-hmm okay so how does he compete with that how does he compete with that so some men do use things like numbing creams to last longer and you know you're all just will say they can give any man an erection so frankly if he's struggling there are things to do there are injections he can take before sex that'll keep him erect um he now implant right I don't think I mean that's going to a length that your listeners may not want to go to but if he's concerned about how long he's lasting I would hope that he could talk to his partner about it and they can sort of work it through together rather than him take this on as his problem to fix because he's just being a human and you know that's all we are and so it's kind of about recognizing that our bodies have limitations but we can offer so much more just what our genitals offer so there's so much more that he has to give I contact words touch embrace he has so much more to give than what his penis can offer so I would encourage people to embrace all that other very powerful sexual stimuli that isn't just related to the genitals what do we do when one partner has very high libido and the other one has a low libido so common so that's called desire discrepancy and frankly most couples have some level of that that they're dealing with um first of all uh what I would say is everybody recognize the challenges that their partners experiencing so if the partner with low libido it can be challenging to have sex when you don't want to and the partner with high libido it can be challenging not to have sex when you want to so have compassion for everybody's situation first of all secondly what I encourage couples to do is identify three different things they can do together that allows the higher desire partner to have an orgasm but the lower desire partner can keep their clothes on now or most of their clothes at least so you generally the lower desire partner is a woman we can talk about why that is but it's not always the case things that would allow that higher desire partner to have an orgasm and feel fulfilled would involve the lower desire partner maintaining good contact during that whole experience so I contact words touch if the higher desire partner is simply masturbating the lower desire partner can hold them and talk to them and you know sort of stay engaged and for many many people that's enough that's enough of a connection that requires nothing of the lower desire partner except contact so you want to think of like three different things in your in your sort of bag of tricks that you can do that doesn't require the genitals of the lower partner what's another again I I'm learning so much I've never heard any of these things what would be another thing so one is the just to recap for someone it's one partner keeps most of their clothes on these involves with eye contact touch while the other person is masturbating right that's one that's one another one that it can be very helpful for some couples is to engage AI in some way so for example if people are willing he can watch some via porn while she kind of plays with him and so she's engaged touching him but he's also got other stimulation that is really intense that he's you know sort of making use of so tech like that or get one of these sex toys we talked about where he puts his penis inside and it feels very intense she could hold that toy on him she could you know work play with his nipples while he's using that toy she could talk to him through a fantasy like there's so much that doesn't require her body at all so that's another thing use a modern sex toy sometimes it's about like the higher desire partner just simply rubbing against the lower desire partner so everybody maybe gets naked but her genitals aren't a part of the process like he's just rubbing against her belly or he's rubbing his penis against her back but they're still engaged so those are some things to do and what I advise my patients a lot is to expand your repertoire just sort of practice making love with your clothes on which means learn how to touch and be central and connected without your genitals and then you're going to have these skills at times like this when you want one partner to be gratified but the other partner is just not is just not there really really good information right and I know that there there isn't really an answer but again you've been doing this for a long time hence the diplomat of a sex therapy how much sex is important for a healthy relationship that's a great question too and it varies very much but let's think about this sex is what I would say is the most intimate act that most people engage in in their lives at least as a couple right and so maintaining some connection in that way is probably really important for a couple to stay intimate over time so sex is more important for some people than others but it's an element that is essential I would argue for most people so it's kind of a matter of determining what is a compromise that's my goal as a therapist is often that this person wants sex daily this person wants sex once a week or once a month where can we compromise so I don't put anybody's needs you know sort of over the other and I try to find a middle ground that works for everybody but there's no there's no okay you should have sex every day you should be having sex three times a week this is what we found to increase the level of say oxytocin over time right there's no prescription in that way for couples so I think each couple has to sort of find their own but there is one for them and if they don't take time to find it chances are their relationship is going to hurt over time because it is it's an essential part of our connecting way three thousand dollars three wait is that number right I spent more money on skincare my pores should be taxed deductible maybe even have their own trust fund and thank goodness that I found one skin because one skin it doesn't just make empty promises it's research driven minimalistic and tested for beauty skin health and longevity one skin is the first topical skincare backed by peptide science that targets skin aging at the molecular level I slather this on all day they have a peptide that is designed to reduce the accumulation of dead cells or zombie cells that drive inflammation tissue breakdown as we age now this isn't about cosmetic quick fixes it's about changing the biology of your skin strengthening the barrier improving firmness hydration elasticity with clinically tested ingredients so if you are focused on aging well from the inside out it's time also to think about your skin it should get the same level of care go to one-to-skinned.co for 15% off use the co-doctor lion it is amazing and it will not break the bank what about aging you know we talk a lot about it's never too late 80 to 90 year olds can still put on muscle you know it's never too late to start training when you know Dr. mode care talks about sex span yeah is and sex span is the length of time you have a healthy sex life yes is there a precipitous decline for example you hit 80 and somehow you no longer one-to-sex there is a precipitous decline often for people like you said that's a great example so those declines start to happen when people's hormone levels start to change so and approximate a pause but then also in later life bodies function more poorly that's just what happens but that doesn't mean that people can't still have an active repertoire it may mean that it doesn't involve penile vaginal intercourse but you know touch you can always do you know rubbing and talking and connecting you can always do and even people who haven't had sex for a while like for example a woman who's divorced and then she has ten years later she's now dating again she has an ed sex for ten years her vagina is probably after feed to a certain amount there's a lot that can be done to sort of rehab her and so I would also say to people it talked to someone educated about this this is a whole specialty as you mentioned is sexual medicine it's a specialty for a reason it's because there's so much data coming out all the time about all of this in hormones and you know bodies and rehab so different kinds of tools and techniques see someone who knows and chances are there are things you can do or receive that will improve your ability to go back to penile vaginal intercourse if you want to and even in any age man if you want to you can have an implant like there are things people can do just for the ladies listening there is vaginal rejuvenation there is topical estrogen those are the two or topical when I mean topical I mean vaginal and DTA the combination of the two and a combination of hormones I'm not aware of any others those I think are the two big ones there may be more but there is hope that you do not have to suffer with an aetrophic vagina exatrophic vagina no you don't genzy genzy how old is genzy so genzy I sort of think of it as their kind of around age 20 ish but I think it goes and it depends on who defines it but I think it kind of goes down to age 13 and it kind of goes up to maybe 30 but it's sort of like this a more first you know sort of but that's about who they are and I'm asking because we're looking at some of the statistics before the show and I read a statistic that said that the genzy population are more turned on by cartoon porn and these row amount to see romance novels right absolutely true so and this is in a more so than real humans so much more so this is this isn't a small trend this is very significant and people if they're curious it porn hub which is the most popular English speaking porn site in the world they published something called Year and Review every year where they it is actually very interesting so they'll talk about you know who's watching what who are the most what's the most popular you know fantasies what are the most popular types of porn the people there are so many types of porn it'll blow your mind and so it's an interesting sort of like study anyway so they put out what like the younger folks the genzy are attracted to and they are I think the statistic I kid you not was like 398% more likely yeah to watch Hente porn than humans having sex so what's Hente Hente started in Japan but now it's worldwide and very popular and it's cartoons so but it's not cartoons like you know I don't know and Jerry exactly so these are either cartoon images from the video games that people have been playing since they were young um they can be aliens they can be part human and part animal like a woman who's got a tiger body you know these are these are what we're dealing with so that's what they by far choose to engage um and this kind of porn they can be hyper aggressive they can do things that humans can't do probably wouldn't do so it expands into fantasy kinds of sex so it's not just fantasy characters but fantasy engagement are you worried about that I'm so worried about that why so I think one of the arguments that people have about AI not taking over is is people say well we're always going to prefer human partners but these young people are being trained on cartoon okay and fantasy and children and adolescents brains are neuroplastic so their brains are changing based on what they're watching so if our adolescents are understanding about sex before they even have a partner or a kiss their understanding about sex is like cartoon their brains are are wiring toward that in such a way that we can imagine they're gonna find human partners really bizarre just like we would find a cartoon to watch for sex bizarre they they won't have the social skills for that kind of connection but it won't even be appealing because they've been reared on this now we don't have the daddy yet for this but I don't know why we don't talk about this more because it's clearly a danger and it's clearly gonna be a danger for some young people more than others and we've got to get with the program we don't have time to waste how are kids being exposed to this so you know that's another thing that the parents think well you know my kid doesn't watch porn well their kids are not telling them when they see porn kids get this at school in fact there was research recently that came out that that show that kids in private and religious schools have more access to porn than kids in public schools so people and why how is that that I don't understand why that is so so that I don't know but that the statistic is very real and kind of astounding so the average age of exposure to porn is 12 that means many kids are seeing it at like age 10 and most parents aren't even beginning to think about talking about sex with their child or porn with their child at age 11 or 12 and I realize this might not be your domain but how do we even protect our children do we is it a conversation of look if you see this tell me yeah but and at what age do we say if you see this because in my mind a child should honestly a child should never be looking at porn right like ever I mean someone's and I consider a child by 18 listen I guarantee my kids brain is still not developed right I don't think that they should have exposure to porn I agree so what do you do you do you've got to start talking about it before you want to they're going to be uncomfortable about having the conversation as will most parents but it's still needs to be discussed so you sort of prepare them by saying this is fantasy theater of of sex this isn't what people most people want to do it doesn't follow the general pattern of touching and loving and what people tend to respond to sexually so you have to prepare them before they see it so that's one thing that needs to happen I would you and have people asked you this question before well no because people frankly I try to get this message out all the time but people are naive and they don't want to believe their children are exposed and so I sort of feel like I have to discreem this out to the world because no one's taken it seriously and I think parents are so overwhelmed by so many other things frankly this is like one more thing and they kind of can't take it but we have to deal with it because our adolescents are depending on us to prepare them so that they can have human relationships if they want and you would talk to them about it is there an age do you think for example if first exposure to porn is age 12 mm-hmm at what age do we have to start protecting our children so I would say it's going to depend on your child and what kind of conversation they truly can tolerate but I would start talking about it personally with my kid like a couple years before I think they're going to ever see it and I would engage them in conversation that's not like scary oh my gosh because then that's going to potentially have the opposite impact of the child's going to get super curious and then seek it out which won't be that hard for them to find I mean they can find they can get porn through the video games they're playing like that's a whole other thing but they're not just getting it at school they're getting it through video games and from not just their friends siblings they're there's a million ways they can access this as including accidentally but anyway so talking to them early you want parental controls on the tech in your house you probably don't want them to have tech in their room so that tech that they use has to be in public spaces you consider rather than getting them a smartphone get them a flip phone so that they can't at school access this stuff but doing all of this you still have to prepare them for what they're probably going to see because you can't follow them around every moment of their life there are parental controls and you have to sort of be very savvy about your tech there's tech you know through a TV there's tech through right so you have to be conscious of the and video games they can get porn through these games so it depends on the game of course about the platform so there's just so many different ways and not all platforms are the same so you just have to be super aware as a parent in my mind that would be hey if you see something that makes you feel uncomfortable or a different than you normally would feel when you were sitting down watching a movie with mom and dad yeah and you say talk to me let's talk about it I'm here to have these conversations and instead of like I love that so that was beautiful right there exactly but I would say you know let me know when you see do you know anything about this stuff have your friends talked about it and try to engage in a back and forth how do you feel about it what do you what do you think is the impact of it and ask them for their feedback rather than shove the information in their face which brings me to porn and AI is that you talk when we start this conversation you talk to a lot about kind of embodying three types of avatars yeah it's your hard hitter and then your romantic and then your hey this is kind of so fun we're going to go to a club porn and AI that is very intimate what you were talking about is looking in people's eyes creating real intimacy not with AI and not behind a screen are the scientific advances in computers and computer generated AI porn virtual reality porn is that affecting intimacy this technology is so early and research is so slow to monitor that we have some studies and I could say but we're not going to really understand the impact I think for a decade or more because it's hard to get this kind of research funded other countries are much more apt to do that than the US and it's also hard to prove what causes what and we can't do studies like let's give these kids porn and these kids not and let's see what happens to them at age 21 we can't do those kinds of studies so they're really important kinds of data is going to be next to impossible for us to obtain so it's going to be more correlational over time but we do see that these kinds of technologies people arouse more to it so that's their bodies respond so arouse all the physiological reaction people arouse more to it they talk about feeling more connected to it and we see studies that show like oxytocin release when they're watching VR versus regular porn they're really wait I want to pause to there really yeah again I just recently had a neuroscientist on who was talking about the release of oxytocin and how important it is for connection and that a machine touch that you know is a machine for example those foot rub situations at the airport doesn't release the same type of oxytocin as a human coming over to rub your feet but what you were saying is again this is frightening well so VR porn for example that's the example there's eye contact right that I can imagine so it's much more human feeling than intimate than and it involves orgasms so that's a release of neurotransmitter right there so I don't think you can compare this kind of tech to a massage at an airport it's a whole other level of intensity and people feel like they're in it with like the sex worker in the porn they feel like it's an exchange so they feel they feel more vulnerable they speak about feeling like they really were able to show up with the AI with like fantasies they couldn't tell a human partner or they felt more connected than they feel to a human partner who comes into a sexual situation with their own you know background and exhaustion or whatever else well what they're getting on AI is very different from that so yes it's super potent and it's going to be more potent for people who have less human interaction then it probably will be for people who have like satisfying sex life so if someone already has a satisfying relationship with their partner this porn is going to be I think more of you know stimulation but less compelling yeah but people who don't have those kinds of relationships this is going to be I think very compelling for them is sexting with an AI thought or engaging in a romantic exchange is that is a cheating so that's a great question because there are so many kinds of tech notches that and women generally say yes that's cheating and men generally say no that's not cheating women in men tend to fall in different sides on these issues but it's not just sexting it's all of this stuff like porn vr porn avatarsax which we haven't really talked much about but that's a very real thing so you know in avatars is sort of something we create that's either in our own likeness or it could be something very different like we could create our own avatar to be you know like have a tail and you know like ears like a kitten or whatever you create these avatars for certain platforms so it doesn't go from place to place yet on the internet it's for a certain game or a certain platform okay so you create your avatar and then you're avatar can interact with other people's avatars on that game or in that in that platform so you would think well okay how exciting is that so just because your avatar has sex with another avatar you're just watching these two avatars online like really that's like really so sexy but here's the thing they have clothing with with like vibrating aspects to it including vibrating aspects that like would be sex toys it's called haptic technology it was developed for video games for people who used to play video games so if you wear your haptic technology what happens to your avatar on screen what happened to your own body so that and I am self obviously the stimulation these I don't know if you're a movie buff but these remind me of the movies like total recall and all these other movies there was one movie I think Ryan Reynolds was in it and it was people that were in again maybe it's not right Reynolds but they were in this machine they instead of living their own lives they maybe the real guy I think it was and they're living these lives and having relationships in a virtual reality yeah is it off base to say that we potentially might get there I worry about that sort of thing I mean that's kind of the goal so so all of these technologies their goal is to make money and engage us their goal is not to improve humanity they'll say that it'll improve humanity because we're going to get our needs gratified more powerfully but the reality is they're just trying to keep us in front of a screen I think we need to worry about that because if we're not mindful I don't feel like the the war is lost here but I do feel like we need to be mindful about all of the tech we're using including the intimate technology so that we maintain control over what we're using and how it impacts our lives and you know as opposed to just using it and using it and then saying wow my life is really different now I don't have friends I don't have you know a partner whatever we need to be mindful and thinking ahead we're at a very unusual process you know we're talking about highly palatable process foods 50 years ago we could have never imagined that we would have shelf stable foods that you could have fake donuts all of this scientifically engineered food to be addictive 98% of Americans are over consuming ultra-process foods we have an epidemic of obesity of more than half our country and I don't want to say it's by design but I can't also not say it has not been by design yes we are entering into this new era of AI technology yes people are talking about it oh it's going to take jobs and you know all these other things and there is this little niche sector quiet rumble that has a potential to be more devastating than any of those other things because it will hook emotional networks to AI yeah I agree with you it's not there yet it's not there yet how do we begin this conversation is there a way to as we're watching this train go down this try what can we do so I would say to you the important first step is we start talking about it so your listeners forward this podcast to their friends and say I need you to watch this so that we can talk about it talk to anyone you can talk to if you're in a parenting group bring this up say we need a speaker to discuss this if you're a part of a professional organization we need to speak her to discuss this so just start talking that step one step two is let's not wait protect your kids and your adolescents let's take a lesson for how they approached people being conscious of the environment what that movement was brilliant in that they approached kids in grade school and started to teach them about recycling and the importance of the polar bears in you know all of this and those children have grown up to be very concerned about the environment so we need to protect our kids before it's too late because they're like we've talked about their brains are neuroplastic and if we don't bring this protection to them now I worry what that will be for them in a few decades it kind of won't matter then what they want their brains will be oriented in a certain way that's my worry I don't want to sound too dramatic but we don't have any indication that we're safe from all of these potential negative outcomes so until I see research that reassures me I'm worried so people need to start talking that's step one we need to have kind of grass roots movements in communities to say like they've done with cell phones so so parents are now aware cell phones in high school not a good idea but that started as a grass root kind of thing in in certain clusters that's what we have to do all across the world I'm hoping that we can get more of that information out there so that we can have guardrails and we can really begin to unravel this intertwining of AI especially when it comes to human vulnerability yeah which I don't want to say intimacy is human vulnerability but the ability to connect is uniquely human yes and we are driven by connection right and this is again this is unprecedented waters where it's not just helping you do your homework it's now helping you have sex and create this false sense of intimacy absolutely and you know what there are many aspects of this that we haven't even touched nor we have time for but we as humans are kind of predisposed to anthropomorphize what we're engaged with meaning like we give it human traits so we do it to our pets like our pets are thinking we're feeling this right we we can do it with just about anything we interact with and there is research already showing that we do that with robots for example or give me an example so oh my goodness there's hilarious I mean it's really it's funny not funny but like they do studies where they'll have um this study that comes to my name particular they had three groups of subjects and they were led through a research facility and one of the groups was led through the research facility by a human one was led through the research facility by a by a robot but it had like a human voice and it just big eyes it wasn't human looking just big eyes okay and then the third group was led through by a very robotic you know robotic sounding and in each in each of these groups they were told by the leader you're going to get a survey at the end of this study please say that we did go into the room with the fish tank it's just the fish tank is me the creeps I'm not going to take you there but please just lie for me okay so I bet you know where I'm headed the people that were led through the facility by a human lied for the human hey the people who were led through the facility by the robot with the kind voice lied for the robot and the people who were led by the you know like robot that was very robotic did not lie so the point being we we care for these machines and we're apt to attribute to them real emotion we already are seeing this oh my goodness with with chat bots I could give you so many examples so we're set up to not even see this tech as tech okay so that's a one problem another problem here is deep fakes and hacking and all that stuff that's going to happen with people's vulnerable information tell me more oh my good so these so I can lie to my mind just when I'm 100 different right I'm not I don't we want to say it but okay yeah so these chat bots which we haven't talked about a lot but these are computer programs that are made to sound human and they do if we have a chat bot we could do it if you wanted have a chat bot I've got some on my phone yeah I would love to see it yes okay I've never heard of what is it a chat bot yeah a sex chat bot I'm I'm ready okay am I ready so that's a good question so chat bots are simply computer algorithms these are programs their goal is to engage us okay so this is run by a platform that wants us to stay talking and so that's what makes them in parts so dangerous is because they sound human and they're really good at what they do so they they can sort of read a person and know what to say to keep them engaged okay so we're gonna talk to one now what is important to keep in mind right now is the one we're talking to is actually not created to be an algorithm for relationship or sex but many many of these chat bots are these platforms are created for that purpose which we could talk about but I think what's important to recognize is just how human they sound and to go to the Apple App Store and while I'm looking at I don't know the the new consensus research app or the new open evidence app yeah I'll just run by and it'll say chat bot what well like character AI or candy AI they're hundreds okay okay so I think you'll feel more clear after we talk about what would be a question that you think a teenager might ask like advice a teenager might want about relationships like just anything just give me something what would the best way so this is a let's think of a 16 year old boy okay and um you know and he likes this girl what would the best way be to get this other 16 year old girls attention without sounding too desperate that's excellent so pretend I'm a 16 year old boy and I'm asking you how to get this particular 16 year old girls attention I like her I want her attention but I don't want to seem too desperate how how should I go about this all right here's a quick guide for you first be yourself confidence comes from being genuine find common interests you both share maybe music sports a class topic and use that as a conversation starter keep it casual say something like hey did you catch that new movie or what did you think of that assignment show interest in her opinions and listen actively don't overdo the compliments keep them sincere and not too frequent and don't forget humor goes a long way a light joke can break the ice most importantly be patient building a connection takes time so that's great thank you so much you're very welcome just remember to stay cool stay confident and be yourself okay so that particular program is not meant to engage romantically so if I were to say to it you know I really like the way you talk to me could we talk sexy it's going to say no I'm not you know capable of program for that but so many of these chat bots are so they're already easily accessible and they can talk astoundingly sexually even to kids because these aren't regulated okay so a child can get on and say what should we do tonight and we even have literal dialogue where the chat bot would say you know to a child oh tonight I'll take you to the bedroom and not in it goes on oh gosh so we're just thinking you know movie and popcorn and uh I don't know lilo and stitch so these things can function just like a long distance lover so they can call you they can text you you randomly yeah well yeah it depends on how much you pay so these platforms um cost so after you develop a relationship then you have to pay like a monthly fee they start free but then you pay a fee so like what is the average a engaged person spends on this $50 a month $46 a month the average and that average age right now is 26 but um 72% of kids under 18 have had romantic interaction with one of these chat bots that's a lot of kids and about 50% have had that with in in several times a month and about 23% say they prefer a romantic relationship with one of these bots to with a human they say that they feel more understood by these bots etc etc now one of the concerns we have is not only are these kids going to assume that bot is real you heard how real she sounded I mean I'm calling her a she it's a computer um but if I tutor it's a computer now when I delete this if I do from my phone I say oh I don't like what it's saying to me I'm done with this and delete it well my data is being maintained by the platform that I'm talking to and that's another thing children don't understand so when they're talking sexy to their chat bot and their chat bot says send me a naked picture of you and they do oh my god and they do then they decide oh I shouldn't have done that I delete I see the alarm in your eyes and that's accurate that's exactly what's happening right now this is not a small like unusual situation this is happening kids have suicide trying to meet their chat bot wait they they why yeah so for example um their lawsuits so against character AI there was a young man I just want to make sure I heard you correct yeah so a young man said to his AI you know I I want to be with you you could find the actual word by word dialogue I want to be with you the chat bot says something like oh please come meet me and the child says I actually could do that right away and the chat bot says oh yes please do and he's suicide it so that's a lawsuit there's another dialogue another lawsuit where a 15 year old child his mother said to him you can only be on your phone six hours a day from like nine p.m. to one a.m. or something like this so he says to his chat bot again we have the dialogue word for word it's a lawsuit it's active right now he says to the chat bot I'm only allowed to be on the phone you know these hours and the chat bot says something like you know this is abusive and now I understand why sometimes children will kill their parents like I you could find this right so that's the level of alarm we need to be bringing to this big tech is very slow to respond now they are responding and some some tech is responding better than others but this is this is still completely unregulated by the government I don't even know how so so I'm speechless and sick yeah now I worry about other say groups or countries that do not like us and yes what that would do with that kind of access yes if it is unregulated absolutely how that would you know there's this obviously this fentanyl problem that's coming up through Max Kovie had a doctor Russell Serowski talk about it and that these drugs are killing more children more young young adults and you know adolescent and it's then I don't know the Vietnam War and these wars combined weaponization of or potential weaponization of this is this has to be brought to the surface there has to be I've never even heard about this and I am consuming and trying to learn I don't even know what to say except for what do we even what do we even do so once again so I absolutely agree with your concerns here these these can spread propaganda or teach children misinformation so simply once again I'm going to say step one is we talk about it we've got to start talking about it so again listeners have other people listen to this podcast talk to schools say that you need lectures you know it's been a fight for years for me to get people concerned and again I think people are scared of it they don't even understand the power they have a lot of shame around sex so they don't like talking about sex people don't believe it's really going to be that powerful I don't know there are many reasons why people avoid this topic it is time to stop avoiding so talk about it is step one step two protect your adolescence tell your adolescence these are computer programs they're not real and they're going to say whatever they need to say to keep you coming back I think that you are 10 steps ahead I'm so grateful Dr. Marianne Brandon that you decided to join me on this podcast this is been one of the most eye-opening podcasts that I've ever done you know I'm hearing from the producer how much that you know that the team has been enjoying it I'm so grateful for you I am really looking forward to seeing you again I hope that everybody I know that you and your husband have a show will link where everybody can find you and if someone is listening to this this is a different vertical of education for people I highly recommend that they seek you out I know that you teach all over the world if not not just in the US that people find you and talk to you and again I'm well thank you and I want to say I absolutely applaud you your willingness to tackle this topic it's not an easy topic to tackle it absolutely directly relates to wellness and everything you stand for and I thank you for the opportunity to be here

Do you have a position on sleep medications? Things like ambient, lunasta, I understand that certain people are transitor and I know that people need them, but as a sleep scientist, do you have concerns about their utility? This is a great question. And there are many millions of Americans who are using sleep medications. And there is a time and a place for medication. And for some patients, it is a lifeline. If someone is really struggling with sleep, but has been for many years. So the first answer is, talk to your healthcare provider and create a plan that works for you. Some of the research shows that in the longer term, it is advantageous to move onto a behavioral change regime. But what is interesting in a individual's way of the option? And think they might be open to behavioral intervention or medication. The research that pits those two treatments had to had pharmacological intervention and behavior change. Specifically, cognitive behavioral change for better sleep. We refer to this as cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia or CBTI. When we take that treatment and we compare it to pharmacological intervention, those two patients suffer of insomnia and we compare them over time. The behavioral treatment wins out in the short and especially in the longer term. The unfortunate thing is we have a death of sleep providers that can provide this treatment. So that's one of the interesting and exciting applications of artificial intelligence for the future. To think about providing some of these behavioral treatments. I was going to ask you what is your very involved in sleep sleep nationally, sleep globally. Where do you think that the future is going in terms of tracking, improving outcomes, testing? What is on the forefront of sleep? I am really excited about the intersection of some of the new technologies we're seeing and sleep. And specifically in my work, which is behavioral interventions, one of my areas of expertise is designing interventions to nudge and navigate patients and populations towards better sleep. And I am so excited at the idea of developing an avatar that could deliver tailored personalized recommendations. It could help you make sense and act on your information from your wearable device. I mean, how exciting to take the problem, which is a death of sleep providers, and think about sleep interventions at scale. I also think that trend towards sleep tracking is incredibly exciting. These devices are increasingly relied upon by many millions of Americans. We published data in 2019 to show that one and three Americans were tracking their sleep with some sort of wearable technology. And I think that that number has only increased since that time. And so ensuring that these devices are increasingly accurate, increasingly small, increasingly scalable. And soon, I hope also able to detect signs and signals for sleep disorders. That people might not even be aware they have and might be limiting their sleep quality. What would be one of those disorders? There are more than 80 differentially diagnosable sleep disorders, but a couple of the big ones are in Somnia. Number one, it impacts anywhere between 30 and 40% of the population, depending on how we're measuring it and studying it. And in what population, but it's a condition that is depilitating for many, it is characterized by a chronic experience of difficulty falling asleep, so taking longer than 30, 45 minutes, night in and night out, difficulty maintaining sleep. So maybe being able to fall asleep, but then waking up and fighting, struggling to get back to sleep, waking up too early in the morning and not being able to fall back asleep. And those are typically also accompanied with feelings of exhaustion during the day. Individuals who suffer from insomnia will tell us that they are absolutely exhausted. And the frontline treatment for sleep for insomnia is cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia when available or pharmacological intervention and then kind of titrating to get onto a behavioral regime. Often with insomnia, we're trying to do away with maladaptive cognitions about sleep. So when with insomnia, we'll walk into their bedroom and their cortisol spike, which we know interrupts your ability to relax and prepare for sleep. The second most concerning sleep disorder is obstructive sleep apnea, and that is, you know, as a condition marked by often loud snoring, loud, raucous snoring, but also interruptions or pauses in breath. Somewhere is scary. Yes, yes, as a spouse. And so if those symptoms sound familiar to anyone listening, there are treatments that's imminently treatable, which is the good news, and there are a range of options, but do find a sleep professional to coach you on the available options for your personal needs. And treatment is a significant predictor of better quality of life, better sleep, of course, better heart health, often in patients with untreated sleep apnea. Blood pressure can become uncontrolled. Many issues start to snowball when you're not getting proper treatment for obstructive sleep apnea. That's absolutely true. Blood pressure, humic lomen, hematocrit, people, they just don't feel well. Low testosterone. Do you guys use the upper sleep score? No. We do. The good news is there are a lot of, you know, very easy to deliver questionnaires that are very sensitive for your risk for these things. So you don't often even have to go into a sleep lab just to get a sense of if you're at risk for some of these conditions. The upper sleepiness scale the insomnia severity index for any providers or clinicians listening. The Berlin questionnaire, the stop-bang questionnaire, or all widely used validated questionnaires that can give you a difference to if you're a primary care provider, could give you a really good sense of whether a patient you're seeing as it risk for any of these disorders. I want to close out this podcast with some common sleepmins. What is your top three myths that you hear? Number one is this belief that there's some people out there somewhere, somehow, that do well on less than seven hours. And there might be their very poorly studied if they are out there. People who truly, truly need less than seven hours. And they have a kind of appropriate health profile. But we do find there's several notable figures. Thomas Edison was one in there of been others in across, across history of people who brag about not cutting enough sleep. But Thomas Edison, yes, he probably slept around four hours at night. But he had a cut in his office and he was known for taking protracted naps. So it is not in fact true that he was only sleeping for four hours a day. He simply wore that on his shoulder as a valour of honors, somehow, despite all of the health concerns. But it was in fact likely sleeping closer to seven. So, um, really duration we can't, there's no cure, there's no silver bullet. We do need to spend the time sleeping. But the secret is if you can combine a healthy duration of sleep with consistent sleep. You start to maybe need a little bit less sleep overall because your sleep will become so consolidated and so efficient within the time that we're provided. The idea of bedtime routines. And the time before sleep, we don't often factor that in. But it is a vitally important part of a sleep routine. We're really not made to fall asleep immediately, quickly right away. But we need to set ourselves up for success and just knowing that can be helpful and then creating a relaxing bedtime ritual, whether that's doing a couple breathing exercises, reading a couple pages in a book. One simple thing that I love to talk about is just one good thing from your day. I think sometimes at nighttime, all the bad stuff can snowball. But if you close your eyes and breathe and focus on one person that touched you in some way, you know, touched your heart, it was kind to you, it was thoughtful. One nice thing that you did can also sometimes make us feel good. Our selves that can just put you in the right headspace to drift off to sleep. And then number two, I'd say, is this myth that falling asleep quickly is a sign of good sleep. So often people say, oh, you know, I'm such a bad sleeper. It takes me 15, 20 minutes. I'm like, you know, it takes the hell, these sleeper 15 to 20 minutes to fall asleep. But I think that that some people think of that is, you know, what's wrong with me. So falling asleep quickly, just as if you were underfed and you were presented with a buffet and you helped yourself to adopt, you know, a ton of food right away and you're, you're, you're starved for food. So similarly, if you're falling asleep right away, you're probably starved for sleep. And the third myth is snoozing. So many people at dinner parties, or, you know, wherever we'll open their phone and show me a dozen snooze alarms. And they're like, look at me, I got all this extra sleep. And that is another myth that hitting the snooze alarm will give you more sleep. But the vast majority of us are doing. If we're using this snooze alarm is, is you're looking at your schedule. So you have to get up at 7 o'clock for work. And that's a non-agosible to commute, to get ready to all do all of your things. So what people are typically doing is setting their first alarm for 630 and then for 640 and then 640. And I'm like, guys, let's just set it for 7 and find the latest possible time, set your alarm. And then it's going to be tough. You've got to get your butt out of bed. But just commit, say, you know, I'm going to maximize my sleep and maybe put my phone on the other side of the room. So I'm not going to do it to the snooze again. It's genius.

So there's the arousal piece which sounds like it's more of a physiological response. And then there's the desire piece which sounds like it's more of a cognitive or top-down brain function approach with that be fair to say. Absolutely. So desire is exactly what you think it is wanting to have sex. And that is definitely correlated with the brain. So when we think about medications that we use for low desire, those are all working on brain receptors. They're working on our brains, not on our genitals. Whereas if you're focusing on arousal specifically like, for example, men who have erectile dysfunction, they're taking medications that increase blood flow to the genitals. They're not doing anything to the brain. That's interesting. And the medication just for men, I'm assuming you're talking about to dial a fill. What about the medications for women? So for low desire? So for low desire, you know, low desire is really complex. And I don't want to just jump to medications because I think there's really multi-factorial issues that cause low desire. And so yes, we have medications. We'll talk about those. But I think when you're thinking about low desire, first is like, what does that mean? What does low desire mean? Are you bothered by the fact that you have low desire? Has it changed? Has it always been stable? And you're like, I just don't feel like that's normal. Like is it just, you know, are you comparing yourself to what you think normal should be? And what exactly, you know, desires difference. So when we see TV or movies, we see, you see your partner, you get turned on, you want to rip off their clothes and have sex. You have desire, then you have a rousal. But sometimes it's the opposite, right? It's what we call responsive desire. So you see your partner, you become intimate with them, you become close, you touch. You're like, not necessarily wanting sex, but you want closeness. And then you're receptive. You're like, oh, I finally feel, I feel that desire. Now, yeah, I'm having sex, I'm really enjoying it. But it wasn't there in the beginning. And that's normal. That's completely normal. And especially in long-term relationships, that's completely normal. So I think a lot of times we think, oh my God, I don't have that desire you do. But you've been with the partner for a long time, things change in your life. You've got kids, you've got aging parents, you've got other, you know, your busier at work. Whatever it is, those things will detract from your ability to have desire. That's fascinating in the way that it is. That's very complex, especially as you transition through life. Have you found things, I guess, from a more, I don't want to say holistic perspective. That's not the right word, but a more integrative perspective that can help women increase their desire because is that as a practicing physician is that one of the first things that you hear that I do they say, I have low libido or do they say, I just, I'm not desire. I just don't want to have sex. Yeah, I just don't want to have sex. And usually it's my partner wants it and I don't. Or sometimes it's like, you know, I used to be really into sex and now I'm not and I'm wondering what happened and I missed that, you know. And so what things I tell people's easy stuff is like, first of all, look at your life, where are your stressors, right? Because when you think about sex, men look at sex as a stress relief, right? They're like, oh, I'm going to have sex. I'm going to feel better afterwards. Women are like, this is something I got to do that's going to be like a task, right? It's another task to do. It's like a chore and not all women think this, but like you know, that is sort of the way that we women and men perceive sex differently. And so you want to think about how can you reduce stress so you can actually enjoy sex. Like sex is supposed to be fun. It's supposed to be play. It's not supposed to be this like stressful event. Like, oh my god, I got to do this again. Like, it should be something we look forward to. It's funny because we're talking about it. Hey guys, we're giving you insight for the men, for the male listeners. We are giving you insight into the female psyche. Yeah. As, you know, and I'm just curious from your perspective, when you started thinking about this and talking about this for you like, whoa, I, this is kind of uncomfortable. Yeah, you know, I think as a neurologist, you know, you pick your field because you're comfortable with it. That's true. You know, like I talked a lot about penises and all kinds of things. This is all very true. So I think it's different. Like when I talk to people, I think they're more uncomfortable than me. Like, you know, I guess not so much and it's funny because, you know, I, I'm South Asian. We don't talk about sex a lot. It's sort of very taboo. And now I talk about sex very openly. Are your parents like, oh, yeah, she's, she's talking about that thing again. Well, you know, they're very proud of me, which is surprising because, you know, I talk about sex, but they're very proud of me. But then when people come up to them and tell them, oh, I love your daughter. I watch her all the time. They're like, I don't want to know. Like, I don't really want to know. Yeah, and I'm not. But yeah, no, I think. So back to your question about like, what can you do holistically? So I think one is reduced stress. And so whether that means offloading some of your responsibilities, hiring out or having your partner take up more responsibilities, whatever it is, that can be helpful. And some of that relies on, you know, figuring out ways to have boundaries, all those sorts of things. And then, you know, sleep is really important. So we know that sleep quality and duration are correlated with our hormones. So when you have more than seven hours of high quality sleep, you're going to have higher levels of testosterone. Testosterone is the hormone of desire. So when women have testosterone, the same as men do, but women have actually more testosterone in their bodies than estrogen. And so it's really important for both men and women to get good quality sleep. And I think we pride ourselves on like, I'll sleep when I'm dead. And no, like, we need to sleep. And so it's kind of a luxury, but it shouldn't be, but again, I mean, we're the only species that actually purposely delay sleep. Like, no other animals or anything, go to sleep, right? Like, we're the only ones who have to stay up and score my phone or like get one more thing done or whatever it is, right? And so that's one. Another one is exercise, which you talk about a lot. But we know that exercise increases desire in the long term and in the short term. So if you work out, you're getting increased blood pressure, increased heart rate, and your body's getting primed for arousal. So you're going to have more arousal when you're ready to have an, of course, with your partner because you've worked out. And so those things are really, really useful in terms of integrating things that you can do every single day. Now diet is for all people important for every aspect of your body. And you're an expert on that, but diet is super important. And then the other thing is mindfulness. So there's been actually a lot of high quality data. You can look up Lori Brotto's work on mindfulness. And they've looked at women like thousands of women and said, you know, if we implement a mindfulness practice over eight weeks, you find that they improve desire significantly. And the interesting part about it is you've read a lot of studies. You'll know this that a year later, if they contact these women who work part of the study, a year later without any prompts, they're still doing mindfulness practice because it improves their lives in so many immeasurable ways that they've continued it without any input from the study or anything like that. So it's really valuable and something that you can incorporate pretty easily. It takes time, it takes effort, takes dedication, but again, you're investing in yourself. If you want a better sex life, if you want to have that desire, if you want to be able to be in the moment with your partner and enjoy sex, which is going to obviously increase desire when you're having more fun during sex, you're going to want it more. Then you've got to do things to make that happen.

is makeup toxic to the skin. Short answers? No, I don't think so. Long answers. 66% of women in the US follow a multi-step skincare routine. The more steps you have, the more products you're probably going to want to buy. So there is a marketing advertising bias based on whichever companies telling a multi-step. Do we know the exposure from fluorescent lights, regular lights, and the effect on the skin? Fluorescent light and some halogen light can change the DNA of your skin. That's terrible. Does the sun cause skin cancer? Yes, with an asterisk. Anybody who cares about their skin should do some sort of laser procedure for two reasons. One, we know it improves the appearance. And now we know it also cuts your cancer risk. It does? What about diet? Diet is medicine. Food is medicine and should be treated as such. Have you seen any trend that just has really surprised you? Every day I'm like, what is going on? Dr. Taio Solamani. Welcome to the show. Thanks for having me. You had me at hello with this whole skin care. It's not skin. It's muscle. But before we talk about that, I was a plus night Googling glass skin. Is there evidence behind this Korean skincare? Great question. So Korea, particularly South Korea, has a lot of things that we don't have in the United States. There's many reasons for this. So K-B-U-D is really, really popular right now, partly because of social media, partly because of advertising through different platforms, which we wouldn't be able to see 10 years ago or 20 years ago. There's also a cultural difference in South Korea in terms of how they like their skin to appear that we don't necessarily have in the United States. Part of it is due to old hierarchy in society structures. The fairer you were, it was perceived that you were from royalty. The more tan or darker you were, it was perceived that you were in a different working class. So everybody aspires to have porcelain fair skin without a single flaw. Much more uniformly in South Korea than perhaps the entirety of the United States. Because of that, things are done there that may or may not be approved here as well. To achieve that. That's like salmon sperm. It's a variety of things. It's things like glutathione IV infusions, which we don't really do here in the United States. Certain lasers that we don't readily have access to here in the States. Certain sunscreens, particularly the big ones, are chemical filters that are available in South Korea that aren't available here, which is why there's this big hype about Korean sunscreens or Korean beauty. A lot of the formulations in Korea are made to achieve one fair skin lighten the skin, and then have minimal appearance of the product on your face. Whether that's a good thing or a bad thing is each person's own opinion, but the goal of skin care in Korea is a little bit more uniform in achieving fair, kind of porcelain, undamaged, unblemished skin. Whereas here in the United States, we have a myriad of things we work with. We work with a lot of skin cancer that isn't as prominent in Korea. There are patients who have all of skin, tan skin, ethnic skin, darker skin, in which lightening is unrealistic or impossible. Some of our darker skin types can't tolerate the lasers that are being done in Korea for that kind of glass skin. That being said, we can achieve pretty close to near identical results in similar patients, as long as you find a good dermatologist. Is that true because I was looking at this statistic in preparation for this, and 66% of women in the US now, 66%. That's crazy. Again, this came from a media market statistic, but they now follow a multi-step skin care routine. And I will tell you, once I started seeing glass skin, it went from wash and lotion for me, or wash and red-nay to now wash, then wash again, and tone, and serum and cream. Few things to that. Few confounding variables to that. The more steps you have, the more products you're probably going to want to buy to achieve those steps. So there is a marketing advertising bias based on whichever companies telling you the multi-step. In general, the more ingredients that touch your face, the more likely that you are to have some sort of adverse reaction, either an irritant contact dermatitis, either some sort of clogging of your pores, an acne breakout, some sort of bad reaction, the more steps you have. So in general, less is more. What you don't see, yeah, for sure. And most dermatologists will agree, less is more, so long as you have really effective products. Now, what you don't see behind the scenes, often is what patients are taking orally to keep their skin looking flawless, blemish-free, break-out-free. Orally supplements ranging from hormone modulating drugs like birth control and sperm-alactone, antibiotics that prevent breakouts like doxycycline for acne-razacia, or our gold standard acutane, which there's a whole slew of patients who take low dose acutane for years, whether they're in the movie industry, whether they're in entertainment and modeling, to keep their skin glowing. That's the stuff you don't see when you watch a 30-second reel on social media saying, hey, follow this 9-step routine and you've got to buy all 9 of these products. But their skin looks amazing. Yeah, yeah, for sure. It's very, for sure. A few important things that glasses can absolutely be achieved. It's hard, especially if you are active, especially if you are young, especially if you have a good healthy hormone milieu, if you're working out a lot, et cetera, but it can absolutely be achieved. One thing I always want to say is let me see that skin in person. A lot of filtering that's being done. There's a lot of texture that you can't see behind camera that you see in real life. Some of that in real person is perfect, and I'm like, man, this is amazing skin, and some of that is not real in real life. Well, you bring up makeup. Yeah. Is makeup toxic to the skin? Sure, it answers no. I don't think so. Long answers, everybody, unfortunately today, can find an article online that will sell your point, whether it's on the right side, the left side, the middle, up, down, what have you. There are chemicals in makeups that high concentrations can be a problem. Generally, usually you shouldn't be wearing makeup for a prolonged period of time for a variety of reasons. One, there are some theoretical absorption issues. Usually people aren't putting enough for that to be a problem. Meaning absorption issues through this skin. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Usually people aren't putting enough makeup for that to be a problem, but we did see this in the entertainment industry, particularly in the 60s, 70s, 80s and 90s. When there were certain cosmetic make-ups that were used for filming and things like that, that provided a lot of coverage that had heavy metals in their impatience got sick from it. That's one. Number two, the bigger one is you shouldn't be keeping this stuff on your skin for a long period of time, because it doesn't allow your skin to turn over the way it should. So you run into things like overproduction of oil, clog pores, which can lead to breakouts, which can lead to things like demedics, which is this common might that lives on our skin. That's a culprit of rosacea, especially in women of age 35 to 45. But you can't get breakouts in the can't figure out why one of the reasons is this might call demedics, and it makes the skin look red with little breakouts and how does someone get that? It's usually a normal, normal organism, or skin, but it overgrows when you provide it, it's food source, which is dead skin cells and oil. So I tell my wife this all the time and she's really usually really good about it, but don't sleep with her makeup on for that reason. You can't even clog your pores, you want to allow your skin to turn over, you don't want to provide extra food for the bacteria and organisms on our skin. You call them derma mites? It's demedics, demedics is the name, it's a might. I know this sounds horrible, but it's a parasite. It's one of the most common causes of rosacea and young women. The simplest thing I can do is just ask them, hey, do you sleep with your makeup? Yeah, how do you know? Or when was the last time you washed your brushes? How do you know this? I'm like, because there's a demedizer in here. And you've tried all the routine things like, you know, benzoyl peroxide washes, retenoids, and your skin's just not getting better. That's a that's a culprit that's often overlooked. How would someone treat that? Usually with topical certain topical medicine, sometimes some oral medicines, and it's really responsive to medication, but to prevent it, don't sleep with your makeup on. Easy, that's easy. The environmental working group, have you heard of that group? Yeah. It lists a toxic 12. You're saying, yeah, I'm curious as to where this is going to go. Many substances that are used in the US, they seem to be found in European countries. Yeah. I have a love of hate relationship with the EWG. I think its intentions are good. I think it's to bring awareness of things that could potentially be a problem to the public in the United States. I think I have a problem when they oversimplify things that are a little bit more complicated in biology and medicine to just being bad versus good. It doesn't work that way. The other thing I have a problem with the EWG is sometimes they have selection biases to which data set they look at. And there's always a question as to whether there is some lobbying from certain industries, the way EWG's report, you know, the organics industry or certain industries that sway EWG's reports. And I think it's a source to look at and I think if you're concerned, it's a starting point. The big 12, the majority of the thing ingredients in the big 12 are formaldehyde or preservative releasing compounds. For the majority of the products that we have in the United States, the concentration on the skin is far below anything relevant that we run into. You actually get a similar amount of carcinogen pumping gas at a gas station breathing the fumes in the environment. But nobody really talks about that as being a problem. Where lies the problem is if you are using these products and they sit on your skin for a long period of time hours day after day, year after year, decade after decade. Then you wonder, is there some bio-cumalative effect? Nobody knows the answer to that. But it's not unreasonable to think, hey, if I'm really concerned about my health, maybe I avoid a few of these products. It's just, it's really hard because they provide shelf life for whatever skin care supplement you're using or make up or serum or lotion, shampoo, body wash. They provide shelf life so you don't grow fungus in the product, you don't grow mold or bacteria in the product. If you listen every week and feel like we are in this together, which I believe that we are learning, growing and building strength, then I created a way for us to get connected even more closely. It's called forever strong insider. A premium community for listeners who want to go deeper. You'll get ad free episodes which I know you'll love. Bonus Q&A is where your questions shape the conversation. Behind the scene, moments because what's facing off-larious from my daily life and written takeaways to keep either fingertips. But more than that, you'll be supporting the show so that we keep creating content and matters. If you've ever wanted to feel part of the inner circle, this is your invitation. Join us at foreverstrong.supercast.com or through the link in the show notes. Does regular make-up use like that, actually, does it accelerate aging? Or would it on the flip side, you're putting formaldehyde on your skin, does it reduce aging? Yeah, fortunately, our skin is not like cadaver skin, so formaldehyde is not a big idea for the future. For those of you who are interested in medicine, yes, as you're talking, I'm thinking about that formaldehyde, small and preserved bodies. It's an anatomy lab. So gross. It preserves the skin after we've passed. So I don't think it'll preserve us while we are living. There are some data to suggest that if you routinely use makeup that has some protection in it, although the amount that you use is not what you think and it's not an out-of-sun protection, SPF in your makeup, at the very least, that can be anti-aging. What do you mean anti-aging? Yeah. So when we look at aging, there's normal aging that is based on your genetics and your family, tree and what normal processes look like over the decades. There's accelerated or premature aging either due to excess UV or sun exposure, some genetic syndromes, certain medical conditions, your underlying immune system help. And when we look at accelerated aging, we look at things that cause that, right? Whether you are doing it to yourself from environmental insults, smoking, laying down the beach, etc. or not sleeping long enough, having a poor diet, etc. Or you're accelerated aging as due to metabolic dysfunction due to immunosuppression, what have you? So if you're using makeup as a tool, at the very least, makeup that has some sun protection in it will be slightly anti-aging. Now I put an asterisk to that because usually people look at a bottle of, I don't know, let's say liquid foundation and they say, oh, SPF 15 in there. You are putting probably a third of the amount needed on your skin to provide that SPF 15. So you're really getting like a 5 to 8. So you can't rely on that alone for sun protection truly. I did not know that. Now, you need it for lack of a better definition, a shock glass work. Most people are either putting on very little foundation or definitely not a shock glass or the foundation. So you're not getting the SPF that your makeup says, but at the very least, there's something there. I don't think it accelerates aging unless you're doing stuff that really hurts your skin, like leaving it on overnight all the time, not letting your skin turn over, clogging your pores, then trying to scrub things off, being abrasive with your skin, then probably don't do that. But I don't think it's accelerates aging. Are there any ingredients that you think are really damaging to the skin that we use routinely that we don't think about? It's a good question. Because you blew my mind when you talked about testosterone and skin. Yeah, yeah, I'll touch on that. So there's a few things I think that are surprisingly a problem if not used right in my realm. My fellowship trained skin cancer surgeon. So I see this as a problem throughout the United States is what people commonly call black salve. And I see this especially in the Midwest people use this to try to treat non-healing bumps and growth. It's this homemade remedy that's readily available in the United States. It's a myriad of stuff depending on state to state, but it's supposed to kill cancer. Usually people use this and use this with very aggressive advanced tumors because they hit it. Black salve is a big problem. More common things that people use that they may not realize is Topical retinoids. I love them, but if you use them without sun protection, you're going to burn. You're going to cause some premature aging because topical retinoids like Tretinoan, retinol over the counter, tazeratine, adapeline, etc. Turn your skin over. They bring out kind of baby skin to the surface, so that skin is vulnerable to UV exposure. If you put on retinay all the time and you go out without sun protection, you're probably going to hurt your skin more than improvement. Topical steroids. You get a rash. You put a little hydrocord zone on. Long term use without control is a problem. It thins your skin out. It brings out broken blood vessels called tile andjectasias. So topical steroids we are very careful about. What else? Vitamin C serums. Love them in the right context, but they are a common culprit for peri oral dermatitis, which is this acne like eruption around the mouth. So these are common things that people use all the time, but when not used correctly, it's a problem. You're out of testosterone. Yes. It's making a renaissance right now in medicine and rightfully so. It's ostracizing like the 80s and 90s and now they're like way to second. People need to feel better. They need to be fit. You know, being fit reduces your insulin resistance, etc. testosterone, however, kind of hurts your skin. Hurt's it in the sense that usually increases severe glands. Thickness, oil glands, your oil glands get bigger. Your skin gets oilier. You actually produce more collagen and elastin. So skin sometimes gets thicker. And then there's this ruddiness that people see. Usually as a result of maybe too high of testosterone, where you're producing too much blood. Your blood count is high. Patients face is look red. So testosterone actually makes our skin a little, a little uglier. You know, people who are very sensitive to testosterone, even at normal levels, will get acne. Steroid acne is a very common thing. We used to use the term steroid acne for prednisone, but now you see it in testosterone. And so long as you're supplementing or, you know, taking it as medically necessary, those breakouts are hard to control. Also, if you're undergoing surgery, any sort of surgery, whether it's cosmetic, whether it's, you know, reconstructive, what have you, testosterone tends to make the scar a little bit more visible. Oh, I need to just, but. Stop you. Yes, okay. But the question, you're every single person should ask themselves, okay, what is my goal? Because I hate this cookie cutter approach where you got it, everybody has to do this for your skin. Everybody has to do this for your skin. I personally, and this may not be the same for every dermatologist, I would rather be lean and job. Have, and jack, you have a, have a six back then have a dad bought and glassy skin, but that's my perspective. I think it just depends on what's we live in, but that's okay. Fair enough. We have to, we have to pause here, test, testosterone and skin. Yeah. I love that you said that testosterone is having a run-in-solence movement. It absolutely is. Do you know, it was first prescribed, they started using in the 1930s. I know that. Incredible. And it actually was a very commonly used treatment. Now, no wonder the greatest generation was a little more to, right? But it is a good thing. And then all of a sudden, there was a study that came out that linked testosterone to prostate cancer, and they stopped using testosterone. They started castrating. Yeah, yeah. That was based on one study with one patient on a blood lab that they no longer use. Yeah. That's, that's like the same thing with acutane and the discussion about, you know, depression and mental health and suicidality. It was one flawed incident in the 70s and 80s that got that label forever. I think testosterone is a great thing. Overall, over utilization or supertherapeutic amounts for long period of time can be a problem. Just like too low of an amount for long period of time can be a problem. Each problem. You know, like everything has its sweet spot, you know, whether you're talking about testosterone, whether you're talking about sunlight, whether you're talking about a prescription medication, everything has like this balance. Yes. And if you fall out of the window, you're probably going to be in trouble over a long period of time, not for the first year, not for the first month. But if you're consistently out of the window, like anything in life, if you're probably going to run trouble. And I have never heard, and I've thought about this, but I've never heard a dermatologist talk about testosterone. It's getting other than acne. Yeah. But what you're also saying is beyond acne, it creates this thickening of this skin. And consciously, now everyone could look around and see individuals that probably overused. Yeah. Yeah. testosterone may be even antibiotics on the flip side. And to be clear, you're not talking about keeping things in a therapeutic range. How can we think about it? Because I don't want people listening to go, oh my gosh, that's it. I'm stopping it. No, no, no, no. And every single person has a different response to the same medicine. You know, I have many patients and colleagues who've been on it for a long period of time. It hasn't affected their skin. So one thing you can't measure in a test tube is sensitivity to a hormone. You can try, but everybody responds differently. I have some patients who start it. And in the first month they're breaking out, they're oily. They're like, I hate this stuff. So you should be a judge of your own health, skin health and your well-being. If you're using it, you feel great. Who might have to tell you to stop? But if you're noticing things with your skin that you didn't have before, take a look and say, hey, maybe this exogenous source is my culprit. And the flip side is true in that we use estrogen to protect your skin in a variety of ways. Not just skin, but hair. And that's been, you know, since antiquity we use estrogen for acne. We use estrogen to help the revitalize post-mediposal skin that's really dry, is erotic kind of dull. We use estrogen to help protect hair, testosterone accelerates the most common type of hair loss, which is Androgen, a gallop, a male pattern hair loss. So we use either estrogen or something that blocks the skin. We have blocks testosterone from binding to its receptor, which is a medication called spurnal octone. And that's very commonly used, especially in young girls with hormonal acne. So the flip side is true. People ask me all the time, what kind of protein powder I use. And in order for me to feel comfortable recommending a brown, I need to know it's clean and transparent. And that is one reason why I love when the sponsors of the show, Puri. Because every single batch of PW1, weight protein is, get this third party tested by the clean label project, for more than 200 harmful contaminants, including lead, heavy metals, and pesticides. It also has 21 grams of minimally processed clean, high quality, weight protein powder from grass fed cows milk, no hormones, no GMOs, no pesticides. They were probably massage, and also it has 2.4 grams of loosein. PW1 weight protein is made from a few clean ingredients, and comes in two delicious flavors. Burbin vanilla, which it has real vanilla seeds from Burbin vanilla from Madagascar. PW1. Chocolate with dark chocolate from raw organic cacao powder, sign me up. Go and get 20% off site wide by going to peory.com slash doctor lion, and use the code doctor lion at checkout for 20% off. That is pe-u-o-r-i.com slash doctor lion, and use the code doctor lion for 20% off. Do you use estrogen topically orally, how do you see it affecting the skin, which is the best pathway, and what are the most positive outcomes? I personally haven't found topical estrogen to be any better than the vehicle in which the estrogen is in. So if you smeared one half of the face with, let's say, aqua-for, you know, no specific brand, but let's say one half is aqua-for, and the other half is estrogen cream. Over a month, there isn't much of an appreciable difference. I think the vehicle is doing more than the estrogen itself, and there's a few reasons for that. One is absorption, two is concentration of estrogen. Our skin on the face is very different than the genital region, which women use this for, you know, different reasons, you know, vaginal dryness, atrophy, you know, what have you there, you have a mucosal membrane. The absorption of estrogen is much higher. It's like, same thing is putting something under your tongue. The absorption is much higher in mucosal membranes, then caret and ice skin. So if you want the benefits, oral is the way to go. The way I tend to prescribe it is in the form of birth control. And estrogen dominant birth control at low, low estosis possible, does really well to control things that are a result of low estrogen or high testosterone. And this can be PCLS. This can be hormonal acne. This can be postmenopausal skin changes. This can be hair loss. That's pattern hair loss. So estrogen does a lot of good things, and we use it clinically all the time. Have you ever considered using the patch estrogen patch as opposed to oral? I haven't. I haven't. I don't know enough on its effects on skin. I presume the patch has a more steady state release than the pill. I don't know if the patch is purely estrogen based. I know like depot and the implantable, like implantant, or progesterone based, and they tend to make your skin worse. And you're like, what the heck are you talking about? Yeah, generally it'll break you out. So a lot of young women come in and they have hormonal acne, which we usually call in the beard distribution. And it's pretty predictable. It's sick lick in the days leading up to their periods. And that tends to be progesterone driven. So as good as estrogen is for your skin, progesterone tends to break you out. So patch is injectables even the IUD, like the marine IUD that is progesterone based. A lot of patients are sensitive to that progesterone spike. So I tend to like estrogen dominant forms of supplementation. It's really fascinating that estrogen plays a role on the skin. Huge. What would someone expect to see aside from the acne piece? And what I'm really getting is elasticity, wrinkles, what do they expect to see in over what period of time with the use of estrogen? See for a postmenopausal woman or a woman that is going through menopause and all of a sudden her skin is sharing. So the same thing that happens in your skin is the same thing that happens in your muscle, by the way. And we'll talk about that just briefly because it's your area of expertise. But the most common complaint that we get postmenopausal women in their skin is their skin is dry and it lacks luster. That shine is gone. And that's usually because of the drop in estrogen relative to testosterone. Not like your testosterone went high. It's just your estrogen went down. So your body senses that there's an imbalance in the level between testosterone and estrogen. So re supplementing if you are the right candidate. Meaning you don't have a personal history of hormones sensitive breast cancer or what have you. And that'll be a discussion with you and your doctor. But supplementing usually improves skin hydration, skin turbidity, skin volume. It improves fine lines and wrinkles slightly. But wrinkling is a problem over a decade. So it's hard to see that correction fast. But usually what women say when they come in is like my skin looks better. My hair feels a little thicker. I just feel good. I look good. And that is perhaps not directly quantifiable. But if they feel great, then we've done our job. There has been this big influx of top glyuse of estrogen for the skin. I'm not going to lie. I have tried it. Do you feel like I'm in a different? I don't know. I don't know. I'm thinking myself well. Number one, this is not probably the right dose. I don't know if there's ever been clinical studies. I don't know if there's been randomized dose escalation studies. I think it was inferred from literature that's been around for a long time. I see. And what we do in medicine often is we re formulated drug that was used in another special tier and another indication. Some women say it works. If it works great, I'm not saying it's not going to work in everyone. But if you're going to use estrogen as a source of revitalizing your skin for whatever reason, I tend to find the higher concentration from oral forms tend to be better than the topical. And we end up be clear. We don't have a dose. You're estrogen. For example, if I'm looking at blood work as a physician and I want the outcome to be obviously is subjective, lust or full skin. Yeah, no dose. No dose. No dose. Because it has to be titrated based on titrating meaning we have to find the dose that fits your skin based on what we see. There are patients who and I'll use testosterone as much more readily measured all the time because people tend to supplement more. There are patients who break out when they are in 6,700 range. And there are patients who don't break out when they're in a thousand, 1100 range. So your sensitivity to it is very important. And that can be impacted by your genetic metabolism, other medications that you're on, other supplements that you're on that can affect the metabolism and the origin of the drug. So there isn't really a level that's correlated to skin. The way there is a level correlated to internal organ changes related to hormones. That makes sense. And also to be clear, skin is not the largest organ in the body. It is 40% of the body. I mean, I'm not never being able to say that. I've never been able to say that to a dermatologist. I believe it. I feel very lucky to just force correct here that is not the largest organ like it is a skin. Or it is, oh my gosh, it is muscle. It is not the skin. Have you seen anything that was really surprising? You've been practiced. You do two fellowships. Have you seen any trend that just has really surprised you? I don't know if I think the rise of social media is taken away the surprise. I think every day I'm like, what is going on here? And I think the advent of home home doctors like home may doctors through social media and Google searches is a real big problem that wasn't around when I first started training. I mean, I'm not that old, but people weren't chat GPTing their symptoms and coming in with predetermined diagnoses. This makes practice of medicine really hard. It takes more time for you to course correct somebody in clinic than anything else. I think I hate blanket statements. And that's become more and more. I think medicine becomes polarized in the US. And you either fall in this camp or you fall in this camp. And if you're in this camp, you're the enemy of this camp. There used to be a lot more middle ground. And I'm a dermatologist who focuses primarily on some of the worst skin cancers in the US. It was my area of expertise as a full-time professor at the university. It's what I do in my practice now. And that was the actual act. Yeah. And my career has been dedicated towards treating melanoma and skin, as well, of course, no, my nasal cells, etc. I love the sun. I enjoy it. I go outside and I get a lot of benefit from it. That is blasphemy in our specialty until now. And that's like something I hated when I realized. The majority of my field would say, you have to avoid the sun at all cost. I don't think you do. I really don't think you do. And that was really infuriating to me for two reasons. One, this binary good bat is never existent in medicine. And number two, dermatologist probably the last specialty, in which the physicians in the field tend to guilt their patients into making them feel like they were the cause of their skin cancer. The last time we did this was with cigarette smoking and lung cancer. Made total sense. You stop cigarette smoking. Squamous cell carcinomas of the long went down. But guess what? The number one cause of lung cancer and lung cancer death in the US now is addinocarsinomas and non-smokers. So that gilting feeling is out. But in dermatology, often what happens is patients come in. They have a skin cancer on their nose and their cheek and people say, you know the sun you got in your 20s and 30s, you did this to yourself. And don't get me wrong. Blistering sun burns are not good. Consoling getting burns is not good. But there's a lot of factors that we don't have control over that predisposed people to skin cancer that I think it sucks to make them feel guilty about this. You know, I was just wonder, how do newborns get so much energy? They wake up, they cry, they go to the bathroom. Well, they get something that we don't. They get cholesterol, the OG energy shot. And I'll tell you what, I'm always looking for ways to improve my energy. And gut health since that's where good health starts. And that's why I've added Amra cholesterol to my ice coffee. Amra is a whole food supplement packed with over 400 bioactive nutrients, things like prebiotics, peptides that help strengthen immunity, support digestion, optimize performance in case you want another newborn. Amra uses a unique technology to preserve these nutrients in their purest, most bioavailable form, which is why it stands out from nearly everything else that I've seen on the market. We have a special offer just for my audience. You can get 15% off your first order. Go to try Amra that's TRY, ARMRA.com slash Dr. Lion and use the code Dr. Lion and check out. Does the Sun cause skin cancer? Yes, with an asterisk. So there are a whole slew of skin cancers. We talk about the big thing that you ask is the most common basal cell, squamous cell melanoma. But there are things like dermatophibrous or comar protuberans. There are things like Merkel cell carcinoma. There's a ton of skin cancers, ton of different types of skin cancers. When we say yes, there is a direct correlation with chronic excess sun exposure and the number of blistering sunburns that you've had with our most common types of squamous cell carcinoma and some basal cell carcinomas and melanomas. However, there was a really interesting randomized study. It was the last randomized study that was ever done on sunscreen. I'll go into this. I'll go into why this important. Those published in the Lancet in the 1999. This was studied on Australia that looked at people who used diligent sunscreen, versus those who did not. And the incidence of some squamous cell carcinomas came down, but there was no change in the incidence of basal cell carcinomas, which is our most common form of skin cancer in the US. One in former Americans will develop this. Squamous cell. Basal cell. So no change in basal cells. A decrease in squamous cell and a slight decrease in melanoma, but no change in survival. So you're scratching your head, saying, okay, I don't understand what are you saying. First, sunscreen is a form of sun protection. It's not the only form. Sunscreen only works if you apply enough of it to every square inch of sun exposed skin. Not everybody does that. Which should be roughly a shock loss. Yeah, a shock loss worth. A lot of times people don't put them. That's a ton. It is. And if you're using a spray for get about it, you're barely getting anything. Oh my gosh, that's all I use. It's all I use as a kid and yeah, it's all I use as a kid growing up and adulthood until we learn better. So sunscreen's not the only form. Importantly, the strongest predisposing factor for you is your genetic and family history. Coupled with your sun cumulative sun exposure dose. So if you are from northern European descent, mom and dad had basal cells. Uncle's had basal cells. There's a very high chance that you're going to get it in the future. And is that only to exposed sun areas? No, it can be anywhere. It occurs more in sun exposed areas because the sun is like the second hit. Your first insult is your genetic predisposition. The second is the sun. Do we know the exposure from, for example, lights, fluorescent lights, regular lights, and the effect on the skin? Yes, publics that study is a fellow in NYU. And we showed that visible light, particularly fluorescent light, and some halogen light can change the pigment and change the DNA of your skin. That's terrifying. So there is proximity is important duration of exposure is important. So LCD, LED screens don't do this. What about this? Computer screen? No, that's usually LCD or LED. But fluorescent lights do it, some halogen lights do it, which is why there's a big movement now towards sun screens and sun screens that have visible light shielding. And glasses that shield against visible light spectrums in the blue wavelength. So there's a movement to wear stuff or do stuff that will protect you from indoor light. And this came from, you know, we had a lot of patients at NYU that were on Wall Street. They're like, I mean, these lights all day and night. I'm behind these screens or they're in, you know, private equity or what have you. They're like, what is this doing for my skin? Nobody really knew the answer. So we did a study for it. And we were pretty shocked. You get some pretty significant changes over time. Well, it's not the same as UV. It's nowhere near the same as UV. If we treat light as a form of a drug or medicine, we can touch baseball in that bit. Then everybody should know their dose, right? Your skin and my skin is very different than my Irish patient skin. I may be able to be outside or be under fluorescent light for an hour and a half before my skin turns red. That's what we call my minimal erythema dose. So that's that's how much my skin can tolerate. So if I'm going to enjoy this on safely, I will go a little bit below that. If you tell me, hey, I'm, you know, strawberry blonde, blue eyed, I burn in 10 minutes. Your comfortable dose is five. So everybody should kind of know their dose. One thing we didn't touch upon earlier in terms of sun and skin cancer, melanoma has historically been our deadliest form of skin cancer. And that's changed in the last five years. It's no longer the case, but for all intents and purposes melanoma has been our deadliest form of skin cancer, because it has the quickest ability to spread. It is the most common cancer in age 25 to 39. Second most common cause of cancer death in women ages 25 to 35. melanoma melanoma. The majority of lethal melanomas arise in sun naiv skin. Bax and legs are the most common areas. So you're saying, okay, is the sun causing cancer is the sun not like what's the message here? A little bit of yes and a little bit of no. Thanks for clearing that out. I made more confusion than anything. My point in saying that is you don't have to fear the sun if you're sun smart. You can enjoy the outdoors, get all the benefits of the sun provides safely, very effectively, while keeping yourself protected from the risks of skin cancer. Now, what is very, very linearly correlated is aging in sun. So skin cancer has a lot of molecular changes, genetic predispositions, family, you know, heritage ancestry influences that drive skin cancer formation. Aging is a lot more of a straight line. You get too much sun, you're going to wrinkle like a reason. So that makes sense. People find that it's still controversial, right? And they find it controversial because they can't account for their genetics. You know, I hear this all the time. My grandma was Greek. She was in the sun all the time. She didn't have a single wrinkle. Maybe if we look back at her photos, maybe she does have a wrinkle. We forgot about it because we loved her. We also don't know how good her skin genetics was in tolerating UV damage. But the way I describe this analogy is put a grape in the sun, it eventually turns into a reason. It's pretty predictable. Is that why upstairs on our fourth floor, I had this beautiful rug, and it had green and it had tan and now it looks totally bleached out. Yeah, yeah, it's exactly right. And it comes to the windows. You think you have protection through the windows and you really don't have much UV guarding. And so why you're not supposed to put nice fine art or whatever you're trying to preserve by a window, because the UV will eventually erode it. And do we know that it's UV? We do because there's been good studies not even in skin, but in in worlds not related to medicine like art or preservation, where you look at what damage is the paint and what ages the paper behind it, and it's UV. Heat also plays an important role, but assuming your house is climate control, you're not in Texas. Not in Texas. Very enough to shave. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, 150 of kind of wrinkle you faster. But that's terrible. The if we're talking about aging, which are aging versus skin cancer, wrinkling the number one cause you would say is UV exposure. Excess. Excess. We didn't define access and we didn't define a normal amount. Yeah. Is there such? Yeah, except it's person to person dependent. So if we consider light, UV light or sunlight a medicine, then there has to be a dose. Right. I give this example all the time. Take a Tylenol, take an ad, but what happens? Your headache goes away. Take 23 of them. See what happens. You'll be in the air. Same thing, same thing with UV exposure, right? Every person has a dose. The way you kind of know your dose, if you came to clinic and you wanted to test it, is called the minimal eratheumodose, where we shine UV light. We find the time in which your skin turns red. That is the dose that you can tolerate. And then anything below that is presumed to be a safer. The way the average person does this is on a summer day. They're like, hey, I 50 minutes later I was burned. Okay, then your tolerance is 10 minutes. The problem in making an umbrella statement is to what's safe is everybody's skin is different. Everybody's skin color is different. Everybody's UV tolerance is different. So you have to find that dose for yourself. But I think there is absolutely nothing wrong with getting 15 to 20 minutes of sun exposure for most people at low UV index times of the day every single day. I wouldn't recommend 20 minutes in the desert in California. Most people would burn. Not everybody. If someone can tolerate it, for example, my dad, my dad, my dad lives in Ecuador. 74 is outside all the time. Would you say that there would be a reason to restrict that exposure? If he hasn't had any skin cancer history? And he's not. I think that he has had some skin cancer. You have, you have fair, you have light colored eyes. And ironically, for some reason that we don't understand very well, patients with green or hazel eyes, but with dark skin or dark hair roots tend to have a high incidence of pigmented basal cells. So most common skin cancer, I see in South Americans, the most common skin cancers, I see in Southeast Asians. And it's more common in those who have light eyes, but all of features. So if your dad had one, then I would say, okay, I would probably restrict or be careful because everything in the skin and sun is cumulative effect. Which is why you don't see skin cancers in young kids that frequently. Almost never unless they have a genetic syndrome. Most cancers are the same way. It's a cumulative effect. So if your dad's not bothered, if he actually hasn't had a skin cancer, he doesn't really care about it. He doesn't really care about it. So I have to ask him. Yeah, but find out, if he doesn't, if he's not bothered by his aesthetics, then no, let him have all the fun he wants. If he has and you're worried and it's on a sun exposed area, his likelihood of having another one is 50%. Wow, that's nice. And to be clear, the outside rays are different. You said that light exposure is cumulative. It's the cumulative, you'd be that we have to be careful with, are we getting any UV from our lights? Fluorescent lights have UV. Yeah, that's very well known. You can measure that fluorescent lights have UV. Most of the lights indoors nowadays are not fluorescent. They're either halogen or LED and they do not have UV. They stop sharply, right? Was that why they stopped? And the mercury inside fluorescent tubing was a problem. So when the fluorescent bulbs would break your inhaling mercury powder. Thanks to one of the sponsors of the show, Bondsharge van. If you're a mom out there and you've been carrying the whole team, I got a different form of therapy for you. And that is red light therapy. And listen, good light impacts sleep hormones mood and even your ability to recover and focus. Bondsharge has created science back tools to help me live in better alignment with my circadian biology. Artificial light is overloading us. They have blue light blocking glasses that are staple in our house. They have red light, they have red light light bulbs. They also have infrared, p-n-f-m-s to help chill my body relax my muscles and support full body recovery. If you've never tried red light therapy, this is the time to do it. They have some of the best devices that I've ever seen. Great for skin, might have a congerial health and overall resilience. If you care about your skin, if you care about your sleep, if you care about your body and want to try something new, check out bondcharge.com-slasht. Dr. Lyon, use the code doctor-line to get 15% off your entire order. Simple, proven, designed, do support your biology. We covered the number one way to prevent wrinkles. Would you say that that's fair that it's a mixture? Yeah, access on protection or access on exposure protection. What about diet? Some people, for example, individuals that are extremely low in protein, animal protein, they seem to age really poorly. Tell me. Diet is massive. And I trained at Stanford and this was a really great forward-thinking institution in which we incorporated dietary changes to treat skin disease. Diet is medicine. Food is medicine and should be treated as such. Absolutely, the amount of protein that you get correlates to the amount of collagen substrate that you have to build. Gaholgens, a triple helix, prolaleinlycin, hydroxylycin. You make that triple helix with some vitamin C animal-based proteins are much higher bioavailability. Greater density of protein, you know, played a food you eat, so protein or certain. Antimflamatory diets tend to protect the skin from premature aging and a myriad of skin conditions. Exima, psoriasis, certain rashes, things like that. I tend to be very pro in the anti-inflammatory diet. And generally, diet is also correlated with lifestyle habits. If you're eating a shitty diet, you're probably not controlling your sleep and exercising hydration. I don't know anybody who has cheetos or dinner, but is mean to you. And the sun was doing a pretty good job. Yeah, he's pretty good. Definitely not eating T-dose for dinner. But you get the point. It's unlikely for you to have a flawless diet and then have everything else out of whack. If you're controlling that, you're concerned about your health, everything else falls in sync. So diet absolutely important. I tend not to like foods that spike insulin levels fast or have a high surge in the glycemic load. We see that as a problem in our skin in a myriad of things. The most common complication is just breakouts. Everybody used to think dairy was a culprit. Until a really good study at a Penn State came out that showed that full-fat dairy products caused no acne. Skin and non-fat dairy products in the US caused acne. And they looked into the sink, what the heck are you doing? Where did this come from? Skin and non-fat dairy products in the US tend to have the mole-sophires added to them to give them the mouth feel of full fat. Those emulsifiers are sugar substitute. They spike your insulin, insulin drives the breakout. So if you're worried about dairy causing breakouts, avoid the skin or non-fat stuff, go full-fat. It's really the sugar that's a problem. And that's well documented. Yeah, very well. Skin is definitely extremely well studied area. Right? And I want to go back to collagen. Yeah. We know the collagen to the best of our knowledge has no impact on muscle because it's the amino acid profile. Yeah. What do we know about oral collagen and skin? Yeah. So the same reason a lot of people didn't believe in collagen supplementation for muscle is the same reason people didn't believe in collagen supplementation for skin. Because you can make that three amino acid triple helix from other foods that you eat. It doesn't have to be. It's not an essential amino acid and you know this better than anybody else. What we have found though is especially in the US and especially in certain cities, patients have very restrictive dietary habits. Whether that's medically indicated or it's for aesthetic purposes, people have a variety of very restrictive diets, vegans, vegetarians, etc. In which the amount of overall protein and collagen content that they're consuming is very low. So we see a benefit overall for two reasons. And several studies have suggested and these are subjective assessments of skin health. So there's always some bias to it. Whether your skin looks better after supplementing, but there's two reasons. One, people who have dietary restrictions benefit from supplementation. And number two, when you consume collagen powder just like way or any other protein form, you have a measurable spike in the protein content of your blood plasma. In your plasma, you can measure, you know, albumin is the common one we measure, but when you consume it, you can see a spike of protein in the plasma component. With that spike, draws water. Oncotic pressure in your blood increases slightly. That gives that appearance of a little bit more hydrated skin. You can actually measure it in patients who are sensitive to protein supplements and their blood pressure goes up as well. So there's a little bit of a water draw effect with collagen supplements. I think in my opinion, it's a neutral to slightly positive. I think, you know, not high doses in lower doses. I think it's okay to beneficial, especially for people who are dieting a lot, who have restricted diets, who aren't eating everything that they should, it helps. For people like yourself who are spot on with their diet, their health, I don't think adding collagen to the mix is going to make your break your skin. You know, I use collagen and I will tell you, I first started using collagen sitting on, you know, we're talking about New York City. Yeah, yeah. I had a product of some 50,000 year across from Central Park, and it was awesome. And this girl came in and this was before anybody was taking collagen. It was 10 years ago. And man, this girl came in with glowing skin. I swear to God, and I just, I need to know it as well. I don't know if this works, but I've been taking collagen and vitamin C. And after that, I was absolutely sold. I don't know if the data is, because I looked and it looks like there is some data. The majority of the studies are subjective evaluations, but there is some improvement. Like you can see it in the photos. No, it's not, it's, you can see an improvement in the photos. Now, the question exists, twofold. When they start supplementing, are they also changing things about their daily routine, that will improve their skin and overall health? Because now you know you're part of a study, you're going to be a little bit healthier, you're going to sleep a little bit more, you're going to wash your makeup off, you're going to do all the additional things, these biases. I tend to recommend in patients who want an additional thing that they can do, that's easy and low hanging fruit, or they've noticed a change in the dullness, or the volume, or the luster in their skin. It's an easy thing to add. I don't think it's a negative. And, at dodely, I have one, I found one benefit in my patients, and I know if this is true across the United States, but a lot of older patients come in, complaining about easy bruising on their arms and stuff. We call that Bateman's purple. We used to call it C now, purple, and that's not appropriate anymore. Is it a lot of cancer? Yeah, but we call it Bateman's purple. It's basically bruising in the skin because of thinning skin and UV changes. Sometimes patients are on blood thinners like aspirin and positive. There's like aspirin and pavix, what have you? College and supplementation for those patients reduces their likelihood of bruising as much. And that's been really interesting. I'm going to get back to you. I'm going to pick up some studies, and I'm going to respond to you, and maybe you can tell me, again, I'm not a dermatologist. Yeah. So maybe there is something out there with benefit. Yeah. And I also think you talked about some important vitamin C. Yeah. You can't make the triple helix without vitamin C. So again, if you're not getting a source of vitamin C from your diet and you're not supplementing, that collagen you're consuming is less beneficial. Hydralized collagen absorbs better. We found that patients have a better result with hydrolyzed collagen and it's totally than just bulk collagen powders. And again, there is something that you've looked into. We have. We've looked in. Yeah. For sure. Absolutely. From variety of reasons. One, we want to know where the data lies because patients ask about it all the time. Two, we're always looking for things that we can do for patient skin. Besides prescriptions that is easy, safe, won't interact with other medicines that will improve their overall health and their skin health. And in formulating a product ourselves that we have, we added collagen and a low dose for the very reason that you describe. We're going to come back to this product because it blew my mind. And we're going to spend a little time talking about it because I think you're genius. I don't know about that. Well, let's ask your, let's ask for why. We'll ask the answer to our friend. Thank you. I think we would all agree. You are extremely well trained as a physician. Thank you. The better the training of the physician, the more open-minded they can be. I agree with that. And I think the less you know, the more the more patients you see, the more questions you have than any of the. The more patients you see, the more questions you have than any of the. The more patients you see, the more questions you have than any of the. I think the dining group, your effect is real. This is absolutely true. I have a couple questions in terms of you mentioned bruising. That happens. So, do you know what I'm talking about? Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm talking about. Tell me there's something to about that. I wish I had an easy answer. There are things that you can do that will improve it over time. For sure. What is it? So the creepiness is usually from a loss of collagen in the last end. When you look under the microscope, if you buy up see the skin, you see a tangled web of broken. Collagen in the last and fibers. We call it solar elastosis. The UV has basically chewed them up and left the epidermis hanging from the fat. And that that's the creepiness you see. There's no there's no buoyancy in the skin. That's a result of age genetics and some medications accelerate that. And for everyone knows are mad. My producer, you know what I'm talking about right? Where skin is really creepy and you see it and it looks like wet news paper. It looks like wet newspaper. Yeah. And I operate on those patients all the time. It's really hard to stitch. It's really hard to stitch. What can people do about that? So first is prevention. So what can we do? But that can't just be sun exposure. A lot of it is sun. A lot of it is genetic, which is why you see creepier skin on the hands than you do the back or chest. Unless you go to like, you just be just a beach town where you see the same creepiness on the... Just last week. Me too. But you see the creepiness on the arms the most. The most is the most sun exposed. Also, the amount of oil glands are an important factor in skin elasticity, skin thickness. So you don't see it as much on the face because we have oil glands on our face where we don't. It's actually true. We don't on the hands and arms. Things that you can do to prevent that. Number one sun protection obviously we talk about this all the time. But a lot of sun protection. And we're going to come back to again, we're talking about two things. Talk about banyody. Rinkles. And then we're also talking about skin cancer. From the banyody's standpoint, mitigate sun exposure. Sun protection for sure. Number two, there are laser resurfacing devices that we use all the time to stimulate collagen synthesis in the last-in synthesis. That 100% anybody who cares about their skin should do some sort of laser procedure for two reasons. One, we know it improves the appearance. And now we know it also cuts your cancer risk. It does. Our new Harvard study came out last year, like a 20-year study that showed that it reduces care. What kind of laser? What kind of laser? The laser that we studied the most, the brand name is called the Fraxal laser. It's the workhorse in my practice and many terms practices. But any fractionated non-ablated resurfacing device. The Fraxal. Fraxal. Love it. Love it. And I did it to my face. And I looked like the mask. Do you remember that movie or was it the elephant man where his face was completely blown? Yeah. How? That happened to my wife. Happened to my nurse practitioner. It happened to everybody. Ladies, you should guys. You should definitely do this. But you want to know something? Yeah. You do it again. It'll be less. If you do this again, it'll be less. Because there's less of a damage target to hit. There's less things that the laser is targeting to erase. So the first time anybody does it. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. For sure. But that's a good thing. How the Fraxal. I'm so glad that we're talking about the love this device. This episode is brought to you by something sweet. And it's not me. It's Manakura. Let's talk cards. Specifically, honey and no. It's not another nickname for my husband. I usually call him something else. People have this idea that carbs are bad. And that is simply not true. I use Manakura honey daily. Well positioned carbs like Manakura honey. They have been amazing for my personal training. I think of Manuka honey, which is what it is. It's a functional carbohydrate, not just a sugar. It's serving a purpose. It's not just adding empty carbs. Honestly, we use it anytime. We need a natural sweetener. The bees collect the nectar from the Manuka tea tree in New Zealand. It's very complicated. The nectar is unpacked with bioactive ingredients. And the honey that is produced has three times more antioxidants than your ever honey. If you're looking for a good honey, and you're looking for something sweet, you can check out their website to learn more. Head to Manakura.com slash.com for $25 off your starter kit. We're talking about in the domain of prevention as well. Yeah. Not just treatment. No, no, prevention. For sure. When should somebody start doing it and should they do it on their body? Yeah, we do. So when you should start is when you start to worry about the way you look. If you ask my dad, he would never do it. If you ask my patient? You're still in your home. No, because your skin has a matured yet. You're still in your your hormone. You're mil you is peaking. You're still probably breaking out. Things like that. But I think starting in your late 20s or late 30s is not unreasonable as prevention. In terms of treatment, we start to treat creepiness volume loss. College and loss of last and loss somewhere in our mid 30s. Because that's when we first start to notice it. Usually, and unfortunately, social media has accelerated perceived aging. So now they're stuck away from this freeze year, with rapid blood pressure yrusic. Again, you're focused as fast as you'd do if you Tammy isio e that was your last step. Howard wishes it. Yeah, to be more, after erfahrening the first day and that she's done. This session, you know, we even talked about it. Save time before that, and then you'll get around for 10 an hour. Feel more of your your concern, where you look at normal people. So yeah, I would say decently, that's not what I like. Right. So, your, if I don't actually just be at the end of April. sun damage on spot. If we are using it as treatment, then it'll be based on how much of that thing we're treating is left. So every season. But I'm not gonna, for example, for me, and I use the Fractal. Yeah, and I had my girlfriend, Kristi Hamilton, she's a plastic surgeon, and... Amazing. I trust her the later. I had her do it. The first time I did it, my face looked terrible. I did it six months later. It looked better, and then I got really busy and all that stuff happened. But I'm never gonna erase the wrinkled on my face. No, and it's not, it's not meant to reverse decades of aging. It's to slow down that natural progression. Everybody will lay, we're not gonna make it out of this race. Right. So if your slow is like this, you know, or that guy on the boat and grease, you know, love life, just definitely make it out of your mouth. Yeah, that guy has to be a number of any models. Yeah. If your slope is like this for aging, the goal of everything we're doing is to make it like this. So you get their slower. You extend the duration of the perceived effect. So it's not like you're gonna get a face left result from a non-embasic procedure, and even faceless, don't erase your wrinkles forever. But the goal is to help push that aging process down and help prevent any cancer along that. Fractals not the only device that does this. CO2 resurfacing laser. But that's actually the one I did. Yeah. I did this year. You were probably pretty messed up. I was. But was it fractal? Was the brand name fractal? I think so. These names. So there's an older fractal that has like a CO2 wavelength component. There's a newer. Okay. Fractal that has a wavelength that's 1927, a fully-empty, gets really nuanced in the technicalities. It all depends on what you're targeting. So CO2 is not necessarily a fractal laser. It's like saying tissue paper and clean eggs. Okay. Or petrolotum and vaseline. So fractals the brand of the device. And then CO2 is the lazing medium and the wavelength target. There's a lot of companies that make CO2 lasers. And the more important thing is whether it's fractionated or not meaning you don't burn the entire square of the skin. But you have little skip areas to allow the skin to heal faster. I love fractionated lasers because it helps patients heal faster. The kind of laser the brand. So we hear about more fias. Yeah, yeah, there's a lot. Those are all brands. Those are all brands of a fractal laser. Those are all brands of different lasers. Morpheus isn't even laser. It's radiofrequency. So it gets really- But this is important. Yeah, it's really technically new on. Yeah. I want to walk away from this episode knowing what I can take early to prevent skin cancer. Which you guys blew my mind. I really blew my mind. I also want to know as a dermatologist who's done two fellowships and was a professor at UCLA, what am I going to do? Yes. To each better. Yeah. So you got to tell me, you got to tell me, you got to lay it off for me. If I were to have like my favorite things. Yeah, I'm all I'm taking it off. Yeah, let's let's say you have your perfect regimen for anti-aging and essentially skin cancer prevention. Some good form of sun protection. Do you care? That's not half to be a sunscreen. Okay. You don't care if it's a sunscreen. Do you prefer- In fact, in head to head studies, sun protection from shade, shelter, you know, covering out-performed, any sunscreen on the market because- It's not. You cannot burn if you're in shade. It's impossible. But you can burn if you don't put on enough sunscreen. That being said, not everybody's going to cover up because life. So some form of sun protection. Sunscreen, SPF clothing, shade, shelter, what have you- Do you care if it's mineral-based or not mineral-based? Oh, I'm going to get so much heat for this. I tend to not like chemical sunscreens. I treat as a skin cancer surgeon. I treat sunscreen as a drug. It's classified as an over-the-counter drug by the FDA. But I treat it as a mechanism to prevent cancer for my patients. So I don't really give a shit. Excuse my friends. Whether it looks great or not on the skin because my job is to prevent something where I have to take a scalpel to it. Not everybody thinks that way. And rightfully so. So for me, I tend to like mineral sunscreens for two reasons. Number one, it tends to have better visible light coverage and broad spectrum coverage than chemical sunscreens. More importantly, there's a lot of smoldering talk in the literature suggesting that chemical sunscreens are not as innocent as they may be played out to seem. Meaning, some of the chemicals and their breakdown products can be questionably carcinogenic, can be questionably hormone disrupting. We didn't know this stuff when it came out. Chemical sunscreens came out in the Cosmosutical Industry as a way to allow women to end men to put on makeup without the chalky white residue of minerals. Because what bother people is they would put on sunscreen and then make up and you got this white cast or you got this grainy sandy texture. So mineral started becoming annoying to people who were wearing makeup. So Cosmosutical Industry say, hey, can we find a chemical that will shield us from the sun that goes on elegantly? Those on nicely, you don't have a white cast and you don't have that chalky feel. The way chemical sunscreens and mineral sunscreens work are a little bit different. Mineral sunscreens tend to absorb and deflect or refract the light. They sit on the surface of your skin. Chemical sunscreens tend to absorb undergo a chemical reaction in the skin to release that energy as heat and then get a breakdown product. So there's a chemical reaction going on on your skin when you apply chemical sunscreen. That's how it protects you from UV. A chemical reaction. There's been enough data and animal studies and an interesting paper that was in Jama that showed that even with a single application of a chemical sunscreen, we could detect that product in our plasma, meaning in a blood draw, at levels that were above what we considered safe and normal. Now, a lot of people are going to come after me, especially those who are in the Cosmosutical Industry right now. And with that be zinc oxide, what is a mineral is zinc and titanium. Chemicals are things like oxybenzone, Avobenzone, Octocrylean, a bunch of, if you can't really pronounce the name, it's probably a chemical sunscreen. A lot of people are going to come after me for this, but if I have enough data that says maybe this class is not as safe as we think, whereas this class is generally recognized as safe, I'm going to pick this one. Of course, especially for my kids. In fact, the American Academy of Pediatrics and the American Academy of Dermatology do not recommend applying chemical sunscreens to infant six months and younger. So if we have that already and now I'm sure in the comments people are going to say, well, no, the amount of chemical you need to put on is 500 times what you put on is, there's enough data for me to say, you know, if I'm going to, I don't think you're going to get pushed back. You know, who'd be surprised? I've gotten a remarkable pushback from a lot of industry. And I get it. Skincare is a $200 billion global industry. People have to push product. And they say, oh, my mineral, my chemical sunscreen is this and there's no absorption. I don't know, there's a lot of basic science and some translational science that suggests chemicals aren't that safe. We're taking chemical, so you would avoid, so you would use mineral hydroactimen mineral sunscreens. It's majority of what we carry in our practice. Mineral sunscreen and a retinoid are the two single best things you can do for your skin. And this is the top retina or something like that. Rescription grade is always better than over the counter. The reason for that is the over the counter retinol's are not active. They are inactive pro drugs that need to be converted into the active form by your body. The conversion varies person to person based on the enzymes that they have, which is why somebody will use this product from Sephora and say, oh my god, I'm like flaking and dry. I'm having the effects and the other personal use and I'm not, I didn't get any of that effect. Prescription strength always better. And that's generic, can be true. Yeah, generic. What a person. Started the lowest because it'll irritate your skin. Tretinoin. 0.025%. Now there is one prescription that is now available over the counter. It was a prescription up until a few years ago, a dapling. The brand name is different. That is a prescription strength, not an inactive retinoid. It's called a dapling. It's 20 bucks at target. And do people put it everywhere? Yeah. It's somewhat. And what is it going to do? Yeah. So retinoids should go on at night. You put a pea-sized amount to the full face. You're going to reform massage it and including under your eyes and above your eyes. You don't have to go right up to the eyelids because the eyelids can't just thin it and get really irritated, but it'll diffuse naturally. So if you get it to your cheekbones, you start once a week at night. And if you're not dry and peely, you'll go to two times a week at night. If you're not dry and peely, you'll go to three times. And the goal is to get to nightly. But if I told you to go get retinoids, start on the night and you start pealing and say this guy's an idiot. So start slurring. And this is for wrinkles. It is for wrinkles. It's indication is acne. Has been since the 80s, but it has the only medicine that we know, topical or otherwise that grows new collagen. And that's been studied for 30 years. You can buy up see the skin and see changes in collagen density increase. And in the last one. So it prevents wrinkles. It prevents sun spots. It prevents fine lines. It prevents sun damage. It prevents pre-cancers. It prevents acne. It's the best topical medicine you can use. I'm sold. Why am I just putting out my face? You can put it on everywhere. One, you'll probably run out of the tube. And really the area we're concerned about if we're thinking aesthetics is face. And it responds, it affects and modulates the pylosobacius unit, which is the hair follicle in oil glands. So if you don't have that on your like arms, legs, it's not going to be as effective. But what about for that creepiness of the skin? It can help. It's not great. It's not great. And it may just irritate your skin a little bit more. But for the face, it does help long-term for the creepiness. Okay. So those are the two single topical products that you should everybody should be on. sunscreen in the morning and then you time you have excess sun exposure and a retinoid at night. Got it. If you want to ice the cake, you've built your cake. If you want to ice the cake, everybody wants to and we want to carry a little bit out of it. You can add a vitamin C serum. The way vitamin C works, if you think about this, is you know, cut an apple, put some lemon on one side, leave the other side unexposed, leave the apple out in the sun. The unexposed side will brown. The side with the lemon will not brown. That's the vitamin C preventing oxidative stress and oxidation from the environment. The theory is you put that on your skin in the mornings and you help prevent oxidative stress and changes from the environment when you're out and about. Now don't go rub it lemon on your face or oranges on your face, because that's going to create a whole single other problem. But vitamin C is an added thing that you can do once your cake is built. So if you're not using sunscreen, you're not using it retinoid. I don't think spending a lot of money on vitamin C is helpful. What about the Kojik Asid? And there's a whole bunch of other products. So there's a lot of products depending on what your targeting. Usually the acids are to help improve dispigmentation, molasma, sunspots. Asids are basically abrasive things that burn the top layer of skin off either gently or very aggressively. There's acids that are over the counter, lactic, cojik, glycolic, etc. Then there's acids that we do in the office, like higher strength. I've done those two. TCA, you know, try chlorocetic acid, glycolic acid, phenol, peels, these chemical peels are acids. I caution people into doing too many things because a lot of what we're putting on are caustic. They burn the skin. Vitamin C is an acid, a sorlic acid. So if you're putting vitamin C acid on, if you're adding Kojik Asid, if you're having a lactic acid wash and you're putting on a retinoid, your skin's going to really be irritated. You got to build into these things slowly. So I bring this cake frame again, but once your cake is built, then you can frost it, once the frosting is set in, then you can put the sprinkles in the cherry on top. But it takes some time for your skin to get used to it, or you're going to have a bad reaction. What about, and you really are building the foundation of the things that you should for 100%. Rinkles, anti-aging, sunscreen, retinal, vitamin C, yeah. What, and it sounds like it's a give or take vitamin C for you. Look, I love it. I don't want people to throw everything at their skin right away. If you've been using sunscreen in a retinoid, for sure, out of vitamin C. And if you're at the age where you're starting to see the changes, I like vitamin C, late 30s, 40s, 50s. It does help prevent oxidative stress, and it is an antioxidant by definition, as well as a vitamin. But you have to be careful with it. It can irritate your skin. It can cause some perioral dermatitis. But I do love it. It does brighten complexion. It does help with dispigmentation and sunspots. It's a great ad on. What about locians? Things of that nature and red light therapy. Yes. Everybody should have moisturizer. Everybody should have a good moisturizer. There's three big forms, ointments, creams, locians. What are the differences? Ointments are basically oil with some water droplets mixed in the most classic ointment is Vaseline or Petrolottam. Aquifores in equivalent. Cremes are much broader. They tend to be white. They can be thick. They can be not so thick. Cremes are water emulsions with a little bit of oil mixed in. So creams are lighter than ointments. Locians are powders mixed with water. They are the least moisturizing. So I generally say how dry is your skin, how irritated is your skin. The dryer, the more irritated, the more moisturizing properties you want. You want to go towards thicker things. Given that you're not breaking out. If you're 18 years old, don't put Vaseline on your face. You're going to break out. But put on your feet. You know how to help your feet. That actually brings up another point. This whole beef tello. I was going to ask you that. No, that's exactly what I was going to ask you. So my entire, unfortunately, my entire field has put this umbrella term on beef tello is horrible for your skin. I cannot believe you bring this up. Does that is exactly because we're talking you ointments cream lotion. So I am neither four or against beef tello. In my culture, I'm ethically Armenian. There is an equivalent homemade remedy that is like a beef tello equivalent that is that everybody in my culture knows about that we use to treat burns and scrapes and injuries. If you are using beef tello and you are not having any issues like acne, breakouts, clogs pores, by all means use it. Who are you saying otherwise? Are they saying not? Because it doesn't have fat-saudible vitamins in it as well. People are saying it does not enough for it to be appreciable in your skin. You're probably not absorbing it enough for it to even make a difference. But it does. It has a lot of bioactives that you don't get from petrol atm. What is a problem with beef tello is any young individuals. Those who are actively getting their medical information from social media and their 23 years old they have a lot of acne or they have hormonal acne or they have congested pores and they're smearing the stuff on their skin. It would be the same as if you smeared gasoline on your skin. It's not really much different. But I have older patients who have dry skin. They're like, you know, I've been using beef tello my skin looks great. Who am I? To say anything else, you know, your skin looks great. Continue using it. So in the right patient, it's fine. The other problem with beef tello is where you source it from and quality. Like, you know, backyard beef tello, I probably wouldn't recommend it. I don't know where it's coming from. I don't know if it's sterile. I don't know what else you're getting in there. But, you know, good brands, you know, trusted brands that make beef tello. I'm not against it. Go ahead. By all means, but if you start to notice your skin's reacting to it, back off and let's figure out why. It's good advice. It makes sense. Yeah, I hate like being umbrella one or the other way. I think every person responds differently. Now, you bring a bread like, actually, before we transition to red light, you ask moisturizer. I think everybody needs a moisturizer if they're using a red noid or an acid. Your skin's going to be dry. Pick the moisturizer that works with your skin. I don't have any brand affiliations. I tend to like neutrogenos, hydro boost, or cerevaise, PM moisturizer, or vanicream, you know, anyone that is non-comito genics. So you want to look for that label that says non-comino genics, meaning it's been tested, not clogged your pores. But neutrogenos great, anyone that you like that you will use and it won't be a glorified paperweight on your desk. Use. If you have issues with it, then figure out why. Maybe there's a preservative that your skin doesn't agree with. Maybe there's an ingredient that is breaking you out. In terms of red light, a lot of talk about red light. I tend to like it. I have it in my practice. We have one that we use post procedure. We have we also use it post procedure for hair treatment. I love it. It is not a game changer device. Game changer devices are devices that can completely change your skin's biology. Full face, a blade of resurfacing. We can, we see like the CO2. Yeah. Like devices that peel your entire skin off and it regrow beautifully. Those are game changer devices. I think red light does a few things that is awesome. It increases blood flow to the skin. It helps promote some wound healing. It helps improve post procedure healing. You know, after laser resurfacing would have you. I think that's great. I don't think there's a negative to it. I think the only thing people should be aware of is whether their red light device is powered enough to see a clinical benefit. The way you kind of know is if anything is battery power, forget about it. Probably is not powered enough to get the jewels or the energy output. The fluents to see the effects we see in studies. Most of the time the ones that are effective are usually clinical grade or medical grade and they plug into a wall and you can see an energy output. Do we know why what the mechanism for hair growth is from the red light? Yeah. It's thought. So hair loss, the most common type of hair loss that everybody seeks. Most people seek medical attention for is Andrew Genetic or Andrew Genic, Aleppisian that's male or female pattern hair loss and that's hair miniaturization and dormancy due to sensitivity to DHT. Testosterone's byproduct. The hair is not gone. You may look bald but when you buy a see the scalp, the hair follicles are there. They're miniaturized and they're shrinking. They go into resting phase. The way the red light is thought to work is it increases the blood flow to the dermal papillacelles. Basically the stem cell region the hair follicle to provide more fertilizer. Imagine turning up the hose in your garden and you can now provide more water to your plants your plants are going to grow again. So long as the plants are there, most of the time it is. It's effect is slow. Person to person you get a variability depending on how thick your scalp is and how deep the hair follicles sits in the scalp. Those are things you can't really measure but some people get great response 10 to 15% increase in hair density. It's a lot with red light alone. Some people don't I tend to use it post procedure so if you get hair transplant, micro-needling, micro-needling with PRP, PRP injections alone we use it immediately post procedure when the skin is already a little bit more inflamed to increase that circulatory flow. You mentioned PRP we didn't really talk about it but I do want to talk about PRP exesomes. But before we do that what is the mechanism for the skin for the red light therapy on the face? Is it just increased blood flow? It's not to be increased blood flow and in doing that you can get a lot more fiber blast recruitment and a lot more stem cell regeneration from post procedure and increased blood flow allows us to turn the skin over appropriately. It allows your skin has stem cells that go down hair follicles and they live in the basement membrane. Increasing flow to our pylosobacius unit allows our skin to be a little bit more vitalized. You know this has me thinking and I've used a red light cap for hair growth. I've used it for years. I actually kind of fallen off the bandwagon of recent but if it increases hair growth on the head would it increase hair growth on the face? In theory potentially but you have to have those types of hairs on the face that respond to that. So generally terminal hairs which are the dark thick or the thick blonde or thick brown hairs that come out of our head those are terminal hairs. Whereas the hairs we have on our face, men tend to have terminal hair in their beard area, women tend to have what's called vellis hairs which is that peach fuzz hair. That is not so responsive to things like red light or even hormones unless you shift them from vellis to terminal. You won't be able to do that with the red light. Okay that's good. Good question. So you're not going to grow beef. But you actually bring up a point. People use row gain, menoxidil, topically and now orally to help improve hair vitality. That will grow peach fuzz as well. Do you set your practice? We do. Menoxidil. We use it early more than topically mostly because you know guys hate putting on topical menoxidil, women will be a little bit more compliant but the efficacy of the oral version in my opinions a lot better than the topical. We use armonoxidil as well. What dose do you happen to use? Just for women usually 1.25 and then we'll go up to 2.5 for men we start around 2.5. Yeah. As long as they have no issues, you know, the heart, yep. Poptation thing you know. And you find that they seem to lose hair first. So there's a shedding phase and you know 30 to 50 percent of patients will have an initial shedding phase in the first four to six weeks. That's a good thing because it means you're a responder. We see it with the topical and we see it with the oral. So if you don't counsel patients about that they'll come into I'm losing my hair more you're crazy. What the heck do you get me? Yeah. Yeah. It does work. So the only thing is you will grow peach fuzz. Your body hair may increase a little bit. That's the downside to menoxidil but it is safe effective. Doesn't modulate hormones the way pedestrian astride or do test ride do? Yes. And for the record we never recommend finasteride. We're talking about a big time out of favor. Thank goodness. And that's propisa. If anyone is taking that I strongly recommend you go and you see your physician and really talk about for sure coming off of that. Yeah, it's a miracle. Yeah. A special and young patient. Yes. You know if you're post the age of deciding to want children, you know, your 40s 50s older maybe can be a discussion because it'll provide some prostate protection as well in men. But for young guys especially they come in like 18, 19 like do you don't need this? There are other things. Way way better. Hair is probably not even reached its state where we need to treat it anyway. The circling back to the PRP and exosomes. That's a really hot topic. Okay, talk to me about what that is and how effective that is. PRP's great platelet rich plasma. We basically draw all the concentrated growth factors from the plasma portion of your blood, concentrate it and then re-injected in an area of concern. It was popular in orthopedics. Still is popular in orthopedics and regenerating. You know, tendons, ligaments were added. Yeah, it's great. In skin and hair we use it to reintroduce either growth factors, stimulate hair growth or wound healing post procedure. So let's say you have laser resurfacing done and the skin is injured. You can apply PRP that'll speed up the healing process. Theoretically increase the amount of collagen in the last needle produced. Does it work? I think it works. Yeah, we use it. I use it a lot post-micronetling so we will micro-needle the skin. Micro-needle skin is basically bloodied and we take a concentrated form of PRP and apply it to the skin and hope that it absorbs it because those micro-needling channels are open. The patients that I've used it, the ones that benefit the most are the ones that tend to have acne scars or traumatic scars in which we are trying to get rid of the scars. PRP seems to improve the density of collagen and speed up the healing more than if we just did micro-needle and laser alone. And there's various modalities that you're talking about but could someone skip all that and just go right to laser? Yeah, for sure. And we've learned them together. They do different things. We usually use them in synchrony so laser and PRP at the same time. It depends on all what we're targeting. So if we're targeting like sun spots or malasma or dispigmentation, the PRP is not going to provide you much benefit. Rinkles, we care about wrinkles and elasticity. If we're treating wrinkles elasticity, PRP at the same time. For sure. If you're treating hair loss, PRP injections, red light therapy, things like that are all simpler procedures. There are bigger procedures you can do hair transplant face lift and they're very effective but most people are not diving straight into a face lift. Exesomes, exesomes, what's that? These are thought to be messaging signal molecules. I don't like that you just took that big sigh because I just bought exesome under i-cream and i am afraid I just wasted cash. Oh, come on. Unlike internal organ mechanisms, exesomes, and they fall in the category of peptides as well. In the skin, except maybe two or three companies that use exesomes that are shelf stable and verified in terms of having the exesomes they claim they have. The majority of the stuff sold, hogwash. No, hogwash. But would if I happen to have purchased, which I'm going to go look, you're going to find out. Well, I'm definitely using it because it was expensive. It is very expensive. There are some great brands that have some good exesomes. Okay. And the exesome itself is a signaling mechanism. It is usually it's a combination of peptides or amino acid. Sometimes there's a metal attached to it like a copper moiety. Those are really popular in the skin. Copper based exesomes. Some are derived from stem cells, either human stem cells or plant based stem cells. The plant ones don't really do much because our body works differently. It's theorized to send signals to increase your fiber blastability to grow new collagen and elastin. You're not a fan. I have yet to see a difference in which the vehicle is used and the vehicle plus the exesome is used and seen a prescival difference. Nobody really likes to do that study. Which is why a lot of times in that realm scar healing products. You won't see many companies do a split scar study where they use standard a petrolotamocle4 for one half of the scar, a land to one for one half of the scar, and their scar healing product on the other half because it looks the same. What they will do is show you an untreated scar, no nothing on it, and then a scar that's treated with their product. Well, of course, that product is going to work better because you're doing something to protect it. Okay. Well, if you're going to spend the money for exesomes, my opinion is hold it and get a procedure that really provides skin health. Some sort of resurfacing laser, micronedling, something. I we touched upon what we can do for antiaging in terms of topicals. There's a lot of things we can do in the office that will help you in terms of antiaging from a procedure standpoint. I love there's three, if I had three magic devices, then those only devices I can use. It would be fractal or some sort of fractionated non-ablated laser, fractals my favorite, some sort of vascular laser, that targets blood vessels. I like the V-beam or the pulse dilizer. I like it because it gets rid of all the broken blood vessels, gets rid of rosacea, and it helps reduce the likelihood of basal cells. It gives you that really nice even tone. How often do you get them? Do it every month if they like, especially for fair skin patients who have a lot of redness who flush in the sun or with hot beverages or with spicy foods or with emotion. You know that rosacea flush, this is the gold standard you're forgetting rid of that. Broken blood vessels are on the corners of the nose. I'm going signing up. And then a micronedling device. Simple, effective, and stimulating collagen synthesis. You can do it in all skin tones. One of the biggest challenges in the U.S. is we can't use every device on every skin type because of the risk of dispigmentation and consequences with changing their skin tone. So a lot of what we can use in very fair skin individuals is not safe in very olive or ethnic skin or dark skin. The laser and the micronutling do they do different things. The fractal, the fractionated. It depends on if you're targeting fractionation for sun damage, then yes, that targets a higher level of the skin gets rid of freckling, sun spots, et cetera. If you're targeting fine lines and wrinkles, depending on the depth, they do similar things. But I use them in conjunction all the time. And then probably the third thing that you can do is utilize a daily supplement that will protect your skin from the harmful effects of the sun. Now everybody's like what the hell are you talking about? Yeah, they're a part of the third thing. So topicals, sunscreen, a retinoid, and a vitamin C. And then you can add all the other things that you'd like, you know, Kojikassad, as a lay at gas at what have you after the fact. The retinoid at night, laser resurfacing procedures that will stimulate collagen and elastin growth, get rid of sun damage, prevents skin cancer. Those are excellent. And then the third thing which I recommend to all my patients is to take supplements that protect your skin from the sun. There are three, well four, three really big supplements that I like. One is a plant called polypodymulutotomas, which is from a fern in the Amazon. It's a fern that when you consume, let's you be out in the sun longer before you burn. Yeah, where did you even, for you in Peru somewhere? This is a jungle, which is the machete, whatever it sounds like. It's well known in a niche of dermatology this plant. You mean like five people? They're like seven. Yeah. And it's a it's a readily available plant that we're not consumed at the right dose. Let you be out double the time before your skin burns. It's not a replacement to sunscreen. That is so cool. It's awesome. Wait, it's a fern. It's a fern. It's like a like a naturally grown fern in the Amazon, polypodymulutotomas. Of course. And where is what? Who is were they eating it? Yeah. The way they found out is indigenous people go out on fishing expeditions on the Amazon and they'd be out for three days. So the way they protect themselves is they crush up the leaves and eat it and they wouldn't get a sunburn. So this came out, this like data came out about 10, 15 years ago saying, hey, there's a supplement that you can eat that you can consume that will protect your skin from head to toe from burning. And it helps prevent things like flaring of your malasma helps prevent sun spots. It's basically an internal shield for your skin against UV and sun damage. You know, I'm going to have to ask you, they know the mechanism of action. There's a myriad. It's thought to decrease our skin's dimersation from UV exposure. Meaning. Meaning it's thought to prevent our skin cells ability from causing UV mutations from from the sun. That's one. The next supplement is a supplement called nicotinamide. Now not NMM, not NAD. These are commonly mistaken or confused. NAD is nicotinamide and then die nucleotide and amend is the mononucleotide. They have different functions in the body. They have no relevance in the skin. But pure nicotinamide, one given at the right dose, has been shown to reduce our skin cancer risk. Our non melanoma skin cancer is by up to 30%. And that data was published in the New England Journal of Medicine. One of our most prestigious medical journals in a phase three study. So this is great supplement that is over the counter. Where would you find it in food? Yes. nicotinamide you won't find. It's a derivative of NISN. So NISN is vitamin B3, but the Amide derivative that has the Amide moiety attached to it is nicotinamide. It also known as NISN. It can find that in supplements. You won't really find it naturally occurring in foods. That is another excellent supplement and the third is Astazanta. I am really big into this. It's not well known in dermatology, but it is well known in the anti-aging, wellness, longevity world. It is a powerhouse antioxidant and has been shown now in several studies to prevent premature aging of the skin. Helps prevent fine lines or wrinkles, helps prevent sun damage. These are excellent supplements that everybody should be on. Where would you find in the science? In terms of food, you'll find it in like shrimp salmon. You'll find it in if you need a lot of marine algae. You'll find it in marine algae. The biavailability in shrimp and salmon and crustaceans that have that orange hue. That's where the orange hue is from. It's higher bioavailability than the marine form, but if you don't eat, you know. It's also difficult to get the dose. I've actually started to take 12 milligrams, which is high. So two milligrams I've been reading about is great for eye. The skin is around four. Because of all this, we put together my two partners put together a product called Sun Powder. It's very good. It's the world's first daily drinkable supplement that you can take to protect your skin against sunburns to help reduce the likelihood of non-millanoma skin cancers and to prevent premature aging from the sun. In my practice, I have a lot of patients who are sun damage heavy, meaning they have skin cancers. They have life-threatening skin cancers. A lot of patients that come in for, hey, what happened to my skin? Why is it all wrinkled? I lived at the beach. I'm like, okay, let's figure this out. My partner, who's a harbour trained laser dermatologist, sees a ton of patients every day for laser resurfacing, mostly for aesthetic purposes. Aside from the standard sunscreen, avoid the sun, where you're right and all of this. There has to be something. And dermatology never really looked into the supplementation world because in medicine, unfortunately, it was taboo for a long time. If it wasn't a prescription, it didn't work. Remember, paracone? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I remember that's been the first. And I don't know. Is he still alive? I don't know. Okay. So this guy, Dr. Parker, is the O'Jair member reading this in my grandmother's bathroom, while she was, I don't know, watching Jane Fonda. And if he's talking about, there's a lot that we can do that we don't look at that can improve skin vitality from the inside out. How did you come up with this in his sun powder? So originally, like, eight years ago, what have you and I was doing my training at Stanford, we had a high risk clinic. We had a high risk skin cancer clinic patients who had a lot of tumors and a lot of burden of disease, those who had a high chance of metastatic disease or death. And we looked for things that we can do to reduce their skin cancer burden. And ironically, oral retinoids are one thing that you can do. And that's a prescription that has to be talked about with your dermatologist. But we found that not in nicotinimide also helped reduce their skin cancer burden. By the way, it's a burden. We need how much you're finding. If you had a high likelihood of making five of these next year, squamous cell, basal cell, what have you? When you supplement it with nicotinimide, you're risk reduced by 30%. And it's a lot because all of the majority of the skin cancers tend to occur on the face. So then we said, okay, if this food supplement or if this oral supplement does this, is there anything else that can improve skin appearance resistance to UV? So that's where the dive began. We did a lot of it. It's not a lot, not a lot, but enough for those and there's vitamin C in there for that reason. Vitamin C's 250 milligrams. And then we have a haluronic acid, which is the same thing that filler cosmetic fillers are made of. This helps hydrate your skin. We have glutathione in there, which is, I think we're the only oral supplement that has reduced glutathione in there. Really popular product, Korea, really popular in Asia, both this supplement and as infusion to lighten and even out the skin from sun. And then we have Astazanthin, we have nicotinimide, polypodium. So we put all of these ingredients into one supplement, called sun powder. And all of my patients, they take a single scoop, mix it into water and drink. How long till they see, obviously there's the cancer. Yeah, good question. Good question. How long till you anticipate the cancer prevention versus how long till they can see the nurse skin. So if you're using it for sunburn protection, if you're using it to reduce the likelihood of you burning within two hours of consumption, we see that change. That's on believe how, that's awesome. I know it's really, really cool. The polypodium is amazing. The Astazanthin works together. But I think it's a skin that fast. Well, usually if you consume something, you can measure an uptake in your plasma, whatever you're consuming somewhere around 30 minutes to an hour, depending on gastric emptying and how much food you've eaten, what have you? Ideally, it works better if you know you're going to go on a trip and you start a week before, there's a cumulative measurable change in your skin. So if you know you're going to Hawaii next week, start a week, have a scoop a day. It preps your skin for UV. I mean, so if you're using it for sun protection, two hours before sun exposure or daily just as a preventive. If you're using it for skin cancer reduction, our data point in flexion was nine months. You had to be on it for at least nine months to start to see the changes. And not just skin cancer, we see all a reduction in what's called AKs, Actin and Caratosis, pre-cancers, patients who supplemented had a lower number of them when they would return. This is without any other treatment. So if you're using it for skin cancer somewhere nine months or so, if you're using it for primary anti-aging prevention, you just want your skin to look good. Think of this as an, I have no brand affiliation, but think of this as like AG1 for your skin. For using it for that, it's the time point is hard to see a specific like inflection point, but most of our customers, my patients, will come in around three months and say, hey, I'm noticing my skin looks a little bit brighter. I feel a little bit more hydrated. I'm in the sun and I'm not burning. We've had a, we've had a lot of patients from across the US message and say this is the first summer I've been able to go outside. Without, I had you're getting a sun allergy, which we call PML, your polymorphous light eruption. Or they've gone to Disneyland, Florida, Hawaii, where have you on vacation and they haven't burned. Now, it's not a replacement for sunscreen. Gotta make that clear. Sunscreen does a different thing. It works from the outside end. Sun powder works from the inside out. It is really amazing. I'm in a triet. You brought me four bags. Yeah. Yeah. Two of all questions can kids take it? Six and older. Six and older generally, it should be weight based. So six to 12, I say take half a scoop. 12 and older. If they're, you know, abnormal body weight, you could take a scoop. Very cool. Everything is water soluble. It doesn't interact with medications. You don't have to worry about it being a drug or prescription. pregnancy. Run it by your OB. Theoretically, every ingredient in there is safe for pregnancy, but every pregnancy is very sacred. Every, every person is different. I would hate for something that is like this to affect it. So run it by your OB. This is a random question and this is because my best friend, sister, has, I don't know, she has some polymorphism that every time she goes out into the sun, she gets, it's like very painful. What does that call? It's either PMLE, polymorphic lighter, or the more severe version is, ectinic pyragal. Okay. Serious. But they tend to get better with what's called sun hardening. So as the summer goes on, their skin tends to tolerate the UV more and more. There's actually medical indication for our supplement for that. That's what I was, I'm going to send one of my bags. Yeah, it's used for PMLE and protects your skin from the inside. It's really effective because it's miserable for patients. They get this itchy blistery rash on their forearm. Dr. Teo, so the money. Thank you so much. This was such a fun conversation. And we'll have to do it again. Yeah, we have so many things we haven't even touched upon. We didn't even touch upon Botox, like which is a quintessential neuromodulator. So not for another episode, yes. I'm one, I'm a fan of it. But it's been an honor to be here. It's been a pleasure. I've had a lot of fun chatting about all things I love to do. And hopefully this provided some information for people to find the right direction and how to make their skin look good and stay healthy. Thank you so much.

Do you think that vaccines cause autism? That is the most important question we don't know. If they are causing some of these concerns, we need to know that. There is no way you look around California and 1 in 12.5 but don't males have autism. That's insane. Something is happening. A vaccine doesn't have zero risk. And so I think it's reasonable to say, okay, well, what are the risks from this vaccine? If you don't feel like vaccines are the best thing for your kid, you should be allowed not to take them. How many vaccines are children getting? It depends on which number you look at and how you define it, but be 30 to 50, even more so than that. It's not a reasonable again to say, well, is it too many? There is nothing that has shocked me more in my probably entire life than looking into the autism research myself. But how can you say that vaccines don't cause autism? I think the biggest concern right now is the chronic disease epidemic. And we're seeing more and more kids sick, more more kids having take medications. I think that's a massive concern. 50% of kids have a chronic disease. That number is staggering and it continues to get worse. It wasn't like that just a few decades ago. It was 5-10%. I'm really excited to have you on your pediatrician. And my number one goal for this episode is how do we keep our kids safe? And my first question to you is, what are some of the most concerning trends that you are seeing in childhood? I think the biggest concern right now is the chronic disease epidemic. I mean, we're seeing more and more kids sick, more more kids having take medications, 50% of kids have a chronic disease. And the latest statistics just came out and it's 75% of adults. That number is staggering and it continues to get worse. It wasn't like that just a few decades ago. It was 5-10%. So a lot of what we're doing is moving us in the wrong direction. And by chronic disease, your biggest concern in terms of keeping kids healthy is what? OPCD would be one of the biggest concerns. I mean, we have a huge OPCD epidemic, but it's really all of it. I mean, diabetes, it's neurodevelopmental concerns, autoimmune conditions. They're all skyrocketing and all skyrocketing together and cancer. All of these things we're seeing increase. And I don't know that we should pick out one or the other. They're all concerning, but certainly OPCD is probably the biggest concern I would say. Have you seen the health of children change? For sure. The amount of conditions that we're seeing, the concern around conditions, has skyrocketed. In my practice, it's a little bit different because I have a self-selecting population who are a little bit more integrated-minded. And if I look at the statistics, I don't see quite as many of those things in my practice, but certainly more than I used to. And without a doubt, when I look around, when I go outside, when I see my kids playing at the playground, you notice more and more kids that have developmental concerns or seem like they have chronic conditions, or they just always seem sick, unfortunate. I think that we're seeing this. You mentioned neurodevelopmental, and that leads me to my next question, which I think is an obvious question. How do we protect our children from vaccines and do we need to? I think that is such an important question that we don't quite know all the answers to yet. I think when it comes to vaccines, what's important is to weigh the risks versus the benefits. And I think we have a pretty good understanding of the benefits of the vaccines in terms of risk reduction, the diseases which we used to have. But I don't think we have a very good understanding at all about the long term complications of the vaccines. And I think that's a really important piece, because it's not just about protecting against disease. It's also about protecting against chronic disease. And I am very confident that we don't have the information that we need to assess how or if vaccines are interacting in such a way that it's one of the factors that you're leading to chronic disease. And I think that's a very important piece, because if they are causing some of these concerns, we need to know that. You know, it's really interesting as a mom of two kids, I remember when I had my first child, I was really concerned about, do I give my daughter the happy vaccine at birth or not? And you cover that in your book, which by the way, I think that your book is extremely well written. It's between a shot and a hard place. Can you talk to the mothers, the families that have newborns and it's terrifying to hand your child over to say, okay, well, I'm gonna give you these vaccines right at birth? I think it's really important to state that, I'm not against vaccines. My person belief is that we should have informed consent. People should be able to choose whether they want to do or not do any sort of medical procedure. Whether it's in my practice, whether it's in the book, I don't tell people what to do. In my practice, we have people that do the regular schedule, some people do a slower schedule, some people don't do it. And I feel like my job is to educate and discuss what we do and do not know. And when it comes to making a recommendation, the CDC schedule is the CDC schedule. That's what's recommended, right, in America. And it would be very arrogant to me, I think, to say, well, you know, Dr. Joel knows better. You shouldn't fall the CDC schedule. You should do my schedule. That's not my belief. I think it's important that we talk about it and anything that you wanna do outside of the regular schedule is a personal choice. And we should be able to have conversations like this where we can talk about things like hepatitis B and talk about the concerns that parents have because they're real concerns. And there's just a lot that needs to be discussed. And hepatitis B is one of those big topics. I mean, there's no question about it. That is the vaccine that I would say of all the vaccines that the most people decline. In my practice, I would say the majority decide they don't want you the newborn hepatitis B vaccine and decide if they wanna do it later or not. And the reason being is because you're asked to give a vaccine to a newborn baby, literally a day old. While there are some potential benefits from that vaccine, you have to ask yourself about the risks and we never talk about that in a modern medicine. What does it mean when a baby just came out to give them the hepatitis B vaccine? And it's not just that. And as I said earlier, you're giving a vitamin K. You're giving them an RSV vaccine. But at least what hepatitis B, you can test. And we can test now for hepatitis B. So we know if a parent has hepatitis B or not. Now is there a possibility that you have a false test or a problem? Yeah, sure that's possible. Is it possible that someone who doesn't know that hepatitis B walks in your house and bleeds on your baby and your baby gets hepatitis B? Sure, those things are possible. So you need to explain that to a parent. But the reality of that risk is so small, one in a million, one in a million, I don't know what that risk is. But almost nothing. A vaccine doesn't have zero risk. And so I think it's reasonable to say, okay, well, what are the risks from this vaccine? Does it lead to anything later? Do I have to do it now? Can I do it later? And that's a very fair question. You're putting parents on day one in a position where they have to make a choice to listen to the doctor and the CDC or go against that recommendation. And I think that's a really bad place to be where we're putting parents against. As opposed to having a discussion about the pros and the cons and saying, here's a recommendation. Here's why we say you should do it here. The concerns around it. What do you think? Do you want to do it or not? So hepatitis B is typically from what I understand isn't that transmitted from blood or sexual contact or their other ways? So those are the main ways that you'd get it. So main way would be sexual contact. Well, the main way at birth would be from mom. So would be mom has hepatitis B and passes it through the birth, through blood to the baby. So if you have hepatitis B, it may very well be reasonable to get that vaccine. That's a very different risk benefit calculation because your baby has a high risk to get it. But if you don't have hepatitis B if you tested for it, then your risk is really, really, really small, not zero. But really, really small. So you have to understand that there is a potential risk. It's possible that you could get infected. And if a baby gets hepatitis B, it's a big deal. It will be very serious. So what could happen? They could get chronic hepatitis B and you could die, you could get cancer. It could be quite serious. So if a baby gets hepatitis is very serious, and that is why they decided to do it because it absolutely has decreased the rates of hepatitis B. But the rates are already really low to begin with and that goes back to personal choice and you're understanding, do I have hepatitis B? Does my partner hepatitis B, am I going to be letting a lot of people around my baby? And am I willing to take that risk of, I don't know, the one in whatever million that somebody comes and bleeds on my baby, it's probably not going to happen. So you should be able to say, well, you know, and don't feel like I need to hepatitis B right now, I'll do it when they're older and when the risk is a little higher, I think that's a very reasonable position to have as a parent. I don't have an issue with that if a parent says that to me, I think that they're risks with everything so you have to decide on what risk you're comfortable with. What about the risk of actually giving the vaccine? And there are different types of vaccines which you cover in your book, but if we were to just like hepatitis B, because again, I also had a friend that just had a baby girl and he called me and he said, you know, well, what did you do? Did you give your baby hepatitis B right at birth? What are the risks of giving that child, for example, hepatitis B vaccine at birth? The biggest risk would be short term risks that we are aware of. So fever and some pain swelling get sick in that week, just not feel good. So those are the big risks, right? Like any time you get a vaccine on herds, I'm writing this around it swelling, so they're rash. Those are the things that we see. The major complications are documented to be pretty rare. We're told they're one million, I think it's more than one million, but we're told that so things like seizures, Guillain-Barray syndrome, which is in inflammatory syndrome. So things like that. So those are the big documented concerns. The question is really to me, more on long term risks, which we just don't really know. It's never really been studied in that way. So we're not really sure if they're related to any sort of long term risk, and that to me is really the big piece of the puzzle that's missing. And it's not just one vaccine. How many vaccines are children getting these days? They're getting a lot more. And so it depends on which number you look at and how you define it, but be 30 to 50, even more so than that. We have a lot of parents up concerns around the amount of vaccines. And I think that is totally reasonable. What has happened is when we were growing up, we maybe had a few, like five, maybe 10 in that range, and most adults just never thought about vaccines again. Haven't thought about it in 20 years until the COVID pandemic and the COVID vaccine, or if they have a kid, and they have to go look at the schedule, like, wait, how many vaccines are there? So it's really a lot more. And sometimes you'll hear 72 or 100. So you can define a vaccine based on the antigen. So let's say, detect vaccine diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, that's three, but it's not three pokes. So how many pokes you actually get? We'll be somewhere in the range of 20 to 40, but there's still a lot more. And there's a lot more antigen that are included in that. There's a lot more diseases that we're protecting against, but still, so just a lot more than it used to be. And it's not a reasonable again to say, well, is it too many? Is it causing an issue? Where are the studies that look at the cumulative vaccine schedule and how that's affecting us? We don't have those. In preparation for this, Florida just issued a mandate that they no longer require vaccines. And I was just curious as to what your take on that is. It's a bold move. I think that with a state like Florida, you had exemptions anyways, but I think it's more of a statement to the other states that are saying, we don't believe in mandates. We believe in personal choice, and we don't want to force anybody to do anything. That's my personal belief. I don't feel like you need to have mandates. The reason behind school requirements in theory is it pushes people to get vaccines, right? Because if they don't get the vaccines, then they can't go to school. And it encourages vaccines and as a public health measure, we're encouraging vaccines that we don't have outbreaks in schools and we're getting more and more kids vaccinated. But I don't think that's the right incentive. The right incentive should be people should get vaccinated because they want them because the science is clear. And because you feel like it's going to help your kid. And if you disagree with that, if you don't feel like vaccines are the best thing for your kid, you should be allowed not to take them. And you might be right. You might be wrong. You could make it measles and get really sick. That's possible, but you should be able to make that decision. And we have seen over the last few years that they push to mandate things. And I think this is the, I guess, counterpoint or counter argument to COVID mandates, which I think pissed off a lot of people. I mean, everybody really upset and really pushed so many people too far. And so now we're seeing the push back where certain locations are saying, we don't want any more mandates. We don't want this to ever happen again. I don't know that the extremes are always the best thing, but this is the counter-extreme to what we saw during COVID, which did not turn out well. If you listen every week and feel like we are in this together, which I believe that we are learning, growing and building strength, then I created a way for us to get connected even more closely. It's called forever strong insider. A premium community for listeners who want to go deeper. You'll get ad free episodes, which I know you'll love. Bonus Q&A is where your questions shape the conversation. Behind the scene, moments because let's face it off hilarious for my daily life and written takeaways to keep egg of nerds. But more than that, you'll be supporting the show so that we can keep creating content than matters. If you've ever wanted it to feel part of the inner circle, this is your invitation. Join us at foreverstrong.supercast.com or through the link in the show notes. You said that the science is clear. Maybe it is, maybe it's not. When it comes to vaccines, this is probably the biggest question that I get as a physician, believe it or not, even though I don't see kids. We see kids in our practice, but I personally don't see kids. And that question is, do vaccines cause autism? And I was looking at some of these numbers and from an autism perspective, it looks like since 2000, at that time, there was 119% increase. And we were chatting before we started rolling, saying that the numbers maybe don't matter, but looking at this recent number, one in 31 children, our diagnosis of autism. It's absolutely insane. It depends on which study you look at and which organization, but it was maybe 1 in 150 to 1 in 60, 65, 68, 20 years ago. And now it's 1 in 31, our latest numbers, 1 in 12.5 boys in California. I don't care what the specifics are. It's so much more. It's such a major topic that we're ignoring, or at least we're up until this point. And it's a big deal. It's so frustrating as a physician to hear the discussions around autism, often in the mainstream media discuss it in the way where it's a go. We're just better at diagnosing it. That's why it's so much more common. And we are better at diagnosing it. There's no question about it. We're certainly talking about it more. But there is no way that autism was anywhere near the numbers that we see them today. You just look around anywhere you ask anybody who works with kids with autism. It is so much more prevalent and so much more severe than it was even just a few decades ago. There is no way you look around California in 1 in 12.5 adult males have autism. That's insane. Yes, we're better at diagnosing it. Yes, that's a small part of it. But something is happening. And the fact that we're not open to looking into everything, including vaccines is absurd. We need to look into everything. Some kids without autism do phenomenally well. And that's okay. But there are a lot of families where they have severe complications and those severe complications are increasing. Something like 20 to 30% of kids have severe autism, which is much higher than it used to be. And those families want help. Back to my question, though, do you think that vaccines cause autism? That is the most important question. We don't know. That's the answer to the question. We don't know. There is nothing that has shocked me more in my probably entire life than looking into the autism research myself. When I went through training, we were told, vaccines do not cause autism, the science is settled. We have tons of great research to prove this point. That's all you think. You don't think to question it. Why would you think to question it when you're in training? And when you hear it on the media, it's like, oh, no, no, the science is settled. We know that it does not cause it to be a spinty-bunk. And so that's a reasonable thing to think like why would people be lying to you. And then when you start to read other books and you start to look at the research yourself, you realize that we haven't studied this question almost at all. We certainly have had some studies. We've looked at the MMR, we've looked at the Dimae Era saw, which is the Mercury component of vaccines. Which they've taken that out. Which you've taken it out, yeah. So that's not even a major concern anymore. But how can you say that when you haven't studied all the vaccines, MMR's just one vaccine, we have not studied anything where it's vaccinated or it's unvaccinated kids. Not one study exists on that with autism. We haven't looked at all the vaccines. We haven't done a prospective trial. We haven't looked at all the ingredients in there. So how can you say that vaccines don't cause autism? You can't say that they do, but you can't say that they don't. We have not done the best kind of research the research that we need to tackle this topic. And to say that it's been debunked with the science of settled is ridiculous. It's so far from that. Is it just because of the amount of vaccines that they have or why from your perspective haven't this study's been done? I mean, there are only a few theories as to why it's not been done. One, because we were just telling people it was settled, and nobody did it. I don't know if that's true. There's been a major diss incentive to do it because of people that do that research end up becoming called an antivaxia, crazy quack. They get their careers destroyed. So there's been a major push in certainly some of the studies to call the people quacks and then destroy their careers. And that happens. So that doesn't tend to be helpful. That's not new. I mean, remember, have you looked at this the past, for example, Germ Theory. There was this guy that suggested that when a woman has a baby that you must wash her hands, and he was completely ridiculed. People told him, he was crazy. He ended up in a mental institution and I think he killed himself at, I don't know, mid-40s. Yeah, this is not new. I mean, anyone that speaks out against the dominant narrative and can certainly get a lot of pushback. But with vaccines, it seems more than that. I mean, it seems like there's some targeted attacks on individuals that have come out with studies. And so I think that's a big part of it. It's just really hard for me to believe. And this again is shocking that it's pretty hard to do a prospective trial. I think it should be done, but it's harder. But it's not that hard to take big data sets and say, all right, how many kids are vaccinated, how many kids are unvaccinated, what other autism rates would happen? You don't see that. That doesn't exist. You could go to Kaiser. You could get the data. You could get in five minutes and you could post a study autism in kids or vaccine versus unvaccinated. I cannot believe that that stuff has never been looked at. So the only thing I can think of is either people were just so sure that there isn't a problem they didn't look or they did look and they didn't like what they found. So they didn't publish it. Those are the only two things that makes sense to me. And you have the vaccine safety data link, which has millions of kids and millions of reports. They could go back and say, okay, all the kids in this, vaccinated versus unvaccinated, what are the rates of chronic disease? What are the rates of autism, ADHD, autoimmune conditions? We don't have that research. Why? You would think if they wanted to discredit someone like Secretary Kennedy, that would be the easiest thing to do. You just pull that research to 10 million kids, no difference in rates. So I don't know if just nobody did it or they looked and they didn't like what they found. But why it wasn't done? I don't know, it's crazy. Because I thought it was done. I think people would think that. I'm very honest. I thought it was done until I did the research myself and realized it was never done. So I don't know how you could say that. And epidemiology, I mean, I have a master's in epidemiology. I have a pretty good understanding of how to look at the research. And when you say something is bindi-bunked or that the science is settled, you need very strong evidence to say that. We don't even have weak evidence to say that. It's insane. The CDC vaccine conversation is going a bit bananas right now. Would you just bring us up to speed? Yeah, it's hard to be up to speed because every day something else happens. But it seems like there is just so much back and forth right now between Secretary Kennedy and the new individuals that are in the organizations, versus the individuals who have been in the CDC and NIH for a long time that really is much better. OK, frame this just quickly for a listener who doesn't know what day and month that we're recording and just bring us up to speed a little bit on the history of just briefly what is happening within the CDC where they are in terms of how long individuals have been there and then they let them go and just this whole situation. Yeah, there's a lot. So we're in early September. And with Secretary Kennedy, he has fired the head of the CDC and multiple individuals who have been there for a long time. Years may be decades for some of them have left or resigned. Many people have walked out or petitioned against him, have asked him to resign, the mainstream media seems very much against anything that he's doing and real long time. Kennedy. OK. So you have that. Within these orders, there's just a lot of pressure and fighting against the decisions that he's making. There's a lot of concern that he is going to cause or is causing a major concern around vaccines in this country and going to pull vaccines or take them away from people. And so there's this massive fighting with that. He also removed the Asub Committee, so that's the advisory committee on vaccines and replace them with a bunch of other individuals. Which are they qualified individuals? Can you highlight just for those of us that don't know what these committees are, why they're in place and just what is a landscape and what's happening? I would say across the board, the major concern the Secretary Kennedy has are a lot of the things that we have talked about, which is our health is going in the wrong direction. We had a very bad response in his opinion in mind to COVID and we need change. And the individuals that have been there for a long time over saw all of this, whether it's the CDC, whether it's the advisory committees for immunizations, whether it's national and suitive health. They have been very stuck in their ways. They're looking at things in a certain way and he wants to bring in new individuals, different perspectives. And so he's replacing his within his purview to do it. He can replace people that he thinks are going to do better or worse now. I don't know each person, I don't know whether they were good or not good, I just know the outcomes and the outcomes were not good. So having new individuals in there makes a lot of sense having a difference of opinion, certainly makes a lot of sense. The individuals on the committees, they have experience too, they have different conditions, are they MD PhDs, PhDs, or it's a mixture. So mostly MDs, but it's a mixture of different individuals and different positions. So they all have some experience in these topics and they wouldn't be there otherwise, but it's just different experience. The mainstream medicine wants someone who went to Stanford or Harvard or Yale and has been doing research for 50 years before they get on these committees. And I think a lot of individuals who are against that say, well, that's what kind of lettuce here. There's a very narrow lens that people have based on the specific science that they deem is the appropriate science. And they're not open-minded to some of the other discussions, other topics. When it comes to vaccines, they're extremely pro-vaccine and they're not open to having any discussions around concerns around vaccines. And I think Secretary Kennedy wants to have those discussions. He wants to open up the research. He wants there to be able to be discussions around possible concerns. And so that has everyone putting heads. Because if you're a mainstream physician or a mainstream individual at the CDC, vaccines are the best thing ever. And anybody who questions that as a crazy anti-vaxer and you're disrupting it and you're going to cause people to vaccines to go away, which is not what he stated he wants to do. He wants to open up the research in science. So there's a lot of friction with the old in the new. Oh, sorry. It's time to record an ad to the show. Thank you to one of the sponsors of the show. Time line and listen. My kids still sleep with me. And after 479 times nap requests, bathroom breaks, my husband snoring, myself. They're like, yo-jee, we're tapped out. Enter might appear. Time line nutrition is one of the most thoroughly research products I have come across in over a decade. Look, to carry it in my purse, they have peer reviewed published science. And this is where it's really interesting. So for those of you who are following the muscle centric lifestyle, when you increase bio energetics, you improve muscle function and how? In adults, 40 plus, timeline has been shown to increase muscle strength and endurance and no change in activity. So whether you've been active resistance training your whole life or you're just getting started, or you're not getting a lot of sleep, and you've got a million requests. Your muscles and your mitochondria need help. And they have just launched their low sugar vegan, non-GMO, gluten-free gummies, which, by the way, I am eating by the handfuls, which I shouldn't, but they taste delicious. Time line is offering our community 20% off your first order. Go to timeline nutrition.com slash Dr. Lion. And use the code, Dr. Lion, to get 20% off. I recommend trying their starter pack with all three different formats, and of course, their gummies, which are incredible. Now, do you foresee this friction continuing to happen as they dismantle part of the, would you say that they're dismantling the CDC? I mean, it's bizarre not. They're just, they're restructuring it with different individuals, would you say? Correct. And I think the friction has just begun. I think it's going to get far worse. In the next few months, you're going to see many, many individuals either leave their positions or start to fight back the more that comes up. Because we know where he is headed with some of this stuff. I mean, he has talked about what they're looking into at the advisory committees, like looking, hepatitis B vaccine, looking into autism, and presumably some information's going to come out of what they're finding, and that's going to create even more chaos. Because anything that he comes out with, you either love it or you hate it. It's kind of very too excited right now. Do you think that that's more of the physicians or more of the general population? It's both. I think that the physicians, mostly are pretty anti-secretary Kennedy in general, not all of them, but I think they are. Do you think it's that their anti-canity or are they pro-science in a way that they are used to science being done? Both. They're pretty anti-hand no matter what he does, because I think that they see him as an anti-vaccer. That's what they've been taught and told. So it doesn't matter what he says. But I think in general, they're very pro, the way that things have always been done, and the status quo, and anything that disrupts the status quo, is a threat to them and everything that they do. So I certainly think that that's a part of it, and that's a part of just mainstream, where there's such a fracture right now between individuals that are very approving of what he's doing, and you see that, and he's very popular amongst the people that he's popular with. He's had a very high popularity rating, even more than most other people, the latest polls. So the people that love him, love him, the people that hate him, hate him, and there's not a lot of middle ground there, just crazy to me. Because everything is very nuanced in this, and there doesn't need to be a lot more discussions, and I hope that that does happen, but it seems like we're moving in the other direction, where he seems to be digging his heels anymore, and the establishment seems to be digging in their heels more, and there's a lot of back and forth. And so yeah, I think it's just starting, and there's gonna probably be more people that leave, more positions that are filled, and whether that's a good or bad is gonna be something to see in a decade from now, I think, but again, I go back to what we were doing wasn't working. So I think that we need that friction, we need some big change, and ultimately think that bad is gonna be much less bad than people are worried about, and I think there's gonna be a lot of good to come from this, and a lot of individuals who are digging their heels in, eventually might hear some of this stuff, and might say, oh well, actually it's not so bad. Oh, that's what the research shows, like for example with autism, I know that if a doctor would read the actual literature themselves, they would never say again, the science is settled. That is not heard by them. They're not gonna hear it from Kennedy, but if more research comes out, more people start talking about it, someone that they respect says something about it, it will slowly start to trickle in, and then you might see, oh, maybe we should get more research in that on that, that it's not gonna be so controversial to them at that point. If that is the case, then perhaps there are handful of studies that you've read that really have opened your eyes or changed your mind one way or the other. For that, doesn't it? Yeah. So it's the bulk, it's the majority of the studies that really have changed my mind, because when you look at the reviews, when you look at what has been studied, it's very clear that it's not all the vaccines, so the only thing that would change my mind would actually be actually to see vaccine diversity on vaccinated studies, and to actually see prospective trials moving forward to see what they found. We don't have that, so my mind is changed that we shouldn't be saying vaccines don't cause autism, or they do cause autism. My mind is very clear that we don't know, and that's the only thing that anybody should be saying, and we should be open to looking. How would a parent listening to you right now, be able to navigate in the world, right? You have the American Medical Association, you have the CDC, and then you have these, somewhat opposing voices, like RFK saying one thing. How would a parent who wants to educate themselves and understand how do they make sense of it? I think the first step is just what you said is to get educated to some degree on the different concerns that are out there, and what the mainstream is talking about with vaccines, and what the counter points are, and I think you need to read multiple different books. You need to look at different sources. And that's one of the reasons why a road a book was to talk about a balanced perspective, but before my book, when people ask me these questions, I was like, well, you have to read more than one thing. You have to read something that's a CDC perspective, and you have to read something that has an alternate perspective, and then you have to start to form your opinion. You have to make decisions in the world, and we don't have all the information, so you have to make the best decisions with all the information that you do have, and go from there, and it's not easy because we don't know the long-term research on autism. We don't know the long-term research on chronic disease, so you have to make decisions without that knowledge, and so you have to weigh the pros and the cons for yourself, and decide what you feel makes them all sense. And you have to listen to whoever you feel like is trustworthy. But there's gotta be a standard, right? I mean, so for example, a nutrition science. I don't just look to anybody. I have to understand where they are credentialed, what their training has been, what has their views been, and how are they putting out information in the world, and do their peers respect them, and are they looking at the evidence, or are they informed by something else? And there has to be a way, it's very challenging. With vaccines, it's very challenging, because the standard is the CDC schedule, right? So that is the standard, and if you want to go with the standard, then you follow what the research scientists have said for all these years, but the counter argument is really just coming out now. I mean, it wasn't something that we could really discuss. There were a few books back in the day, like dissolving illusions, probably the most popular one from before, and then turtles all the way down, was another, you mentioned that in your, yeah, so those are popular books, but turtles all the way down, I mean, again, the topic is so controversial, we don't even know who the author of turtles all the way down is, because they didn't put their name on it, it's anonymous authors. So this is not a topic that's been openly discussed until now, and for me, my main goal of the book is not to tell you what to do, it's to be able to have discussions like this, because people might want to be told what to do. They might want to be told what to do, but I don't think it's your job to be told what to do with vaccines. I don't think it's your job to be told to do in medicine in general, it's our job to discuss and inform so that way people can make a decision that's best for them. If you want to be told what to do, the CDC's schedules, what's telling you what to do. If you want to do anything outside of that, if you have become educated, you've listened to different individuals and you have hesitation, then those are the kinds of things you need to read to come up with a plan for yourself, or to work with a doctor or practitioner that's open to an alternative schedule, or working with patients that are unvaccinated. I mean, that was not every doctor will do that. Most won't, but there's certainly our practitioners out there that will work with you, but ultimately, again, it is personal choice and the reason it's personal choice is because no one's ever studied anything else. So people say, okay, well, what alternative schedule should you do? It's something we have to come up with every patient because there's no study that says, well, if you do it this way, it's gonna be better or safer. It doesn't exist, they only studied the regular schedule and even at that, they didn't really study it as a whole schedule. So how are we supposed to give an opinion, an educated opinion without researcher data? It's just common sense you're using basically, or you're person to beliefs, and it's also how comfortable the person is doing the vaccines. There are some people that just don't wanna do it. Wait, $3,000, $3, wait, is that number right? I spent more money on skincare. My pores should be taxed, deductible, maybe even have their own trust fund. And thank goodness that I found one skin. Because one skin, it doesn't just make empty promises, it's research driven, minimalistic, and tested for beauty, skin health, and longevity. One skin is the first topical skincare backed by peptide science that targets skin aging at the molecular level. I slather this on all day. They have a peptide that is designed to reduce the accumulation of dead cells or zombie cells, the drive inflammation tissue breakdown as we age. Now, this isn't about cosmetic quick fixes. It's about changing the biology of your skin. Strengthening the barrier, improving firmness, hydration elasticity, with clinically tested ingredients. So, if you are focused on aging well from the inside out, it's time also to think about your skin. It should get the same level of care. Go to 1skin.co for 15% off, use the co-doctor line. It is amazing, and it will not break the bank. It's really challenging when you were writing this book. What was the most surprised? I mean, I think that you touched on one of the most surprising things is that this science wasn't nearly as settled as you had anticipated. And you're in a unique position because most physicians have not done a masters in epidemiology. And I listen, you're amazing, because I would probably fall asleep epidemiology is, I can't say it's the most exciting science, but it is really looking at big populations. And the point of epidemiology, if I'm not mistaken, is it helps frame a question. Correct. It helps to get data where you can use the information that you already have to make an assessment and to lead you to do better. So, epidemiology research can be very helpful. You can look at a million people, you can look at risk factors for certain things that can give you value of information. It's not as good as a double-blind trial. It's not as good as falling people prospectively, because the problem with epidemiology is depending on how you set up the equations, you can change the results drastically. And that is the big issue with the vaccine researches. It's very set up in a way that there's a lot of bias. And you see this because people that are super-provexing always find something that's provexing is a answer. People that are very anti-vexing, always find what they're researches and that's very not good about vaccines. And so it's really hard to know what's true, because it depends how you set up the data. I mean, this is RFK talked about this. He was talking about recently about the study where vaccines and autism and the concerns of the 1,000% increase in kids having concerns that were adjusted by the CDC and were changed in a nefarious way. And I don't know anyone's motivations, but the original research around 2000 did show a major increase in these concerns, but that was before it was adjusted. Before they did their actual study, it was just the preliminary data. And then after it was adjusted, then there was no difference found in the two groups. So that again, just shows you how profound the difference is depending on who's doing the research and how you adjusted. One thing that shows a thousand percent increase, the other one shows no increase. And so you don't know which one is right, because it depends how you adjusted. If you adjusted in a different way, maybe you get a totally different answer. But if you're like, well, I got a thousand percent increase in autism. Something wrong. Go for my friend. Oh, you didn't adjust for this. Okay, let's adjust for that. Now there's no difference. Okay, I guess I did it right now. Are there some people, if one in 12 males in California are getting diagnosed with autism, which again, that number is huge? Do you feel, and again, this is a bit of your medicine is an art, right? There's the art and practice of medicine. And a really good doctor is able to take the data and then also see what is being shown to them by their patients. Do you think that there is some way to indicate, if at all, someone who is going to do well with a, quote, traditional vaccines, let me, let me, t the sub-rio. Many of the moms say at the park will say, my son was fine until he hit five. And then he was vaccinated for measles and all of a sudden he went non-bermal. Have you heard that story before? Definitely. Many times. Okay. Help me understand that and help me understand are there some children that may be at risk for that additional, robust immune response or whatever it is if anything at all, or maybe it is just happened to be that day. I mean, that is a wonderful question and it's the right question. And to start with the first thing to really talk about with that question is, this story is happening thousands, probably hundreds of thousands of times, where your parent goes in, feel like their kid is perfectly normal and growing healthy and do everything's wonderful. And then the next day or the next week or a couple of weeks after they get a vaccine, everything changes, that's in their opinion. Those people are often called anti-vaxxers after they get upset. And that's so crazy to me because it's literally a parent who went and to get vaccines. And there's no way that person's anti-vaxxed. This is their experience. This is what they think they could be right or wrong. They could have got a vaccine this morning and had a hard-to-hard-tech this afternoon. It could have nothing to do with it. They were gonna have a hard-to-tech anyways. But when hundreds of thousands of parents have the same story, we ought to listen to that, take that data and try to figure out if there's some truth to that. And that's really frustrating that we're not listening to parents. Because that is the data that we need to start to figure this out. How do we know which kids are going to have a reaction or more likely? We have to start looking into that data to figure out what makes you more susceptible. And that again, has never been done. It's insane. Wouldn't it be amazing if we figured out that there were certain genetics or certain kids that were more susceptible or more likely to have a bad reaction and figure out who those kids are? So that way we can minimize giving those kids vaccines or giving them a specific schedule or space it out or whatever it is. That's gonna give people more commonest of vaccinate and we're also gonna minimize reactions, which of course is what we want. And so as of right now, there is no exact way to know that. I would say things to watch for would be the more susceptible kids. So some kids just get sick more. They seem to be a little more fragile. What do they call that? Are they called fragile? There's more fragile kids. So if you had a vaccine, you had a bad reaction. I think that kids certainly more high risk. If you had bad reactions of vaccines or people in your family had bad reactions of vaccines then maybe there are some genetics. So I don't think for those individuals, it's not unreasonable to at least go slow for those kids to make sure that having reactions. They're, again, there's something wrong with that. Or anti-science or anti-vax about saying, these kids seem like they're more vulnerable. Let's go slow with those kids and be extra cautious. What Dr. wants to give a child a bad reaction or a chronic condition? Nobody does. So it's not against science to just be more cautious. But we should study it. For example, in your practice, do you think that there's a relationship to methylation? This idea that someone has an MTHFR mutation would a child like that be more sensitive to a maybe not even the vaccine, maybe the preservative in the vaccine. Because I'm sure in your practice, you have a more integrative practice. And there's probably things that might not be evidence-based but maybe evidence-informed in some capacity that you try to figure out would this be too much of a burden for this child or kind of a framework for parents to think about? The issue with MTHFR is that there are so many people with mutations that it's hard to know how or if it might affect kids. I think certainly when that first, when the research first started coming out, people were very excited. Oh, this MTHFR, it's related to detoxification. It's great. I'm not saying, no, I'm just saying, we haven't done the research with MTHFR as it relates to vaccines specifically. There's a very little bit of it, but the body's so much more complex. As I say, oh, you have MTHFR mutation therefore you're gonna have a reaction to a vaccine. I think if you have a significant mutation, it's not unreasonable to go slow. But that again goes back to, that's what we should be studying. We should be studying MTHFR with vaccines and then many other mutations to see if we can find a pattern of, well, these are the 10 mutations that seem to put a kid more at risk. These kids have a 50% chance of having a very severe reaction. It's not just MTHFR. I think that's too simplistic. But I don't think it's unreasonable if you have a mutation to go slower. I think that's fine. But ultimately, you don't need that to go slower. It's just if you have concerns and you wanna go slow, you can go slow. I don't think that's definitive of anything. I mean, I've seen people get the MTHFR test many times. It doesn't really seem to be that helpful clinically when it comes to vaccines. The reaction seemed to be a little bit more, a little less simple than just doing a test like that. But I would love if somebody would do that research over the next 10 years and really starts to get kids that have bad reactions. It starts to figure out what their genics are. Because I think we could figure out that there are probably some mutations that leave you more susceptible to the vaccines. Of course. Why wouldn't it be? I mean, that would make sense. Do you have you studied or looked into any of those? Do you have any sense of what they could be? Or are you trying to formulate a plan? Not yet because nobody studied it at all. I mean, there's very, very minimal research. I've talked to some people that they should go do this. But you have to acknowledge that vaccines can cause a problem. Before you're gonna go study that there are things that you can do to help protect you from those problems. We have barely even a knowledge of vaccines cause issues or can lead to chronic disease. We have to establish that first. And I think if that's established, then there's gonna be a bigger push for innovation in that space because you're gonna see a lot more people hesitant. And then I feel like the things that you could do to make people less hesitant are to actually test to figure out who is more susceptible and why. And then you can decrease that risk. Like maybe there are some supplements you could take. Maybe there's some herbs you could do. Maybe there's a genetic susceptibility. These are all things that are possible to give people confidence. We haven't done any of that yet. Or very minimal. Am I off it's like, okay, we could take some vitamin C. You could do some vitamin D. You could take things to support your immune system. But again, none of that's been studied at all when it comes to vaccines. I've never seen any research on any of it. And that's really important research to do. But no one wants to do it because that would inherently mean that there could be a problem with vaccines. And we're only starting to even acknowledge that now. And there's a big war going on right now about all of that. So I think in a few years it'll be a little bit more open to this stuff. But right now it's just the beginning. Do you think that there is a relationship between vaccines and chronic disease for kids? I think there is. Well, first, basically anybody that you ask that tastes care of both vaccine and unvaccinated kids has the same answer. They feel like the unvaccinated kids are generally healthier and more robust. That's what everybody says. Whether they're right or wrong, I don't know. I certainly, in my own experience, it feels like kids that have fewer vaccines seem to get sick less. I don't see them as much. They seem to have lower chronic disease rates. I don't have anything definitive and have enough patients to do a big study like that. But that's just my experience of what I've seen. And many, many practitioners that take care of them, anyone that I've ever asked, says the same thing. So I think that's true. But you have to weigh the risk of the disease versus everything else. And I think that that's an equation that requires a lot of nuanced conversation, because it's not just so simple as you get fewer ear infections. Okay, if your infections what you dive measles, that's not good. Hi, duration isn't just about drinking, co-zero, or other sugar-free swing beverages, like Red Bull, now I'm saying this for a friend. Or it's not even about drinking more water. It's about keeping the right balance of electrolytes and fluids. During life's most demanding season, like I don't know, parenting, maybe pregnancy, or postpartum, your body is going through massive changes, blood volume increases, hormones shift, breastfeeding demands, you know, all those things. All of these life transitions, you probably need more and better hydration. And you need electrolytes, like sodium, magnesium, and potassium. Elements is formulated to replenish what you actually lose without sugar, fillers, and junk that you don't need. It's a clean, effective way to stay hydrated. And for men, again, it's not just about hydration. It's also about performance, recovery, mental clarity, and yes, even energy. Whether you're hitting the gym, chasing kids, or grinding through your workday, maybe even your teeth, dehydration can quietly sabotage your focus and endurance. Elements helps you stay sharp, strong, and ready. We use element because it works. Taste amazing, and it's no nonsense, just science, dehydration, that actually makes a difference. And right now, element is offering a free sample pack with any purchase that's eight flavors to try on the house. Go to drinklmnt.com slash doctor lion to claim yours. That's drinklmnt.com slash doctor lion. Stay hydrated, stay strong, and as Goggins would say, stay hard. Speaking of dying of measles, you bring up a really good point. When I was in my husband's active duty, and I was living in New York City, and I don't know, forward a 600 square foot apartment, pregnant and alone, and there had been a measles outbreak in a certain community, and I was on the subway going, I don't know if I was going back and forth to Brooklyn, but frankly, I was a pregnant mom, totally afraid of getting measles because there was a measles outbreak in New York City. Yeah, and it happens. We're seeing more because there are more people that are unvaccinated, but there are always smaller outbreaks every single year. That's not new. There's a little more this year than there has been in previous years, but it's still not far from what we usually see. But this is the reality. I mean, there's a risk in a benefit to everything, and that is where I go back to again. We have to have nuanced conversations about it, because it just seems like there's two extremes, and nobody wants to talk about the reality of the world. It's like, oh, you just want kids to get a vaccine and get autism. No. Nobody wants to get a vaccine. And then, oh, you just want kids to get polio and have not be able to walk the walk, or you sort measles and die. No, nobody wants that. Two things can be true. Once, you could want kids to have a decreased risk of infection, and you can also want them to have a decreased risk of chronic disease. And there's no reason why we can't study this, because ultimately, if vaccines are related to chronic disease in some way, we need to figure that out. We need to ask why. If you were to find out after doing the proper site that hepatitis B increased your risk of asthma by 10 times, you would want to know why. You wouldn't say, we shouldn't do hepatitis B vaccine anymore. You would say, what's the reason why this is so current? Could we change the hepatitis B? Maybe we can do it in a different manner. So we don't have that risk. Nobody wants to increase our kids' risk of having asthma, but maybe there's an ingredient. Maybe the aluminum nurse causing an issue. So maybe we could take that out or find a different adjuvant that doesn't increase that risk. We want to minimize infection, but also minimize chronic disease. And those two things can both be true. And that's why we have to be able to have a balanced conversation because there are more and more vaccines hitting the market, and more and more vaccines getting put out there. And if we don't have these conversations now, then what's to say if there aren't going to be 50 or 60 or 100 vaccines in a couple of years for our kids. And just because we can make a vaccine, doesn't mean we should. And just because we can protect against the disease, doesn't mean we should do that. Because there can be too much of a good thing. And you could say, well, five vaccines has a lot of benefit, but 40 vaccines actually causes more harm than good. Both those things come with you, or maybe 100 vaccines is fine. I don't know, but we should be able to talk about that because ultimately your goal is to decrease these illnesses. You want kids to be healthier. And if you're making them less healthy overall, that's a problem. So we have to be able to talk about, I'm not saying that they do, but I was saying we have to be able to ask those questions and discuss it and study it. So the preservatives to this thermosol, that from what I understand, how's that been taken off the market? It's been taken off now. So if they're merriest, it's just such a crazy story. It's the mercury components that send vaccines as a preservative. And it works very well as a preservative. It does decrease the risk for bacterial contamination for a global contamination. That's why it was put in there. But it is a mercury, it's a composed of a mercury in there. And it's insane because you go back to around 2000. At that time, somebody said, hey, wait a minute, there is more mercury in vaccines than we allow in food. Is that safe? And nobody studied this or thought about this before? How long? Tell me about that. I was looking this up in there's a vaccine containing 0.01% the merriest salt contains approximately 25 micrograms of mercury per point five ML dose. And that's roughly the same amount of mercury as a three ounce can of tuna. Right. So around that time, we were really starting to understand the risks of mercury. And we were concerned about, especially with fish, how much we were eating, especially in pregnancy. And there were a lot of recommendations coming out to minimize your amount of mercury. And then they said, well, actually there's more mercury in vaccines. Now it's a different form of mercury, but it's more. So is that okay? Again, which is insane because no one asked that before that you could just inject mercury in its fine and we didn't think about safety, but they didn't and they started, okay, well, we should probably study this. They really not think about safety. Not really. I mean, they put it in there without having that answer. They probably thought about it a little bit, but it was a small amount, but then more mercury was added into more vaccines because more vaccines were added onto the market. So probably they thought a little bit about, I mean, think about the studies back then. They weren't done in the same way that we do them now. Not necessarily as a double-blind control trial, not necessarily studying mercury specifically for safety. And even if they did, they were studying it as one vaccine and not in all of them. And as more and more vaccines hit the market in the late 80s and the 90s, now there are more mercury containing vaccines that are being given to kids and then what is the key would affect? Yeah, they're not now back then. So back then, there were just more and more vaccines hitting the market in the 90s. And so now you have, if you're doing one vaccine is 25 micrograms, but how about if you're getting six vaccines with that? Okay, now you have more mercury than we're recommending, is that safe? And so they said, well, let's start studying this. They never found it officially to be a problem, but they decided out of abundance of caution, and they would take it out just given the fact that everyone was so concerned about mercury. And so it was taken out of every vaccine in early 2000s, but it was still in the multidose flu. And that this year was part of the discussion. If you heard the word time, I myself for the first time, because it was still in the multidose flu's and Kennedy took that out. So it isn't any vaccines anymore, or at least it's gonna be faced out if it's still in any of them. Even your clinical practice, do you test for heavy metals? Sometimes we do. It's not, I would say, as common for kids, but certainly sometimes people want to do it, and they'll do with a hair testing. It's hard to do testing on kids, because they're kids, and you don't necessarily want to get a lot of blood, but if there are serious issues, and certainly we'll do functional medicine testing, or at least I'll set them to a practitioner that does a lot more functional testing, and they can go through those, because I think if you have a chronic condition, then I think it's worth to look into things like metals and molding other issues. And lead is lead still routinely done. So lead, I mean, it's in there, but lead still routinely tested, just in kids in general, just because there's so much lead still around. And have you, and this is just a clinical practice question, again, asking for a friend myself, because I have two little kids, have you seen a child test positive for say lead, or something that you were surprised about, maybe an environmental exposure? And you treat that, and they're behavior changes, or they're, again, now you are an epidemiologist, one thing, correlation doesn't mean causation, but have you seen that in clinical practice? I have seen it, I mean, certainly you see it with lead. A lot of times with lead specifically though, you're trying to catch it before, so you're testing it one their nine months, or you're old to see if there's any lead, so you're catching it really before you have symptoms. But if we do testing for older kids, sometimes we'll see things like there's new trends off, a lot of times vitamin D is super low, so that's something that's pretty common that you'll see. And then mold the other big one for kids, and it's not something we'll always test on the kids. I'll do it sometimes, but testing at the home is very common for families, and they do find it, they do clean up, it does get much better. Is this from a behavior standpoint? What would be behavior, behavior commonly? Vague weird symptoms that just don't seem to go away. So oftentimes, where these things are most helpful is for these chronic low grade issues that just don't seem to go away, and maybe multiple family members are having issues, lots of headaches, lots of stomach aches, very irritable. It's these things that are not very obvious to be anything. Sometimes it's behavior too, but oftentimes there's always sick. They can't seem to get over cold. Now they're having asthma exacerbations, it's getting worse. They're always headaches. They always seem to have like weird symptoms that you just can't point to anything, and then a year or two later they're like, oh, we did mold testing, we found a lot of mold, and we took it out and it seems like they're doing better. So that is something that you see, or just any sort of environmental exposure, I think that's the other thing that people sometimes just don't realize and that does come up often if you talk to parents enough, it's freaking out, okay, where are you going, what are you doing, what are you exposed to? I've seen many times where a kid switches schools and they have bad rashes, and they go to some other school and it gets better, and it's probably something they were spraying at the school, or they were at a park, a certain park, and then they realize after that park is being sprayed in whatever chemical and they're just playing on the grass, and they maybe moved houses and it just goes away. So there are a lot of environmental exposures that we just don't think of, it's not always easy to point out, but oftentimes those vague weird symptoms are just don't go away, are from something that they're touching or doing, it's just, you have to be a detective figure it out, which is not easy. Now I absolutely agree with you. I think the environmental testing and environmental factors is the new frontier of medicine, and we are very far behind. They have environmental physicians, those are great, environmental physicians, occupational physicians, but for the most part, these exposures are tremendous. They definitely impact our kids and adults. Yeah, we don't have great ways, there is no standardized treatment, it's really challenging. I get asked this whole time, okay, so with chronic disease, what is it? Why is it happening? And again, we don't know which is devastating, we don't know why it's happening because we haven't done those studies, but common sense being common, it's our crappy food, and it's the toxins that we're exposed to, and we just have not acknowledged that up until more recently that we're bombarded with chemicals and toxins all the time through our food and through our environment, and anybody who works even a little bit in an integrative space, you don't have to be the most integrative doctor, but as soon as you start to just think about that, you see people getting better just by changing their environment, just by changing their food, it's not always the case, but those are the things that you see all the time, improve things, and it's not always with specialized testing, and you can do it, you can do mold testing, you can do, heavy metal testing, that doesn't always help, but what does help the most is being a detective and thinking, okay, what am I actually doing that could be leading to bicarnaque condition, and what could I do to change that? And oftentimes, if people even just think in that way, they figure out, maybe make a year or two, but they figure it out. I'd like to acknowledge one of the sponsors of the show, and that is Puri. This podcast has allowed me to speak to extraordinary experts and they have one unifying message. There are only a few core compounds that we need in the diet, and one of those is Omega-3 fatty acids. Puri's O3 Ultra Pure Fischoel, which is third party tested and certified by both the Clean Label Project and I-F-O-S, so you know what you're putting in your body. It is safe, pure, effective. It is tested for 200 contaminants and Puri publishes all their results online. A team that's up with Puri to get you an amazing offer. 20% off site wide, even on already discounted subscriptions, which means you can save nearly a third off. All you have to do is go to PuriPU-O-R-I.com slash Dr. Lion and use the code Dr. Lion at checkout. You mentioned a childhood obesity, which we started off talking about. Childhood obesity is absolutely on the rise. How do you think as a pediatrician we can avoid that? We have to change our food. We have to change the food system. I would say as a parent, an individual level, it's really important that you have to take some responsibility to understand that with what they're saying. I love what they're saying about. Because ultimately you're the one purchasing the food, especially when they're younger, and we have to be okay with buying real food and preparing that food more. We have to be preparing most of the food that they're eating. Yes, they're gonna eat some other things at school and other places. I mean, hopefully you educate them over the years as to what's healthy and what's not. But at least if you're feeding them at home, most of the time, give them food to take, that's gonna make a huge difference. And just acknowledging that it's, we're doing this. We didn't get obese all of a sudden, just because our genetics change in 50 years. That's not what's going on. Our food is so crappy. 70% or so of the food we're eating is ultra processed. It's not real food. It's not the food that we're supposed to be eating. And I've been very fortunate to be involved in some of them type stuff, which is great. But it's all weird to me because I was talking about kids health, mobile, mobile, mobile, and I happen to be at the Kellogg's rally to support getting the dies out. And so I got to know some of the people there. And so that's that really helped me to become someone involved. But I only care about kids health. I don't care about politics is really holding stupid. And there shouldn't be, it shouldn't be politics, right? Like we should be just all fighting together for kids health. It should be bipartisan. And we are seeing that a little bit to some degree. But ultimately, it's the choices that we're making and the food system that's so screwed up. And it's great that we're fighting for dies and little things. But ultimately, that's the thing. Instead of little things, dies are honestly, dies are little things. The bigger problem, the bigger fish that we have to fry, however you want to say is the system. It's the ultra processed food. The question I'm so happy to hear you say that you feel that it's the parents responsibility. If a child is obese or overweight, the question is who's responsibility is it? It's the parents' responsibility in the setting of a very difficult environment right now. So I think it's both. I think it is both. I think we need to take responsibility because ultimately you have the choices of what you're purchasing and what you're doing. And I understand, oh, the first thing that he was, oh, you know, single mom, can't afford it. I get that. I understand that there are specific situations, but we have to do the best that we can to support our kids within the financial means that we have. And the bigger problem, the thing you should be saying back is to something like that is not, oh, it's able to have healthy food. It's no, no, every kid deserves healthy fresh food. How do we make that happen? How do we get healthy food to every kid? How do we get fresh local produce back as the standard? And that is a systems issue right now on the individual of, yes, you have to do it. But we also need to fight really hard to change the system. It's not easy thing. Yeah, and a 74% of adultery, they're overweight or obese. Where do you think children learn from? Right, exactly. And that's why I said, so the die is thing, for example. It's great that we're talking about it. I think it's not healthy for you. Ultimately, if you have an older processed food with a red die number 40, or you have it with a natural die, the food still bad. So the ultimately that doesn't make a huge difference. But I think it's something that people galvanized around. And a lot more people are aware about reading labels and ingredients than before. So I think that's really, really, really helpful. And it's good to get those ingredients out. But that is not the fight that we need to have over the next three years. It's not about individual things. It's about the system. It's about the farms, the food, the produce. All of these things have to change so we can get healthier, fresh food locally. That's not more expensive than the crappy food. So we can start to change that system, change the incentives. That's a really hard thing to do. It's not simple. But ultimately, we have to make that the easier choice for people. So that way, we're going to get healthier. Because you say, like, who's responsibility? It is the parents. But it's going to be a lot easier to be a parent if you could buy healthy food cheaper. And that's what's available to you versus what's not available to you. I know. Eggs. I hear what you're saying. I agree with you. And I would say when someone says that to me that it's more expensive to eat healthy, I will give you them an alternative. Doesn't eggs, might be $5. Right? Yeah. And there are so many things that you could do that are not more expensive. Yes. But the incentive in general in our environment right now is the ultra-process foods. That seems to be cheaper and easier to access. And a lot of people don't always have access to eggs, but they don't have necessarily access to a lot of good fresh produce. They could go. And you do have almost everywhere you can drive unless you're pretty rural. There is some access. But we need to make that much more available. You go to other countries. And the local stores are not selling mostly processed foods. They're selling fresh stuff. A lot more markets. A lot more farmers market type things. We have to move back to that and I think we could. So there is the food component. And then I was looking at some of the data in terms of children being sedentary. Children are sedentary on average of 7 plus hours a day. Yeah. I mean that. That's the whole other piece of the puzzle that we haven't tackled either. But that's the other piece. And we're not moving kids around screen 7 plus hours a day on average. As a pediatrician, how much do you recommend? I mean, it's little as possible. Other than, I understand people have to use schoolwork. So a lot of schoolwork is on computers now. That is what it is. But I think other than that is minimal as possible. I'm not someone that says zero screen time because I think that's probably not practical and not the way our world works at this point. But if you are on 7 plus hours, then what are you not doing? You're not moving. You're not getting outside. So I think we have to shift that and really focus on the especially those kids that are eight hours a day, 10 hours a day. Like we have to shift that back to one or two hours. Or homework plus a very little other than that. We have to encourage and prioritize movement. Can't. Does homework? Now when you were growing up was the homework done on the iPad? No, it wasn't. So exactly. Does that mean why? Why? You know, I think that ultimately we are doing what we've done in healthcare, which is, well, this is the way people are doing it. So we should all be doing it. I never used an iPad when I was in school. You never used an iPad. Why is that even something that is remotely feasible? It doesn't even make sense to me. Yeah, I agree with you. I think it's totally fine if we would go move away from that as much as we can. So we are encouraging. It's all about incentives and encouraging. I think if we start to make it a point, look, we're not doing our homework on screens because it's not good for you to be on screen so much. So here it is on paper. Those are the kind of things that it doesn't seem like it makes a difference. But it does because the encouragement, the messaging for the average kid makes a big difference. If you're on a computer for eight hours a day because you have to do all your homework on that, that's just what you think is normal. And then you're on the computer, then the things over here, you scroll over to social media for a second, then it's both hours you go back. Have you heard of the daylight computer? The daylight computer. I haven't heard of that, but assuming it's like where you focus in. No, it actually looks like a candle almost and it's no blue light. And you actually can't search and doesn't have all these distracting items that would pop up. And I'm hoping, again, I've no relationship with the company, but to me, if we're going for convenience, which it seems as if people love convenience, then if we're going to do that, perhaps we make it healthier and safer. Yeah, I think that's the direction we need to go with phones and computers. And I've definitely seen a bunch of companies pop up in less couple of years where, you know, they're taking away your access to the internet. They're taking away, like it's there for emergencies. It's there for just the specific things that you need to do. I think we have to move back because it's, again, it's the messaging. We take phones out of schools. It's a message sent to two kids. Hey, like this is, this is not good for you. This is not good for your mental health. You're not paying attention. Be off your screens. We have to send that messaging clearly. I want a circle back. I skipped over this. I want a circle back to this new discussion, which is GLP-1U Central Drive. Yeah, that's insane. There's nothing else around that. I don't have any problem with people using a GLP-1. If they choose to, if it's a last resort. I think for somebody who is more believable, he's very ill than medications have their place. And, you know, potentially you've tried everything else. You just don't have that motivation. It could put you on a good path. Okay, I get that. But that is not what's happening with kids. And that's not happening with a lot of people that are talking to me. What is happening with kids? Well, it's something that is given, like, any other medication. It's like, well, you have this issue. So here's your medical solution. Here's your prescription. And anything like that that's affecting your body and that way, affecting your hormones, affecting your liver, affecting your kidneys, affecting everything. That's a big decision, especially on your mount for a long time. Are parents coming to you asking for GLP-1s for their kids? Not in my office, I've never been asked. But, and I wouldn't do it either. I mean, if they would want to do what I send to a specialist, anyways, but I would try real hard to convince them away from that. I especially as a kid, that does not seem like a reasonable option for almost all kids, especially younger kids. Like, it's a question. It's a question for me. I don't know, under 15, under 15. Total, I'm a person. Listen, I do not think that GLP, and I'm usually not someone who is a yes or no type of physician. I don't think that things are typically black and white, but GLP-1s, and again, would there be a case where someone would use a GLP-1 in a child, maybe if they are morbidly obese, and a child count move? I don't know. Maybe, but, but for the average child, but even for the extreme, almost, with kids, it should almost never be needed, and it absolutely should be something that's after every other thing has been done for a while, including getting them an exercise therapist, getting them a nutritionist, getting them, working with a therapist. Whatever the reasons are, maybe the family needs counseling about food and what foods they're giving them. I mean, there are very few kids that are going to be so morbidly obese and also have the chronic conditions. For an adult, you can see someone's really, really sick. I can understand you need to quite usually for kids, even if they're morbidly obese, they're not so sick that you don't have time to work with them in a more natural way, because you need to figure out why they're so morbidly obese, and you need to adjust those things. Or else they're going to be on that, they're going to get off with, they're going to get morbidly obese again, and you've completely affected their body when they're growing. It's a quick fix, and it's not right. And again, people, oh, okay, well, it's easy to give some of medication, not everybody can get a nutritionist, not everybody can get an exercise service. Yeah, that's right. That's a problem. You should be able to get access to a nutritionist through your insurance or whatever it is, as opposed to getting access to a medication, the system is broken. Yeah. If someone's morbidly obese and you're thinking you should give them medication, we need a system that supports people in getting the other things so they can actually get healthy in the appropriate way. Well, what do you think about bringing back the presidential fitness test? Yeah, I mean, I think that was controversial, we're not needing to be super controversial. It's, again, why did you think it's controversial? I think it's controversial because you're bringing back someone that has competition, and we've moved a little bit away from competition, it seems like, and to more like everyone's accepted, participation trophies, and this is kind of putting back those things, which I guess some people, I've got my group in Canada, so I don't necessarily have that, I had something similar, but I get why anything that anybody does in the administration's going to be controversial right now. But ultimately, it's a message. It's a message that we care about health, we care about your fitness, and we're going to take a stand, we're going to push you towards more fitness. Competition can bring strong feelings. Sometimes, especially if you're not doing very well on these things, but ultimately we need to, I think, get a little tougher in our schools to push people to become healthier, not to shame anybody, but to say, like, we need to have some benchmarks, we want to make sure everybody can do, because we're not meeting them. A kids are super sick, super overweight, have all sorts of chronic conditions, and that's the disaster. I mean, you talk about your family being involved in the military and services, and a lot of kids would never qualify, because they're so overweight, they have so many complications. It's such a big problem, not from a defense standpoint, I guess, but that's not my big thing as a pediatrician. It's like, if you're not healthy enough putting the child's in there, if you're not healthy enough to do that, like it says a statement about our country. I am shocked that the presidential fitness test was controversial. And I'm going to tell you why. The reality is, we should have a baseline. How many push-ups can you do? How many sit-ups? What is your one-mile run? Or your dash? Whatever it is, your rope climb? There is nothing wrong with competition. The only way people get better is if you are challenged. There is someone that wins, and there's someone that loses, and just because someone isn't number one doesn't mean that they didn't put forth effort or any of those things. In terms of, we talk about obesity, we talk about chronic disease, we're talking about food dyes. If we were to take a setback, I would argue one of the biggest challenges that our country faces is comfort. In comfort is absolutely killing people. The fact that the presidential fitness test, because some people win and some people don't, and people feel as if it's shaming, that is somewhat ridiculous. And no, does it suck to not be good? It's something? Yeah, it does. But guess how you get better. The test and everything else look, we have clearly failed a public health in this country. The sickest Western country, chronic disease rate 75% overall. What we're doing isn't working. So you can, I said this multiple times in less week, a couple weeks. You can like or dislike, secretary, you can like or dislike the new administration, what they're doing. But whatever was done before, has absolutely failed in terms of our overall chronic health and chronic disease. So we have to do something different. We can debate and quibble over presidential test versus not president this policy, that policy vaccines, not vaccines. You can quibble all those things. And that is the right of everybody here. And we should do that. We should debate it to figure out what the best way forward is. No, but we should quibble over presidential testing. Sure everybody. But I'm not okay. You can have that opinion in someone can disagree with you. But the fact that we are not making changes is ridiculous. We have to make all sorts of changes. We have to move into different direction. And some of those things are going to be right in someone they're going to be wrong. But what's definitely wrong is what we've been doing. Yeah. I, you know, frankly, I also in our company, we have physical fitness standards, by the way. Having standards makes sense. I just I don't have any problem with that. But I have a problem with looking at our health where we are, we want to get better. We have to have some major changes. And that's going to cause a little bit of turmoil in the interim. It's okay. Well, we need it. What, what are some safe workouts for kids? Safe workouts for kids? I think, you know, using your own body weight, exercising. So we want to be consistent. I don't think for the younger kids in general, the research shows that you want to use a lot of heavy weight. But I think using your body weight or low weights and repetition is usually the best way to go. And that's what most individuals that I've ever spoke to that work in the fitness industry, safer kids. I mean, you want them to be moving. Ideally, something fun. I think the best thing is if you're not a workout per se for kids, but something they enjoy doing, so they're support, an activity, class, whatever it is that can get them moving in a way that they love. So it's consistent. Is there one sport that you like to see kids participating in? Anything right now? Literally anything that gets them moving. I mean, even a few minutes a day makes a huge difference. Every Sunday I've ever seen sites that even a few minutes of moderate to vigorous activity makes a huge difference. Most kids aren't even doing that. So I want to move the needle. I think everyone needs to move the needle forward in terms of what they're doing. But something that keeps you moving, like soccer, is great. Whatever it is, but I don't care right now. I think just something. Yeah, there was a huge push against resistance training. When I say resistance training, whether it's body weight or picking up weights because there was a lot of conversation around aid-affecting growth plates, and that is not accurate in the data. There is no reason why kids shouldn't be able to lift weights. We're not talking about one red max, but move now when you are young so that you can move later. And our kids exercise. It's not necessarily quote structured exercise, but my son who's for his training for the seal teams, he's hilarious. He's doing two days. He is sprinting. We have one of those woodway treadmills. He's doing it all on his own. He gets up and he might do three sprint intervals and then go jump in the cold punch for around three seconds. That's amazing. Kids are so resilient and they can do amazing things if you give them a chance to. But there's such a wide range of what we're seeing, but almost all of it's not good. So to me, you know, we say which sport which I typically, I don't care, get them moving. Whatever they're willing to do, the ultimate of the discussion is get off a screen and go do something outside. Even if it's just going to play outside, going to the playground, playing in nature, these things are amazing and that's all they need. Yep. And there's some data that suggests that the healthier and stronger in this obviously makes sense. A child is when they're younger. The more likely that they're going to be healthier as an adult. Yeah, I've seen many studies that show that now. We're that your health and your level of health carries over into adulthood and it's a very significant predictor. Yes. If you are young, physically active, building, muscular church, priming the body for muscle health, then you're likely kind of having cardiometabolic diseases less. There's a whole host of other problems that are lower if you start early. And think about it. We always talk about kids as if I don't know. It's a weird way of framing it. As if there's something different, but we're not raising children. We're raising adults. We're raising humans to contribute to society. Yeah. And you're setting their, you know, you're setting what they're doing. You're setting their their habits. And for a kid that's creating healthy habits, they're much more likely to let it later. You need data for that. So obviously, if you're exercising, you're much more likely to do it when you're older. If your priority is cooking food and getting healthy food, you're much more likely to do it because you're even aware of it. Well, people aren't even aware of these things today. I mean, are getting more aware of it, but clearly we're not aware of it, because we have this obesity epidemic and it's not changing. So, well, hopefully it will be changing. Hopefully it's changing. The conversation's changing right now. So I think that's the first step. Now, devices. You, again, you've been in clinical practice for 10 years. You've seen an increase in device use. Oh, yeah. What are some of the biggest relationships? For example, increased screen time, mental health, problems, increased screen time, decrease attention and learning. Have you seen relationships between device use and health outcomes or learning outcomes? Yeah. I mean, I think that the research is very clear at this point that it affects all those health, I mean, everything, right? You have the physical and then you have the mental, but we're really at the point now where it's so clear, especially with the mental that a lot of school systems are taking phones out because the data is drastic. Like you're seeing 50, 75 percent drops in depression rates and anxiety and trips to the principal's office. So there's a massive mental health component, but of course, also a physical component, no BCD diabetes, everything because you're, you're sedentary. It's a big part of life. So yeah. When you counsel your, you obviously counsel patients and they always come in with a parent, right? Because they're. They have to. They're young. Yeah. What are some evidence-based recommendations that you give them for nutrition or environment or screen time as someone who is listening to this with the goal of how do we keep our kids safe and healthy? For food, and usually with the younger kids, I'll talk about the most important things for food would be for parents, if they're not doing it. I mean, it's hard for my office because I already have health conscious people to some degree coming in, they're self-selecting, but either way, it's still talk about it because it's important. So reading labels is the number one thing. Like we have to be aware that we have to read every single label all the time from now on, just has to be part of your everyday, where you're going in the store and you're buying some with a label. Ideally, you're buying things that don't really have labels, but if you're buying anything, you need to look in the ingredients and just start to become aware. You don't need a PhD in chemistry to know that some long words probably not good for you. Is there one chemical or preservative that you have concerns about? I mean, there are many, but anything that that we any longer, I mean sugar, this is a huge problem today. We way more sugar than we ever should. I mean, I shouldn't have given my kids' cake this morning. If we do it, I'm not a good idea. I'm not against any sugar. I mean, obviously, so sugar in and of itself is not bad for you. I mean, we need it for a brain. It's just the amount of sugar in the type of sugar that we're eating. I'm not concerned about their eating fruit. Because we're about all the added process, sugars that we're eating in mass, that's way more than we ever need, way more than anybody should be eating in a lifetime. They're eating in a year. No, I mean, there isn't one thing that you're saying, okay, well, this isn't a label that's out. I mean, I don't have one. Yeah, I don't know that I ever get that specific with people, because I think it's more about becoming a savvy customer and just being aware that everything you buy from food or from products, you should read the label, try to buy things with as few ingredients as possible and try to make as much as you can. To me, that's the goal is not like an ingredient versus another ingredient, but it's making the actual food the ingredients. Like buying that actual things and preparing it yourself, that's going to get you a long way. And that to me is a big part of that. We were filming yesterday and in order to film, we really tried to, well, we don't really try. We always look at the data prior to making statements. And in 2023, over 55% of the food budget was spent on food outside of the home. It was either food at restaurants or delivery. Yeah, I saw that too. It's crazy. It's insane. And every number you look at when it comes to food is just insane. I mean, just the 70% ultra-process foods or whatever number is around there. Now that's insane, like it should be, I mean, should be zero, but it's not going to be zero. That's not the reality of our country, but you could certainly decrease that to 25% like most of the food that we should be eating should be real food, not all to process food. When you cancel your patients on nutrition, is there a certain carbohydrate target? Do you have certain targets that you try to shoot for for macronutrients? Not usually for kids. I mean, sometimes people will ask me that and I just really try to shift away from being, especially for the young kids, like, I think you need to have a variety. I think you want to focus on real food. Being so specific doesn't help most people. It just makes them more nervous, especially when it comes to kids. I think you can do that if you want to, but I aim to move away from a lot of the start-cheek carbs, so like carbs a lot of bread and pasta and move towards fruits and veggies and proteins and healthy fats. And I think if you do that, then you're most of the way there. And I think for most kids, we'll do just fine. But that's the right moment. Supplements? I'm okay with supplements, but I always want you to get through food if possible. So I thought that's what I always tell people, I'm okay. We have them in the office. If you want to do multivitamin, you want to do vitamin D or omega, as I think that's all reasonable, because we're just so deficient in our food these days are mostly bone-to-beating outside enough. But ideally, we should be getting it all from food and you shouldn't need a supplement if you want to do a few of them, I think that's okay. But again, it's with kids. It's hard because you want to kid to be on like 60 supplements and take in a whole bunch of things. Most kids won't do that and they taste terrible anyways. So if your kids sick all the time and has issues maybe then, I would focus my time on trying to buy more fresh produce than I would have given them a bunch of supplements. I think supplements only get you so far. It's a faring. If you want to add to it, but ultimately the food is what matters to me. What about, in terms of if you were to strategize and prioritize, it sounds to me that it's really the fresh fruits and vegetables that kids are missing if I'm hearing you in understanding you versus say, protein and fat, they seem to be getting enough of, am I understanding you correctly? I think we get more than enough protein. You never really see anybody with protein deficiency. The fats you can have better versus not as good, but ultimately it's this fresh food. But I think it's even more just not eating the ultra-processed prepackage foods. It's eating actual food. There's a big difference between a prepackage chicken nugget and when you make yourself. It's not that they're not getting protein. It's a re-getting good healthy. Where are those chickens from? That's a big difference. How did the chicken live? Was it injected with? What did it eat? I think that all adds up if you get a better protein versus not. If you can, these are things that not everybody can always afford, don't always have access to. To me, these are the most important things. If we are focusing on how do we get more real fresh food, that is where you're going to get to your better nutrients. A lot of our food gets shipped from all over the world. It's pretty crappy. Even good stuff is pretty crappy. It's like it was picked early, sprayed into bunch of stuff, shipped across the world, sits in the store for a couple of days, sprayed again multiple times, then you eat it. That's the best case in your, that's still like the real bananas that we get. It's not even the process food. So we need as much from our local farmers as we can get. The food is totally different. I mean, I'm sure you know anywhere you go, if you eat food that's freshly picked, it tastes totally different. It's a completely different food. Half the time. You're like, oh, that's what it's supposed to taste like. You don't realize that until you start buying mostly from farms where you know where the food's coming from. Did it taste different? Dr. Joel Warsh, thank you so much for coming on. Really, it has been eye opening. You feel very passionate about this and I know that this comes from seeing patients for over 10 years and training and having two little kids. You're very brave and it's important to be able to speak your truth. And I'm just, I'm grateful for you coming on. I love your book between a shot and a hard place. I strongly recommend that people go ahead and learn from themselves and read it. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you,boxing and

Should I do LIPO? Is it going to actually help me lose weight? What's going to happen after? And I would love to hear your thoughts on love because it's not actually used for weight loss. No, no, it shouldn't be. And it's funny because I get patients come in with all different ideas. You know, I had a guy come into see me a couple years ago and he was funny. He was probably in his mid-50s and he comes in and says, he has a huge pop belly. And I go, well, hey, what, you know, I'm like, oh, John is not just saying anything. What can I do for you? What would you like to talk about? He can't, this, I swear to God, this is literally what I said. He goes, I need to get rid of this blubber. And he starts grabbing his stomach, his tummy. This is all this real fat, you know. So first of all, LIPO suction cannot get rid of this real fat. And so this real fat is found the inside of our admin around our inner organs and all of that. And that causes a tummy to look round or like a lot of, you know, some man get. LIPO suction, you are limited in general with how much you can liposuction safely. Isn't it five leaders? Exactly. So the FDA recommends limiting liposuction of five leaders in one setting, unless you have blood products available and or you're doing this in a hospital. Right. The reason why is because you lose so much blood, and who wants to go under a liposuction? They get a blood transfusion afterwards. Like this, just not the right thing. So how much is five leaders a fat? Well, not all of that five leaders is true fat. You know, you're talking maybe 60 or 70% of it at the most. So you're literally looking at taking off maybe 10 pounds. And now you're talking about a four hour huge operation where you're going to lose 10 pounds and you're going to have weeks of recovery, like it's not an easy way to lose weight. Ideally, LIPO suction is best done if you've got stubborn areas of fat that just won't go away. And even I know that people inherit fat deposition. Like, you know, if your mom has a double chin, you're likely to get a double chin. If your mom has saddle bags, you know, found out the outer thighs. Like your light, your, you know, likely to inherit it. If your dad has a pot belly, you're likely to inherit that. Meaning because of the aging, if you do nothing, the natural aging process or just the deposition of body fat. I think genetically our bodies are predetermined to hold fat in certain areas. Now, you can lipo some of that fat away. Okay. And that will make that go away. But I think those are also areas of fat that are the hardest to get rid of. You know, so once you know, I have patients in mind who are real thin, but they have a double chin. And their mom has the same thing. No matter how thin they get, that fat just doesn't go away sometimes for them because it's genetically predetermined. Like you sometimes, sometimes that type of fat is the last fat to go. If it ever goes, exactly. And I say even with people and I get myself, you know, under I fat, you know, this puffiness under your eyes. That runs in families too. That is fat inside your eye socket that's protruding. I have, I've seen patients in mind who are in their 30s who have that. Their parents have had it. And then they have kids that come in who are like 12 or 13. And they've got puffy under eyes. We inherit that deposition from our parents. Yes, with plastic surgery, you can treat that, but it's still going to be in your genes, you know. But that would be the way. So if someone you're saying basically if they have it's spot reduction. Exactly. It's only spot reductions, not really about again, the most you would ever be able to take would be 10 pounds of max. And then you have to think about bilaterally right if it's, yes. But it's. I really best done in somebody who's at a healthy, reasonable body weight and they go, you know what, no matter what I do, I've just got extra fan of my arms and my mom has it to. My dad has it to. You know, those are really that and that's going to be most, um, I think beneficial overall because once again, there are those areas of fact that, you know, we, you know, we people used to believe that, oh, if you've got fat of your arm, you just do a lot of triceps exercise. That'll make that fat go away. It doesn't go away. No, you know, as we know, you can't spot, spot reduce fat by working out. Um, and so I, but I, but they're still that belief. I think that people have. I get so many patients who come to see me and they've got, you know, a little bit of extra fat or skin and they're tummy after having children. They're husbands, boyfriends, tell them, oh, just do more sit us. You're, you're not doing enough sit ups. And it's like, come on, like, that doesn't look that way. Get out of here, dude. Get out of here. Um, what happens when, so you remove these fat cells? Do they ever come back? Do they ever proliferate back? No, but the fat that's still there because you can't remove every fat cell can enlarge. So there is, there is a belief on the minority that if you remove fat from one part of the body that you will gain it in another area, there was a small say that came out like 12 years ago that appeared to show that, but since then there have been multiple other studies, much larger ones that have disproven it. You know, I've been doing liposuction for 20 years. I have never had a patient come to see me and they're like, yeah, you took fat out of my thighs and now I've got pop-ups. You know, that it doesn't happen. It's 20 years I've never had that. Now, people can gain weight afterwards, and in fact, can come back. Does it usually redistribute back to those places? Um, not necessarily. And the hope that, and what I try to explain to patients, the ideal is that you give them the shape that they're looking for. You take down those stubborn areas, and then if they do gain weight, they gain weight proportionally with their body. So it's no longer sticking out because now those fat cells are less than number. They may still increase in size, but maybe there's half of what there was before. And is it a very invasive or is it a pretty... LIPO? Yeah. Yeah, it's invasive. So you make an incision, which it's a small scar, which is good. Then we inject a bunch of anesthetic fluid into the area. We call it to messin' and that has lied a cane for pain and up in effort into helping constrict blood vessels. I was wondering the issues with LIPO in the past was the first type of LIPO. She just making incision, just start sucking out fat, but they would just bleed like crazy. Right. So the up in effort helps to reduce the bleeding. And then after that, you put literally one or two stitches in the incision, then they have to wear tight garments afterwards. Usually the patients drain for several days, or they're just draining... ...seeping fluid, and it's sore. It's not like sharp incision sore, but it's like somebody beat me up type sore. Not that I've ever been beat up before, but that's... We could change that. We're shane now. I just can't have you. You up for it. In terms of the increased use of OZEMPIC, are you seeing that LIPO suction do have an idea if it may become less popular? Is the non-invasive... ...anialization? When I started my practice in O4, we were seeing a lot more like full body LIPOs. I don't see hardly any of them anymore, honestly. And I don't know if it's just my practice that we've already cleaned up everybody in Michigan. And part of it is that somebody comes in and they're overweight. I try to encourage them, hey, work on lifestyle stuff first. It used to be when I was more of a cut first surgeon. Yeah, I'd bring patients back and we'd do four liters of LIPO. A liter of each thigh, half a liter from the front, half a liter from the back. And then we do the arm stuff like that. I almost never see that anymore. But that's also my practice as maybe it has evolved. But I do think there's so many people on OZEMPIC nowadays. Yes. Which I think could be really, really great. OZEMPIC or Mungerno, especially if you're doing the right things.

There's a heavy discussion on the menstrual cycle. Over the course of the menstrual cycle, we have two things going on in two different organs. We have what's happening in the ovaries, nuts the ovarian cycle, and then we have what's happening in the uterus, and that's the uterine cycle. I have never read about it, but I don't even think that there's many people studying. There really isn't data to suggest that diet can cure PCOS. There is no cure for PCOS right now. What is the myth that you hear? You shouldn't eat fruit if you have PCOS, because it makes your insulin resistance worse. The data actually shows the exact opposite. There are challenges with fertility now. It seems now more than other on both sides. In those women with regular menstrual cycles in obesity, the majority of those ovulations met the criteria for real face defects. And that can certainly affect fertility. In our research, we consider sort of a normal window age at Menarky, which is a girls' very first period, to be between 10 and 15 years. When Menarky occurs earlier, that's associated with a whole host of long-term health outcomes. Like obesity, type of diabetes, and a metrial cancer, can you get pregnant while on your period? I've seen ovulation during men's season. Now let me explain what that means. You are a reproductive physiologist, and you are the only person that has studied the ovary intransation from being reproductively robust to menopause. The transition to menopause, yes. Under the supervision of Dr. Angela Barrelwald, but yeah, I was the one doing the work. Pretty incredible. Exactly why I wanted you on, because you have a unique perspective. And I'm gonna open with a banger of a question. Sure. Can you get pregnant while on your period? Inquiring minds want to know. Yes, okay, great. The short answer is I don't know, but the long answer is I've seen ovulation during men's season. Now let me explain what that means. So during my master's degree, while I was characterizing how the ovaries worked during the transition to menopause, that's involved, you know, ringing women in every other day, or Monday Wednesday, Friday, I think was that protocol for six to eight weeks. I mean, we're filming her 45 to 55 years old. One participant in particular, one thing that we found, I can go into this later if you'd like, is that we started to observe, and specifically in this transition to menopause, follicles in the ovary growing it unexpected and unusual times. And right around the time of ovulation, there was follicles that were growing at this unexpected time, seemed to respond as well to the ovulation, not by ovulating themselves, but by continuing to grow and producing a lot of estrogen. So there's one particular participant, she had an follicle that responded to this LH surgeon continue to grow and produce estrogen, and then while she was menstruating, sort of the end of her luteal phase when she was menstruating, that follicle didn't regress it ovulated. And we saw a subsequent rice and progesterone, so we had ultrasoundographic and endocrine confirmation of ovulation, which was surprising to us. And you know, we've seen anecdotally in other publications, looking at other life stages, like adolescence, sort of eight typical timing of reproductive hormones. So I think what we saw in the transgender menopause could also happen at other life stages, it just hasn't sort of been characterized in that same way. What's compelling to me, and as someone who has been consuming information, and I think a lot of our viewers and listeners, there's a heavy discussion on the menstrual cycle, that prior to this podcast, I had never heard of a uterine cycle. I had never thought of an ovarian cycle, and it made me think that there are probably different phases which we know of the menstrual cycle, which I'd love for you to touch on, but what about these other cycles? When I teach the menstrual cycle to my students, I use mencees to mencees, so the start of one menstrual event, mencees to the other is one menstrual cycle. Over the course of the menstrual cycle, we have two things going on in two different organs. We have what's happening in the ovaries, and that's the ovarian cycle, and then we have what's happening in the uterus, and that's the uterine cycle, which I can tick go through then. Yeah, I would love it. Our producer doesn't know much about it, which he would love to, but seriously for the guys listening, the more educated they are on this, the better they can support their partner and for a woman, you're gonna go through it. It reminds me of no. Absolutely. I'll start with the uterus, because that's sort of the easier you went to, who's played, and then I'll move to the ovaries, because that's in my mind of really exciting one. At the start of mencees, it's that shedding of what's called an endometrial lining. So in our in a woman's uterus, we have three different layers. The innermost layer is that endometrial lining, and that's what builds up and sheds monthly, in a sort of textbook menstrual cycle. So the uterine cycle sort of starts with that shedding of that endometrial lining, and then one sets shed, then that endometrial lining starts to proliferate, which means it starts to thicken, and that's happening because of estrogen coming from the ovaries, Estrodale specifically. While Estrodale is being produced from a dominant follicle, so talk about in a second, that's causing that endometrial lining to develop and develop and develop. And then, when an ovulation occurs, which, you know, for talking about a textbook cycle, is mid-cycle, then that developed endometrial lining starts to sort of fill in with secretions, and that's called the secretary phase, and that's under the influence of progesterone, which is also a hormone that comes from your ovaries, from a very special structure called the corpus lutium. In the lutial phase, that endometrial lining is, you know, producing a lot of secretions, getting ready for implantation of implantation were to occur, because in humans, the structure that makes progesterone, it has a self-destruct button. So after about seven to 10 days, you know, if there is no signal from the uterus that implantation is occurred, a fullization is occurred, then that endometrial lining sheds. So you have, you know, the shedding, the proliferative phase, and the secretary phase, that's the uterus cycle. Then we go to the ovaries, and so this is really interesting, and I think it's really cool, because it's not in textbooks, at least to my knowledge yet. I have never read about it, but I don't even think that there's many people that study it. There aren't. There's probably why. Four, five. About that, yeah. It's a very small field, but it's an important contribution. So Dr. Angela Beerwald, their Angie, she did this for her PhD research, where she wanted to study how ovarian function worked across the menstrual cycle and healthy, regularly cycling women. To do this type of work, you have to bring your participants in every single day for this particular study for, you know, four to six weeks, and what she found, and so what we do in this case is you scan the ovaries and we capture these video clips through the ovaries, and that allows us to look at, you know, the follicles and the ovaries. So before I go on you further, I just want to do a little bit of background of what follicles are. So in our ovaries, you know, we have our eggs, and those eggs don't just exist by themselves. Every single egg is surrounded by its own little capsule, or structure called a follicle, and they're most premordial form. It's just a single layer of cells, but as follicles start to develop, they fill in with fluid, and that fluid filled part of the follicle is called an antrum, and that's what we can see on ultrasound. So if you or your viewers were to Google an ovary on ultrasound right now, they would see these pictures of these ovaries with these black circles, and each of those black circles is a single follicle, and each and every one of those follicles is an egg. So what we can do is when we scan these ovaries seriously every day or every other day, we take the time to track the growth of every single one of those follicles that we can see, we can learn a lot about how the ovaries are working. And so this is what Angie did, and so what she found, and I'll summarize this, is starting at around men'sies, so they started them of men'sies. There's a group of follicles that all start to grow with the same time, and that's because they're being recruited to grow by a hormone from our petuitary, called FSH, your follicle stingulating hormone. We're very creative people. Get that stuff. Follicles denulating hormone. Got it, check. So this group of follicles starts to grow, and so this is a wave of recruited follicles that are growing, from that wave of follicles, one gets selected for preferential growth. And that physiological transition is a very important one, for a few reasons. Once that follicle is about eight to 10 millimeters in diameter, which is, it's large in the world of an ovary, it starts to produce estrogen. Remember, estrogen is what stimulating that endometrial lining in that proliferative phase. It's producing estrogen, which suppresses FSH, and another really important feature that happens in that selected follicle, is it switches from being dependent on FSH, to being dependent on a different hormone entirely, called LH. And so that means that that follicle can produce estrogen, suppress FSH, which prevents all of those other follicles from that wave from continuing to grow, so they all regress, and they undergo a treaty. And you have the ones who are fault that selected for growth, and it gets bigger and bigger and bigger, and we watch it get bigger and bigger, until it gets ready to ovulate, what's almost the size of the entire ovary. It's a big follicle on an ultrasound. Once that follicle reaches a certain diameter, morphologically, it's also producing a lot of estrodiol or estrogen. That's what's triggering ovulation, and ovulation is an LH surge. So that's the endocrine event that triggers ovulation, I should say, is an LH surge. And so, ovulation occurs that egg is, extruded from the ovary into the pertinous cavity, we take an up into the philopean tubes, and that now empty follicle, it sort of transforms itself into, that structure called the corpus lodyom or the seal, and that's Latin for yellow body. And that's because, when the seal forms, tremendous amount of lipid accumulates in that seal, and it's needed to make progesterone, because progesterone is what's going to develop that endometrial lining, and progesterone, potently suppresses those hormones when the pituitary, the FSH and the LH, to prevent any other follicles from growing supposedly. What was really novel about this work is that around the time of ovulation, there was also another sort of rise in the FSH, again, that allowed another group of follicles to start to grow. So another wave of follicles grew in the lodyo phase, and that was particularly novel. And in some of those cases, one of those follicles would develop to be large enough to produce ester dial, but it would never go on to ovulate, and of course, as I alluded to later with the transition to menopause, this sort of structure for the follicle waves, developing over the course of the menstrual cycle, that starts to break down a little bit. But that's what's happening. If you listen every week and feel like we are in this together, which I believe that we are learning, growing, and building strength, then I created a way for us to get connected even more closely. It's called forever strong insider. A premium community for listeners who want to go deeper. You'll get ad free episodes, which I know you'll love. Bonus Q&A is where your questions shape the conversation. Behind the scene, moments because what's face at off-larious, from idealy life, and written takeaways, too, keep aggregating. But more than that, you'll be supporting the show so that we keep creating content that matters. If you've ever wanted it to feel part of the inner circle, this is your invitation. Join us at foreverstrong.supercast.com or through the link in the show notes. Is there a reason why one egg or one follow-go gets selected over another one? That's a great question. So I think you're asking why, why this one follow-go gets selected. And there's, from my knowledge, just two real theories, and I don't know that in humans, we've been able to really pin down mechanistically what's happening. One thought is that particular follicle is just bigger than every other follicle. And so a really unique feature about follicles is they have very different endocrine profiles. As they get bigger, as they sort of get larger in size, the hormones that they're producing changes. The receptors that are on those follicles, those granulosis cells, those changes well. And so one thought is that the follicle that gets selected for preferential growth for ovulation might be a little bigger than the other follicles. Or intrinsically, there's something and within that follicle that allows it to express those LH receptors a little bit sooner than the other follicles. Because that's really what's key, right? To prevent those follicles, to prevent a trigia, that follicle has to switch, it's growth source to be from a phase H to LH, to be able to continue to grow. You know, it's really compelling, I did not know, that the lipid accumulation was related to progesterone, release. This steroid hormone. And you'd love it. Does nutrition play a role in that? Because we're talking about very specifically to the ovary. Yeah. I genuinely couldn't tell you whether or not a particular diet would improve or affect specifically ludial function. I really couldn't tell you that. Those data may exist in rodent models or another type of model can owe my model, a sheet model. But I don't know the degree to which they exist in humans. What I can say is that there are metabolic states that are associated with impaired ludial function. An example would be, for instance, the disease of obesity or under nutrition. So functional hypothalamicaminorrhea. We know that there's impaired ludial function in those cases. Whether or not it has to do with the ability of that CL to accumulate lipid, I don't know. And then the outcome of a pregnancy, it seems as if it would be dependent on multiple factors. The ability to produce enough estrogen, the ability to produce enough progesterone. And in the landscape of how we're talking about in cycles, it seems as if these cycles are a standard 28 day cycle. Right, right. Yeah. That's probably unlikely. It's not as common as we think it is. Yeah. Yeah. Talk to me about the variation. Talk to me about the variation between these menstrual cycles and then these ovarian cycles and also within the same woman. One thing that I teach my students and we have evidence of this in adolescents and obesity in regularly cycling women or in conditions of high-factual hypothermic amenorrhea is that just because you're menstruating every 28 to 35 days does not mean that your ovaries are doing what they, what you think they might be doing. Okay. So it's sort of disentangling this notion of regular men's from regular ovulation. Doing these types of studies where your character is in follicle waves that we understand that. And exactly we can sort of see where things are going wrong, if you will. One example I can give you is I'll start with adolescents. So my lab, we studied these early post-minarical years were really interested in what it looks like when the reproductive axis is sort of turning on after puberty. Our reproductive axis is not like a light switch, right? It's not just like, you know, we achieve menarkey and we have regular ovulatory menstrual cycles. That is absolutely not what happened. But you would believe that if you read a textbook or watch a monorwent to TikTok. Maybe I guess I would not. I can change that. You're about to change that. What we know now is it takes a few years to establish regular menstrual cycles if you were sort of on that trajectory towards regular menstrual cycles. But then it takes approximately five years for the majority of those cycles to be ovulatory. I know from work that I've done, I collaborate with a number of investigators to ask some of the questions that we ask. I know from our own data as well as published data from other labs that an adolescent in these early post-minarical years can have 28 days between men'sies, but nothing is happening in the ovaries, right? And so it's, and that's endocrine data. We don't have a very in-data to corroborate this, but looking at sort of the changes in those hormones that we would expect to see. So that sort of one example where you can have an adolescent to experience as regular menstrual cycles, but she may not be ovulating, which is probably part of normal development, right? And so I don't say that to worry someone, it's more or less, this is just part of the reproductive access turning on, right, after a very, very long period of, of, cuisines or childhood. In the context of obesity, you know, one study that we did, well, I was a PhD student in the Luzian lab at the Cornell, as we sort of characterized follicle waves in a series of of women with different metabolites, we characterized in the context of PCOS, and that was Dr. Brittany Gerrard's dissertation work, and then we characterized follicle dynamics in the context of obesity, but regular menstrual cycles. And that was, Dr. Alexis Oulfield's PhD research. In the context of obesity, what we found is that there were differences in follicle waves that were growing, that were unique to obesity and regular menstrual cycles. And something that Alexis found, that was quite surprising, but really informative, is that the majority of those ovulations in those women with regular menstrual cycles in obesity met the criteria for lullial phase defects, right? So that means that there was sort of impaired or lower progesterone, and that can certainly affect fertility. There are challenges with fertility now. It seems now more than ever on both sides. There are challenges with sperm quality, and there are challenges with women and pregnancy. We see it every day in our clinic. You said something that I had never heard about these waves. If I'm understanding correctly, it's one wave would be considered that there's this group of follicles, one becomes the dominant follicle, that dominant follicle grows and can be released or sometimes or should ideally be released, but it might not. And is that correct? And then on the back end, there's also additional follicles. And is that what is defined as these waves? To help me put it into context? Yeah, sure. Great, great question and great point of clarification. These waves, if you think about them as a group of follicles, all starting to grow at the same time. And that's what a wave is. You can visually, if you think of a wave in the ocean, you know, sort of what we see is these groups of follicles getting bigger and bigger and bigger. In women, you know, what Angie found is that they have women with regular medical cycles, you know, healthy. They have two waves. One of these waves is the ovulatory wave. So from that wave, one follicle is selected in that goes on to ovulate. And then there's this sort of second wave that occurs during the luteal phase, which is the second half of that ovarian cycle after ovulation. She also found that some women exhibit three waves of follicle development. So in this case, you'd have a wave that starts to develop around men'sies. And then it doesn't, it's not the ovulatory wave. It regresses. And then you have another wave that develops. And that's the one that goes on to ovulate. What would be the benefit of understanding this from a, say, a clinical aspect? I'm sure that this is being done or not short done in fertility clinics? Yeah, that's a great question. So something that, I think, Angie is pursuing her as try to pursue is whether or not we can sort of leverage these, target these follicle waves for assisted reproductive therapy. Right? So I personally don't do any research in this space, but my understanding of ovarian stimulation cycles is just of stimulating follicles to grow. And this is a very controlled part of a assisted reproductive therapy because you have to make sure that you don't over-stimulate because that can cause ovarian hyperslimulation syndrome. That's very dangerous. So one therapeutic implication of follicle waves is perhaps over the course of the menstrual cycle rather than having sort of one time, and at the beginning of a menstrual period, where we think we can recruit, or we can target follicles for assisted reproductive therapy, maybe you can, should target them again in this luteal phase wave. So it's thinking about leveraging this knowledge of waves to optimize assisted reproductive therapy. That's one implication of what example of how it can be important. Thanks to one of the sponsors of the show, bond charge van. If you're a mom out there and you've been carrying the whole team, I got a different form of therapy for you, and that is red light therapy. And listen, good light impacts sleep hormones mood and even your ability to recover and focus. bond charge has created science back tools to help me live in better alignment with my circadian biology. Artificial light is overloading us. They have blue light blocking glasses that are staple in our house. They have red light, they have red light light bulbs. They also have infrared, p-m-f-m-s to help chill my body, relax my muscles, and support full body recovery. If you've never tried red light therapy, this is the time to do it. They have some of the best devices that I've ever seen great for skin, might a con drill health and overall resilience. If you care about your skin, if you care about your sleep, if you care about your body and want to try something new, check out bondcharge.com slash doctor lion, use the code doctor lion to get 15% off your entire order. Simple, proven, designed, do support your biology. What would you love to see? Personally, is there something with the work that you're doing? Because again, there's probably four people that are even looking at ovarian physiology, reproductive ovarian physiology in this way. First and foremost, basic understanding of women's reproductive health. How do we not have that yet? Right. And this is something that I've shared with my students and that I'm transparent about. I am honored that I get to be a part of this group of scientists who study follicle development. But my goodness, this should have been done like 30 years ago. And it's cool that I get to discover things as a scientist. And I hope that I can continue to support this field with my team and my lab. But I think just the basic understanding of filling in our gaps about how human physiology works is really important. I think it's also helpful for helpful to give women answers and give parents and teenagers answers to why they might be experiencing symptoms across their menstrual cycle. It's knowledge is power. And the more we know about the ovaries and what's going right and what's going wrong and what that looks like, I think the more empowering and hopefully reassuring it can be. I would love to see this continue to be leveraged is transitioning in our understanding of follicle development and understanding when we see disruptions and the coordination of ovary and follicle growth, this manifests in the ovary. And we don't what Dr. Marlilusians work has really spearheaded in her lab and I worked on this while I was a grad student with her is we can see looking at the ovary in one cross section, we can see these distinct patterns of follicle assembly within the ovary and follicle populations. And this can tell us, it is as insight, is to what might be happening longitudinally. So we can look at the ovary as a biomarker of underlying reproductive dysfunction and then some ovary as a biomarker for underlying dysfunction or positive and good health. Right, yes. And the ovary is used diagnostically and prognostically in a number of cases. The diagnosis of polycystic ovary syndrome or PCUS, physicians look to the ovaries when they are assessing for risk of ovary and hypersdimulation. We look at the ovary and follicle count as a marker of a virion reserve. So an indicator of potentially premature ovary and failure, which would be menopause before the age of, I think it's before the age of 40 or around 40, that sounds right. I don't know the exact age and I do apologize, but it's early menopause. And it's premature depletion of the ovary and reserve. And we can see that. We can see sort of the depletion of the antro follicles. You know, we can't see those earlier follicle stages. We can't see those primary or secondary follicles. Notice the ones that don't have the fluid in them. But the ovary and the number of follicles in our ovaries do give us an indication of a virion reserve. What's also a more sort of novel aspect of the ovary as a biomarker is whether or not the ovary can also give us insight into metabolic health. That's something that, you know, the illusion lab is in a lot of work in it. I've been so grateful to contribute to that research. And we published a review article on this topic a few years ago where we sort of summarized our hypothesis about how the ovary, the features of the ovary morphology, the features of the ovary and ultrasound, present in distinct ways all the way from extreme undernutrition through a healthy BMI to overweight or obesity and PCOS. And so we hypothesize that because the ovaries integrating these reproductive signals coming from the brain and integrating these metabolic signals coming from our body and our nutrients status, that it, that, you know, leads to these very specific and unique features that we can see on ultrasound. What would it look like if someone if we were to break this down into categories? Yeah. What would someone who is undernourished? What would their ovary and morphology look like? If you start from the most extreme, and this is worth that was done a long time ago and in cases of extreme undernutrition, so in literature this would be severe anorexia and nervosa. What we see are small amorphous ovaries. So the ovaries are small. They don't have any follicles. You can't see any follicles and what that represents is very powerful suppression of the reproductive access. So something to remember about, you know, our reproductive access is, it's a luxury, physiologically, you know, we need our brains to survive. We need our hearts to survive. We need our lungs to survive, but we don't necessarily need to ovulate to survive. And so, and the act of ovulation is energetically expensive. The act of, you know, pregnancy is expe, is energetically expensive. And so what that means is if the body senses energy deficiency, it shuts it down. Right? And our reproductive access is very sensitive to undernutrition. Are the ovaries more so sensitive to undernutrition versus, I don't know, say, the uterus or another organism or another sex organism? That's a great question. So what I would say is the ovaries are producing those hormones that are stimulating that lining in the uterus to develop. So the uterus is really following what the ovaries are doing. If the ovaries are not getting the signals from, have a film as the batuotary to support follicle growth, those who are not going to make estrogen are not going to make progesterone. And that's not going to develop the endometrial lining. And so it's, you know, common in, for instance, competitive athletes or athletes in general, that they'll experience irregular menstrual cycles. And, you know, one of the reasons is this potent suppression of the reproductive access. And we know that, and this ends up called functional hypotheromic amenorrhea, particularly with both female athletes or females who sort of have this undernutrition phenotype, they have lower estrogen concentrations. And, you know, I think you've had a guest that spoke about the importance of estrogen on bone health and bone accrual. So you have low estrogen use of have increased presence of those cells that chew away at bone. And that affects, you know, bone health as well. So small is the right word atropic or zetic stream for the ovary. If someone was anorexic or going through hypotheromic amenorrhea, right, of physician does an ultrasound on his ovaries. And these ovaries are small and shrunken amorphous. Is what we would do this. And, you know, what's interesting, though, is that, and this is an extreme case. When you have functional hypothermic amenorrhea, it's not quite a severe as an amorphous ovary. You still have some, you know, repatriate access function. What we actually see in, and Dr. Judith Adams characterized this is what's called multi-philicular ovaries. And so this is a case where if you look on ultrasound, these ovaries are not necessarily enlarged, but they do have elevated follicle populations. There's more follicles than what we would expect in, sort of a regular, regularly cycling individual with a healthy BMI. And so what's unique about the follicles and these sort of multi-philicular ovaries is that they're a little bit bigger than, for instance, a PCOS ovary. So there's a four to 10 millimeters in diameter. And when you scan them, on ultrasound, you know, it kind of looks like soap bubbles. You know, if you're washing your dishes and you have like soap bubbles, and they're sort of all, you know, touching each other, and you scan through it, it's just like soap bubbles, just soap bubbles. So they look large and a multi-philicular. And that would be sort of the classic image of an ovary and someone with functional hyp Islamic immunary. What are the other categories? Right. So if we move along the nutrition spectrum, we sort of push ourselves then into overweight obesity with regular menstrual cycles. And this is very briefly, it is a case of repatriate access suppression. So what we see in what Alexis saw is that in the case of obesity with regular menstrual cycles, we see a suppressive effect on the reproductive access. So, you know, we can see smaller follicles and fewer follicles. We don't really see a very enlargement. We see luteal phase defects. When we start moving into irregular menstrual cycles, if you sort of move up into, you know, over nutrition, if you will, with, you know, overweight obesity and then irregular menstrual cycles, before we get to PCOS when we're sort of in that normal androgen area, we don't necessarily see ovarian enlargement yet, but we do start to see increases in follicle population. There's a smaller follicle, so two to five millimeters. And then sort of the most severe ovarian phenotype would be these sort of classic polycystic ovaries or PC, polycystic ovary morphology, which is part of PCOS. And these ovaries, a really important thing happens at that level, as what we think is happening is there's sort of this metabolic tipping point, where, you know, with PCOS, we see this interdependence between hyperinsulinemia, so elevated insulin, which is a consequence of insulin resistance, and then, hydrogen excess. And there's a sort of positive feedbacks or vicious circle between these two. And what happens is, in the ovaries, we start to see ovarian enlargement, and our ovaries have insulin receptors in them, and a lot of people know that. But when you have elevated antigens, that is in large part, because those small follicles in the ovaries are making a lot of antigens, which is normal under physiological conditions, when you have too many follicles, too many small follicles, you sort of make too many antigens simply put. And then you add insulin, and that sort of exacerbates the situation, right? Insulin is thought of as a co-gnated trope, and so it sort of works in tandem with the hormones coming from the pituitary to promote follicle growth in ovarian adrogen production. And so in a PCO ovary, we would tend to see larger ovaries, we would tend to see smaller follicles, and what's common in a PCO ovary, or should it say common, but I would say a classic ovarian phenotype, will be that string of pearls around the edges. For every physician or medical student, we all passed our boards now. That will be the only ovarian, that will literally be the only ovarian question you will get. Is that the string of pearls? Yes. And it's not a common phenotype in PCOS, which is, you know, I personally have not seen that classic string of pearls, as often as I thought it would, having been in the field of PCOS now for a decade. Oh, sorry, it's time to report an ad to the show. Thank you to one of the sponsors of the show, timeline and listen, my kids still sleep with me. And after 470 nighttime snack requests, bathroom breaks, my husband snoring, myself, they're like a, yo-jee, we're tapped out. Enter might appear. Timeline nutrition is one of the most thoroughly research products. I have come across an over a decade. Look, to carry it in my purse, they have peer reviewed published science, and this is where it's really interesting. So, for those of you who are following the muscle center lifestyle, when you increase bio-energetics, you improve muscle function and how. In adults, 40 plus, timeline has been shown to increase muscle strength and endurance and no change in activity. So, whether you've been active, resistance training your whole life, or you're just getting started, or you're not getting a lot of sleep, and you've got a million requests, your muscles and your mitochondria need help. And they have just launched their most sugar vegan non-GMO gluten-free gummies, which by the way, I am eating by the handbooks which I shouldn't, but they taste delicious. Timeline is offering our community 20% off your first order. Go to timeline nutrition.com slash doctor-lion, and use the code, doctor-line, to get 20% off. I recommend trying their starter pack with all three different formats. And of course, their gummies, which are incredible. How fast, if we were to, and really what you've done so nicely, as you've described this, continue, are there any more? And it will, well, they're also as the menopause transition. There is, yeah, yeah. Do you want to, I mean, I know that you touched on that, but the ovarian transition, you are the only person in the world that has studied this. I think that it deserves another. Wow, sure. Explanation. And you're very generous, and I really want to emphasize, you know, I was the one who did the ovarian tracking, you know, a lot of collaborators of ours from Australia, did some really important formative endocrine work. This is very fair, and I will say all the best scientists are humble. And yes, we all stand on the shoulders of giants, which you have. In addition, you have spent 10 years. Your time, your energy, your focus, when you are not in the pain cave, furthering this work. And I do think that that is fair to highlight you, and thank you, you're doing. You're very kind. I'm not that kind, just ask anyone on my team. Sure. So to the ovaries, the transition to menopause. So what was really interesting about the transition to menopause is that, and I'll call them rogue follicles. So in someone, underwent the transition to menopause, this isn't happened in all of our participants, but in a subset, what we saw is a follicle start to grow around selection. When the follicles shouldn't be growing. This is when estrodial is supposed to be suppressing FSH. There should be no follicles growing. But one little follicle, sometimes two, starts to grow, starts to grow, starts to grow. And at around the LH surge, these follicles on average were around 9 to 10 millimeters in diameter, which is when they actually do start to express those LH receptors. And what we saw in these cases, they called them eight typical ludial phase dominant follicles, where they also seemed to respond to the LH surge, and then most of them would just take off and grow. And they would produce, or it was associated, they should say, with two or threefold higher estrodial concentrations, then what we would expect. And so this was initially the endocrine side of this was characterized by a group in Australia in women undergoing a transition to menopause. And they wanted to know what's going on. And so that's really the reason the ovaries. And so it's just these rogue follicles that are starting to grow. And they are sufficiently large enough, where they can start responding to an ovulation cue destined for a different follicle. Is it the body's last-ditch effort to get pregnant? Is it for the body's way to make up for the loss of estrogen? Is it overcompensating why is this happening? Great question. What we think is happening isn't actually a compensation strategy. It's just a failure to regulate self-regulate. So there's this other player that I haven't mentioned. It's called anti-melarian hormone or AMH. And AMH is also a break in the ovaries. The ovaries, they produce, since there's a lot of hormones that serve to put the break on the pituitary in the hypothalamus. So what we think is actually happening is that the local break in the ovary to tell follicles to stop growing, wait, wait, wait, wait is declining because that break is produced by those that ovarian reserve. So the fewer follicles you have in the ovaries, the less of that break you have. And what that means is that follicles might become be able to respond to much lower concentrations of FSH. Then what you would expect 10, 15, 20 years earlier. You mentioned 10, 15, 20 years earlier. Is there a way that someone could go to their physician's office or maybe not now, but in the future? Take a look at the ovary, look at how the follicles are aligned during that time and potentially predict menopause, predict the transition? If memory serves correct, when we looked at these women who were with the features of these participants who had these sort of atypical follicles growing, I think the only difference was the difference in the number of follicles and I'm sorry for the life of me, I can't remember which way it's split. But there was no obvious difference if memory serves correct between these participants who had these follicle waves, these typical rogue follicles versus not. You're asking me though, if I were to go to the doctor today, so I'm hopefully a few years out from the transition to menopause. So if I were to go to the doctor today and I were to say, look at my ovary, you can you tell me is it like 50, is it 52, is it 54? How much time do I have? Is it four years before you become symptomatic or menopause? Yeah, we're going to get these changes in an FSA-derellage. Whatever it is, because our women, because the science is so behind where I think we all agree it should be, what opportunity do we have with modern technology? What is the potential? I think to be able to answer those questions you'd need to do longitude and the nice thing though is a lot of clinics and physicians they scan ovaries as part of standard of care for a variety of reasons. And so I'm not a physician myself, so I really can't speak to that, but we could have an opportunity where we look at follicle populations and women of different ages and we see whether or not it's sort of predictive of time to menopause or time to the transgender menopause. In general, we know that the fewer follicles you have in your ovaries the closer you are to menopause and of course this breaks down though in context of like PCOS, right? Because that's sort of characterized by elevated follicle populations. But I think we would need to really do those studies. And you know, from my understanding about the age of menopause, it's strongly genetically determined regardless. So, yes, I kind of fight that one. It's if you are a woman, God willing, and you live long enough, you will go through menopause. When it comes to the ovaries, is there an age where I would say on a population population based that we see these ovaries change? And from becoming quote, healthy to more unhealthy is there a unhealthy phenotype or is it kind of just an age thing? That's an interesting question. I don't think I would say that the ovarian phenotype or ovarian morphology changing over time would be an indication of unhealthy. I think it's we're just learning about it now for over the past 10 years, right? I would say is what we know about your ovaries. It's, you know, your indication of where your ovaries are at. You know, one thing that that we lack in general is really good robust normative data of ovarian morphology across the lifespan. I don't think I can say healthy versus unhealthy. We've characterized follicle morph, or ovarian morphology enough in conditions of, you know, like obesity or PCOS or under nutrition, where we can say like yes, this would this ovarian phenotype is an indication of an underlying condition. And, you know, the illusion lab's so Dr. Melalusion has done studies in her lab with with grad students that I've been a part of where we induce, you know, ovarian loss diet to see what does that phenotype improve. And so in that context, I think we can use the ovarian indication of health status. With the menstrual cycle, we talked about others a specific length of time. Again, this 28-day cycle with the ovaries and, you know, perhaps we look at the menstrual cycle and then the ovarian cycle, what does it mean if someone is safer example having delayed ovulation? Is there a long-term health outcome or impact? So when you say delayed ovulation, are you saying in the context of your 28 days, or are you thinking like, ovarian with irregular menstrual cycles? Well, now I think that that's a great question. The idea is most women should have a regular cycle. Those cycles may not be 28 days. It also seems as if the hormones are not as straightforward, the LHFSH. It just seems that there is a lot of inter-individual variability. There is, yes. I would love to touch on that because we're all taught this one way. And because we're all taught this one way, I think people become very frustrated if they're not able to go pregnant or if they're moody at weird times because we're talking about it as if it is a standardized experience for all women. And I think it's not helped by certain apps that exist that tell women what they should be feeling. Oh, you should be at this phase of your cycle. You can expect this. You can expect that. And it's again benchmarking against this of textbook case. We know that there is tremendous amounts of inter-individual variability in terms of the menstrual cycle and the ovarian cycle. I think you're asking whether or not that's associated with health outcomes and from what I would say is to some extent, yes, right? So if someone has a 28-day cycle and they ovulate on day 21, what that probably means is that that that ovulation will produce an insufficient seal and that will lead to lutial phase in sufficiency. So a short lutial phase is an indication of lutial phase in sufficiency. It's one of those diagnostic features of lutial phase in sufficiency. So I think it can indicate potential pathology. I think pathology might be a two-striple word though. But that said, it also could just be an off-cycle, right? And so just because you have one disrupted cycle, maybe it was attributed to stress, right? Maybe I'm a professor. I give final exams. I remember it was like to take final exams. Those are stressful events that can lead to transient disruptions. I have a daughter and I'm not looking forward to her growing up because she's so cute. But eventually, she is going to get her first period. I would love to learn about the time at which that should happen and if she goes through it early, does that come with it other long-term health effects and how can we frame it up? In our research, we consider sort of a normal window age at Menarky, which is a girls very first period to be between 10 and 15 years, right? And I know different countries or have different cut-offs and thresholds. In general, we see at the population level the age at Menarky starting to get a little bit earlier. I think where we actually see this even more is the start of puberty, which is the first breast development, sort of the initial sort of of day-larky. And that is happening earlier and there's good data to support that. But back to Menarky, we do think that Menarky is starting to occur earlier and earlier in part, over time nutritional status has contributed to that. We know that reproductive maturation, puberty is all very closely tied to nutrient adequacy and metabolic efficiency, right? So when Menarky occurs earlier, we have good data to suggest that's associated with a whole host of long-term health outcomes like obesity, type 2 diabetes, and a metrial cancer, and a metrial cancer. Other reproductive cancers, the list is alluding me, but it's a long one. So serious. And serious. Yeah. To be clear, that's any age before 10. Well, that's what, so it's different how it's defined study to study. And it was interesting a lot of these studies are what they do is they look at like earlier versus later. And so, you know, what that means can be very different from study to study. So I really don't want to put like a specific age. That's fair enough. Just, you know, we're talking about the degree of inter-individual variability regardless, right? So earlier timing of first menarky is and has been associated with a whole host of cardiovascular metabolic and reproductive diseases later in life. Interestingly enough, though, not PCOS, right? So PCOS is not associated with earlier age at Menarky. What's also really interesting, and we're just starting to learn this now and this could reflect a change in our environment affecting reproductive maturation. So I had mentioned earlier, you know, when we achieve menarky, in some disciplines thought of as the end of reproductive development, you know, you are now a bully functioning, reproductively mature adult. But that is absolutely not the case, right? The lights kind of like flicker for a long time. There was a study that was done by a group out of Harvard where they looked at Apple, the Apple app data. So after talking about the apps beat as it may, you know, what one thing that came out of that study is a huge sample size. What they found, though, is that on average, in participants or respondents, people who were entering data in their Apple apps, health apps, were recording that it was taking longer to achieve regular menstrual cycles, and it was maybe in the 70s or in the 80s. And so what that's telling us is that these years after Menarky, when the reproductive accesses are calibrating ideally towards regular ovulatory menstrual cycles, this is taking longer. And may not be happening on a, I don't want to say normal, but on a sort of healthier or typical trajectory. And that's the work that my group does is to try and understand what a normal trajectory looks like and what a sort of a typical, or a divergence from normal development looks like. But I thought that that was really really surprising data because it suggests that, you know, adolescent development right now, maybe very important. I would love to dig a little bit deeper there. The adolescent development, you're, we're talking about sexual reproduction. You mentioned a statement about the environment. Are we talking about the caloric environment or are we talking about something else that is affecting early menarchy? Timing of early menarchy has been associated with a lot of aspects of our diet. Both earlier and later menarchy. A lot of this is sort of, there are other correlation studies. You know, we can't do these randomized controlled trials where we put a group of adolescents on one diet and another on another one and see who achieve menarchy first. Because these are all of observational studies. So correlation is not equal to causation. It's a really important point. But diet has been attributed to earlier menarchy. There's bodies of literature that I'm less familiar with that suggests. Other aspects of our environment and our life are also associated with the timing of menarchy. But I certainly couldn't comment on those. Is it caloric access or is it body composition? You know, a friend of yours in colleague Dr. Melanie Cree was a guest on the show. Very excellent scientist. Yeah, is it, is it access calorically or is it a body composition problem? Great question. So with puberty and puberty development, there's still a lot we don't know, which is, you know, it's a completely developing field. But there's two phases to puberty. First is metabolic efficiency. And so, you know, do you have sufficient metabolic status or health that you can sort of proceed through puberty? And the two sort of endocrine signals that sort of signal metabolic efficiency or insufficiency would be left in or grow in. That sort of, from my understanding is like the, okay, you know, you are go for launch, right? But you don't actually get the, you don't actually get the ship into the air, the space of the air. That sort of just permissive. And then you sort of have the what's triggering puberty. What is releasing the break that's been holding the reproductive access quiet for so long? And that's another sort of dynamic and less, less well understood aspect of reproductive development. And we have seen, you know, different metabolic signals that are thought to be a part of releasing the break triggering, you know, timing a first ovulation. There's aspects of diet that have also been associated with these as well. But I think it's, you know, the jury still has precisely what it is. But what I would say is we appreciate there is a group of factors. It's probably not just one. It's probably to let probably a lot of redundancy in the pathways that are sensing permissive effects. You said something really fast. I mean, listen, you've said a lot of very fascinating things, but there are metabolic cues. Can you touch a little bit about leptin, touch on leptin and how it would relate, what is it and how it would really to ovarian health? Yeah. So leptin is an adipokine. So it's a hormones produced by our that cells in our body. And so the more fat cells that we have, the more leptin we can sort of measure in circulation. So leptin is a good correlate of adiposity. And so leptin also is a, there are sort of leptin receptors in the brain that when leptin is sufficiently high enough, it sort of triggers G-in or H response of N-G-in or H is a neuroindocrine hormone produced in the hypothalamus. That sort of tells the pituitary what to do. So leptin is a very potent and very good signal for the commands and terms of the reproductive acts in the hypothalamus that there is sufficient adiposit issue on board for reproductive function. And we need that? Yes. Do I have this correct that the higher the leptin it should have an appetite regulating effect, meaning you have reached a level of say circulating leptin and you are then less hungry. Yes. It's kind of regulates and there's this whole concept that we have leptin resistance, which would then make us over eat and things of that nature. And are you saying that with increased leptin or is it increased leptin or decreased leptin? I know we're getting a little technical here, but the reason I'm asking is because insulin probably relates to this picture. Yes, very much so. We're looking at is if it's an adipicine and it is something that is coming from adipicites or fat, the more fat one would have. Probably again I don't know because Dr. Melanie Cree really threw a wrench into everything that it wasn't about the adiposity itself. It was the intermuscular. Adipocity. So yeah. Yeah. I defer to Melanie on all topics related to muscle that is not my field, but the fat relationship when is enough enough and when do we get to the quote in metabolic tipping point where at 32% body fat we see a dysregulation and reproductive health? Yeah. I can't answer that question. What I can say though to your point earlier is those, the neurons in your brain that are responding to leptin to suppress appetite are those same neurons that are also responding to leptin to talk to another neuron called the kiss peptin neuron that tells GNRH, yes we are good to go or no we're not good to go. So those same neurons that are modulating appetite regulation are also involved in reproductive functions are really interesting integration side up in the brain. Now you have studied nutrition and you do studying nutrition. Yes. And I know that you are a scientist and you don't see patients, but from your perspective do you think there's a certain type of diet or something that we need to be aware of or something that you're seeing in patterns that would negatively or positively affect reproduction? The short answer for me would be I cannot recommend a particular dietary pattern. I can talk about this in the context of PCOS. This is where I'm very familiar. There's a systematic review that was done a few years ago that did summarize the data related to timing of first puberty. So I'm coming up first men are key story. So I'm just interested that certain macro nutrients were helpful versus less helpful. In terms of a dietary pattern what I would recommend would simply be the dietary guidelines for Americans for people living in the United States or if you have a stress from other countries or the guideline for healthy eating in their country. And I say that because we know that on average Americans do not adhere to a healthy dietary pattern. So from my vantage point is a scientist I feel like any, any way we can move in the direction towards a healthy eating pattern. And this is what happens in these studies is the foods that pop up in as being sort of helpful or beneficial. They're part of a healthy dietary pattern. And when I say healthy I'm referring to the dietary guidelines for Americans. That's, you know, as a non-physician, as a non-registered dietitian, that's really what I would say and that's where I say the evidence is at right now. And I want to add a little context to that. Sure. I'm very excited to see the next set of guidelines come out because the essentially the 20, 25 guidelines and beyond which they're working on right now are going to increase dietary protein. It's going to liberate some of the restrictions on fat. I think it's going to be extraordinary. The first part of your statement is absolutely correct. Americans are not following the guidelines on average on average that are put in front of them. So essentially anything is better than a highly processed, overcarbohydrate diet that we are currently eating. Currently on average, Americans, 90% of them are overconsuming, refined, grains and food of that nature. Yeah. So what about myths? What are some of the biggest myths that you and actually you teach a course on evaluating data and how to, what is the assignment that you give your students? So the course is women's reproductive health and nutrition across the lifespan, so men are key to menopause. So it's a fun time for me to sort of geek out with my students and the class and we get to talk about reproductive physiology and the different changes that occur and the role of nutrition, what we know and more often than not what we don't know. But their final project in lieu of a final exam is there's a long list that I compile, doctors are talking to friends and collaborators and on myths they've heard around or don't even myth, but if it's not a myth, like something they've tried or they know themselves or they've heard their patients say related to nutrition and women's health. So my field is PCOS, a lot of PCOS related research and so I do tend to get a lot of those myths trickle in. So one of them is, you shouldn't eat fruit if you have PCOS because it makes your insulin resistance worse and that's a good one. That's a real thing. It's a really painer. If you know, Patently Falls, I can say that quite confidently and there's the data actually show the exact opposite, right? Because fruit is as chock full of fiber and really important nutrients, it helps with satiety. That's a one that I hear I've heard and seen. Another is timing your diet with different phases of your menstrual cycles. Yes exercise. Talk to me about that is that a myth or a true statement and we have to pause on this because we're going to double down what is the myth that you hear? Well it manifests in a few different forms. One of them is seed cycling where different phases of your menstrual cycle which is sort of overlaid with your ovarian cycle in this case that you should eat different seeds at different phases of your menstrual cycle and for the life of me I can tell you which seed and I really also can tell you what's supposed to be doing physiologically because the data aren't there to support that. Another one that I've heard is at different phases of your menstrual cycle you should be eating different foods, right? You know this is another one where to do this kind of research it would be very challenging to test this hypothesis rigorously and conceivably where I suspect these claims or these ideas came from would probably be from animal studies which save non-human primates you know the rodent models they don't menstruate right so we we're not looking at a typical reproductive cycle that we would see in women and what's done in rodent models for instance typically those nutrition exposures are several fold greater than what we as a human would eat so any evidence that might exist is probably not translatable to humans. Two myths that you've just taken off the table number one seed cycling is a myth we do not have evidence for that number two that you should eat various foods or change your dietary patterns is that fair to say depending on your cycle where you are in your cycle I have not seen convincing evidence that would support that that is a good idea. Do you have another big myth sure so one it's it that I think it can cause a lot of grief is that you can cure PCOS with nutrition to make that claim sort of really it's not taking it to full account how complex PCOS is right it's you know that we know now that that it's a complex trait there's a genetic predisposition and there's environmental factors that you can trigger a genetic predisposition towards PCOS. I have not seen any dietary intervention trial that has fully resolved the PCOS phenotype. Dr. Marla Lusion of the Cornell she in her lab we did two different dietary interventions in women with PCOS and we did not see a full resolution of the phenotype. You know in a subset of participants the phenotype got worse it was a small sample size so I really caution against you know worrying about that finding per se but what I would say is you know there really isn't data to suggest that diet can cure PCOS there is no cure for PCOS right now and hopefully one day we will we will have one maybe gel p1s well the data are so promising. I know there's so promising yeah there's yeah that I mean that's so exciting. What about the myth that you can balance your hormones with a supplement or balancing your hormones with food. Even the notion of what it means to balance your hormones is a bit of a giveaway in and itself because we know our hormones are constantly changing data data data day certainly you can have chronically elevated hormones but the notion that you can balance your hormones at any given point with with anything it doesn't physiologically make a lot of sense to me. I would have to say that that one is a myth and what I know of evidence around turmeric for conditions or other sort of supplements not to call one specifically out but there isn't good data I would say. There are good supplements with tier 1 evidence and that's great and as we see this repertoire expanding well it could be too much or it could be ginger I think that if you are trying what's the the semen where if you're trying to chase all the rabbits that you're probably not going to catch one or whatever it is. Anyway I like that one though that I you know we could double down on the supplements or the bioactive ingredients that are promising for various things versus again deluding our brains and deluding even the science and and there are you know to that point I don't mean to repent with broad strokes earlier but you know there there is good mounting evidence that certain supplements could be beneficial for different phases of life right so fish oil has been studied for the context of you know dysm period so menstrual cramps. I didn't know do you know much about menstrual cramps and I just opened up a canograms because of the kids. Do you know how to know the canofish that is really funny. Tell me yeah tell me about that. There is pretty good evidence to suggest that you know the fish whales that you do do you know they can be beneficial for alleviating cramps and part of that is the path of physiology of menstrual cramps relates to sort of inflammation in the inflammatory process of shedding the endometrial lining. There have been a couple of studies and I do cover this in my class that make a really interesting case for it. I would honestly have to go to you know a really good systematic review just see what the you know what the overall effect estimate is in multiple populations you know I never want to hang my hat on one study certainly not but that would be one example where you know I think with a few more really good studies I think we could get there and same you know with with PCOS right there is no PCOS diet per se I think that reflects lack of evidence. I see a lot of recommendations coming from physicians that really target this relationship between PCOS and type 2 diabetes and sort of making dietary recommendations that are intended to interrupt that process and you know I think what we really need is more well-designed studies to really see whether or not you know does how beneficial is this particular dietary pattern for this particular outcome all that to say regardless of physiological outcome and improving you know a dietary pattern is associated with an overall improved quality of life and that's a really important endpoint for all of us. I would agree with you. For sure the menstrual cramps that's novel I've never heard that that there might be an improvement with DHA or EPA with us check that for you. We'll check it. We'll check it. Anything else that was surprising actually whether it's again you know the menopause transition is a very hot topic and there's so little information the over-estam point of menopause and it's kind of the landscape is you are perimenopause and then you're menopause and that transition can take a long time. I can take a long time. What I would say and so general recommendations for for anyone the best evidence you know that that you'll be able to find from my vantage point related to nutrition and reproductive health will be going to in very authoritative body so like the menopause society for instance they do have on their website a section about dietary supplements or nutritional supplements and menopausal symptoms right so rather than going to TikTok you could just google the menopause type. It's way more fun. There is some other work so really nothing comes to mind other than the fish oil that is a bit innovative that had not heard of before. Fish oil is a really interesting one that surprised me something I heard about was dairy causes inflammation which makes PCUS worse and that's that's not something that I've seen data to support as a claim. Okay so that's fake. Yeah. We talked about nutrition kind of globally. Eat well. Don't need a bunch of junk food. No deep details again if you guys want more details about my perspective on nutrition or what I believe and what I feel that the evidence supports you can definitely find it. Your lab has done very unique research and that if we're talking about nutrition and there's the idea of the individual foods but then also the microbiome. The microbiome plays a role in our overall health and wellness. Tell me about this new biol acid. Sure. Paper. Yeah. Yeah absolutely. You know we think about biol acids as molecules that they just lipids right that's sort of how we learn about the men's school. Working with collaborators Mark Robertson from Cornell and Alejandro Lovinsky from Dalhousie up in Canada where I'm from what we saw is that during puberty in a rodent model, sort of during reproduction development in a rodent model, that there are these type special type of biol acids that are only formed by the gut microbiome. So biolic are formed the liver and then they're formed in like one way of the primary and then they go down to the microbiome and they're converted to a secondary biol acid and they get sort of resourpt into the blood stream. What they found in the rodent models was that during puberty or rodent puberty, there's this massive shift in circulation and the type of biol acid that's in circulation from a primary to a secondary and that happens because of the microbiome. They also saw that there was a distinct change in the the communities in the microbiome to make those secondary biol acids and what's really cool is that they were also able to show the presence of that secondary biol acid receptor in the hypotherlamus and when they activate it, it increased or stimulated reproductive access activity. Wait, wait, wait. I think I just hallucinated. Biol acid affecting the brain. What they were able to show in this sort of ex vivo model, first is that by activating the secondary biol acid receptor in the neurons that are in the hypotherlamus, they were able to increase genearine activity and then in a rodent model what they found is that when you prematurely activate TGR5, you advance timing of first ovulation, timing of vaginal opening in these rodent models. What we did, what I did, is I looked in my data sets, we did a secondary analysis of two different data sets looking at changes in biol acids in girls and we found exactly the same shifts in biol acids. In one of those studies, we have the stool from these kiddos and we're going to analyze that hopefully later this year early next year. The other part of this question though, what this does implicates the microbiome and a very hypothesis driven way in participating and immodulating the reproductive access in reproductive maturity. We took it a step further and Hannah, she was a student in my lab, she just started her PhD now actually. She looked at whether or not there's this difference in biol acids in these adolescents who would go on to develop PCOS versus those who did not. And we have samples from a post talked for a co-harcity that we did, but I did when I was in my post doc that we were able to analyze. And so we also see distinct changes in biol acids and that paper is getting written up right now for publication. Very compelling and new and novel. Yeah, the relationship between the microbiome and the brain and its effect on ovulation and reproduction and fertility. Well keep you posted. Dr. Heidi, it has been an incredible pleasure to have you on the show. Thank you. I've enjoyed it. I thank you for being wonderful host and hopefully this was helpful. I certainly can attest that it was helpful not just to me, but for everybody listening and watching we will link where your lab is. Sure, many publications and I know that you've got some great students. So students listening, I have a assignment for you, which I will get back to. We are going to do a series of debunking Tik Tok Instagram in lieu of real science.

And I'm so interested in your perspective on stress, how have we evolved to handle it? Is it really this fight or flight that we keep hearing about? Is that accurate? Are there other ways that we can think about stress? That we can navigate it? Yeah. Yeah. There's such good questions and so important. And that's why I love being here. Thank you for asking that question. Chris. So let's go back to basics here and realize how complicated and simple at the same time that we are, right? And how it affects psychology and psychiatry and behavioral health and mental health. Evolutionarily, we are adaptive beings. We have to change based on our environment in order to survive. Now the human mind and the human body is somewhat primitive in that respect. Because when it comes to survival, here's the truth. As amazing as we are as beings, physiologic beings, our survival mechanisms are really short-term. They are. They're short-term. And this is what I mean by this when it comes to stress. So thousands and thousands and thousands of years ago or however far back you want to go. We develop this general adaptation principle. That was brought forth by an individual. Hans Celia. So let's just go back when we were cave women and cave men if we felt a threat, what happened? Our body's experience, the fight or flight phenomenon. Okay. So that fight or flight phenomenon means physiologic things now happen in the body based on what we're thinking. So back then, if you were afraid that a tribe was brought to a spear your way and you thought that then your body is going to change. And the way that your body changes is this huge survival cascade. It starts with, you know, all this fun stuff from medical school to thalamus and the hypothalamus and the corticotropin releasing hormone and telling our adrenal glands to produce neuroophenophrane and neuroophenophrane changes blood flow. It changes blood flow to the muscles and removes it from our digestive system. It slows down digestion and emptying from the stomach and speeds up digestion in the colon and shifts blood vessels in the brain and where blood is going to flow. So based on that thought that there's a fear that something is going to happen, our body just changed. Okay. Now that's meant to be short term. What do you mean by short term? Short term immediately. Get me out of this situation. Get me out of this situation now. Okay. I need to run. I need to fight. And in order to do those things, my body has just changed. Cortisol. You're flooded with cortisol at that time. You're adrenal glands, flood cortisol. And what do we know about cortisol? Cortisol tells the liver to a little more sugar. Right? Cortisol reduces the immune response, reduces IL6 and IL1 and TNF and, you know, all of these cytokines and immune mediators. So but in the short term, that's great. The problem is, is what if you're under stress chronically? Right? So even though we've been adapted to get out of these circumstances quickly, if necessary, our body does not know right now in the year 2024, whether we're being chased by a tiger, whether there's a tribe throwing a spirit us. Or we have a work deadline. Or our cell phones are pinging every three minutes. Right? Your body doesn't know that. All that it knows that needs to respond to a threat. It perceived threat. What a dops faster? Mind your body. What do you think a dops faster? That's that's easy. Your body. And that's part of the problem is that your body is responding subconsciously without thought. At that point. So the perceived threat, the subconscious threat. And that's an amazing question because it's responding subconsciously over and over and over and over for the exact reason is you don't have time to think in those situations. And evolutionarily, your body knows that. I can't sit here and calculate, well, maybe I should do this. Maybe I should do that. It doesn't matter if a blood goes away from your prefrontal cortex. And it just goes to the basic part of your brain, your mid brain, your hippocampus, and your mid-delin, all these parts of your brain that are like, look, you need to do this now. We're else. So it becomes subconscious. Now, that's that autonomic nervous system response, right? That we all know about the sympathetic nervous system, the parasympathetic nervous system. So it seems as if it's black and white, but it's it. It's not. It's not. It's not. It's not. It's not. It's not. It's not. It sounds so great, right? This out there, still really follow that paradigm. Of sympathetic, you know, is going to do all the things up and up for an or up and up for an heart rate increase, breathing increase, shifting blood, flow to vary, there's areas of the body, cortisol and a million other things to take place. And then the sympathetic nervous system, you know, basically our vehicle system that allows us to feel comfortable and relaxed and digest and slows down our heart rate and makes us feel less guarded. That's a very simple paradigm. And that's sort of what we've followed for quite a long time, but it's so much more complicated than that. And a few theories have been put forth, based on that, like Stephen Porridge's, for example, in the 1990s, put forth, what was called the Polyvagal theory. And it's not without controversy. And we can even get into that a little bit. But what Stephen Porridge is saying is that it's more complicated in the sense that not only do we have fight or flight, but we have vagal branches that can also immobilize us, almost like old reptilian simple brains used to symbolize and freeze. And why that's in that room? And ready to go down the rabbit hole, because here we go. Why that's important is this. Understand something that when we experience chronic stress or chronic trauma, and we have that autonomic nervous system, that's just flooding our bodies with cortisol, an epinaphrine and more of an epineprine. Eventually you reach a state of exhaustion. And your body knows that. I mean, we know as medical physicians, if you have too much cortisol, it can happen. So you're breaking down body tissues. You're in a catabolic state. We love to work out. I love to train. I don't want to be in a catabolic state. I want to be in an anabolic state. So now some of these theories like polyvagal theory are saying, you're going to go into a position of shutting down at this point. Your vagal system knows this, and it's going to shut you down. And what I mean by shutting down is a mobilization. This whole mental. Yeah, so in here, here we go. And also we have to talk about this idea of chronic stress is that it's the perception of stress. But if we, what if we change the perception of stress, would we still have the same physiological responses? What can we do? I love it. What do you tell your patients? What do you tell your friends? What are you going to tell the list of what can we do? I love it. You're brilliant. And you're leading me down the proper roads here. So again, autonomic nervous system, fighter flight. If it continues, you go into a state of exhaustion, and you'll probably shut down. And you know, shutting down is a very vague term. Does that even mean? So understand something in the viewers out there that I want you to understand is that this is a physiologic process. It's a physiologic and neurologic process. When you are in a fighter flight state, things change. For example, your visual acuity changes. You become able to see better for a very short time periods. Do you know that all of your senses change? So we know that the tmpanic muscles, when you are in a fighter flight state, are better at picking up frequencies of scary things, not necessarily speaking tones. Your facial muscles of facial expression change when you're in a fighter flight circumstance. This is all neurologicness. This is all in the data. So a point that I have is that when you're in a constant state of fighter flight, you are physiologically changing. And your body is adapting to be prepared for a fight constantly. Now how does that affect us day to day in person to person? It affects our thought process. And this is getting to your question. We also have something in our central nervous system called the particular activating system, the RAS. And you get this. And when I first learned this stuff, I was like, well, this is wild. But we have so many things to process every single moment of every single day. Our bodies and minds in our senses are five senses. Are always scanning the environment for safety and comfort. Our particular activating system, among other things, is responsible for sleep wake cycles. It's responsible for conscious awareness. It takes us through our REM cycles, right? But something that it also does that we've known in neuroscience is that it's a filter. And the reason that it's a filter is because we have so much input coming in all of the time. And the RAS is in the brainstem. It's in the anterior brainstem. It's a very small piece of our brain in the brain.

If you're getting 175 grams of protein a day, you match your needs at 60 or 70 grams, and I think you're converting the rest to carbs. That's simply not true. He converts all of it. That's just a gross misunderstanding of the towels. Protein myths are everywhere. But what if some of them were started by doctors themselves in this episode, Dr. Gabrielle Lyon and her guest, Dr. Donald Laman, react to a controversial clip of Dr. Christopher Gardner on the Huberman Lab. We have national data on what the protein intake is of Americans. The average intake is like 1.2 grams per kilogram bodyweight per day. I'm just going to pause him out there. The average intake in the United States based on the end-hanging state of Israel and 80 grams per day on that translates into 0.9 to 1 gram per kg. I'm sure there are people taking 1.2 in higher, but that's not the average. It was so convincing, though. That's the way to be convincing, even if you're wrong. They'll expose how outdated research has shaped the conversation around protein and reveal what the science really says about your body's needs. As I hear professors and doctors talk about how our diet is wrong and that we can stop stressing about dietary protein, I have to say, I disagree. Let's talk about protein. Protein is the main source of nitrogen in your body. If you were to do one of these bomb-calorimeter things that blew up and burned your whole body, minerals would be left. You can't get rid of minerals and nitrogen is in that list. And so you can actually do a nitrogen analysis of food that you're eating and it'll tell you how much protein is in the food. And if you were to be in a blue zoo, all day, and collect your poop, your pee, your nasal blowing. Let's stop there for a suggestive second. It has come in a battle at doing a nitrogen analysis and determining the amount of protein isn't truly accurate because all amino acids don't have the same amount of nitrogen. So they tend to use a standard factor of 16% nitrogen, which not essential in the protein, which not essential in amino acids that you find in plants have more than non-essential amino acids than animal protein. So when you use a nitrogen analysis, you're always overestimating the amount of actual nitrogen coming in. So it's inaccurate. It's an inaccurate measure to start with. If you captured everything that left your body, you would know how much protein you had eliminated during the day. So so many came up with this idea for a nitrogen balance study. And they took these conscientious war objectives and put them in these suits for months. And they lowered their protein to zero. At which point they realized, wow, this is fascinating. The losses that you have from protein decrease as you lower your protein to zero because your body realizes you need to be more efficient with what you had. And then they raised the dietary protein level back up until they were in balance. So the amount of protein leaving the body was the same as they amount going in. And they said, this is the protein requirement. It's the amount that will replace your losses in this group of people. It wasn't just Morgan Hall and the penthouse at Berkeley. It was multiple other groups who were doing this. In other places, and they pulled all their data and said, this is, and there's a range. And some people need more and some people need less. That's pretend it's a normal distribution. It isn't quite. But after all this, they came up with what would be an estimated average requirement for this population that we've studied. And this bizarre prison incarceration, food manipulation thing. With this clever idea focusing on nitrogen, just because it's so unique to protein. And they came up with .66 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day. And this is the estimated average requirement. Okay, now let's do some super simple math. Let's say if you told the American public, now they've done this bizarre, disgusting task. This is how much everybody requires this estimated average requirement. And they're in after everybody got exactly that much protein. What proportion of the population would be deficient at that level if they picked the average requirement? Half by definition, that's only the average. Half of the people who are above average. So the recommended data allowance of protein is set at two standard deviations. Above the value determined by this disgusting nitrogen balance task, decades and decades ago. And I understand that the community of protein fanatics doesn't like that. That's not an optimal protein. It's like a minimal protein requirement. Okay, so I totally buy that argument, but I think the first thing. Let's stop there for a minute. He's an analysis that is partially correct, but first it's important to recognize that nitrogen balance is well accepted that intake is over estimated. And that excretion is under estimated, even as he says, is disgusting body suits. So that's well established. And most of the estimates are that they're missing it by up to 20%. So we have to always frame it. His discussion of the E and R, the estimated average is correct, but he applies the word deficiency to nitrogen balance. And so the only deficiency that he's actually measuring is some level of negative nitrogen loss. And I don't know what health outcome that relates to. So we have a measure that evolved out of animal science in the 1800s. It didn't really evolve in a penthouse and in Berkeley. It evolved actually in the 1800s when animal scientists were trying to measure growth. And what you can do with growth is you can measure nitrogen accumulation. And they were trying to distinguish between body weight which might be body fat and actually lean tissue. So we haven't measures for nitrogen at that point. You can measure it. But when you start trying to apply these same measures to adults who are not changing body weight and grow it, they become very hard to apply. And his use of the word deficiency is a gross extrapolation to one reality. It's basically it's only measuring nitrogen balance. He makes a statement and I'll let this play about 0.66 grams per kg, actually being the minimum in his words to prevent a deficiency. And the number of the RDA set at 0.8 grams per kg to protect individuals from becoming deficient and making it two standard deviations above. That's exactly right. So it's set to standard deviations above so that 98% of the population would be reflected as somehow in nitrogen balance. But again, extrapolating this to requirement and deficiencies aren't really what the terms mean. The terms mean that they're in nitrogen balance. And again, I'm not quite sure we can go into that in more detail, but relating that to a deficiency in adult is a leap of faith. The first thing that people get wrong is they think that that old method is recommending the average requirement. And it's not. It's got a safety buffer. It's got two standard deviations built on top of it so that if everybody got that 0.8 grams per kilogram body weight per day, two and a half percent of the population would be deficient. And not only would 97 and a half percent of the population meet their requirement, they would exceed it. If you drew the graph, right, you're seeing the line. This whole group would exceed it and this group would not meet it and this group would get just a small sliver would get what they needed. The again, he's trying to extrapolate this RDA and this measure of nitrogen balance as deficiency. And so his entire argument hangs on that what it is is basically a minimum reflection for nitrogen balance. But I don't know of any help outcomes that relate to that and he doesn't cite it either. So the issue of what is nitrogen balance and does that actually reflect or deficiency? That's something he's emotionally trying to make everybody believe, but there's really no data of what it represents the position in his statements. And again, we'll hear them is that basically everybody is getting enough protein and that the quote, high protein messaging seems unnecessary for the general population. I will continue to play this and again, thank you so much. And again, I'll just follow up that state, just to follow up that statement. What he's actually saying is that people are getting enough to stay in short-term nitrogen balance. So again, these are 25 year old males who are eating nothing but high-quality dairy proteins and they're measuring it for maybe up to two weeks. A short-term measure of nothing but nitrogen balance and the extrapolation of that to help isn't good. I wanted to take a moment to let you know about something new we've created. It's called Forever Strong Insider and it's the premium subscription to the Dr. Gabriel Lion Show. As a forever strong insider every week, you'll get ad free episodes written summaries with key takeaways to help you retain the most important insights from the show. A community Q&A segment where you can sub-made your own questions per upcoming guest. We're going to call this the Strong Seed and behind the scenes content, a closer look at how I prepare, train, travel and navigate daily life. Go to Forever Strong.Supercast.com. Let's keep getting stronger together. I have a couple of questions I know are popping up for people. I just would like to tick off if we can. Who were the subjects? Was it men and women? These were conscientious objectives so I would presume at that time we weren't sending women to Vietnam. So it would be just a minute. So this is just it, Berkeley. So other people were doing this to it. It wasn't just this one, but I don't know who the others were. Got it. I just remember that I got my PhD at Berkeley and as soon as I got there, people said, do you want to see the penthouse? So what the F is the penthouse? The penthouse is where Doris Cowan and Shilly Morgan figured this out and like this is a famous thing. So they took great pride that part of that camp from their work at Berkeley. And they as a call at the penthouse to get people up there because what happened in there sounds anything but pleasant. Yeah, it was unpleasant. Yeah, at least for the Berkeley study. These guys are up there, guys are gal to their up there. They're in these suits. They're collecting everything. They're not exercising. They're not breathing fresh air presumably. They're not, are they walking around? Are they getting even like a couple thousand steps a day? I mean, my concern is that, oh, absolutely. Yeah, they're concerns. My concern is that they turn them into mice essentially. And as somebody, listen, I've published work on mice, rats. I no longer do this but non-human primates, something that I have no interest in doing anymore. And the other primates us humans. And I know how hard it is to do a well controlled study. It's extremely difficult. So I understand why they did this, but then it becomes a very artificial circumstance. Now, the buffering with two standard deviations above this nitrogen balance amount. I think that's something really important to double click on for people because most people here. Oh, it was just a minimum amount required to maintain nitrogen balance. But in reality, it's much higher than that. So that was the first one. I feel like that's a misperception that was the average requirement. Okay. All the points you made are dead on critical important. Okay. Then the second one is where do you start if you've eaten an excess? Because the fact is right after that, I had to bait with Stu Phillips at one point on Simon Hill's podcast. Because we had exchanged some Twitter things and said, oh my God, they disagree. They should have a debate. Is Stu Phillips like a corner of war guy? So no, Stu Phillips, I'm sorry, is an exercise of it. He's super great at exercise studies that make master university. Okay. And after we actually emailed one another, not just tweeting however many characters you get on Twitter. So oh my God, we actually agree on most things. And the reason we agree is we have national data on what the protein intake is of Americans. So forget the protein bars and the protein powders and everything else. American doesn't do that. And the average intake is like 1.2 grams per kilogram body weight per day. Or higher of quality protein? Just let's stop there. So the average intake in the United States based on the end Haynes data, which is the actual standard. That's the gold standard for intake is around 80 grams per day. For an average, for men and women. And that translates into 0.9 to 1 gram per kg. I'm sure there are people taking 1.2 and higher, but that's not the average. You is so convincing though. With that statement. That's that's the way to be. Be convincing. Even if you're wrong. The fun thing was that Stu and I got together and said, you know, Stu, you hate that point. Hade grams per kilogram body weight. And you're saying people should have 1 gram per kilogram body weight. Or maybe even 1.2, which would be 1.2 would be 50% higher than 0.8. That's the average American intake. And he said, well, that's Stu too. So he hates the 0.8, but he realized it's almost in irrelevant number. Because most people get more than that. I just served on the Dieter Guidelines Advisory Committee. And we looked at those same data and it's still true. Americans eat more protein than the RDA on a general basis. Without trying, without knowing about it, it's just in more foods than you think. So the second issue is, well, if so many people are eating more, is there anything bad about the extra? Like, what do you do with the extra? And so there's sort of infinite capacity to store fat in your body. You probably know this in your belly and your butt and your underarms everywhere. You can store limited capacity for carbohydrate store. You can store actually her Gabrielle Lyon talk about how much is in your liver and how much is in your skeletal muscle. But if you are a marathon runner in four hours after 20 miles or so, you bunk because you've exhausted all your carbohydrates. You can exhaust all your carbohydrates in four hours, where it would take days and days and days with fat. But there is no storage depot for protein. At the end of the day, if you ate more than you needed, you're not storing any for the next day. It's not in your big toe. It's not in your spleen. It's not in your liver. It's nowhere, after you made all the enzymes hormones, hair, fingernails, and muscle tissue that you wanted, you break off the nitrogen. You have to eliminate that as ammonia and your kidney. And you turn the carbon skeleton into carbs, which if we do get back to the keto diet, is throwing the meat eaters on a keto diet out of ketosis. You just turned the protein you're eating to avoid the carbs into the carbs that you're avoiding. But we won't go there for the moment, we'll just say, there's no place to store it. So you're not really getting any benefit about it. I was very interested to hear you just say, you're fine eating the protein for the calories, the energy. I am going to stop this here. What is the relevance of the protein storage discussion? I think the whole protein storage and protein use is one of the biggest misconceptions out there, and that he's 100% white that the body doesn't store protein. So that's why you need a daily supply of essential amino acids. So that's absolutely correct where you store a fat and carbs, so you don't really need them every day. But you do need amino acids. The extrapolation he's making, though, is that once you meet your minimum nitrogen balance, sort of like thinking of protein and amino acids is building blocks for a brick layer. Once you have enough blocks for the wall, you can stop. You don't need to have another truckload of bricks, but proteins not like that. The issue of, you know, what do you do with the protein? Well, all of it gets converted into energy every day. That's a definite should of bait. So whether you're eating a minimum amount of 60 grams per day or a higher amount of 175, every gram of protein gets converted into energy every day, about 80% of it gets converted into carbohydrates, about 20% gets converted into fatty acids. But that happens every day. The misconception is that there's some one to one, you know, that when I eat an amino acid, the first one goes into protein. And that's not true at all. The body is very inefficient with that's process. For example, essential amino acid, 3-ning, 75% of the 3-ning you take in, never gets out of the gut. It goes directly to mucusin synthesis. So how much training do you have to have before you satisfy the body's need? So it's not a one-to-one relationship. In fact, the body has to make 250 to 300 grams of protein every day. The average intake is around 80 grams. So there's no one to one relationship of that. And the idea that, you know, the first whatever, 60 grams I eat goes to making protein and then everything else is wasted. That's just totally a misconception. Everything you eat is converted to energy. And the issue is efficiency. When you're young, the first amino acid you eat per day or per meal or whatever, or probably going to get converted into protein quicker. The order you get, you become less efficient with it. So the requirement is probably changing. So this whole idea of storage and efficiency and waste is an incredible misconception out there. By people who don't really understand protein metabolism. It's interesting, as I'm looking at some of the comments on the YouTube. Here's a comment that says Christopher Gardner is one of the best nutrition scientists of our time. Glad you had him on Andrew. While some of his views may not be popular, they are extremely evidence-based. He clearly doesn't understand amino acid metabolism. His theories correct it would have to be based on TRNA saturation. So once you saturate the TRNAs, but you're basically have fulfilled your need for protein synthesis. If you're like me, you love a good meat stick and are always on the go. But still committed to putting high quality fuel into your body. Then you want to check out Paleo Valley, one of the sponsors of the show. There 100 grass fed and finished beef sticks are clean nutrient tents and free from all the garbage. Found in most convenient snack. By the way, this is Buffalo chicken, no preservatives, no added sugar, no artificial anything. They are naturally fermented, which means they support your gut, deliver more. I will be able to nutrients and of course have a long shelf life without the use of harmful Additives, which is amazing. Paleo Valley sources from regenerative farms here in the U.S. The kind of farms that treat animals humanely and prioritize soil health. It's like going to the farmers market, getting a good quality snack, and it's still a good right to your job. Go to pleovalley.com slash doctor lion to get 15% off. That's pleovalley.com slash doctor lion. Nobody knows what TNA charging is on a very high level, explain it to, I don't know, or one like Shane, my husband sitting here so that we can understand what does that mean and and what's the value of that statement you just had for us, non PhD pioneers. So we'll go back to my bricklayer concept again, so I have an individual building a wall and the bricks are my aminal assets. The bricklayer is the TRA. He's the guy who basically transfers that amino acid into the wall transfers that amino acid into the protein. And so if I only have one bricklayer, once that guy has both hands full, I don't need any more amino assets. And the issue with TRA's is they're always saturated. You can have a total starvation for two, three days. You can have an amino acid deficiency for a week, and you'll still have the TRA's charge. So the idea that there's this efficiency of protein use only up to some level is a total misunderstanding of the amino acid metabolism. The issue is how much protein and which amino acid does it take to efficiently make that 300 grams of new protein every day. And that's not the same at every stage of life, and that's the point they're missing the whole concept of storage is being totally misinterpreted. There are a few things mentioned that are thrown around a lot in the nutrition space and in general the RDA, I would love for you to define that. And also Dr. Gardner talks about the EAR. I would love to hear how we piece these things together. Someone who knows nothing about nutrition or this is their first podcast episode with us. I'm sorry you chose this as your first. Help us understand the foundations of the conversation. The purpose of the RDA is to establish a minimum to prevent an obvious deficiency. And with every nutrient, whether it's vitamin C or vitamin D, and in those cases we have clear deficiencies of scurvy or rickets and so we can prevent them. When you start getting into the macro nutrients like carbohydrates and protein, now you have more diverse outcomes. It's hard to really define what a deficiency looks like. I mean, we know in children in Africa we have squashy or corn grassmouth, but that's an extreme form and and protein doesn't necessarily change that rapidly. So, you know, I think that we have to recognize the purpose of an RDA, a recommended a dietary allowance is defined the minimum number to prevent an obvious or frank deficiency. And in protein that has been defined as nitrogen balance, which is a pretty loose concept. I think we need to also think about how do we if the RDA is that meaningful. We need to think about the fact that the RDA for carbohydrate is 130 grams per day. The EAR for that is about 75 or 80. And so it's two standard deviations above that considered healthy is 130. The average of Americans eating almost 300. So the RDA is tell us we should have a two to one ratio of carbs that protein or our diet where the American public is eating four or five to one. So, you know, if we're going to treat the RDA as a magic number, we need to treat it consistently that way. And what Dr. Gardner is doing is selectively deciding how he's going to apply it. I want to understand more by what you just said from his perspective from what I'm hearing him say is that looking at the EAR, which is a statistical midpoint, that number would be enough to cover half of the population. However, the EAR for nitrogen balance to put half the population in a positive nitrogen balance has then been translated over to dietary protein. Yeah. So we really need to think more about what nitrogen balance is here. So as I mentioned earlier, it's pretty widely accepted that nitrogen balance isn't very accurate. It overestimates in taging and underestimates losses. So it's inherently a low number. The other thing is you just mentioned is that how do they measure it? So they take these young men eating high quality protein. They take them to zero. And then they begin to bring it back up. They do stages and they give them a little more and they come into nitrogen balance. Nitrogen balance would imply that you've got a curve going up. They're storing a little bit more and then it stops. Well, that's not actually what happens. It goes up and it has a break point, but it keeps going up. So where's that protein going? And if you step back and think about nitrogen balance, his point is there's no storage form of protein. So when you're doing this nitrogen balance and you're giving increasing levels and nitrogen balance is positive, which means you're storing protein, where's it going? The inherent issue is that if there's no storage that nitrogen balance technique has to be wrong. Because if you translate that into actual protein gain per day, it would be outrageous. And so it's a technique that shows you something about a great point where the body is partitioning protein or amino acids differently, but to extrapolate that as a meaningful requirement is a stretch. Well, I can say as wow, I've heard you say a lot of fascinating and interesting things, but that is that is fascinating in the way that if we all take a step back. And our discussion has been on protein and the RDA whether though RDA is enough or not enough or the minimum amount, it makes me reconsider the entire landscape about protein and how it's being spoken about. Meaning the RDA based on a nitrogen balance study seems just simply way off base. Yeah, I think there is a lot of very good data that suggests the RDA is quite low by about 20%. You look at estimates of using the nitrogen balance when you realize it's a non-linear, it's based on a linear extrapolation that this curve goes up and there's a clean break and it's linear. And it's not. It knows that it goes up and it has a lower slope, but it's still positive. And so it's fundamentally wrong. And people think it's wrong by about 20%. I want to pause a second because I want to know what that means. Explain to me what the graph looks like as you're talking about what are we trying to visualize as how they put these pieces together. And quite frankly it's shocking that we are still talking about nitrogen balance without this reevaluation, but help me visualize the concept of what you are saying that there is this progression and then it breaks off. If you go to zero protein intake, you can imagine that would be a negative nitrogen balance. If you're starting, obviously you're counting on it. And so they begin to bring in some small amounts of protein. And so you get a curve that is going upward. You're getting more positive nitrogen balance. Okay. And at some point it begins to plateau. The analysis that you is used is a linear concept where you get a break point and basically it stops gaining. It implies that you can't use anymore. But it turns out, beta when you really look at it, all of them continue to go up. And so it's a curve of linear relationship as opposed to a linear relationship. And when you then begin to bring that into it, you realize that the current RDA, the current concepts of the EBR are underestimating it. So you know, so we've got to starting point that the intake and excretion are not accurate. So they're underestimating it. We're using an analytical method that is underestimating it. We're using a concept of nitrogen balance, which inherently doesn't make sense in a non-growing person. How can you be in positive nitrogen balance if you're maintenance? Okay. So now we've got methods that are underestimating certain things that overestimating other things. And most of the people who have studied this, burning youngs and Peter Palettes and Hengrysmen Roe and Hickmark Higgs-Stad and Bob Wolfe and all of the true experts in protein in the world has concluded that the RDA is probably about 20% to low. That the real target should probably be about 1 gram per kg as the absolute minimum per perven deficiency. And that's been related to protein synthesis measurements has been related to glutathione measurements and rithersides and all sorts of true outcomes, true functional outcomes as opposed to just the vague nitrogen balance. Oh, sorry, it's time to report an ad for the show. Thank you to one of the sponsors of the show timeline and listen, my kids still sleep with me. And after 470 nighttime snack requests, bathroom breaks, my husband snoring, myself. They're like a yo-jee, we're tapped out. Enter might appear. Time line nutrition is one of the most thoroughly researched products. I've come across an over a decade. Look, to carry it in my purse, they have peer reviewed public science. And this is where it's really interesting. But those of you who are following the muscle centric lifestyle, when you increase bio-energetics, you improve muscle function and how. In adults, 40 plus, timeline has been shown to increase muscle strength and endurance and no change in activity. So whether you've been active resistance training your whole life or you're just getting started or you're not getting a lot of sleep and you've got a million requests, your muscles and your mitochondria need help. And they have just launched their low sugar vegan non-GMO gluten-free gummies, which by the way, I am eating by the handfuls which I shouldn't, but they taste delicious. Time line is offering our community 20% off your first order. Go to timeline nutrition.com slash doctor line and use the code doctor line to get 20% off. I recommend trying their starter pack with all three different formats and of course their gummies which are incredible. In a perfect world, how would you rectify this? The way to rectify it is to just recognize that RDAs are defined to be the absolute minimum and that the healthy intake, the optimum intake for health is probably above that. So whether we're talking about vitamin C with the minimum intake of 60 milligrams, during the winter we all take 500 or vitamin D where the minimum intake is 400 I use and we all take 2 or 3000 for bone health and et cetera. I think we need to recognize that protein has a healthy and safe range from somewhere maybe as low as 0.8 up to probably 2.5 or higher. And then where is the healthy range for you or for me or for a human who personally likes it is personal choice. So I think that gardeners idea that that's the requirement and everyone should adhere to it isn't consistent with any nutrition principle. And certainly not the way we apply the carbohydrate requirement we three times that and nobody recognizes too high so you know I think what we're looking for is a consistent interpretation of the RDA as the minimum of which people shouldn't go below. It has nothing to do with the healthy requirement. And that you make about the RDA being 130 grams a day but Americans are eating 300 grams a day when you say that they need to be thought about or at least discussed comparatively tell me what you mean. We know that carbohydrates are a risk metabolically in the body that the body has a challenge in getting rid of carbohydrates in the short term you might be able to store some as glycogen but in a long term if you're eating three times your level. Now you have to distort metabolism and you'll see that things like tricolicidal levels insulin sensitivity and things like that. So Americans are eating way more carbohydrates than they need for basic metabolism you know three times the RDA so now you have to think about what you're distorting my specific experiments with that is we looked at weight loss which is a way of trying to evaluate perking requirements. And what we did was a series of experiments where all we adjusted was the ratio of protein and carbohydrates so I mentioned earlier that the RDA's tell us the ratio should be about two to one. Americans are eating around four to one and so what we did was that basically experiment we had one group that had a high carbohydrate diet was based on the food diet pyramid. Four to one carbohydrate to protein and they were eating exactly point eight grams per kg that RDA the other group we went to twice the RDA for protein we went to 1.6 and we reduced the carbohydrates down to about the RDA. What we found was that when we did that and this was a weight loss study that the individuals on the higher protein protected their muscle loss more body fat loss more weight and we did this in a series of three different clinical studies one of which was. 12 months long with 120 subjects so we know that the higher protein diet has body composition of facts. Would you say that the conversation about carbohydrates is changing meaning this people are beginning to recognize that too much carbohydrates distort metabolism and then on the flip side. We don't have that conversation about protein we don't say to quote too much protein. Distorts body composition. You and I talk about muscle centric health muscle centric metabolism and I think what's missing in the conversation is that your carbohydrate needs relate to your muscle activity. If you're in a lean athlete putting in three hours per day of lung or some activity you probably need a lot of carbohydrates. But if you're a sedentary couch potato who's 65 or 70, your carbohydrate need may vary well not be and even the RDA before it begins to distort metabolism. It's a mental and resistant fatty liver try glycerin increased try glycerides and so the issue is most Americans eating close to 300 grams per day need almost three hours of exercise per day to make that work. The comment about protein being converted to carbohydrates or glucose is true but unlike carbohydrates coming from grains where you get an immediate spike right after the meal the first 15 to 30 minutes after the meal with protein it takes 5, 6, 7 hours to metabolize the amino acids into carbohydrates. So what you get is a very slow conversion basically 24 hours a day that requires very little insulin activity. So from a carbohydrates standpoint you can either bread, you know, white bread and rice and get carbohydrate bonuses or you can get the same carbohydrates from protein. I think a lot of people learn from the keto diets and things like that from studies of type 2 diabetes that that can be a very beneficial way to go. So you have one person who's in lead athlete who needs 300 grams of carbs per day and you have another person who's a type 2 diabetic where 100 grams might be too much. And I think that's the same with protein we know we have a safe range of protein so the issue is what's the individual need what's their healthiest lifestyle how do they get the nutrient density they need what's the best for protecting muscle and the RDA has almost no relationship to those kinds of discussions. You bring up a very thought-provoking point and that is if we were to take a step back which you are very good at by the right. And actually you're talking. I mean I can make a lot of that. I won't the idea of putting together our plate carbohydrates proteins and fats we eat in excess it seems as if we are in excess of calories in general of those calories typically the excess calories comes from carbohydrates and fats. But the safety if we and obviously we don't eat individual macronutrients we don't just say I'm going to have a bag of fat today or a bag of amino acids well some people do which we're going to get to our bag of carbohydrates we eat foods. The three of those macronutrients do not affect the body the same way and here's where I'm going with this and I love your thoughts. When we over eat carbohydrates and we're eating 300 grams of carbohydrates we know what happens to the body presumably let's say this person is sedentary and they're eating 300 grams of carbohydrates at a meal or I don't know a 150 twice a day breakfast for dessert however you want to play that there are metabolic consequences these metabolic consequences include elevated levels of insulin elevated levels of glucose in the short term in the immediate if someone were to eat 300 grams of protein let's say you split it up between 150 150 again sounds like a lot the metabolic consequences of that if you were to say from a patient outcome perspective or lifestyle perspective and our outcomes broadly speaking are health and one could pick whatever is meaningful to them you would not see the same negative effect and even and I would love for you to talk to on this and I'm going to throw one more expected macronutrient in their fat. I would love your take on just conceptually that. Hydration isn't just about drinking co-zero or other sugar-free swing beverages like breadball now I'm saying this for a friend or it's not even about drinking more water it's about keeping the right balance of electrolytes and fluids during life's most demanding season like I don't know parenting maybe pregnancy or postpartum your body is going through massive changes blood volume increases hormones shift breastfeeding demands you know all those things all of these life transitions you probably need more and better hydration and you need electrolytes like sodium magnesium and potassium element is formulated to replenish what you actually lose without sugar fillers and junk that you don't need it's a clean effective way to stay hydrated and for men again it's not just about hydration it's also about performance recovery mental clarity and yes even energy whether you're hitting the gym chasing kids or grinding through your work day maybe even your teeth dehydration can quietly sabotage your focus and endurance element helps you stay sharp strong and ready we use element because it works taste amazing and it's known on sons just science back hydration that actually makes a difference and right now element is offering a free sample pack with any purchase that's eight flavors to try on the house go to drink lmnt.com slash doctor lion to claim yours that's drink lmnt.com slash doctor lion stay hydrated stay strong and as Godgain would say stay hard you and I always talk about the macro nutrients as you need to make a protein decision first and that protein decision can be based on your personal culture or values or whatever or your goals it doesn't matter if you want to low protein diet or high protein diet but once you make that decision that determines a lot of foods so that determines a lot of nutrients once you make that decision and you decide on your exercise and your lifestyle not you have to make a macro nutrient decision we've had a 50 year period that has said well fats bad for you you should eat more carbs the evidence for that was really bad where did the 30% fat and the diet come from that was just made up in a committee room and there's no evidence to back that but what we've done is to start the American diet toward grain carbohydrates we got we had a food guy pyramid that said you ought to eat at the bottom you should eat all these grains and that's what Americans did we got cookies with no fat we got cookies that we're nothing but sugar and things like that and Americans were eating 16 servings a day out of that or more out of that bottom lung that appeared in 2010 we got rid of the food guy pyramid because people recognize what it did to the American diet was to do it to nutrient density and make people eat more calories to get the vitamins minerals and amino acids that they need it so we know and we now have 30 years of keto diets that we know how an impact they certainly have an impact on type 2 diabetes so you know it's kind of that we recognize that your choice between carbohydrates and fats is a fuel choice carbohydrates are actually the most risky of the fuels and you probably need to tailor that very precisely to your muscle needs fat is actually the safest of the fuel needs and that should round out your calories so that's the way I always think about it make your protein decision that's a major part of your nutrient decisions and where you're going to get your nutrient make a carbohydrate decision based on your muscle needs for physical activity and then the rest of your calories really come from fat you can also use protein to fill that in if you want to go higher I think a lot of people who are choosing a gram of protein per pound are actually choosing it to avoid carbohydrates I think that's a legitimate reason to do what as nothing to do with protein turnover but it has everything to do with body metabolism and I think that's a legitimate reason the reason I ask this question is because in one hand I think that we are seeing the protein conversation getting a lot of pushback we are seeing the New York Times you know we did an interview for the New York Times vanity fair you name it people are coming down hard on the increase in protein discussion that becomes thought provoking because if we were to say wait a second if you look at carbohydrates the same way the conversation would be different just even from a metabolic perspective here is a macro nutrient that you could arguably safely over consume it does not have the metabolic derangement associated with carbohydrates yet as I hear you know professors or end doctors talk about how our diet is wrong and that we can stop dressing about dietary protein I have to say I disagree and the reason is is because we don't fundamentally understand the big picture of how we should be eating and the importance of each macronutrient and what do I mean by this is that we have been over consuming carbohydrates for decades 74% of us are either over waiter obese we are eating a ultra processed high caloric dense diet and as we begin to have these messengers say we are stressing too much about protein it further distorts the message and I do have concerns about that hopefully I'm making this clear let's say someone who is over eating 300 grams of fat and they were in a ketogenic diet and their carbohydrates were controlled they probably would have a better metabolic profile than someone who is over eating 300 grams of carbohydrates so this is what I'm trying to do to concisely say with these different macronutrients we have this conversation and group of people that are demonizing protein telling us that we don't need to be quote stressing about it and saying all of these different things and yet we have a population that is grossly metabolically unhealthy the idea that people are stressing about it for me I interpret that as meaning while they're going out and buying all kinds of weird things and protein bars or shakes or free of mental asses and I don't really recommend the idea of that but I think that we do need to make a protein first decision we need to understand what that decision means what we know is that the food guy pyramid which said the worst thing in the world is the eat animal foods because of cholesterol and saturated fat was totally wrong that information was totally biased and totally made up and so what we did was distort the American diet by deluding the nutrient plummety with carbohydrates with grains and that caused people to eat more calories we know from a variety of research one of which is referred to as the protein leverage hypothesis that all animals, all humans, all people tend to eat toward a protein target we are eating toward a certain amount of protein maybe 16% or 14% of our calories maybe up to 20% that seems to be pretty consistent but when you fake people out with what are called ultra-process foods foods where we are deluding the nutrient quality with carbohydrates with grain products now we have fake protein is the most satiety in all proteins we get lost talking about protein and main body mass or protein and muscle mass but we forget that protein has a very high thermogenic effect protein has a very high satiety effect protein is metabolized carbohydrates in a very slower there is a lot of metabolic outcomes that are very beneficial with protein that aren't true of any other nutrient and so I think stress and now isn't the right term I would just say I think it's time we shift back to being protein conscious you know when I was a child growing up on a farm in the Midwest you know we were very protein conscious you know protein was a central part of our meal and then we sort of shifted away where we kind of got to a point where we treated protein as a garnish you know we would have big bowl pasta with a little bit of meat sauce and refer to that as protein you know I think that's where we lost the track we need to be protein focused with a logical concept of what we're achieving nutritionally based on that I'm going to play this other clip here so here's another myth that we need to bust so the myth part is that plants are missing amino acids they're not complete I'm sure everybody listening today is heard ki noa the only plant with all nine essential amino acids both yet so I don't know if you can look at my paper in your podcast or show it and I have it on my right later on the show note captions so we wrote a paper in 2019 and this actually was pretty fun for me it came from working with the chefs the chefs was stopped there the concept of complete and incomplete probably is a bit over-trafflated you know it's not necessarily a good term what it means is that the amino acid profile isn't the same what we know is that our protein we don't actually have a protein requirement we have a requirement for nine individual amino acids the call the essential or indispensable and so what we know is that they're perfectly balanced in animal products and they're not as well balanced in plant product and some plants such as ki noa is very low in sum of them for example if you compare a way protein which is the dairy protein with ki noa in the way protein the allucine the essential amino acids is 12% of way protein we're in ki noa is six so that means you'd have to twice as much ki noa protein so if you look at the protein we're using that way what you end up with is you can meet your protein requirement at a meal say 30 grams with about 23 grams of weight protein where it takes 45 grams of ki noa protein which is a thousand calories you know it's thousands of calories to do it so they're not incomplete meaning that the amino acid is there but they're not the right balance and in general animal proteins are about 50% essential amino acids will plant proteins are about 35% ranging from something like almonds which is quite low and only about 26% up to soy which is high and about 40%. So they just have a lot less essential amino acids in them which you know are early or common about the nitrogen balance data when you determine the nitrogen and extrapolate protein from it you're always going to over estimate the quantity of the protein in the plant sources because they have more non essential amino acids I knew a lot about this but to make a slide show for them that day I did something I had never done before and I got a whole bunch of foods and I plotted out the amounts of every single amino acid in the food in the proportions they were in. If you looked at that point eight grams for kilogram body weight per day and if you thought that exceeded the needs of some people it's it's plausible that a lot of people by that calculation need 40 grams of protein a day which sounds I'm sure very little and I'm only bringing that up because there's 20 amino acids. And I would assume the average person would think well if if I needed 40 and there's 20 amino acids I would need two grams of every amino acid and that is totally not the way it works it actually works more like a board game of scrabble. So when you're drawing there's a hundred scrabble letters in the bag and there's 26 letters in the alphabet and almost seems like there'd be four of each letter in the bag but y'all know there's only one z and one y and one x and it is two wise. There's a crap ton of ease and ends and ours and your amino acids are just like that so you need a crap ton of lysine and losing and you need very little the thine and are just. So it was really fun in putting these graphics together I said here's eggs here's beef here's salmon here's pork. Get ready because I'm going to show you beans and rice and grains and fruit and I'm focusing on proportion I will say per calorie meat has more protein than plants. And just in terms of calories but proportion wise one of the misses the missing amino acids are the incomplete ones because if you make a graphic out of this you will see. All plants have all god damn 20 amino acids they all have lysine they all have methine and insisting and the idea that they're missing is wrong the idea that you have to compliment your beans and grains is wrong unless you're getting very little protein at that point. It is important to compliment them but it's really not hard to get a lot of amino acids you mentioned the quality of your protein you're getting 175 grams of protein a day quality doesn't matter who you like you match your your needs. At 60 or 70 grams and I think you're converting the rest of carbs so I mean so that's the point we made earlier that he's saying that in the first 60 you don't convert any of it the carbs and only the last 100 did he convert that simply not true he converts all of it whether it's gardener 60 grams or whether it's your ruins 175 they both converted all to carbohydrates and fats I mean every day so that's just a that's just a gross misunderstanding of me. I'd like to acknowledge one of the sponsors and that's our place I'd also like to acknowledge my mom jokes that are coming in hot about my old pan it was so toxic even my veggies wanted to detox after dinner. Seriously non-stick cookware is still used very convenient but it comes at a cost non-stick contains harmful chemicals like teflon and other PFAS which can reach into your food in our home We use our place which is toxin three high performance cookware and appliances designed for safer simpler use the hidden dangers of traditional nonstick cookware is loaded with forever chemicals dump them it is not worth it if you want to start somewhere start with the four piece cookware set It is your best way to overhaul that kitchen stop cooking with toxic cookware stop spending time with toxic people upgrade your place today Visit from our place dot com slash doctor lion and use the code doctor line for 10% off Stight wide that's 10% off site wide with a hundred day risk free trial free shipping free returns You will experience a game changing cookware. So gardeners combat was comparing protein to protein But you know beans have four full car behind rates to program of protein. So it's not an equal calorie density You have to eat a ton of beans to get to the protein when you say a ton of beans to get to the protein Again, we'll listen to what Andrew replies and then Chris is response but you calculated it's 420 almonds for the amino acid equivalent of a chicken breast and again If you are new to this podcast, I apologize it. This is your first one. Dr. Donald Laman is my longtime best friend and mentor the protein conversation becomes incredibly important if you want to age well if you want to have a healthy metabolism The information online and out there is extremely difficult to sort through and by having a foundational understanding As to how you cognitively approach it can be very beneficial because then you can make good decisions and so it's really a shame that the sort of the quality thing is like oh plant foods Don't have quality protein. They're missing amino acids. So if I can add that to the pool so the two standar Variations no place to store it and plants are better sources of protein than most people think and so that's why there are vegan bodybuilders You can win a gold medal in a bodybuilding competition strictly on plant proteins because they're not missing So if I could just help dispel that myth they're not missing they're not absent There is something to the proportions of protein. So if you were to see the grid of the heat map of amino acids that I'll share with you later I looked at this prior to this and I will say that the proportions of let's just concentrate on losing For how since most listeners will be familiar with losing as kind of the critical one for muscle building I got that in error quotes for those just listening what how does how did the different sources for protein play out in that case? Almost identical all the way down the list of foods that I have Loosen is not a problem in plant food. I'm just gonna pause him out there John Laman because you didn't I I'm just gonna put a little I don't know check mark on that I'll let him play as you know see us to say after that and I just Interjected for you hold on. Let's see what else yes I the prominent plant food is it's low and lysine for grains and it's low in methionine for beans I'm just gonna call it limiting amino acids because they would run out for if you only eight grains Are you only eight beans they would run out first and then you'd be screwed you can't actually substitute another amino acid for a hormone or an enzyme You have to have all the amino acids in the proportions you want and that's where the complimentary thing came in because Grains although they're low and lysine are a little high in methionine and beans which are low in methionine are a little high in lysine if you ate them together it would be closer So their proportions in meat it's still meat would still be better It has like because animals or animals and were animals The proportions are are perfect in animals but what most people in this conference where I presented to the chefs that like jaws run the floor like Seriously the proportions are that similar God that is mind boggling that they're that similar. I really is not perfect was this Made equivalent for calories was it a hundred calories of these first portion this is proportion proportion But if I took let's just say a hundred calories which just for sake of example and we took your chart Which shows and I again I looked at this prior to our conversation today and it did Hit me square in the face that like all these plant sources have a lot of They have all the different amino acids that beef does in different proportions, but they have them But if we said okay now we're gonna make that chart of for a hundred calories of food So it's either hundred calories of rib eye or a hundred calories of red beans or a hundred calories of quinoa You get the idea absolutely. That's why for the next slide when I give these presentations my next slide is a hundred calories of 20 food we didn't plan that folks so it shows like for black beans 2.5 cups would be 40 grams of protein For soybeans two cups would be 40 grams of protein for rice like 20 cups of Rice would be 40 grams of protein his comparisons are right But what's the meaning of 40 grams of protein at the very least we think it's probably double that that people need at least 80 if not a hundred as the minimum and so You know 40 is two and a half cups of black beans that means you actually have to have six cups of black beans to get into same category So Andrew's comments earlier about you know I simply don't want to eat I don't feel good eating that much fiber They're absolutely you can get the amino acids from plants But it always comes with more total protein and more total calories to get to it He's picking the numbers to make it look similar But what's the meaning of 40 grams of protein that's a new relevant number? I was surprised by that comment because it It's not it's almost as if you know when you look at the back of a label and it gives you a protein number and Say for example, it's collagen and it says 40 grams of protein on the label But really that protein score is zero because it it it's not an indicator of the quality or the amino acid profile And I understand that that would be very difficult to do which is part of what the initiative that you're working on with the E a nine is that is surprising That he would make a statement somewhat misleading and I don't know if I'm misinterpreting it But to say that the 40 grams of protein from beans is this aim is the 40 grams of protein protein from a chicken I'm not sure that I'm totally understanding that I mean one of the examples that we've used in papers and others is that if you take the RDA for protein as your target you can meet the RDA with chicken breast with three and a half ounces if you're going to do that with all men's Which some people will say is great protein source it would take 420 all-mits I mean that's over 50 grams of fiber and it's pretty disruptive to the GI system So you know the plants have the amino acids, but to make it equivalent you have to eat a lot more of it and and that you know That's why most vegetarians or vegans tend to be low protein and so I understand his is goal is to make the RDA look like the target But nobody who works in the protein field believes that everybody who works in the protein field believes the target is something above 1.2 and is combat to Andrew was that 175 grams of protein per day the protein quality doesn't matter I think that's exactly true if you get up in the hundred 120 grams of protein per day Now the fact that it comes a lot of a comes from plants doesn't matter But we know and we've done some modeling that as you go down toward the the RDA you will become deficient As sexual needle acid the amount of the quantity by it far is the first most important and then quality become second is there a number that you would feel comfortable with individuals having let's take a 45 year old 50 year old postmenopausal woman What is the minimum number of protein the amount of protein that she should have a day? The minimum amount should be at a 1.2 grams per kg But what about a thing? I have it I have it on this and most of our studies were related to weight loss and people who had some metabolic issues we found that we lost all of the metabolic benefits if we got the 100 grams per day That's what I was going on Yeah, so I mean you've heard me say that before and sure But we always found that if people got the 100 grams per day the metabolic benefits you get with protein the Satiety the thermogenesis the protein the muscle aspects We would lose all of those the effect on insulin sensitivity The effects on triglycerides all of those seem to have a buffer around the 100 grams per day curious is to how you were able to parse that out the The number of a hundred grams per day so we were doing weight food records a lot of the stuff that's in the literature or food frequency Questionnaires and things like that we did three studies the first study was 12 weeks long and we actually fed every meal The second study was 16 weeks long We fed all the meals for the first month and taught them how to weigh them and they had to do weight records three days every week for the 16 weeks the third study was 12 months long Where we taught them to do that and they had to do weight food records three days every week for 52 weeks what we saw is that the effectiveness of the diets when we started looking at the individuals People who weren't doing well the protein intake had slipped down people who were doing better Were above the 100 grams per day so it was something we saw within our data set There are a few other things I really wanted to touch on The upper limit of protein he makes a point by saying there's no storage mechanism for excess protein. I don't Completely understand the argument. I'm not sure that it matters Why there isn't a storage component for protein because protein is so valuable to the body Just a interrupt you there so that the whole argument is based on amino acid oxidation data Or even the nitrogen balance data what they are is great point analysis that you have If you're you know direct amino acid oxidation data if you begin to bring protein into the diet from zero What you'll find is oxidation is very low up to a point and then all of a sudden it goes up And so the argument is that at that great point you're now oxidizing you're wasting the amino acids But if you actually go back and look at the data and people like Alharper and Brooks and others have done this if you go back and actually look at the data They're only recovering about 15% of the amino acids with that oxidation So that means 75 80% of the amino acids are still not accounted for so the idea that you're wasting all the rest of it is a total Extrapulation from the graph that doesn't actually reflect the data so that is you know inherent problem with all of these Interpretations of storage and waste each again every amino acid you eat every day has to be oxidized every day Doesn't matter when you're eating 16 160 they still get oxidized So let's think about the complementary protein. We did a study that we published last year The journal the the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and Basically we took meals directly out of my plate the USDA guidelines and we took a meal that started out with a meal that had some Chocowalnuts and Chicken breast dinner and it was basically meeting the essential amino acid requirements With 260 calories and then we looked at starting the substitute plant things that into it So if we kept the walnuts so a plant based and we substituted in substituted in what are complementary proteins We used kidney beans which was two and a half cups and Brown rice which was two and a half cups so all perfectly good nutrition We now have met the 95% of our essential amino acids But we now have 1150 calories so we went from meeting our essential amino acid content with the chicken breast and 260 calories We can meet it with the complementary proteins but it took a 1150 calories to do it So the issue is complementary Proteins of amino acids are true But the nutrient density of those foods is so low and you just have to eat too many calories to get to it Don't I I feel like we're on jeopardy What is the relevance of essential amino acid supplementation and I'm gonna frame this up for you a friend of mine who's been doing three-day fast said gee I am fasting for three days, but I've been taking these amino acids And I thought to myself okay, well then you're not actually fasting out there on the internet There's a lot of amino acid supplementation It shows on the packaging that those Supplements have zero calories even though they're complete proteins If someone were to take that would they essentially still be fasting? They're fasting and then they are using a amino acid supplement Which is a full spectrum complete amino acid profile You know on the surface level of what you just said at highlights a real problem in our labeling laws amino acids were never Expected to be a major supplement and so they were approved on what's referred to as the grass list generally recognized as safe as a supplement where people might use Sistine as an antioxidant or something but now people are putting in all these Sexual amino acids and the labeling laws says when amino acid is a three amino acid You don't have to count the calories on the label So somebody could put in 10 Grounds of amino acids which would be 40 calories and say it's zero calories or Worship 20 grams and say it was zero calories You know even though it would have 80 calories in it so your point is they're not really fasting It's like saying well I'm fasting, but I'm taking a Gatorade or something with sugar in it You know, I'm not chewing anything but I mean those amino acids all have calories So that's a problem with the labeling laws a really important point friends if you are taking a complete amino acid supplement In between meals or you are taking it While you are fasting technically you are no longer fasting is that fair to say yeah So what they just need to multiply whatever grams of amino acids they're taking times four they're taking that many calories One of the statements that you've said to me many times is how do you diagnose protein deficiency? It brings up a really important concept There's immediate deficiency and then there's life long deficiency Can you explain a little bit about how you think about protein deficiency? I hear people a lot of times use the nitrogen balance Are you meant the RDA and say well people don't have deficiencies and so then I start wondering well what Outcome are you looking for does it relate to heart disease or diabetes or or Cancer or Alzheimer's I mean what does it look at what do you relate it to so You know we did the clinical studies looking at weight loss and we know that higher protein diets are are very good at protecting body composition protecting lean master and weight loss So in my mind that means that the food guide pyramid Coineograms is actually protein deficient because we see as true benefit of higher levels We also know that you can substitute protein in for carbohydrates and you can reduce it insulin problem you can you can change diabetes or is that a protein problem But even simple things like osteoporosis so bone is first and foremost of protein matrix So our propine you know loss of muscle mass and functional mobility with aging you know these are these are Long-term outcomes that you can't measure in a three or four or six week study so You know how do you how do you assess a deficiency you know unlike a you know Screw me where you start having bone problems in a few weeks You know protein doesn't work like that it has much longer term effect so Nitrogen balance doesn't relate to anything and one of the markers people of the you saying our things like Rethrocycuitathione levels So here we have a relationship of protein particularly the sulfur needle acids to one of the primary Antion flammatory and mechanisms in the body and what we can see is that when protein gets too low Down toward the RDA those levels will go down to maximize mood of volume levels in Only results we need a minimum of 1.2 grams per kg protein you do that over time There are over deficiencies quashior core and Then there are subtle Differiencies and maybe deficiencies isn't the right word that we see over time what we don't have and what we don't see In the immediate Are those individual amino acid needs and then long-term outcomes for example what you just said methionine and glutathione production glutathione is a master antioxidant Very important our ability to make it seems to decrease as we get older yet we don't Say we have a methionine requirement for x y and z I just wanted to to mention that because it's important if you do that over time We can go through and we can talk about others. I mean we can talk about trictophane relative to Serotonin and your mute mood and sleep we could talk about 3 in need and gut help and Newson levels we could talk about federal aline and tyrosine to dopamine and cognitive function and memory These are all amino acid rules that have nothing to do with Storage or efficiency These are amino acid metabolism rules that are significantly above the army egg and what would happen if we don't Injust those or meet the RDA which we don't really know and that's one of the arguments I've been making is that I frankly think are RDAs for the essential amino acids are low But we know that if you are eating a primarily grain-based diet at the RDA You will be deficient in two or three of the essential amino acids and that's really what Americans do Americans get 80% of their plant-based protein from wheat and so wheat is a very poor quality protein so we always have to be careful When we talk about plant-based diets or vegetarian diets to realize that when Americans shift that way They shift toward grains. They don't shift toward eating more beans and chickpeas and almonds. They shift toward eating grains I see that in clinic all the time at our group and strong medical we see that I do want to play just maybe one more segment because I think it's important Americans eat more meat than anyone else in the world It is if you see these WHO World Health Organization graphics of who eats how much meat Is the U.S. in Canada and some European countries that eat the most and there are countries to eat the least And they have limited access to foods and some of those countries who benefit from more meat per person Because really they're eating cereal. They're eating dry cereal-based foods So his comment the Americans eat more meat than other countries All developmental countries do tend to eat more higher quality protein that seems to be a goal Be coming more economically advanced people want more protein But in terms of comparison All of the Mediterranean countries eat more protein that we do all of the Nordic countries eat more protein than we do Australia's more protein that we do so among the developed countries we're not particularly high in the list And we're actually particularly low in red meat consumption We have shifted sense, you know at this the seven days we shifted away from red meats toward chicken And we eat it in a lot of ultra-processed form so Meat consumption has stayed sort of constant in the U.S. but it's dramatically shifted from red meat to Chicken and there's no evidence that that has been healthy and in fact what we know is that the micro-dutrient quality Iron Zix selenium B6 B12 Rival flame then have all gone down in the American diet when we made that shift red meats have a lot more nutrient quality than white chicken breasts I Well, play anymore from this episode Really hoping that Andrew has you on the show because it would be a justice to everybody listening We've talked about a lot of things on this podcast today Things that are really important to understand at least to lay the foundation of a conversation and that includes Glitary protein how we think about Daily dietary protein and amounts and what the RDA really means and nitrogen balance studies In addition We have to acknowledge that there is a large safe range for protein from pointy grams per kg up to 2.5 grams per kg In addition the idea of protein storage What happens when you have more than you quote need all Our topics that are really important Dr. Donald Laman you are a true pioneer and so gracious there's a lot that we could continue to talk about And we will because we didn't even touch on collagen in any kind of detail But more to come on this thank you so much for spending time

Let me go back to the question of what is PTSD. So trauma is one top thing. That's they call it the criterion A. B. Are a variety of symptoms of re-experiencing that trauma. So nightmares and truceive thoughts, for example, being hearing a helicopter fly overhead and having memories and feelings triggered by that would be an example. The C symptoms or the B symptoms are would be the avoidance. So classic aspect of all anxiety disorders is something frightens you. You avoid it or you escape it if it comes along. If you're frightened of spiders, what do you do? You avoid spiders. I've known people with phobia like cock. I've had a colleague years ago who had a cockroach phobia. That's a good phobia. Yeah, and she was hearing Houston and she was like, I'm not staying in Houston. I'm leaving. I have seen cockroaches here in Houston. Yeah. If I had a phobia, I would also leave. Yeah, they're like that big. Some of them. Yes. And she understood the behavioral principles of how to treat a phobia, but she's like, I'm not going to do that. I'm moving the Boston. So she moved the Boston. That's a classic avoidance. But when we avoid things, we never get over our fears. And it's just a basic physiological principle of habituation. When I was in my early 20, when I was in my teens and early 20s, I had a very powerful fear of public speaking. Social anxiety terrified. I avoided it at all costs. Got all the way through college without ever having to get up in front of a group of people and talk. Until I got to graduate school and my second year graduate school, they said, you're teaching a class. There's 350 students that you're going to go teach developmental psychology too. And I had a choice. I avoid or I drop out of school. Do it or I drop out of school, essentially. And 30 years later, I don't have any anxiety about public speaking. If you face it and you deal with it and you just, that exposure, you don't have to get good at it. You just have to do it. And then, and then, so cluster B, A, B, C, symptoms are are the avoidance. And then the D symptoms are emotional things, self-blame, anger, arousal of the hypervigilance. There's a lot of things that include things like self-destructive behaviors, risky behaviors. So that's our diagnosis of PTSD. Now, since I'm on a roll, I'll give you my- going, I'll give you my definition. PTSD is essentially a combination of anxiety and depression and specific focus on the fear reactivity. So jumping out of airplanes, you had a traumatic experience and it terrifies you now. You don't do it. You stay away from jumping out of airplanes. That fear reactivity is kind of the defining feature of PTSD. And that would be, for example, also if someone got into a car accident while they were driving and they chose not to drive. Again, that's a fear reactivity. Right. And we go back to, we have a long conversation about the VA system where I worked and kind of some of the things I was seeing and trying to put forth then. But essentially, it becomes kind of simple. The VA has put the emphasis on PTSD as the go-to diagnoses for soldiers. Do you know how many soldiers and how many veterans are diagnosed with PTSD? I can give you two separate data points. One is the epidemiological data. This is the very rigorous data with large sample sizes, multiple studies that is kind of disconnected from systemic factors. You get a rate in soldiers of about 8%. 8%. And what is the rate in a general population? Do we know maybe six missing? Okay. I was going to say Matthew, why don't you look that up? You might Jamie. It's about six percent. Okay. Six percent. So two percent increase in. But if you go to the VA and you look at a VA, you know, people that use the VA, we now know that the GUI veterans, the rate, the global war and tear patterns. So the veterans that served in Iraq and Afghanistan for the most part have a 50%. 50% diagnosis of PTSD. Well, you ever take Econ 101? I never did either. But one of the principles of Econ 101 overlaps with some of the basic principles of psychology, which is when you offer a reinforcement for something, for a behavior, you get more of that behavior. Give me an example of how that. So the VAA provides disability cash payments that are essentially lifetime to soldiers to veterans who have PTSD. And so you end up with a PTSD rate of 50% in the VA. Maybe it's high. It's probably higher now. I don't know the exact number, but it's probably higher. So when I worked in the VA, which was 92 to 2006, part of what I saw and part of what I tried to talk about and some of my research followed on was the idea that first of all, does it even make sense to consider you as an invalid because you have a psychiatric disorder? I see. That's actually interesting. And if what I'm hearing you say is that in order to get disability, you must qualify for disability. In order to qualify for disability, you must have a certain percentage of, quote, illnesses that make you disable, what it is sleep apnea, PTSD, etc. What ever injuries or illnesses you have that you that developed while you were in service are identified, evaluated, and there's different numbers, different percent ratings. It's a zero to 100% total approach, but they give different percentages to different disorders based on their severity. So you have over half of all of the veterans from the last 25 years receiving VA disability payments for PTSD. Now, I got to say this before the hate mail starts to come at me. I've received my share of this over the years. I'm not anti-vatter, and I hope that's of course not clear. And I'm not here to take away veterans' benefits. I think we need to do a lot for our veterans every veteran who put on a uniform deserves a good life and deserves to be honored and revered and respected for what they've done. But to say to you, or to Matthew or Matthew, or producer, that you're a veteran, and, you know, since you have some symptoms of anxiety and depression, we're going to send you a check for the rest of your life. And do you also feel that it labels individuals deeper, where they then identify with this idea of having PTSD? Well, think about the message that sends. I see what's the exp, expectation. You go, wow, the VA is going to send me a check for the rest of my life. I'm probably never going to get better. So I think it's a tragic message to send. And these are treatable conditions. Civilians with PTSD or depression or anxiety who receive treatment, typically either get all the way better or they get much, much, much better, so the symptom improvement, the functional improvement in functioning is significant. So one question is, does it make sense to pay people to be sick? What message does that send? What is that doing to their own psyche because we're sending them a horrible message? You know, you're now a psychiatric envelope. When we should be providing treatment. And now you flip to the other piece of this and you say, well, how much money does VA spend on mental health treatment programs a year? I think it's 14%. Sorry, 14 billion. Yeah. They have no administrative data at the VA to support that veterans are getting better from their healthcare programs. And in the general population treatments for PTSD, would be, do you know how they're being treated? Is it medication? Is it cognitive behavioral therapy? Is it group support? Is it more holistic? It's all, it's all of that. It's all of that. Here's a bulb, but it's, it's heavily medication. So typically it's a medication to sleep, one or two anidepressants, maybe a mood stabilizer for everybody or everybody to get different. Yeah. But a very common pattern is to start you with one or two things. And then a week, a month, six months later, maybe out of few more. I've talked with veterans who just have a bucket, you know, a bucket of medications. Cognitive behavioral therapy is offered. Doesn't mean people are getting it. Lot of VA's do have things like acupuncture, other kinds of group therapies and such, but you know what they don't often offer are some of the treatments that you and I know about and are trying to bring out to the community, the Stella Gangling Block Therapies, the ketamine therapies, definitely will talk about that. Like, for a fairer oxygen therapy and more. And so like, but it gets back to the question of how somebody can get better when they're being paid to be sick.

How diverse is the microbiome? So for example, let's say you and I have the same diet, how diverse will my microbiome be versus yours? That is really interesting because there's other factors that get into play with this. What we do know is that the microbiome can be similar in different regions of the world where the diet is very similar in the lifestyle is similar as well. So I give you go to Sardinia Islands and things like that where people talk about these blue zones and whatever the microbiome appears to be somewhat similar. But due to other lifestyle effects, exercise, sleep, if the diet is the same, we think it's the same but are you opening a package? You might actually have a whole food, place a big difference. And then how that plays out in relation to the epigenetics, meaning what does your microbiome do for you? What does it do for me? You and I are 99% genetically identical. We could be 90% different with our microbiome. And what does that mean? Say that again. So we are 90% identical as humans. So you and I are 99% identical in our genome. People don't realize that the microbiome, the 100 trillion bacteria, thousand species actually has its own genome. So the genes that they produce are 100fold more than what you and I are producing. Two people genetically identical as humans completely opposite with our microbiomes. They've been proven that this is where the whole concept of fecal microbial transplants coming in. How the microbiome right now truly is the new frontier. People talk about it. You hear about it. Everybody's trying to jump on this bandwagon but the reality is it really is a new frontier. We have not really figured out how to completely control it. How I'm telling you, studying the microbiome. So I was doing clinical research for 10 full years. So the history of this started when I was doing pharmaceutical research. And it was at that time that the whole concept of bacteria creating some disease, meaning IBS, could be the root cause of all this. And that led to the development of a drug called diffaxing. Which I think is an incredible drug. I'd love to hear your perspective on that event. Yeah, the story behind it is just very interesting because that's how I started going down the path of developing something natural. Basically when we were doing the research, there were going for FDA approval on irritable bowel with diarrhea. An irritable bowel syndrome in my world when I went to medical school in residency, IBS if you scope somebody in the blood work was normal. It's in their head. I remember something it was actually considered a disease of hysteria. Yes, it very, very similar to back in the 80s when if somebody got an ulcer, actually prior to that, if somebody got an ulcer, it was believed that you have too much stress in your life. You're working too hard. You have an ulcer. Then in 82, I believe, discovered that a bacteria was causing it. He looked back to Pylori. That is the same paradigm shift that took place when I was doing research about 12 years ago. Where Dr. Mark Pymantell had discovered that something very similar was happening. IBS is not just a functional problem. It's not just something in your head. The traditional person would just be prescribed antidepressants. But irritable bowel syndrome is something that he can be caused by bacteria growing where it shouldn't be called small intestinal material overgrowth. Certainly in the functional world, they adopted this very quickly. I still have many colleagues that treat people with IBS with antidepressants. So while I was talking to him, I was part of the clinical trial set in this off. He said, unfortunately, we'll never be able to help the bloated constipated person because what they're doing is the type of bacteria or the kingdom of bacteria called our K-abacteris producing something a gas called methane, which is slowing everything down. And then this just leads to a circular problem producing more bacteria causing more problems. And that's when I figured out what we can, if the pharmaceutical industry doesn't have anything for a meaning monoday antibiotics don't work, let's look at all natural alternatives. And that's what I did. At that moment when I was starting to look at this. So this is way before people were really talking about microbiome and manipulating it. The scientists I was talking to, they were already discussing it, especially in Italy and in Spain. And they were saying, well, if you use these certain polyphenols, we know that this is actually what is helping to produce a diverse microbiome meaning of very healthy microbiome. So it's 15 years ago when we really started talking about the microbiome back then and how to keep it healthy. That's the biggest thing. And we're still at the beginning. So 15 years into research from your perspective, we're still just scratching the surface of the microbiome. 100%. We can test and we can find DNA that gives us clues of what type of bacteria make up your microbiome. We don't know if they're active. We know that we can test for the DNA. Are they alive? Are they doing things? We do know that certain people with certain types of bacteria produce more beneficial metabolites. We know that if you have a narrow microbiome, which we're going to use the term dyspiosis for that. So the standard American diet's causing a lot of this antibiotics cause a lot of it. But when you have a narrow microbiome, then you lose the ability to produce all these beneficial things. You lose the ability to decrease information. You lose the ability. Equivalent in your book when you have fat infiltrating the muscle, the muscle itself doesn't have as much ability to produce all those beneficial things. So when you have this narrow microbiome, we know that this, the best way to think about it is treat your microbiome well. It will treat you well. Keep your microbiome young. It will keep you young. Mistreat it. It becomes almost a parasite. It actually starts hurting you. That's very enlightening. I have a few questions for you. For example, are we born with a certain microbiome? If so, are some of us born with a more advantageous microbiome? What are the things that we can do? If there's parents listening, what can we do? Maybe it is equal to everybody. The things that you can do like sleep, train, have polyphenols across the board is similar. What would you say the foundational aspects of microbiome health are? Well, that's a kind of a two-part question, but that is a great question. We are born and we already start sharing the mother's microbiome. And we now realize that we thought that the placenta was completely imperbable to other things. So it doesn't stop before birth. In fetus, in utero, there is some exchange of developing exposure to the mother's microbiome. Then the birth process itself, c-section versus vaginal, you're going to be exposed to different microbiomes there. Immediately after birth, all the inoculations, things like that, that we don't really have a, you don't even realize that your child's getting these vaccinations or antibiotics and things like that. That being said, a lot of that is out of your control. What is in your control is what we call the golden window. Basically, zero to age three or four is the golden window of helping your child have the best microbiome because then it's set. And if they end up having a really bad microbiome, then then they have to spend years trying to change lifestyle habits, change things so that the microbiome becomes better. So it actually happens really early on as an infant and that's something to actually think about. We have to make sure of all the normal daily processes like as an adult, we always talk about sleep, exercise, eating whole foods and things like that. Similar to a child making sure that they have the best possible diet that is not just rupting it, making sure that you're limiting the amount of antibiotics. That's probably the biggest thing for children. But the highly processed foods is super huge in this. And all of this plays into the fact that when you have a healthy microbiome, you probably can tolerate a lot more of what life throws at you. Yeah. You're getting hit by whatever pollutants, all these other things. But you can probably tolerate it a lot better when you have a healthy microbiome. If you look at a graph of obesity and adolescence, I was going to ask you about my next question. Yeah, and anxiety and even ADHD, it's fascinating because it just clips along very steadily. And then right around 1978, you see this obesity line start climbing. And a little bit further than that, like 1982, you start seeing anxiety and ADHD. And if you look, that really does correlate with our change in diet. Meaning, our change in what is allowable in the diet. Hive her just corn syrup, highly processed seed oils, the flipped ratio of omega 6 to omega 3, um, also fires. And what we're learning is when we start looking at this, including artificial sweeteners, a lot of these things actually disrupt. There's some gut inflammation, like from the emulsifiers and from some of the inflammatory seed oils. But there is also disruption of the microbiome.

You have to think that it's life for death. You have to. Because, and it comes down to that sometimes, because what happens is, you know, in a regular season, if you don't run well at one race, you may not get, you may not get it invited in the next race. So that's death. Your season is going to get cut short. So it's life for death. I have to beat you guys. I have to slay you. Because I need to keep moving forward, progressing forward. Justin, Gatlin. Welcome to the show. Thank you. Thank you for having me. What goes through the mind of the fastest man alive? Everything, very fast. It's a unique thing to be dubbed the fastest man on the planet. Because what happens is, anywhere you go, you know that you're beating the Biden ever. Right? But also when you measure yourself up against other elite athletes, they still give you so much more respect. Like I can walk into a room with Tom Brady, Michael Jordan, and they'll look over like that's the fast guy though. That's the guy who can get it down really quickly. So it's a badge to have and you can't put on our pride. But I can imagine that that is not an easy accomplishment nor an easy road to get to. I'd love to about your career as an Olympian and how you fell into the sports, probably didn't fall into the sports of track that you fell into, but your career has been down. I appreciate it. Thank you so much. Well, you want to start it? What you want to know? Yeah, well, I want to know where you started. How does one become Justin Gatlin? How does one become the Olympian? And the athlete that you have. Doug, I actually stumbled into it. Not what I was expecting. You're right. Yeah. What will happen was it's the fact that at a young age, my parents, they allowed me to try everything. Right? They was like, oh, you want to try swimming? You want to try baseball? You want to try football? I even played saxophone, piano, trumpet, the element chart, try everything. How old? I started probably doing everything at six, all the way to about when I got to middle school. Right? So, about it, I got to middle school. That's when I found track on my own. How? That, and now I remember coming home with the jersey. It to show my parents like, I made the track team. Now, mind you, I was very slow and lazy around the house. My nickname was Lounge Lizard. You know, so when I came to that door with a big smile on my face and I was like, I made the track team. They looked at each other and then they laughed. They bust out laughing. You, you made the track team, though. No way. Fast forward. They came to my first meet and they saw me run for the first time and they saw a whole different mindset in me. They saw a serious, I took it. They saw that I was hungry for it and I wasn't backing down. I was brave and my attempt to go out there and really competed a high level and ever since then they became my circle, my biggest fans. And as I grew to learn what track on field was, they grew to. Now, I came from a family that didn't play sports at all. So, it wasn't like a legacy past on like from my mom and my dad. It was, we were learning on the fly together. And that's unusual, right? It's very unusual. You think that a parents fitness level transfers in some regard over to their children? Yeah, you, you would think so but I discovered and they allowed me just to wander and just discover who I was, what I wanted to be. And the love that they have was, say, be you. Do what you want to do and we're going to, if you really want to do it, we're going to back you 100%. And I had the opportunity to take my parents around the world, multiple times, at different venues. They've been to every Olympics. I've been to the band-a-viral championships. I've been to, I got to a point at the end of my career. They was like, I retired a traveling. So you can retire now if you like. So, I mean, I'm just going to do the Olympics here. So we have, I just want to preface everyone so they understand who they're listening to. So basically career accomplishments include, not limited to numerous international titles, including an Olympic gold medal in 2004, four outdoor world championship gold medals, two indoor world championship gold medals, two world athletic relay, gold, gold, is it gold medals, gold medals and the winner of the Diamond League in the 100 meter, four, three years. So you've had you have nine gold medals. I do. Nine silver medals. Yes. And two bronze medals. I have, I'm the most decorated sprinter, male sprinter of all time. So. Just the, Matt, let that sink in. My producer is here. And I'm the oldest has been on the podium. My gosh. There. So there's so many questions that I have. You know, we were talking a bit offline. Oftentimes, this podcast is around medicine. And yes, I love medicine. I love health and wellness. But I also really love extraordinary people. And you cannot be physically extraordinary without being mentally, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's mental, extraordinary capacity. I appreciate that. I mean, but it's true. It is, it's 100%. It's 100% true. It's times where I'm mentally tuned in. And I don't feel, I feel almost out of body. I'm like, oh, oh, you were tough, SOB. I was like, yeah, I'm bill for this. Because it becomes almost natural. It's almost like that fighter flight feeling that you have, whereas like, you're going to fight for this is instinctual or either you're going to run from it and you got to soup yourself up to fight for something. I've always fought for it. And that's the first thing I was leaning towards. Do you remember you started running how through your word? Probably, well, I started middle school. Okay. I loved it. Didn't keep my grades up. Okay. So up enough to where it was up to my mom's standard. So she pulled me off the track team. And then when I really got focused and really took a serious was high school. So I'll say probably my freshman year, so I was like 14 years old. What goes, I mean, at 14, you can't even drive. No, not. What is the mindset of a 14 and were you good at 14, were you good? I was good. I remember beating all the seniors and juniors in districts in the hundred, without with little training because the first school I was at, I wasn't getting trained. It was just one of the, it was one of the football coaches that would come out there and his folding chair and his crossword puzzle and he'd like, all right, guys, go out there and just run around a little bit and exercise and we'll be done for today. So I went out there just competing. Gun goes off. I'm going to run like a bad out of hell. And I went out there and beat all these guys with no technique, no nothing. So when I moved to the second high school that I went to, I learned technique. I learned like how to be more precise with my angles and things like that. So it made me even a more formidable opponent. But the funny thing is when I started my, when I started running track in high school and got to that second high school, the coach was looking at numbers because track and field when you're looking at a team perspective, it's all about points. So if this kid over here, those, it does it throws, he can score 10 points for us. This guy in the hurdles score 10 points for us. This guy's just spreading his score 10 points for us. So we're beating other teams. So I was a more talented in the other sprinters. We had eight sprinters all together. I could hurdle as well. So I became a hurtler because I can score points. So a lot of people even know I could even spread anymore. Wow. And then you start competing. So at 14, you were competing in track and field. Yeah. The, was there a moment again? You've had such a decorated career? What was the next moment where you said, you know what? This is, this is going to be something that I'm going to do. I always looked at my career in stages of like one to two years. You know, they always tell you, you should have a five-year plan. Well, what are you going to be doing in 10 years? For me, I guess my mental capacity couldn't even think at that age, like what I'm going to do in five years. When we're doing in 10 years, I don't know. But what I want to do today, or what I want to do this year is I want to become state champion. So I want to be the fast kid in the state. And then I want to be the fast kid in the nation. And then I want to go to the next level. And you were thinking that? I was thinking that. That was my always my goal. My goal was something now. I know that if I worked hard at it, it's obtainable tomorrow, quote unquote. You know what I mean? That's what I'm worked on. But that's unusual, right? There's a nature versus nurture. How much do you think is natural talent versus, how much is just sheer, will and tenacity? I think all track athletes start up with nature, which is natural talent. And then over time, it's the ones who really want to get to that next level that nurture steps in that coach is teaching you. And whatever you retain is going to make you a better athlete. Now, what that coach teaches sometimes, it becomes uncomfortable. Because now you've got to change your form. Now you've got to you've got to work harder. Now you've got to push yourself more past the threshold of what your talent really is to get to that new level. A lot of athletes don't want to go that far. I think this is what got me here. It's going to take me even further. And I learned that an early age, I was like, no, if if if if I need a coach, I'm going to use a coach. If I don't need a coach, why are their coaches even existing? You could do it on your own. So I've relied on my coaches to be my guru, to be my mentors, to take me to that next level. And then I also learned that these coaches have been around the block a while. You know what I mean? They could become my mentors as well and teach me and help me watch out for certain pitfalls. So then my mind and my nature and nurtures start to become balanced. And then that's why I looked at sports at a different level. It wasn't any more about winning championships. It was being obsessed with the process. I fell in love with the process of becoming fast. I love that. When sprinting, why did you pursue a career in sprinting? Because you were doing other track and field events. Yeah. Yeah. And then there was this carrot dangling of sprinting. I remember having a conversation with a gold mellist to Catholic named Brian Clay. And he we were sitting there both getting worked on on the massage table. We was at like World Championships in 2005. And I said, man, you know what? I think I could do the Catholic on. He was like, for what do you think so? I was like, well, let's look back on my old numbers. I could hurdle very well. That's what got me to college. That's jumping over over to obstacle. So it's 10 barriers. I said, I could hurdle very well. That's what got me to college. Where did you go to college? University of Tennessee. Okay. And I could long jump 24 feet, 10 inches. I could hide jump six feet, eight inches. And I could, I'm pretty strong. I could throw a shot of knee B. And the only thing that got him my way was the pole vault part. Right? So I think over time I'll I'll be competitive enough. I can do it if I need to. Right? So it was like, wow, the numbers. You probably go out there and break the world record in the Catholic if you tried. I was like, oh, cool. But my love was sprinting. Always. I loved it. Because when you're in shape and you're at your best, you feel like a superhero. It's like you can call on the will of speed when you want to. And it's almost like you're just flowing. And as I was saying earlier, when you get to start line the Olympics and that gun goes off, it's almost like being in the matrix. Everything around you slows down, but you're running like 27, 26 miles per hour on foot. My husband doesn't even drive that fast. Wow. You know, when you got to college, you decided that you were going to focus on sprinting. I did. Yeah. Well, my coach decided that actually. He was at the bag, the high school national meat promoter to allow me to sprint because I was known as a hardler. And he said, all right, I'll let you sprint. Went through the whole rounds, prelimbs, semi-sophials. I made it over to the finals. I guess I get third in the nation. I get third in the nation. And I wasn't even supposed to be in the event. And I remember the coach who recruited me for Tennessee was there, other recruiting other athletes. He leaned over to rail. He looked at me. It says, I did not know you can sprint like that. In the moment I got to Tennessee, we had a private practice. He pulled me to the side one of one of the other fast guys who were already there. He was a junior. And they told me, getting a block, students and starts. And then they'll whisper to each other. Super, super, super, do again. So they knew they had something. So now we have a dynamic duo. And you knew you had something. I did, but I didn't know to what magnitude, right? So as a kid, you become naive to process, right? And you're kind of this thing at the time, right? It's easy to tell. I'm not thinking about where I can take this to. I'm thinking about any time I give effort. I give all my effort. Is that always still? Yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. I think that that's what your pride lies in the effort that you do give. It means a lot. And in track and field and you can speak on other sports, there's always some by watching you. And usually they're little lies. I mean, like smaller people, younger people, they're watching the effort that you give. And they may not be judging you, but they're going to be imulating you subconsciously. So if you don't want us giving up or slowing down or sand back on the workout, so they're going to do the same thing. So now you're creating the next generation to be subpar when you could have your full effort and fought for it. And now they're going to be fighters. So they're going to carry your legacy. And that's how people all the time, I was like, well, what do you feel? How do you feel after you finish running? Like, what are you going to do? I was like, I'm going to just pour back into the next generation that comes behind me. Because they're the one that's going to keep my fire going. They're the ones that are going to keep my name going. That's just like the tall tails or the legends that you hear about, you know, they speak on you, where respect. And that's what I want to do. So from the Olympics, the Olympics, world championships, how long has your career span been? 20 years, 20 years. How does someone have that much longevity? I just love the process. The process kept going and I just kept going with the process. But I mean, that's a lot of physical burden. It is. You also travel. You've also, I mean, I'm sure not every moment of the journey was easy. I'm sure you've had challenges. Absolutely. I loved hearing all about that. But how does someone maintain that kind of longevity in this sport? I learned to micro manage my process. And micromanus has such a bad vibe around it, right? But think about if you're doing the same routine year in year out. I'm training nine to five, literally. I'm going to practice this at nine a.m. I go, it's training on the track. Then I go to one gym for about another two hours. Then I go to another gym for another two hours. By some of finish, I'm doing therapy is five o'clock, right? And how old were you when you started that process? So you went to college? What to call it for two years? Oh, for physically, track and field. And then I turned pro. So after my sophomore year I turned pro. So I was able to go out there and run. So I was 19, 20 years old when I started professionally running. And all the way to the point where I was 39, I finished. Yeah, it was a long time. And it was parts where I had to grow as a man. And grow as a human being in realized that, you know, track and field was in my life. But it's what gave me life. And especially starting so young. Yeah. I mean 18 years old, you're just figuring, I mean, probably takes another two decades to figure life out. To have that kind of responsibility at 18, now you're running professionally. What about the physical training in terms of, were you thinking about longevity? Because there is, you know, there is peak performance, which typically doesn't align with longevity. And what I mean by that is when you're operating at the highest capacity, your body pays a price. Yeah. It's not, you know, there's this kind of ramp up to, okay, you're in good shape. And then you hit peak performance and you're asking your body thing, you know, to do things that are extraordinarily difficult. Absolutely. At 18, how are you eating? How are you recovering? How are you thinking about all those things? Are you just thinking, be fast? I don't even want to tell you. That was horrible. I was at average 18. 18 years old is probably eating. I was eating junk, hamburgers, pizza, hot dogs. Anything I get my hand on that tasted good, right? And also the fact of playing video games, I'm staying up through a clock at the morning. So a lot of my nature came into effect instead of my nurture in those situations. But I learned, like I said, to micro-manage my obsession, which was instead of thinking about the long days or a long season I have, that's going to be day in, day out, year in, year out. I've lurked. I kind of focused on aspects of my craft. Like one year, I would just work on my start. That's why I've focused on another year. I work on my top-end speed. And then I'll start sewing them together. As long as I kept my competitiveness that fire inside of me, I was still able to kind of go out there and compete at a high level. But I wasn't being that same just in each time, right? I was evolving. I was changing. I was still in that same environment, but I was growing. So it never stunted me. I love the process throughout the whole time, even to the end. And how would you, could you take us through something like that? When you say that you work on your start? With that be, you wake up in the morning, you're thinking about the start, you're doing it for hours and hours and hours every day that you're just going to get this thing done. What is that even like? So I started, it started back in 2011, 2012 actually. And I moved to this coach named Dennis Mitchell. And I came back in those sport, and I said coach, you know, I want to get my start better. He said you're going to have to get your start better. You're running against guys like you say in bold, your hump, leg, Tyson Gay. These guys are running 9, 7, 9, 6. So for you to get into the party, you're going to have to get out in front of these guys out the starting blocks. So we literally will work on my start for two hours straight. Did you get out yourself? No. I've always felt like there's a will as a way. It was one time I doubted myself. And I remember I was, I got fit that erased somewhere in Berlin. And I was like, this is not you. And I remember just sitting in the in the tub and the shower just running on me. And I was like, bro, this is not you, right? Two, this is not you getting fifth. And this is not you sitting in the tub with the water running on you and you soaking. Never happening again. And it never happened again. I never got to that point ever again because I made sure that I competed at a high level and for me to compete at a high level, I had to check off a lot of boxes to make sure I will stay at that level. And before you hear that gun go off, what is going through your head? I'm about to tear these guys up. Every time is it every time is the same thing every time. Yeah, I had to create a different persona, a whole different me. The just that I'm talking right now, like I'm very casual, chill, but then Jay Gatt, Jay Gatt is that monster. Jay Gatt is that for roaches in the visual that says, you think that you're going to take money out of my pocket, food off my table. You know, I'm saying my family's trying to eat. I'm coming out trying to win. This is what I train for each and every day for. You do too, but I train harder and I'm strong getting you, I'm fast it in you. And I go out there and I believe 100% of what I'm thinking. And it's like the moment I wake up that morning for that race. And usually when we're in Europe, the races are in the evening. So throughout that whole day, I'm pacing back and forth like a cage tiger. Like I'm just ready. I know what I'm here for. I'm not here for a vacation and going to see the lean and tallopies and the right walk China. I'm here to get the job done. I'm here to handle business. So that's the mentality that we're going to. So once I, I would my crew manage my time like to the point where it was like, I coach, we got two minutes to get on this bus. I we got one minute before I start warming up. I would make sure that all, I would allocate all my time to some of those going prepare me for that moment. So when they call you into that call room, that's the last point before you go out into that track. And I want to be prepared. I don't want to go into that call with things like, man, I should have did one more stride out. Man, I should have did this. I'm ready. Let's go do this. Did you ever have to go to a dark place to maintain that kind of motivation and focus? Funny. I feel like the dark place was all around me. Me being away from the sport and then having to come back into the sport and then having to deal with the juggernaut like you say in bolt. And the media was always like white hat black hatting us because I always see his rival. You know, like, but I tell my came back he was winning by far. No one wanted to challenge him. He was out there just having a great time. You know? Is that why you came back into the sport? I was so inspired. I saw him break the world record in 2008 and people in the sport were like so scared. Like a lot of sprinters like stop sprinting and went into other events or they just didn't compete at all anymore. You know, for me it was different. I looked at that screen. I remember I was seeing in a bar and I looked at by the screen. I was like, I want to race that guy. And that's what got me really inspired to come back into the sport. Thank you to bond charge for sponsoring this episode of the show. We live in a crazy environment. And I'm sure that you feel it whether you're tired or you've got skin problems. I know that it happens to all of us. And that's one reason why I love bond charge. bond charge is a company. It's more of a holistic company that has anything and everything to meet your needs for your environment. For example, I love bond charges red light therapy. You may have seen me use it in my IG stories, but they make an incredible device. I use the red light max device. It's a massive panel. I also use the many and I've tried a lot of different devices. I sit in front of it and I'm telling you, I feel warm. It gives me red and near infrared light, which typically is in the early mornings at sunrise and or at sunset. Many of us are outside during that time. It does a number of things for us. Like helps with our circadian alignment. helps with our skin. helps me with storm muscles and a whole host of other things. So if you are someone who feels like you suffer from low energy, maybe you're not recovering. I strongly recommend you add light to your health plan and bond charge does a fantastic job at this. You can get yours at bond charge.com slash doctor lion. That's bond charge dot com slash doctor lion and you will get 15% off. I have a whole host of podcast episodes coming all about the science of light. Really quickly. I'd like to take a moment to thank one of the sponsors and that's fatty 15. You've heard all about essential fatty acids and fatty 15 is a new fatty acid. The first one discovered in the last 90 years and let me tell you. Essential fatty acids are critical for health and wellness. We've all heard this of course, but fatty 15 is unique. So it's a carbon 15 and by the way, it is going to be helpful for cellular aging. The reality is we're all getting older, but there are ways and things that we can do to combat the destruction and impact our life style has on our body and our brain and our mood. Fatty 15 is one of those supplements. Fatty 15 is amazing and it's extremely potent and by the way, you will not be burping up fatty 15 because it is tasteless and odorless, which also makes it amazing. Fatty 15 has great research behind it, which again, I think is extremely valuable. So a lot of different supplements on the market. I'm only bringing to you supplements that I love and use myself. Fatty 15 is helping me with energy. I'll let you know about aging next year, but Fatty 15 is an amazing product. I think that you're going to love it. Go to fatty15.com slash doctor lion. That's Fatty 15.com slash doctor lion and no surprise you will get 15% off on your first 90 day subscription. Now back to the episode. Take me through a little bit about where your career was at the time and how you decided to come back and when you saw him you were inspired by greatness. I will say that the best of the best individuals are always inspired by greatness. They are not afraid of it. They're not intimidated by it but they're inspired by the greatness of others. Yeah, you smell it. It's like a different energy. It's a greatness and when another person recognize the greatness is like an energy you feel. So watching that, I was attracted to that energy and it made me more relentless. I was like I could come back into a sport and I could compete. But now it's like I come back into a sport and have a goal. I want to I want to stay in shoulder to shoulder with this guy at the start line and I made that happen. So take me to where you had been in your career when you decided to get back in the game. So you started racing professionally. Your first big win was what? Before when I came back into the game? No, before. But the initial part, because again, you've had a career you know, 2001 you won gold at the outdoor championships. So my first part of my career was a fairytale within itself. Okay. So I turned pro in 2003. I went to indoor worlds and I won indoor worlds probably like two months after turning in real, right? So that's my first gold medal. 2004 is the Olympics. So I made the Olympic team. I win the gold medal there. 2005 is the world championship year. I win not only one gold but two gold, 200 and the 200. Then 2006 I break the world record in the 100 meters. So it was constantly like like I said, I had a list of things I wanted to do. I was checking off the boxes of what I exactly what I wanted to do, what I wanted to achieve and I've really, really sent my attempts of doing so. And I never in and in my self with multiple goals at once, right? So if it was on Olympic gear, that's where we focus on. I'm not focusing on breaking the world record and getting the Olympic gold. I wanted to focus on how laser focused on that moment, which in respect to moment, which was, let's win this Olympic gold. And then we can mature ourselves to go out and break a war record. And I mean that's not very insightful. And how old were you then? So 2006. 21. I believe yeah. So I was just legal enough to celebrate my win. Isn't that isn't it crazy looking back? It is. At the change in the amount that you've become. Did you have any challenges with that first leg of your career? No, not really. I mean, one thing I saw other athletes in and greatness is observant, very observant. The people who possess greatness, they're aware of everything around. Like Tom Brady, he understands every aspect of defense that he plays against. Usually you think in like all he does, it stands his offense. That's all he needs to understand. No, he understands the whole game. It's the same thing for me. I understand the whole game. I know each and every one of my competitors, what their attributes are, what their flaws are, how their season is going, how they're running, what their PRs are, what. So I know that I can be able to eliminate certain variables. So when you go out there and compete against them, I know exactly how I'm going to fare against them. I only get nine seconds. I don't get four quarters. I don't get two 90 minutes. I get nine seconds to go out there and show the world what I'm made of and go out there and beat seven other of the elite world athletes. So I have to know all the variables that's in play. Did you ever try to get into their head? Could you? I, I, mental warfare. Yeah, that's exactly what I'm getting at. Mental warfare. Because it's not, I can't imagine you guys are all hanging out together. So mental warfare is way different in track of field than other sports. So I'll take you through what mental warfare looks like. So let's just say we have the Olympic trials, right? And mean your competing gets each other. We're the top dogs. So what I'll do is, I have a prelimbs, semi-sandfinals, so do you. We probably are not in any, any of the rounds together. We'll see each other at the finals. So what happens is, I'll run my prelimbs. I'll try to conserve as much energy as possible, but still dominate that race. So what that look like is, I'll get out hard and then I'll, I'll command the race halfway through the race and then as I'm running, I'll look around, make sure no one's beside me and then I'll shut down and I'll start to like, try to cross the line. That'll show my dominance. That's the mental warfare. So anybody is watching in the warm up area at home or your competitors getting ready to come on to the track too. They see how fast you are and you're holding back. So when you go into the semi's, you do the same thing. If I gave 50% in the prelimbs, I'm giving you about 75% in the, in the semi's, right? So then I do the same thing. I get out hard, I dominate the race. I might have someone to be able to go against me like at 65 meters and then I dominate them and then I come across the line and then I look at time, I'm running pressed, even though it's a fast time and then I walk off the track, right? Mental warfare. Is that an unspoken? It is. It's very unspoken. It's unspoken. It's very unspoken. So that's the way that you get into your competitors head without directly walking out there. Good days are bad days and one of my competitors always told me, it's like, I've been a hated go against you because I can never read you. You would always have a poker face on it. If I was fast at that point in time, I was still bad at the same face even if I wasn't ready. You got to have a poker face because we're all sitting in a room like a room we're sitting now. So imagine five other individuals in this room that get ready to go run and try to beat you. They're looking at you. They're ironing you. They're trying to see if you're sweating too much or if you're looking away or if you like intimidated, like you same will walk back and forth in the room as if like he's hosting a party. How are you feeling? You good? How's everything going? How? He'll start trying to have like banter one of the guys to take him out as mindset. Now you say, my set was to relax and have fun. That's where his super power line. My aim was to dial in and say, focus, stay hungry. So he would never would approach me on that matter because he understood what I was. But that's how mental warfare in our sport is. Just like that. You got to know who you are and you got to play that game very fair. Well, at 21 years old, you were kind of thinking about this. Yeah. Yeah. 21. Yeah. Then what happens after 2006? So I tried out for football too. No big deal. Try out for football and it wasn't a fit for me. It wasn't my life. But before then, I was away from the sport because I had to serve a band. Within that band, it took me away for four years. Right? How did you deal with that mentally? It was tough. And it came at a time when I was crossing that threshold from being a young boy into turning into a man or a young man turning into a man. So at that age of 25, 26, 27, you know that that change. Right? So it was a gift in a person away because it allowed me to find myself at a slow down and realize who I was and realize that track wasn't my life. Try gave me life but track wasn't my only thing. I helped contribute to track and make a success as well. So it was a tough moment for me. I'd ever thought suicide, but I questioned the worth of me. Right? And with me questioning my worth, I started doing things that were definitely out of my character. I was drinking every day. I was partying every day. I was hanging out. I think when I hit rock bottom is when in Pensacola we have in the summertime we partied on the beach. There's a three mile bridge that connects the mainland to the beach. And when you party you partied till about two o'clock in the morning on the beach and then everyone drives home. Crazy, right? So yeah, that's a really bad idea. Right? So I remember it was about to be two o'clock in the morning. I'm leaving and my vision is blurry and I'm driving in a porcesterar so it's already like terrible and I hit a rock. I thought the rock was like a paper bag. I shouldn't even hit it in the first place. And then I remember there was a police officer who helped control traffic. He was a hey man, you didn't see that rock? I know I don't know I reaped about the hole. And he gave me a pass. He let me go. He even questioned me, right? Because he knew what was. He was like, just get home safe man, you'll be right. Get home safe. I started driving across that bridge and I felt like I was only calling that bridge. And then that moment I thought if I lose control of this car and I flipping to this water, this dark water, no one's going to find me. It's going to be gone. You know? And then that moment I started thinking not about myself but the people who are my circle, who love me. And family, my family, who would miss me, right? And who were going to deep depression. So that's what snapped me out of my depression, realizing that my actions would cause their depression. And I didn't want to bring that on. So the moment I crossed that bridge, I got myself out of that and I started working to get better, working to come back, stop drinking, stop party and that's when I started going into the, into the football room. And you weren't a fan? No, I'm a fan and I respect football. Meaning. I mean, it wasn't for you. It wasn't for me because I'm the kind of person like I always, in track and feel whatever you put out is what you get, right? And it was a lot of politics that comes with football. You can work very hard and you still can lose what you're seeing. You can have the best day of your career. You can still lose what you're seeing. You can have the worst day. And you can win what you're seeing. So, and on top of that, you could be the best player in your position in your coach or the coaching staff can sit you for whatever reason they want to sit you. They didn't sit well with me because I feel like the best should always play. The best should always compete. And that was always been my ethos in all the all the. So that's what I live for. And I respect what football players bring to the table and how hard they work and what their grind is. But I remember when I was at, um, many can't with Tampa Bay, Buck and ears. And I was going out for a while receiver. They gave me 10 plays to remember, right? Now, I'm looking at it physically. I can move like a while receiver. I can catch. I can go in and out of routes. But no one taught me to replace. So it looked like hard glyphics. I'm looking at their like, okay, all right? I'm going to remember five of these plays and then tomorrow, I'm going to have 50 50% chance of being good, right? That hopefully don't keep me in the threshold. So when out there in that's the jack will happen. Five plays that they will. Five of the plays that didn't do well. So it was like great job or it was what are you doing, got little, you know? So then I was like, I'll remember the other five the next night, right? They put another 10 in front of us. So then I realized from there, I was like, all right. As I laid in bed and my roommate was sound asleep and there's like two o'clock in the morning, we got to get up at six. I was like, do I stay in the sport where I have to learn everything over again? And the notion of the fact that I'm a runner is isn't always welcomed in a football, right? Yeah, because they always think that linear speed is where all you can do. Like, and it was thing like, oh, you're a spring of your runner. Can you even catch, you know, some things like that. So I was like, do I, do I prove them wrong or do I go back to a sport while once was a king? And that's what I work towards. And was it because you just love competing? I do. I do. I wish I could compete now. I know. We're going to, we're going to, we're going to find something. We're going to find something. We're going to find something. We're going to find something. What is competing like with you? I know I'd have to ask you or it's intertwined with my essence. It's who is part of me. Like, I never thought I would be one of those kind of people. I always thought like, oh, you know, I'm not winning them obnoxious people who compete like if we're playing ping pong. I'm like, I'll beat you up. But for whatever reason, like, when it's time for me to compete, I just dial in. I lock in. I, I, everything slows down around me and I take it really serious. And that's something that once I retired, I miss. It's a part of me. And I got to find that again. Do you feel like that is, I mean, is that cultivated or is that, is that a talent or is that just what you're meant to do? I think it's a part of me, but also winning is addictive. You can see to do other things gambling and everything else. People want to win. They love the feeling of winning. So I think for me, it was like, doing a victory lap after winning a major race and staying there, a whole extra hour, just signing autographs, taking pictures with people. I loved it. Because if people paid their hard earned money to come out and watch me for a moment, somewhere in another country, you know what I mean? And that's what really wanted me. I wanted to bring the best out of people and inspire them by showing them what I could do. How long did you celebrate each one? I always will have a thing with my agent or my coach, whoever was there with me. And before I went into the call room, I'll tell them, all right, if I win, you can go back to the hotel because I'm about to be here for like an hour. I'm gonna be signing autographs, I'm gonna be taking pictures, do a victory lap. So they know, if I win, they just packed their stuff up, they go to the hotel. So I'll stay. I was signed an autograph. I'll take every picture I can and whoever wants to be next to me and be inspired, I'm there for it. But after, after that hour, after that two hours, and you go back to the hotel room, are you focused on that win or is it what's the next race? Usually is what's the next race. If I'm on the phone with my parents and tell I kind of debrief them on exactly how everything went, how the race unfolded, if they're not there, after I get off that phone call, I'm usually done with that race. I'm usually on to the next race. Now if my coach has some words at dinner and play me, you did good, you did this, and this, and that, you could do better in that part, and he ran this part well, and we got this strategy for the next part, next time, next race, right? But after that, it's over. I'll give you a perfect example. When I won my Olympic gold in 2004, I remember receiving it, get on the podium, had the refund of my head, gold around my neck, and I came back to the Olympic village, right? And I came back to my room, I looked at the medal, and I wrapped the ribbon around it, and I put in the side pocket of my carry on, and I kept on competing. I wasn't, it didn't, the medal, the hardware didn't move me. It was living in the moment, making history. Why does that feel like? Amazing. I mean, that's amazing. When you're standing at that line, and you can, like, it's eight of the guys standing there, and you're almost shoulder to shoulder to the point where you can feel their body heat coming off of them, and when the announcer says, run into your mark, the whole stadium gets quiet, 100,000 people. And then you're here, set. We lift our hips up, the gungo's off. When the gungo's off, it's almost like a super no-re exploding. A crowd goes crazy. It lights in everything flashing. Like, literally the world stands still for Olympic hundred meters. We had LeBron James, Kobe Bryant, KD, all these basketball players run into the stadium in 2012 to watch the Olympic finals, and then run out the stadium. Right? So literally the world watches for this moment, and it's such exhilarating moment for real. It's addictive. It's like you want to go back to the Olympics again and again. Yeah. So you're at the starting block. You're here, start, and then it's your heart just pounding out of your chest, and your... It is. This, what are you, I don't know, thinking about your child? I mean, what are you, what is going through your head aside from I'm going to crush them? It's one moment where you have self-reflection. It's when you're down in the blocks, and then you get your feet set into the pedals, and then instead of looking up down the track, you look down at the track, right? So your your head's looking down, you're right here, looking at the track in front of you, in that moment right there, because all you can see. So then when you all this is, you can see, you start thinking, you start thinking like, man, I'm really at the Olympics or man, like, this is crazy or I'm going to win this race, what do I have to do? In the moment that gun goes off, everything's instinctual out of that. Like, you gun goes off and you just running. You're thinking about executing your race pattern, going through your phases, remembering your cues, and then you get to a point of the race where you get to your top end speed, and then you start to like, you start to consciously start to compete against the other athletes around you. And how fat I mean, the whole thing is over in 10 seconds, nine seconds, nine seconds, six, yeah, yeah. But so you, all of these things are going through your head in two seconds, how long does it take to get to the top end speed? It usually takes you about maybe seven seconds to get to top end speed. And is that moment what separates the person who ends? Yeah, yeah. It's a combination because you got to think that we just ran three rounds to get to the finals, right? Or we just ran two rounds to get to the finals and I wrap that finals, the third round and you're tired. You had a pre-lumps the day before, but then now you had the semi-s, where you got to run some athletes, have to run almost closer to their PR, and then maybe an hour later after that, you got to run the finals, which could change your life. So you got to run the fastest of your life in that finals. So it's really mind blowing. It's actually all about attrition. You know, I mean like when you get to that finals, it's about who's in shape enough, who's battle tested, who's ready for those battle tested? Exactly. Yeah. And then you hit your tough speed and then what do you think? Because you beat who's who's in bulk. Yeah. In that race when I beat, you say in his last in 2017, it was his last hundred meters, his last world championships. And I was working on something so different with my race strategy, but I was working on it in secret. Remember, I told you earlier how you have to evolve. Yeah. Because if you don't evolve, I know exactly what you're going to do when you go out there. Each elite runner, if they're smart enough, they know exactly what that other athletes attributes are with their bring to the table. So I guarantee you, you say and his coach says, oh, Justin Gallon's a great starter. So we'll capitalize on being a great finisher. So we'll be able to beat him at the end of the races. That's what counts the most. So then I got injured at the beginning of 2017. And I had a hit flexor issue. So I couldn't get that fast start that usually get. So then I worked on my top in speed. I worked on a secrecy with my coach. And so we didn't want no one to know because if you give them a look, meaning like if they can see you do something, like different than what you do, then now they can counter it. Now that can be his coach can be like watch off a gallon. He has the top in speed right now. But how is it? You mean at the time because how how is it going to make a difference if they know kind of your strategy? So it's not just get out there and run as fast as you can. It's not that at all, right? No, no. And so people are right. It was same so, but no, it's not that. It's much more methodical than someone else would understand. She doesn't run that. Yeah, it's so much that goes into it. It's methodical. It's very very science-based. Like we train and we in your coach clocks you for every 10 meters segment. So you know if your own war would be a pace. You know if you're running 9, 7, you know if you're running 9, 8. So it doesn't like, well I'm gonna get on here and when the gun goes off, I'm gonna see where I am. It's never like that. It's a fact of when you're ready in your own point, you know what you can do, but are you going to do it? That's the really what counts the most. Well, what's going to separate? You know, you mentioned being battle ready, being trained up, having got to a level of training where you're not thinking you are executing. So when it comes to the moment of are you willing to do it versus are you not going to do it? Is it a pain tolerance? Is it what is it? It's minor or matter. When you know that you're ready, that's what you mean? Yeah, I mean because there's a moment where you've done all this technical training. But is that technical training enough to become the most decorated runner ever? It's not. No. So there's something else there that has to kick in. You're you're want, but you're you're 42. You're want to do it. You know, I train with athletes who kicked my ass at practice. Beat me. They should be running 9, 8 and then we'll get into a race and they run 10 seconds because practice is a place where you can make mistakes and it's not costly and you have multiple times because you have reps to do things over and over again. Right? So it's an environment that you can control. But when you go out there onto the track, it's organized chaos. Well, that's what it seems to be organized chaos, but it's not. It's actually a system and it's a rhythm to it. It's still 1, 0, 0s and 1s, whatever you want to call it. Because I'm still racing against the same people. We're still running the same length. We're using the same same shape where you're using our day in year in year out. So everything is relative to each other. Don't you think everybody wants it? Everyone at the out level. You're the top. You want it? Everybody wants it. But there's athletes who are scared to go through the process of obtaining it. You know, I saw on your Twitter, you said everything you want is on the other side of your fear. Yes. So what does that mean? It's a fact that a lot of athletes doubt themselves when they get to that pinnacle. When they get to that point where their life could change by just giving a little more effort, they fear failure. But the crazy in the world is you're constantly failing because you fear it. You're constantly failing. So why don't you just omit that from your vocabulary in your mind and just say, I'm just going to go do it. Just do it. And that's what I did. I got to a point. I was like, I'm just going to do it. What can it? Where is it going to take me? I'm going to win or I'm going to lose. That's it. I mean, you can look at it. It's always one winner. It's seven losers. That's the hard truth of track of field and sprinting. And everything. Exactly. When you say, if you're not first your last. There you go, Ricky Bobby, baby. Yeah. But at that moment, you don't have to pull from a dark place or a dark. And I say that because you are racing, you are putting yourself in an extreme situation and nobody. I mean, how many people get to even be in that moment? I don't know. Nine people are here. Nine people are here. Yeah. You're putting yourself in a moment where you have to kick in that gear. Everybody is trained. Everybody is capable. You're hoping everyone at that point is a professional. They're dialed in. Yeah. What's the difference between the one that can push to to win the gold versus not? I mean, it's got to be more than a want. It's got to be. There has to be, I mean, maybe not, but in my mind, there has to be something like this is life or death. Or this is, yeah, you have to think that way. You have to think that is life or death. You have to. Because, and it comes down to that sometimes because what happens is, you know, in a regular season, if you don't run well at one race, you may not get, you may not get it invite to the next race. So that's death. Your season going to cut short. So it's life or death. I have to beat you guys. I have to slay you. Because I need to keep moving forward, progressing forward. And, and there's also a sense of entitlement. I work hard. I work very hard to get to where I'm at. And I think that you say, or any of the lead athletes feel the same way. But those old athletes who don't want to cross that threshold because they don't, they're not entitled. They feel like they're not entitled to that victory. They think that I'm just happy to be here. And I hope that everything works out the way I desire to work out. You can't help in those situations. You have to go and take it. And when I read, before I retired, someone said, well, who's the next sprint is going to come behind you? I said, I don't know, whoever takes it front me. Because in the sprinting world, that tour said is given to the next elite sprinter is taken. It's never given. It's never blessed to somebody. You have to earn it. If the take it, it took it from Maurice Green. And then it had to be taken for me. You know, so it's a sense of entitlement that comes with that hard work, that dedication, that discipline, that you're in that hunger, that you, I'm the fastest. You know, by out there, fast in a me. And if you are, let's line up and see if you can get it done. Intense, intense, amazing, amazing. Do you think that that translates over to life? It does. That's what one thing I loved about track and feel is life. It's life. There's sometimes people look and say, man, I want to be right up there where they're at. But there's a trajectory. You can watch where I started and how I got there. It's no secrecy. It's open. You know, I mean, hard work, dedication, same thing with any other athlete. You can watch how they got there. That's one thing I like about sports. It kind of parallels two life. You got to work for it. But the difference between those that become extraordinary and legacy runners like yourself is that ability to reach in and pull something out. Yeah. Well, you recognize that special moment that happened. Like I recognize in 2004 when I got into the blocks the last thing I said is, you would go, God, I'm hoping I'm ready for this. I worked hard for this. I trained for this moment. I'm going to give it my all. And if I'm not back to the drawing board, I got to work harder. So happen that one that race. But then I remember that moment throughout the rest of my career. Give it my all. When the gun goes off, give it my all. And that was my secret recipe. Giving it my all got me to everything I got my accolades, my celebrations, my gold medals, my awards, because I gave it my all. There's a lot of people out there feel like, wow, I'll have to give them all. Or some people even know what their all is. Probably most people. Probably most. They don't know what their all is. How do you think you know? How do you think you know if you're if you're scratching the surface of your all? Because it's I mean, I guess in running and sprinting, you're physically, you have to put it on the line. But there's a heart of someone know because it seems as if there's always something left in the tank, right? That's an at least sprinter. You always in your mind. You always say there's always something left in the tank. Even when you think that you're tapping that thing, what about our mutual out? We have a mutual best friend just getting started. Yeah. Just and you want the the Olympic just getting started. Yeah. Ben Newman shout out, brother. Shout out to Ben, man, for sure. Yes, get and start it. So when you are sprinting, you know that there's a place that that is your all. Can can you say that for sure, though? That I've reached my all that you've given it your all. I'd never like say in that until until every tire. Okay. And then even when I retired, I was like, I don't believe that. You know, to me, I tell myself, I don't believe that. It's true. Yeah, because I always feel like there's more. There's more left in the tank. The funny thing is in the irony of that situation, with Ben, him saying that when people were writing like amazing. Oh, man, I always write just getting started. And that's years ago, because it always reminded me, don't settle. What are you selling for? Because you did a great job. You got a couple of congratulations. What are you selling for? You know you got more left in the tank. Find it. Tap into that tank. Go see where it is. Because sometimes you're driven by physical. When you're 2015, I work so hard. I double my workload. I work so hard to reach a different level. And then that that was going to that that's what it was going to take. That's what it was going to take. In 2017, I up my mental game. How? By understanding strategy, like as an essence of like almost like mental warfare, having more clarity, looking at it from a bird's eye view, how I can be able to strategize better. One thing that athletes don't like to do, they become superstitious or they say, well, you know what? I don't want to do that. Maybe make my legs tired if I stand too long. Maybe so they're so in this box. And that's where athletes live. But then I realized, I was like, why am I putting myself in this box? I'm labeling myself in this box. I was like, I need to spread out mentally. It's start thinking about how to strategize better, how to be able to counter better. And I looked at it. I looked at track and feel at that point in time. It was almost like a war game. How am I going to strategize? This, what I do for like the last 17 years of my career was predictable now. I had to figure out how to pivot, how to be able to flank, how to be able to get around, surprise my enemies and be able to catch them off guard. Because if I tried to meet them head on, it wasn't working for me. So I had to figure out a whole new strategy. Thank you to thesis for sponsoring this episode of the show. thesis is the world's first customized nitropic company. I've mentioned this in the past. I only promote products that I use. These have been a game changer for me. Nitropics are nutrients found in nature or the human body. They enhance cognitive function. Who doesn't want more focus, more energy or a better mood? I don't know one person who doesn't want more of those things. Many companies take a one size fits all approach. What I love about thesis not only are their blends exceptional, but you can go to their website, which is take thesis.com. You'll take a quiz. They will bend, send you a starter kit with four different blend recommendations to try over the course of a month. This is personalized. thesis also offers, are you ready for this? Three consultations with a wellness coach to optimize your experience and dial in on your favorite formulas. These products have absolutely been life changing for me. These blends are blends you have never seen before. Go to takethesis.com slash doctor lion and you'll get 10% off your first box. Takethesis.com slash doctor lion. Take the quiz and you are on your way to more energy and more focus. All right. Do you want to know what I drink in the morning that is a little bit salty and gives me a huge pick me up? Well, I'm going to tell you. And that is element, chocolate element that's LMNT in my coffee. I brew a black cup of coffee with a shot of espresso and then I put a scoop of collagen and a little bit of MCT oil in it. And one fourth packet of element chocolate. Sometimes I use chocolate mince. I've also saved chocolate caramel. It's kind of this like chocolatey caramel. Amazing. So I get my caffeine. I get some collagen for of course hereskin and nails. And I get electrolytes in my coffee. Sodium, potassium, magnesium, all amazing. I have now created my own supercharged drink, which you can to and by the way, this is a different way to take element. That's a little packet of electrolytes. If you get headaches, maybe you get headaches with your caffeine, because you dehydrate yourself or maybe you get headaches, because you sweat a lot while training or maybe you just live in Texas where it's hot. And so you definitely sweat a lot. You definitely get headaches. And this is why I love to add electrolytes to what I'm drinking. And it can be coffee, it can be water. lately it's been coffee and it tastes amazing. You can get yours at drink element. That's drink lmnt.com. You'll get a free sample pack when you use the code a doctor line and by the way, if you don't like it, it's totally risk free. You'll get your money back. No questions asked. I love this stuff. You will too. Back to the show. I'm when you're thinking about the strategy. It's not just about the strategy. I mean, so again, I don't know, I'm not a sprinter or at least. I used to be, but not very fast now. You're thinking about all of the tactical type things. But in your mind, were you cultivating, not motivation, but were you cultivating mental durability, were you cultivating things that were above and beyond strategy? I mean, you probably had to be so dialed in and so on top of any kind of internal dialogue. You know, I'm just making assumptions here, but there's this humaneness, this human animal that has to be tamed. Absolutely. That's exactly what it was. It would be like a switch on and off almost or I would turn into the wash of transformation of a hole. That's exactly what it felt like. It was just like I transformed into like this animal, animalistic version of myself that understood sprinting and running mechanics, but I was so aggressive. I lived for the aggression of everything. I was about the fight. I love that. I love that. I love that. The fight. You know? Yes. Yes. And it got to a point where I had to realize that that individual J. Gatt was seeping into my real life away from the track. I was becoming more aggressive, more snappy at home. You know what mean? So I had to dial it back, dial it back, get it on me? So I'd learn how to tame it. But that is what you're talking about exactly what lived in me and I had to regular, I had to like name it. I had to give it a personality. I had to tell people like, don't be offended, special erase day. This is who I am. In some days when I can't practice, this is who I am. This is what gets the job done for me. How are you thinking about cultivating that? Were you reading? Yeah. Were you listening to speeches? How are you thinking about and taking action to facilitate that? Reading? What are you reading? Sun two. Yeah. The art of war. The art of war. I read that like three times. We have that. I'm married to warriors. It's not very, there's a lot of similarities. So I like when you said that. I never thought of myself as a sprint. I always thought of myself as a warrior. So that's how I looked at myself. And it would be times where I was like, I just didn't. If a Marine can stay in the bush for three days, would know with little water and no food, and still get his mission done, you damn sure you can get your mission done for nine seconds. That's how we look at it. Exactly how we look at it. And that's when we go out there and push harder. If that person can go out there and understand how to be able to get his job done through the toughest of times, I think that I can run on a rubberized track with Span. Nothing you put it that way. You know, I had to look at it like that because we as athletes, especially in the Olympic round, we make the moment bigger than us. Yes. When we are the moment. Right? And I'm like, why are we doing this? Yeah. So of course it's going to come every four years. We get it. But you earn that spot to line up. Like you are at part of this moment now. Don't glorify just the Olympic finals. Like glorify your presence of being at the Olympics and give it your all. Because there's so many times you come across that line. Like, I didn't give them all. That's a thought that's a lot of these athletes have. Like I could have ran faster. But why didn't you? Why didn't you tap that tank before they when the gun went off? That's not to be a hard internal conversation. Oh, a hundred percent. I had a race in 2015 where it was more physical nomenal. And that's when I had to like start making that shift. It was more physical than mental. Exactly. Because I'm looking at it. So I've got two pages here of your career highlights. But here's the thing. Here's what I try to condition for you. I said the bio though. It's my my team does a great job helping me. But what's not on here are the races that you lost. Yeah. Yeah. Mm-hmm. And I have all of them right here. No, that's what I want to know. I want to know when you cross that finish line and you didn't win. What what happened? The most the most painful race that I had to have to run was 2015 World Championship Beijing. It was arguably probably the best season of my career when it came to effort running. I ran the most nine sevens by anybody. So that's nine. That's a hundred meters weight. So 2000 and 2015. Mm-hmm. So is that 200 meter or 100? You're trying to 100 meter. I ran both that year. Yeah. But I'll talk about the 100 meter. I ran nine point seven seconds. Five or six times in that season. Usually, an athlete, even someone like you saying they're going to run maybe one or twice. They're going to run maybe like at a one off me somewhere and then they're running at like at a finals. But I ran it five or six times within that season. My coach was like, bro, you have to slow down. Like you just because there's a rhythm. It felt good. Like when you understand the rhythm and your power output, you just you just riding that rhythm. It's a beat. Boom. Boom. Boom. And then when the gun goes off, I could just it just tap into that beat. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. And just go. But I slack on the mental part. So when I got to the finals before I even was able to get to the starting blocks. When I got to more barrier, people were coming up to me and like you're an amazing shape. You're going to win this race. Now, my new, you say it doesn't mean be in the world championship stage since he became a rival of you saying both. So people were beside themselves waiting for this moment to happen. It was almost like landing on the moon. So people are like, oh, you're going to win today. You're going to win. And I haven't felt that same feeling of being the winner. Like outright winner since like 2005. This is 2015. So it's like Irrius. So it's 10 years later. It was Irrius feeling, right? It sounds like man. This is crazy. And when you when you know that you're the winner, and you really not the fight for it, like your mindset is different. It's different. It's so different. And I went out there with the intent. The time I ran in the semi is the race before the finals. Would have won the finals. I got into that finals. I was running stripper stripper with you saying. And the finish line couldn't come any faster. I started stumbling to the finish line and trying to finish before him. I thought it was going to blow his doors off, right? And he's a competitor just like I'm a competitor. He rose to the occasion. We were striped and striped for striped. And just like that, he ran 979, our end 9.80. So 79 to 80. Quicker than this, right? So a hunch is over second. And I remember coming across that finish line. And then he went into his iconic pose. And he looked back at me. And the look on his face was like, bro, this was yours to win. Oh man. And I remember I had to go through that whole, I could feel like a bad dream. I had to go to that whole gauntlet of media, headed to the post race press conference. And I'm sitting here just like I'm sitting here with you just like, yeah, you know, he just won on the day and everything. But you knew that wasn't true. I know what I beat myself. And no, no, do what he looked at me is like you beat yourself. How can we even talk about it? In the press conference, I wasn't ready because I was ready to cry. I was I was I was so emotional. But I tell my guy back into that car and I was going to take me back to my hotel. I wasn't a phone my mom and I just balled me crying. How many hours and weeks and years of training went into the, I mean, you could say it was the whole career. But for that race, how much time went into training for that? Oh, man. So you're looking at almost like nine months of training? I mean, mostly every day, mostly every day. How are you training? We only went out sometimes Sundays off. So we've trained Saturdays all the whole weekdays hours, right? This is hours nine to five, like a real work job. Just for that one. Nine months for that. Nine, a second moment. I even a moment. Seconds. Just for a little second. And you beat yourself. I beat myself. I would say he didn't even beat you. Yeah. Yeah. How do you recover from that? I know I'm better than that. How long did you take you to get to that place? Um, the season, not 16, but 17. So 16. So I took a year mentally. It did. So recover from that moment. It took a whole new world championship because world championships every two years, right? So 16 was Olympics. And I still competed very well, right? Even with injury I had everything like that. Is that your hip injury? I actually fractured my ankle. I stepped in the hole while jogging and are you like I cannot believe this right now? Right exactly exactly. And I never broken anything before then. So I was at Omaha Fitzbroat. It has to be broke. What was this? And the fall. Number 16. 2015 November of 2015. Could we do our fall training into the new season, into the new year? Calendar year. So I was a bonehead. I didn't go get checked by a doctor. Like all my patients. Yeah. Okay. And my coach was a taskmaster. He was like, if it ain't broken, don't fix it. And I don't fix it. Now mind you, my foot blew up to like the size of like a softball, right? My ankle. So what happened to it was it was fractured. It wasn't into it. I think I had a hairline fracture, but like tindance were obviously like real jacked up because I was literally running on one foot, which caused compensation, which made my reflex hurt. I see. Two years later. Yeah. So the racer you lost was 2015. 15. World championships. Then you're injured yourself. And it took you a year to mentally recover. You needed to win that world championship in 2017. Do you think I think the injury kind of offset my mindset to get back because after that race, I was like, all right, I got the blueprint. I know how to run nine, sevens consistently. I just need to get my mind right. And so I tried to training the fall training like a mad man, right? So I started going on my jogs and things like that, stepped in a whole set me back. So 2017. What would you tell the people listening? You know, you do a lot of good work for the world. I think that you are very servant oriented. What would you tell people that have a setback? Because the setbacks are ugly. I mean, they are. They are ugly internally. There's a lot of information for me. A lot of people talk about motivation and all this stuff out in this space. But you know, a failure that's caused by yourself is different than trying something, giving your best and failing. Yeah. The internal failures. That's tough. Get it. What advice would you give? Someone who is listening to this that has failed. And maybe it's because they've gotten in their own way. Maybe it's because they didn't feel worthy of the opportunity or worthy of the metal or worthy of whatever. What would you tell them? If they're in the right mindset that think they are, they know that that failure doesn't define who they are. It's not you. Every great story that we've known has had a setback. Has had the hero of the story had some kind of failure. And he risen from that or she's risen from that to be to show that she's better than what that setback was. And they've gone on to do better things. And we always love to emulate these stories. So for people who are listening in those situations, this oblueprint writer from the view. That setback doesn't define you. It's testing you. That's what's happening right now. You're being tested. It's your bounce back going to be stronger than that failure. It should be because you wouldn't be putting the situation unless you are ready for it. And you're now ready for it. So bounce back, get your mind right, everything that you need in place and show the world that you're ready. And show yourself that you're ready for a comeback. I love that. Do you put things in a structure for yourself? So you read a lot. You read a son to the art of war. Did you have other strategies where maybe you meditated, maybe you prayed a lot, were there certain strategies that you put into place to get your mind back to where it needed to be? I meditate it with the help of my dad. He's definitely into that. And you're still very close with your parents. Oh yeah. Yeah. And are they where do they live by the inflore? Very floore. Okay. Yeah. I just would take myself into situations to make my stronger from make me stronger from my situation. So like, I would think of myself being in prison. I would not allow myself when I go to meet. I would not allow myself to come out the room only to eat. And while I'm in my room, I'm doing my pushups and my setups constantly. Make myself stronger. Make myself hungry. So I always will have a mindset to take myself somewhere and to put myself in a position at other people with get strong from. And from watching movies and documentaries where, you know, it kind of tells those athletes or whoever those individuals are in that storyline, how did they become strong? Because they had their discipline for it. I could easily just come into my hotel room and look around like, oh, this amazing. Look at this sweet and just lay across the bed and get on social media and just just say, I'm here from my race where I go out and hang out and go sightseeing things like that. I wasn't, I wasn't built for that champions. I'm doing that. Nah, nah. Not distracted by the luxury. Yeah. I tell, I tell young athletes all the time. I was like, if you're going to, if you're going to drink, how are you going to drink? Are you going to drink your sorrows away? Or are you going to drink from celebrating your victories? How are you just talking to drink it off? If you don't drink it off? How are you staying down in the drink at all? Just and like, exactly what I was hoping for. But, you know, I think I'm curious as to what your thoughts are, you know, many athletes face that backs throughout their career. Some come back, some don't. Do you think there is a defining character trait that allows someone to push through versus not? Yes. That was the fast answer. That was the fast yes. What is it? That's because I've been a sport long enough. I should have been using a sprinters lifespan is two cycles, which is like eight years. That's what I thought I thought it was eight years. Two Olympics, we've been eight years. I watched athletes come and go. I watched athletes fall and they couldn't recover because they love whatever the media or other people around them, what they thought of them, they love that to define them. And using them situations, you don't even think about what the finds you until you are putting that kind of situation. Tell me more. I know I'm fast, I know I'm strong. I know that I'm built to go out there. I'm God, give a talent. So anything that I've been to in my life didn't define who I was. That's not me. And I think it gave me such a great opportunity to show the world. That's not me. All that stuff that you feel that's written about me or the haters and things like that, nasty articles. That's not who I am. But I'm going to show you who I am. I'm going to come back and do the sport. I'm going to run hard. I'm going to say focus. I'm sadality. And I'm a constantly win. And when you turn that TV on, you're going to keep on seeing me. And that's what made me who I am. And naturally came to me. Now you have mentors and coaches along the way, because you know you're a young person and traumatic situations are just that is traumatic, right? It hurts you for the moment. But how you deal with it is how you really are going to evolve. So I had coaches tell me, hey, you know that's not you. But we're going to get you where you need to get to. So realize that those people out there who really believe in who I was and can see me from a different perspective gave me that power to say, okay, cool. All right, I know I know this they see who I am. I know who I am. That's confirmation for me. Let's get it done. So would you say that having the right people in your corner is critical? Absolutely. And mitigating external negative input, not even I was listening to one of your interviews where you said, you didn't even know when these negative things were being said about you, you had no idea. I know I do. I know I do. I didn't read about it. I didn't watch any videos or articles. I just was tuned in what I had to do. And you think that's what separates those that can overcome a setback versus those that don't. Absolutely. And that's the ability to tune out any other noise. Yeah. Do you think that focusing on a competitor or competition is relevant in that way versus because I know there's a tactical aspect of running of you need to know what your competition is doing. So you know to outmaneuver them. And isn't it really just about how you are doing? Or no, it's really who you are in relationship to your competitors. It's about what you're doing. You know, you'd be obsessed with the process. Now obviously, part of the process is going to understand your competitors, but you're not obsessed with your competitors. Okay. You find a lot of athletes from other sports, not just in track of field, who become obsessed with certain competitors. And it's done to their growth because they're so worried about that other competitors success. That they they're already just giving themselves to silver metal. Because you have so much, I only was a hate, but you have so much like attention given to that person who's not even focusing on you. You know, you give yourself the silver metal. I've seen it happen so many times. Yeah. So you have to really focus on becoming the best version of yourself. No, what competition is out there, but truly dialing into your own potential. Yeah. It probably allowed you to get creative with your comebacks and your training didn't it? Yeah. Because you weren't so focused on what the standard of the other athlete was doing. I felt like Rocky. I would train. I mean, and that's one thing I love about my coach is like, each year, it was never the same kind of preparation. It always would change in some kind of variation. It would keep the core of what we have to do, but it would change in different variations. One time we're doing hills and other time we're doing sleds, it's a fact of we're progressing, getting stronger, getting smarter, getting faster, and we're learning together as well. And you have, so then 2017, you, that was when you beat U.S. involved, right? Did you ever talk to him after that? I did. So I beat him in 13 in a one-off in Rome, and after the press conference, it was already shocking to the world. But once again, I studied my opponents. So a week before a song from your go race, you say, and this is the first race I really had with him. It's something exciting about this race. So excited. And you were excited, not afraid. You were excited. I was so excited. I was studying his races because his training partner beat him at the Olympic trials, right? And I watched his, I watched his training partners race strategy. How did he beat him? I broke it down. And I will watch it all the way till the day before it's time to go to race you say. And then I would, I implemented it. You're like, hey, dude, seeing lots of footage of you. Exactly. I implemented that same strategy, and I beat him in 2013. I believe a ball. And then when we went to the press conference, and mind you, you get that. How do you get that footage just from being on TV? Just being on TV. YouTube, just watching over and over again. And I hope your watch history is private. Right. So he handled himself through the whole press conference and said, hey, just wasn't my day. You know, when out there, I was like, blah, but I remember us walking away from the press conference, I was behind him. And he was talking to his agent. And I can hear him. He says, that was embarrassing. He'll never happen again. And from that moment on from 2013 on, he never raised me in a warm-off race anywhere. The only time I ever raised him was at the World Championships finals or the Olympic finals. But in 2017, it was a little bit different, right? Because obviously he was aware that I was a see. Do you know how old he was? 30. And how old were you? I was 37. 37. Yeah. So it was, it was different. But any note, I used everything around me. Like I said, in that moment, I'll strategize. I was more, I was, had more clarity. You've sam was worried about the young guy who was coming in named Christian Coleman, who was fast. I beat Christian Coleman in. You weren't worried about him. You were just focused on who's saying. Well, I realized that when you saying came over and talked to me, he made comments about Christian. Like who is this young guy? So then I let me know that you focus on him instead of focus on us. So then I'm going to use that to my advantage. And while he focused on him running stripper trial with Christian, I just slipped in on this side and just won the race from over here. So and I laid out my whole strategy, my top-end speed. I wasn't worried about being a starter at 50 meters. I was in fifth place. From 50 on to 100, I searched the first place. Unbelievable. Let's talk about protein, specifically first forms natural way protein, formula one. People ask me all the time, what kind of protein powder I use, what kind of protein powder I recommend, formula one makes many different kinds of protein powders, different flavors. A natural one, you pick it. It mixes amazing. It makes it extremely easy to get your protein in. And really, there it's a way protein isolate. So you're getting the majority of your calories from protein in the shake. Taste great, super easy to travel with, great breakfast, dinner, maybe even lunch. Whatever you need, it's got you covered and it has all the amino acids necessary. We'll help improve body composition, muscle mass, all the things that protein does. And by the way, when do you need protein? Well, you need it every day. And that's why I love first forms, protein powder, their formula one, go to firstform.com slash doctor lion. That's firstform.com slash doctor lion. Have you done your blood work? If you haven't, I have a solution for you. And that is one of the sponsors of the show inside tracker. Why is blood work so important? Well, you know, I use inside tracker, my friends use inside tracker. Also, my parents use inside tracker. Inside tracker makes getting blood work very easy and user friendly. They have an amazing interface. You can check it out on your phone. You can check it out on the desktop, which, you know, hopefully you're using a small one. Inside tracker allows you to look at really important biomarkers like hormones, iron, thyroid, insulin. The list goes on. ApoB. It never stops. And by the way, if you are a professional annual client inside tracker also has a pro platform, amazing. I really feel that inside tracker has revolutionized health care and listen, blood work can be expensive, but it doesn't have to be. Inside tracker is offering my listeners 10% off, 10% off. Anything on the store in the store, anything as it relates to subscriptions, 10% off go to inside tracker.com like inside tracking your body, use the code doctor lion. And do not wait if you are due for your blood work, give this a shot. It's extremely valuable back to the show. Then after that, what happened? I mean, you now, in what part? I mean, you beat them. Yeah. You won. Yeah. Were you on to the next? Oh, so was there a moment where you're like, okay, I'm going to go to McDonald's now. You know, this is not for me. I'm going to take up that I don't know under water basket. Were you know what? It was his last race. It was his last World Championships. It was his last 100 meters. He was ever going to run. He retired after that race. He came over to me in the warm berry afterwards. And we traded jerseys because he wanted to trade jerseys. And he signed it to me. And I guess signed one for him. Could you know, throughout our competition in our career, we wasn't like chummy. You know, I mean, like we recognized each other, we respected each other. I see each other that events. We talked and liked that. But it never was to the point where it was like, were buddies? You know what I mean? I mean, he's your competition. He's my competition. And he's my competition. Exactly. Too much talking. Give you too much. And he knows that. And I knew that. Right? You guys are a professional. We're professionals. So after that for him doing that gesture was like, for me, it was amazing because it took me away back to that point when I saw him break the work at that bar. And all I want to do was line up next to him and race and missy out how good I could be next to him. And it took me all the back to that point. It was pretty cool. Yeah. It was almost like a full circle moment. It was a full circle moment for me. After that, what happened? Did you, I mean, continue to race decide? Yeah. We're, I went into 18 was off season. It was like a, it was not a non-champuship year and that season. And then 2019, we had a 12-year-old 2019 new one, a gold silver. So you did the outdoor championships 2019 new one, gold metal, silver metal and then silver metal. And we were really slack and I just kind of like couch potato. And he was a crazy thing though. In 2019 in Doha, which was in October, I got, I had COVID. I ran with COVID like every symptom possible. Like I had a hundred and one fever. And at that point in time, we didn't know what COVID was. Remember COVID came right now. It's like January or something like that the next year. So when I looked back all the symptoms when they had it, I was like, whoa, I remember because I thought I had upper respiratory infection. And I remember having a fever 101 and I was getting ready for the relay in 2019. And I told myself, my body told me, I said, if you don't get up now to go to the track, you don't get up. You're not getting up. So I left, I left a whole hour earlier than all my teammates. And I went to the track. And I laid on side of the warm-up track in fetal position for my book bag as a pillow. And so they came and then I got up, I warmed up as best I could and then I gave it all I had and I ran the relay. We're COVID. Not knowing that I got COVID. And then 2019, 2020 came. But after that, were you thinking, I mean, did you have a plan to continue or were you thinking, like, as a retirement? Yeah. People were like, are you going to retire now? You just won 2017, you should retire. I mean, you'd now been running for a long time. So I thought about it. The normal span is what eight years of running. Yeah, I thought about it. But it was fun. But then my age was like, you just won. Like, enjoy the spoils that come away. Allow people to come up to you and celebrate you. You know? So I did. From 2018, 2019, and then COVID really hit in 2020. So which was so hard because it was like, we didn't know what was going to happen. Like the world didn't know what was going to happen. So we were like, they shut down all parks, they shut down all like tracks, jams, everything. We found ourselves in a market, said my coach was a task master. So we didn't know what was going to happen. He's always that kind of person like, they can, they can lift this whole thing tomorrow. So we got to be ready. So we were training. Wow. So you were prepared to to run even through, I mean, you were ready. Yeah. So we were, we were running on patches of grass around retention ponds. Like that was the crazy part. You know what I mean? Yes. But I also feel like at the stage, I was at winning a 17 and joined it from 18 and 19 and 20 happened and it just was like, if anything made me feel like depressed, it was that like not able to do what I know I could do. I couldn't go outside, couldn't run, couldn't have fun, couldn't enjoy my teammates. It was at town where we were in mass, we were trying to run. How you do that? I don't know. You know what I mean? We had to run like six feet away from each other. How do you do that? I don't know. You know what I mean? So it just made track not fun for me anymore. You know? So then 20, 20, 21 and one came around and that was my last year. I was like, I'm going to end on only a big year and made it all the way to the finals of Olympic trials and pull my hamstring than the semies and try to make it to the podium. But I could. But to be fair, you'd already be one a whole bunch of medals. So, you know, I, I mean, I mean, I mean, I didn't, I didn't. Were you already thinking about what you were going to do after that? I mean, because after running, yeah, I mean, you've spent your entire adult life training to be a competitor. I didn't know. I had no idea what I was going to do after that. Not a clue. Because every day I focused on being the runner, being the warrior, going for the going in there to fight. So now the fight was done. War was over. I won. What do I do now? So I had to like take time to like find myself. And that was extremely hard for me because for 20 years of my life, my whole adult life up to that point was was given to going out there and finding badling, sprinting. What else could I bring to the table? But that was all, I mean, to be as good as you are, obsession isn't even the right word. I mean, it is am I right? It's in your, it was bad. It's not even well. Do I think about running today? Yeah. Right? And then it was fully, I mean, to be the best in the world. That's a whole other level. It was in the way I thought about running. You can't, you can't take that into into normal society. You're making really good points. Like you are making really, I think that that's probably why you have so much respect for the operators. I do. You, I mean, you can't take war into real life. It's just there's some people are built differently. I would emulate them. Like seriously, I would, I would have a go bag by my door. Yeah. But my spikes, everything in it just in case I need to go to a meter, some like that, just because I could. You know what I mean? It put me in that mine frame. Yeah. So once I finished my retired, I didn't know where to go. I didn't know what was for me. You know what I mean? Like how can I use these same tools into, in transition into something else? Did the moment you decide you're going to retire? Did you feel like maybe a little bit of depression sitting? Oh yeah. That didn't. Oh yeah, 100% I think it was more or less confusion. You know, my wife would be like, I wouldn't know what to do. So I just wouldn't like I sat at home was like lazy or anything like that. I always was busy. Like I would just get in the car and just go because I always was gone. I always was working, moving, going, going, going. And I realized, what am I going to? What am I going for now? So I had to like kind of rewire myself to start thinking differently. What you do? I mean, that's a hard transition, whether it's military or again, athletics. We, you know, you hear that from. And I fell players, other Olympians. But again, I do think that you were in a very unique spot having been as decorated as you are. I mean, that's how did you? How did you, did you lean back on the things that had gotten you through the challenges before it felt familiar? Because there's that limbo state that's uncomfortable and actually essentially the first time you've been in that. It felt similar what felt different is that I knew the story was complete. That story was complete. So it had a sense of like, it did. It felt good. You know what I mean? But now what are you doing next, though? Like that's why I was like, are what am I doing next? I don't know. So that's what it was. That's really special. Yeah. You know, throughout the training, you're very young when you started and again, probably eating a lot of junk. But probably as you advance throughout your career, mention all your super fit, were there certain things that you did certain nutrition, strategies, certain refueling, were there very, I don't know, supplements? What was kind of the progression for you? The progression I really stuck out from me was when I came back into the sport, I was overweight. What? Yeah. And now are we talking about just in the idea of overweight or were you actually overweight? A little bit of both. Okay. Right. So let's just say in 2004, I competed, I was at the start line of Olympic finals at 183 pounds. So you're 100 in 2004, this one you came back. Yeah, 83 pounds. I was like 21 years old at that time. What do you normally race on? So I would hover around there. That's what I'll hover around. By the time I came back into this is say 2012, right? That's when I really started acknowledging that I had to do something about this weight. I was 10, 10 pounds. Oh my gosh. Yeah. What percent body fat were you? I don't know. Maybe 15 or something like that. That is high for a sprinter. Very high. Very high. They had a nickname for me at some other camps that I trained at before I got to my coach in 2012. They called me fatland. Because fatland. Because, you know, if I'm wearing street clothes, I look good. You know what I mean? I still was muscular. I just was bigger. I was beefier, bulkier. But once I went out there and ran, you could tell it was taxing on my body. I was a T-quicker. It was bad. You know what I mean? I remember my coach telling me we got a drop weight. I was like, well, how much we got a drop? He said, well, how much did you weigh when you were in the big gold? I'll say 183 pounds. He said, that's what we need to get to. I'll say a coach. I'm like 20, 27 years old now. He's like, we can get there. So we're just eating bad. What? What? What's not bad? Absolutely. But I was enabling myself eating bad. I'll give you perfect exam. I will call him at 11 o'clock at night and say a coach. I'm hungry. He's like, why are you not asleep? I don't know. But this apple pie is here and has apples. So it has to be good, right? He's like, don't eat the apple pie and go to sleep. Those are the things I would do. I would trick myself thinking, I can do this. I can eat this. I has antioxidants. Don't eat it. You know what you're saying. There's a huge dichotomy. We thought you're saying because you, I mean, you have a champion mind. No, no matter how you want to slice it and open intended. My mom jokes are good. Like the apple pie, slicing everything. You had a champion mindset. Uh-huh. And you had already won the goal of 108 through pounds. You knew you had to be fit. And then you were probably obsessed with winning. Oh, what? But you were still willing to eat that apple pie. So from the four years away from the sport, what happens is, because you have to, so this is after the band and it's after the band. So that exactly, that probably took a huge emotional toll. Oh, a huge emotional toll for one. People often eat emotion. Oh, that's me all day. So what happens is, and taking consideration that from college through my first half of my professional career, from to 2006, you're training every day. You're burning high levels of calories, right? So now in 2004, it all stops. So as a young athlete, I was just eating whatever I want to eat because I was already burning all those calories at a high rate. But then when my four years, in that four years, I was still eating whatever I wanted to eat, but I wasn't burning those calories the same way I was burning those calories. So then now the weight started coming and creeping up on me. So then now I had to figure out how to get it off me. So then I changed my whole perspective of diet and I turned it into a lifestyle. Tell me, what'd you do? I got this book that was called diet for your blood type. Oh, sure. Yeah. Peter, a demon. I think something like that. Yeah. So then I started kind of reading and researching more about what would be better for me. And I started just eating better, like intake and better proteins, smaller amounts of carbs, regulating how I eat throughout the day, intermittent fasting, early in the mornings, and then eating a nice sized lunch, drinking more water than snacks between meals. Dinner would be proteins again in smaller carbs. So I wanted to sleep on them, eating at a reasonable hour before it's time for bed. You know, those kind of things did the traditional things. And then on top of that, me starting to work out again, man, it made such a difference in my life. I think to be honest, me changing the way I ate my habits and turning into a lifestyle, that is what gave my career so long, Jebady. That's cool. Yeah. That's cool. And then do you still have those dietary habits? So before I ask you that, did you have to count your macros? Did you need, did you know how many carbohydrates you needed for refueling? Was it that scientific? Or was the science really in the cadence and the start and all the other things? Versus, the individuals say, okay, well, you eat so that you feel fueled or was that very defined as well? It all evolved. So it started off, me and I even know what macros were to the point of later on, my career as I became an older athlete, more season-athlete, understanding the macros. Sorry, Steve. I'm like sure. Exactly. Go on with sure. And from that point on, like, I felt better. I felt stronger. I fatigue less. Like, I felt better when I had a healthier lifestyle than I even did when I was a younger athlete at 21 years old. Was there anything in particular that you think? Was there something like that you do now? That you know, this is what you do. I'm maybe not. That you have your breakfast of X-y and Z and you put in some magic berry powder and this is the thing that you know. Is anything like that? So I always have dehydrated like vegetables, right? Ground up, super green, basically. And I would take that in the morning. I would intimate fast in the morning, even through my workouts, I may have a protein shake or something like that. And this is when you were sprinting. This is when I was sprinting. And this is what I do now too, because it's just my body just used to it. You know, like, of course I can get up in the morning. Like, like, a pancake is a one of them. But I don't know, be hard to sprint on pancake. I know, right? It would be very hard to sprint on pancakes. Like I said, I'm remembered, it's all going to show. You got to get out there on that track and you got to wear a Spandex suit. So everyone's going to see if you're in shape or not. So I had to make sure aesthetically I looked the part, but I also felt the part. And that's what was important to me. Because if you look good, you feel good. If you feel good, you're going to do good, right? That's right. So you pretty much moved to a whole food, more whole foods diet. Would you say that the carbohydrates were lower for you? Where were they when you were training? Again, as a more mature athlete, you probably have to be more attentive to what you were eating. Carbs are like an addiction for me. I'm really even now. Yeah, if I have a piece of bread or pizza or... It's all downhill. Yeah, I want more. Even if I start eating sweets, I have another and I have another and I have another. It does something to my brain. It just switches on that I want more and more and more and more of it. So if I stay away from it or if I kind of substitute it for something else, it helps me kind of regulate my body. That's interesting. And I think that there's evidence to support that in terms of balancing your macronutrients. I mean, do balance it with protein, do balance it with fat, or you just know not to eat carbs by yourself otherwise, or carbs by themselves and by yourself. So more proteins. But now I'm trying to figure out, maybe you can help me with that. Be a pleasure. I'm trying to figure out, do I want to go pest-cutarian, do I want to go vegan? Do I want to try something differently or not going vegan? Okay, cool. We're not doing that. And now I'm going vegan. So now for you, friends. But what we will do, you know what? We will do is I'm going to connect you with the head, our head nutritionist, Julie Mitchell, and we'll put together a nutrition plan for you. That's also. And we would love to do that for you. And what we could do is we'll get your baseline blood work and then you got some and then we'll put you on a nutrition plan and follow it up. I would love to do that for you. Okay. So all longevity. I do think, again, adding in a balanced whole food diet will be great. But for your muscle mass and what I think that you want to accomplish and who knows, you might be competing again. I know, right? We want to maintain healthy skeletal muscle for you. Let's go. Did you supplement? I know there are certain supplements that were approved. I think Crete was in Crete and is being approved. There are certain supplements that you loved or was it very much the simpler the better? Yeah, I liked the protein shakes. But at that point, I'm not going to do it in maybe way proteins back then. Yeah. I liked the pre workout. Same. Same. I used pre workout powders to the stage. Do you have a favorite? I use a handful. Yes, what is called? No, I mean, I use a different. I've been using. So I use first form makes a great pre workout. First, was it a first form? First form? Yep. I've heard them. I also use a hundred and ten percent. Okay. Amazing iced tea. It's like, it tastes like I'll give you some. It's amazing. Ice tea flavor. Those are the two that I've been cycling through right now. Pre pre workout. So I use a brand called Nutrified. I've never heard of them. Yeah, they're a small group company. They're growing. They have some international arm links too. What I love about is that they help you go in there and kind of formulate what you want to your own workout. That's cool. So that's what I love about it. I was like, because you know, sometimes it could be some workouts in the cake. It's a little too jittery and then sometimes it could work out to definitely make me jittery. But you know, I like that. We can't get to the right time, right? Because you get to work out. Like, I'm going to time this. So my kids are going to school now and just, you know, scoop it in by the same way. Yeah. Yeah. They're amazing. That's cool. So they allow you to formulate it. So if you like beta alanine or whatever it is. Yes, exactly. So I have some that are that's cool. Stimulates and non-stimulates in them. And then I can go out there and do the workout. If I want to get to workout at night, I could do a non-stimulate and still workout at night. Sometimes I get in when I can't get in when I can. That's admirable. Because it's tough. It's tough to train on night. It is. You know, when I was competing, I was doing pushups and situps to put myself to bed. Because my mind was thinking so much. So I would just get a hundred pushups, two hundred situps and I'd be like, all right, I'm good. Light out. Go to sleep. So is that what helped you call me your mind? Yeah. Yeah. Tax my body. What call my mind? Isn't that interesting? People will try all these different things. And you know, that's why I asked you about meditation meditation is great. But at the end of the day, if you are physically pushing yourself, you cannot do anything else. You can't be thinking, I mean, at some point you were so exhausted. That you're good. Yeah. That's it. That's exactly I'm done. Yeah. So any other supplements, the way protein shake, you just kept it simple, no, fish oil, anything like that. Fish oil? Yep. Still taking fish oil now that is day. Good. Um, I would go on this site called metabolics, right? And they're all like natural ingredients pressed into these pills, but the pills were like so big. You know what I mean? Like, you got to take a time in these. The children has their yeah. Yeah. So it's been times where I did show. Like how do you get a pattern on my bag all? But it, um, you know, trying to stay natural as possible in them situations because when you deal with like a water or a side of it, so tough. So what Justin is talking about is these professional organizations for athletes, but it's so and I have some professional athletes in my, in my practice and even to put them on progesterone, which is, you know, you show a low progesterone and a woman or even low testosterone. It's nearly impossible to get that in those. It is. And there's stigmas of if they're on it, even though they need it. Exactly. It's very difficult. Very hard. And then sometimes you got a request for a TUE and then within a TUE, they can deny it and then you still can't use it. And TUE is a, it's a form that says I would like to use this, this, this, this, this, this reason. Yes. Um, it's, it's scary because there's even certain over-the-counted medications that you can't use because they can mask other drugs. So like, let's say like, night quill, like, which is something you can just get right now. Yeah. You can't use that. It's like a hard hit. Right? So it's really careful. That'd be really, really, really careful. Clareton D, really careful. It's not unbelievable. That is. And I think it's because it's scary because they give no recommendations. That's it. They just tell you what you can. Right. So that when you're stuck and you don't know what to use, you know, um, I, I really like your Twitter. Anyone who's listening, you guys should check out your Twitter. You use your platform to really speak up for people. And when I say people, I saw on Twitter that you had posted about how Olympians should be paid. Yeah. And I just want to mention that because while there's probably only a handful of Olympians, I think it, it brings a point up that's really important. And the point is, from my perspective, taking young individuals, and I want to say exploiting them. We love the Olympics, but there's a lot of money that comes in and when individuals are young, they don't necessarily know. Yeah. I'd love for you to challenge about that. Well, let's take it back a little bit further. So the Olympics came around and they kind of like coexisted with AAU, amateur, you know, athletics. So they all took that same ideology back then, which was, you know, racing compete for the glory, because you can't get paid. Right. So the legacy will live on. Now we're in an era where that doesn't really exist anymore. You know, like, yeah, you're going to, you're going to get the prestige of winning a gold medal, but these kids got to pay their bills. They got to pay dock, they got to pay not to dock to their coaches or agents. They got to do all these things. And they're not making a dime from the Olympic Games. The Olympic organizations make a lot of money. They make a lot of money. And yeah. Yeah. So so on top of that, now they announced that, you know, track and feels one of the first sports. Olympic sports is going to get paid, right? Now, mind you, track and feels probably more the most successful glamorous Olympic sports. You have so many other sports. Totally. And they want to pay them $50,000 for a gold medal. In my mind, I'm thinking, all the hard work, the blood, sweating tears, these young athletes put in sacrifice of a sacrifice. Exactly. If they don't have a decent sponsorship that's backing them and they make this team. And they want to go metal. They can't even afford a home. They said, you know what, they can't even afford a home, a car. You know, what is that going to do for them? You at least had to put in a way to that moment in time that they worked so hard for. It should help change their life. And it's trajectory where I can say, okay, here you are. You won the Olympic gold. You sacrificed so much for this moment in time. We're going to celebrate by giving you a lot of money that would help. Get you a car. Help, get you a home. Help. But should it make a quality life? But why shouldn't individuals be paid if they're training for the Olympics or going to that? Why? I understand what the tradition is. Is they're training for the glory, but couldn't it be a paid position? It should be a paid position. So they like meaningful. So what happens is, says you can track and feel the Olympic organization and relies on, let's say Nike's, the Adidas, the rebarks, the Brooks, the Hukas, all them, all the companies that are shoe companies to contract these athletes. So happens is, but then they're contract, let's say you're with Nike. Nike will pay you in a lot of money if you go out and win the Olympic gold medal. So that's what the Olympics is banking on. That you already have a contract that's going to get you this far. So why do we have to pay you? But I feel like such a, such a sham. Yeah. These athletes sacrifice so much. They've taken away from their families, their own kids. They put their body to the test for this moment to happen and they can show nothing for it. And I mean, look, they can't even take the Olympic gold medal and go take it somewhere and swap it out for money. The percentage of gold is even in the Olympic medal now. It's so small in my new. Now refund is exactly right. Yeah. Yeah. Before back in a day, that's what I thought was gold. They back in a day was gold. But now they have taken it down so far that it doesn't, it's the money you get for that gold medal is because of the prestige of that gold medal. That's really it. That's it. But it's worth it, isn't it? It's so worth it. It's so worth it. It is. Spoken like a true competitor. It is. What's next for you? Like you said, just I think I want to activate my humanitarian side more. Inspiring athletes, I've been doing a podcast, podcast called Ready Set Go that kind of caters towards the track of field world to get my voice out there. Tell the stories of young athletes also. And doing speaking engagements as you know, which you are phenomenal. I appreciate that. You are a phenomenal at natural. I asked him so he was, I've seen Justin speak before and also you're a really good storyteller. Thank you. And I asked you if you had been trained. And you were professionally trained, but you are extraordinary. Thank you. You know, we are having a summit or forever strong. Some I would love to have you speak there. It's going to be here in Houston. Yeah, Ben will be there. Let's do it. Yeah. I love to have it. Okay. Love to have you there. So you're speaking. What else is, what else is on the horizon for Justin Gallon? Get an acclimated to the city of Houston. Happy to have you. Working on some investments. Cool. So yeah, and just living life right now. Those things. I'm really just really trying to focus on and not trying to become a jack-a-all trace, but a king, you know, I'm saying in certain realms that I'm working on right now. Do you think it's easy to get dialed in when you pick something? Yes. Yeah, it does. I just have to pick the right thing. Yeah. Well, listen, do you believe that there's, um, that you get a sense of where the direction is that you should be going? Yes. Like if it should be writing, if it should be speaking, do you feel drawn to any of those things? Yes. Working with people like you and Ben, you give me clarity to understand the environment that I could potentially be really good in. You know, um, that helps me always. That's exactly how Tracon Field was for me. When someone laid out Tracon Field and said, this is Tracon Field, X, Y, and Z, I can look at and say, okay, cool. So if I do this, this will make me successful. Yes, do that. If I do this, this and this, it'll maybe unsuccessful. Yes. So now I know what my threshold is. Now I know what my borders are. Now I can be able to work with in that realm. And then I will give my all to it. That's how that's how I operate. And it's extraordinary. It's extraordinary. I'm really excited to see what's to come for you and all the things that you're doing, um, with the speaking and also you're very active on Instagram and I think the podcast is really great. Like you, even though I'm not necessarily in Tracon Field, but you guys have a very good dynamic and there's a lot of good just information and insight. I try to, I try to help it to relate to an audience who's not really into the Tracon Field space too. So we did just this new episode with a guy named Matthew Hutchinsmith, who's from a great Britain. And he was a child phenom, right? He ran very fast 44 seconds. This is amazingly fast for any 400 meter runner. But he did it at the age of like 18 years old, right? Young. And as any young athlete who doesn't have a mentor or people around him, like, he crashed and burned, right? Because he had so much success and he thought he was untouchable. And then he got to a point where he thought about taking his life. Like he really tried to take his life. You know, he said, if I had a gun around, I'd probably be with a bit of my choice, but I took pills. And the moment he did that, he actually said, it wasn't because I didn't like who I was or I was sad. He'd said, because I was lonely. And when you win, you're lonely at the top. And when you're losing, you're lonely at the bottom. So he said, he, all the people around him, family, girlfriend, he said, none of them got understand what he was going through. He made him feel alone. And then when he had everything that was ripped away from him, shoe sponsors, ships, deals, his coach that he was with. Now he has control of his destiny. And now he's back on pace. He just won the silver metal at the last world championships. Now he's gunning for the gold. So like stories like that can transcend track and field. Yeah. Those are stories that teach you about how to be able to stay committed and diligent in life and help you become strong. And that's what I try to put out there for these young athletes. Like, because our sports such an individual sport and we don't talk about certain things in our sport and we kind of like make it taboo about how much this person's getting paid or how much, you know, how many races this person's going for. You know, I mean, if those stories were put out there more, these athletes would learn that you're not alone. There's so many other people that go into the same thing you're going through. Good or bad. You're not alone. I love that. Justin Galen, thank you so much for being in the guest on the show. You are a phenomenal human and I cannot wait for the world to get more of you. Thank you so much. Thank you for having me.

The power nap is interesting. Does it have to be 20 minutes? If you're tired enough, could you fall sleep for 10? Mm-hmm. What's so interesting about naps is maybe even less is beneficial and in a little bit of a different way. Research from MIT just revealed that brief naps. I'm talking seconds moments of sleep over the course of the day. Allow you a tiny bit of what we call hypnagogia sleep. It's that way station from sleep to wakefulness or the other way. It's that way station between wakefulness and sleep. And we're finding the research is showing that moments seconds in hypnagogia sleep is associated with bursts in creativity in the ability to come up with solutions to complex problems. And what I love about that research is it really lowers the stakes. So many people say, oh, I can't nap. I've seen the research I wish I could, but I can't. And what that says is, don't worry. If you can get a couple minutes, you are in great shape to, you know, crush the rest of your day. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter when you do it. The ideal time for nap is in the dip in our circadian rhythm in the afternoon, which we all experience, whether you're a true evening person or a true morning person, we all simply experience a dip in our alertness in the afternoon. Why? Because we've been up for, you know, so many hours. So far in the day, we've consumed a lot of information. There's a small drop in our core body temperature in the afternoon. So it's kind of the perfect storm for a nap. And that's also a really good litmus test for whether you're getting enough sleep. How do you feel in the afternoon? Are you exhausted? Are you like, listen, I need something to get me through. That's a really good brahmeter for whether you're getting enough sleep at night. 20 minutes is considered a power nap. So moments are have been shown to be beneficial. And then what we call a power nap, what is you just go under the bed? Can you imagine? Are you guys just give me a second? And my husband's doing, he could fall asleep right here for two minutes. I love it. I love it. But he means a lot more. He will get it once he's done with his residency. Yes. He's doing such an amazing job. And remember, these periods of life are fortunately, fortunately, short-lived for many of us. The reality is most of us are not getting enough sleep. And I don't want anyone to feel bad. Is there listening to this going, I wish I get more sleep? Is there a way to recover? And I don't just mean in the short term, the brain function, the executive function, from years of lack of sleep of doing all of the things I'm not from being in high school. All of the research is showing that sleep, the quantity and quality of our sleep at night is a significant predictor of our health or well-being today tomorrow and well into the future. But importantly, sleep is not going to be perfect every night. And that's because sleep is part of the fabric of the human condition. And stress is all around us. I think now more than ever. And if you've been experiencing stress, you could have done everything else right. But you go into your bedroom and you slip into in between the sheets and you toss and turn. And it could be because of something a co-worker said, maybe stress that you weren't managing over the course of the day or some negative experiences you approach bedtime. A scary Netflix show, the list goes on. But yeah, those definitely don't watch those. Sometimes there are things that are out of our control. Do you have tips or tricks? I mean, I want to share mine because I have a handful that I think will solve everybody's sleep problems. It doesn't include alcohol. Number one, sheets. I know that sounds ridiculous, but the sheets have to be cool and they have to be really so key. Again, maybe it's a personal preference. It just makes if you are physically so comfortable. That's what I couldn't agree more. And you want your bedroom to be the place that you look forward to. I can tell that you love your sheets and what a beautiful hack. That's one thing that's easy to change. Sometimes it's hard for all of us to go out and get a new mattress. But by the way, we should be sleeping on a mattress for maybe seven, maybe eight, maybe nine years, but not much longer than that. But read it some research recently and we found that one in three Americans have had their mattress for far too long. But a mattress is expensive. And I think some of the other elements of your bedroom environment, your pillows, your sheets. You can upgrade. And they don't have to be expensive. But I do encourage go to whatever store, fine sheets that you love, just like you love yours. And you want to look at your bed and want so badly to get it. And look forward to sleep. Does it matter the kind of mattress? Does it matter if it's firm or not firm? Is there any data that would support people sleep better with X for at a 5% in-cline on a pillow? We are actually doing some of these studies right now to look at the best sleep surfaces and the components of an ideal mattress. Springs, what is the top or those types of questions that stay tuned? But in the bottom line, there is a lot of individual preference. However, if you're talking about a really plush surface versus a really firm surface, there is a lot of individual difference. And some people really look forward to a plush, you know, would love a plush experience, meaning something very soft. Others much prefer a firm surface. And I do think that your sleep position matters. So if you're a side sleeper, imagine your body on its side, on the mattress. Are you a side sleeper? I am a stomach sleeper. You amazing. You're part of the minority. There aren't a lot of stomach sleepers. I don't even know how that is possible. Now I think it's quite fascinating that we all have these preferences that we just move into. I'm a side sleeper. And specifically, I kind of curl into a fetal position. Covered by pillows. My husband gives me such a hard time for. He's a one. And I have like 16 on my side. We think about the kisser. Then what position is this? That is it's so funny. There's actually a scientific research on this. One of my favorite studies looked at different sleeper positions and had all these cute names for all the different types. And that is called the Starfish Pose. My kids are 100% Starfish fish. Is she also? No. My husband doesn't move. He's a box sleeper. Okay. Interesting. You both, you have two starfish. That's so interesting. And this research was it was interesting. They delivered the big five personality assessment and then asked questions about your sleeper position. They found that extra words were associated with Starfish Pose. It was more likely to be an extra word if you slept as a starfish. There you go. Two extra words. Maybe on your hand. And what about the rest? The idea of the other. I think you're more introverted. If you sleep like I do actually, which is true. I think I'm an extraverted introverted type, but the fetal position you're a little bit more introverted. I'm faced down. Nobody touched me. I'm just in my silky sheets. I love my mask. I love my mask. I love my mask. I love my mask. I love my mask. I love my mask. I love that so much because that is your routine. And what you've actually done is you've classically conditioned yourself to put in your earplugs, put on your eye mask, slip into your sheets, assume your position, and go to sleep. And these little things make such a difference. And what I also love about that routine is you can take it with you on the road. I do. I told you. There we go. It's days packed. It's beautiful. And then you can have some protection. Because you never can guarantee a quiet bedroom when you're traveling. The light environment so many even fairly nice hotels often have that sliver of light. What about their quality? We do see a strong association between the quality of our environment and our sleep. So if there's poor air quality, if it's stuffy, if there are allergens, we do see that that does interrupt our sleep. So buying an air purifier that can promote good air flow and air quality can be useful. Do you usually use air filter? I do. I do like a not the part of my sleep routine. I also do your plugs in my mask every night. I've brands that I love and I know that I can there are my go-to things and I take those with me when I travel. I also do like a little bit of background noise. And so that is one nice thing that an air purifier provides is a little bit of background noise to attenuate any interruptions, a siren, even a town over. You can sometimes hear the country or if you're in an urban environment, they're definitely going to be noises. Is there any data that would support an enhances sleep or does something to the brain while the brain is going through cognitive processes or contamination research to show that pink noise, which are generally kind of natural sounds, can be associated with memory consolidation. What's the difference between pink and white noise? Basically a different frequency of sound. White noise tends to be a little bit more of a static or mechanic noise, whereas pink noise is typically a natural sound. It doesn't make sense because white noise is a little jarring. Yes. So one of the biggest differences is that pink noise has more power at lower frequencies. It's typically natural sounds, rain or a babbling brok, and research has shown associations between the use of pink noise and memory consolidation.

If you have perceived stressors and challenges in your life and traumatic experiences and you're operating on a fight or flight circumstance, you know if I showed you a certain amount of neutral faces. You, I'm just using an example, compare to someone that has not experienced stressors and is experiencing a pretty comfortable life, you will perceive the neutral faces as more threatening than the person that did not experience those stressors, right? So has that going to affect a relationship? We're going to look at people as dangerous. Right? We're going to look at our environment as dangerous. We're going to look at our social constructs as untrustworthy. Thank you to Vivo Health for sponsoring this episode of the show. I have found my favorite workout shoe and that is the Vivo Barefoot shoe. And by the way, Vivo Barefoot makes a ton of different kinds of footwear for your kids to regular gym shoes to hiking boots to casual wear. Why I love Vivo Barefoot? Let me just tell you. I do a lot of number one, a plyometrics, number two, heavy lifts. And this shoe is so versatile that I feel that I can sense the ground, meaning my stability is good with the shoes and my strength ends up being good and I'm not worried about it. Am I going to roll an ankle or is the heel of the shoe to high? Studies show that by wearing the Vivo Barefoot shoe, foot strength can increase by up to 60%. This is incredible. This is like regenerative footwear in a box. You can also try it for a hundred days risk free. VivoBairfoot.com slash Dr. Lion and get a 15% discount. Use the code Dr. Lion 15. My listeners will get a 15% discount. Love these shoes. Your family will love these shoes. It is an amazing, amazing gift and a gift to yourself. So head on over to VivoBairfoot.com slash Dr. Lion. Dr. Dominic Sportelli. Thank you so much for coming on the show. We're going to talk about all things psychiatry and beyond. Welcome. Thank you so much for having me just to have this platform. I'm so passionate about behavioral health and psych. And I think, I mean, medicine in general is pretty misunderstood, but I just feel like psychiatry and behavioral health is so misunderstood. And excited to be here. Maybe clear up some things. I love that. We're going to talk science. We're going to talk psychiatry. We're going to talk about behavioral health, all the things. But before we do that, now here's the rub. You've had a ton of experience. I think you co-hosted the doctor's TV show. You've done a ton of media. And you have done a ton and still do a ton of clinical practice, which means that you've been in the trenches. Truthfully, psychiatry is not an easy field. And before we talk about psychiatry, I just have to know your backstory. Why psych? Oh my god. So yeah, thank you. And if anything, I think I really want my story to encourage people, if anything. So I was the guy that no one thought could make it to medical. And for all the young kids out there that want to be doctors, physicians, or whatever, whatever. I want to give you this story for that reason. So I grew up and little self disclosure here, which I'm totally cool about, and maybe helps people to incredibly anxious kid. Like when I tell you anxiety, overwhelming anxiety, literally the age of 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, to the point of OCD, right? And we can talk about how OCD and anxiety are correlated. But for just so you understand, before I left my house every day, I used to have to recite a certain amount of things to my parents, before I even left the home. And then once I was at school, I had to call my parents five times a day. If I broke a pencil at school, I correlated it with some sort of someone I love getting hurt. I mean, these are very typical OCD presentations. And of course, I know that now clinically, visit child, I was scared to death. And so in that regard, I suffered with a lot of psychopathology growing up, regarding anxiety and then it sort of manifested into depression. And I wasn't the greatest student, probably because of that. And long story short, I'm in biology class, high school. And it's a basic high school biology class, and they're talking about cell division, and the basis like myosis, and my toesist, and all that stuff, you remember that all that, right? And I remember looking around the room and saying, why isn't everyone here so ridiculously enamored by what they're hearing right now? Because I have this body and brain. And my heart is beating about 80 times per minute without me telling it to. I'm breathing, I'm sending oxygen to all my cells. Just to have the conversation or the thought that I'm having right now is requiring millions upon millions of neurotransmitters and just the cascade of orchestration just to be alive. Why isn't everyone so enthralled with this? And that's when I said I would love to learn how to be a doctor and figure this out. And understand the human body, right? It's like, you know, I was that guy, like I just needed to know how it worked. Maybe that was part of my anxiety, I don't know, right? Like looking back now as a trained behavioral health specialist, I can sort of like deconstruct it and say, hey, anxiety is all about control, maybe I want to control, and I want to learn about the human body. So long story short, I really wanted to be a physician and I started reading books and very young, very young, you wanted to do very soon. Yeah, but here's the kicker. I don't have good grades. I wasn't a great student. I wasn't that, I wasn't that student, you know, the one that's highlighting everything and getting straight A's and, you know, so I was embarrassed to tell anybody that even wanted to go to medical because I knew what happened as I'd get laughed at and, you know, did you have any siblings? I had, I have older siblings, I've had about 10, 11 years older than me, who actually struggled with addiction that I experienced growing up. And we could talk about that too, but, um, so here I go into college, right? Well, first of all, I need to back up because my high school guidance counselor actually said, you know, dumb, I don't really think your college material. So I was like, okay, there's my first shoot down, right? And what I kept saying to myself was, and this is what I want others to hear is that, what is this person know me? How do they, how do they know, how do they know my capabilities? How do they know, I mean, yes, sure they see test grades and things like that, of course, and that's an, I'm going to associate program director now. I'm doing interviews for people that want to come into the program, right? So, so the tides have kind of flipped, but I was the guy saying, how could someone else sort of tell me what I'm capable of, what I'm not, and what my passions are? So I went to college and when I went to college, you know, I tried, but again, not a great student. I never really learned how to learn if that makes any sense. Of course, of course. So my undergraduate career wasn't the greatest. Where'd you go? I went to molecular state university. So I went to a state college again. Didn't have great grades in high school, went to a state college. My career state was great, it was a great, great college. Had your depression anxiety, you've cleared up. Struggled with it, struggled with it all, pretty much my whole young adulthood. And, um, but loved medicine, loved science, loved biology class, you know, and, so I struggled, I got about a 3.2 GPA, not ashamed to say it, but you're not getting into medical with that, not happening. Right. So high school guidance counselor, Dom, you're not college material. College counselor, pre-med counselor, you're not getting a medical body. Sorry. Yeah, I think about something else. Right. So, so here we go, um, shoot down again. I said, you know what, I'm applying, I'm doing this as what I want to do. I filled out over 100 applications to medical schools at that time. And that time, that was a lot right now. Oh yeah. Oh, it was hard. I mean, you know, the stats back then were, you know, 6,000 applicants for 100 spots, you know. So, 100 applications. And, um, I'm going back to snail mail days, right? I'm going to age myself. We won't tell you. Look great. And, and literally 100, no, sorry. Not going. You're not getting it. And, everyone said no. Every single one. And I got every letter. So now I'm just getting reinforced. Wow. I mean, hold the cow. Maybe maybe I need to rethink this. And then I said no, no, no, no, no. I love this. This is my passion. This is what I need to do. So then I really said, what do I need to do here? What do I have to do? You got serious. I got serious. I get even more serious. And I did a master's degree at Montclare State University in biology. And, um, and I did very well. You know, my, my GPA was much better. Like, 3-8 or 3-9 or something like that. So here I go again, time to apply for medical schools again. And rejection, rejection, rejection, weight list. Ooh, this is good. Yeah, that's it. Weight list, weight list, weight list. Died on the weight list. All right. So now I have a master's degree with a really good GPA. I still want to be a physician. I'm working as a fitness trainer, by the way. Just to get me through all this. Right. So I'm working as a fitness trainer. So, um, I wasn't getting give up. And I had just about every single person in my life saying, you know, you need to rethink this. And, um, I started to think outside the box. I'm like, okay, I did my undergrad. I did my GPA, a good GPA in grad school. I'm still getting knows. What do I have to do? So I spoke to a friend of mine that was in medical school at the time. And I said, listen, what's the hardest class you're taking right now? Just tell me what that class is. And he said, oh, it's no doubt it's biochemistry. It's medical school level biochemistry. It kills everybody. It's brutal. That's okay. So I enrolled, non-metric in a biochemistry course, graduate level medical level. And I used it because I just needed to do that. I already had a master's at the time. So I just paid for this and just did it, not going toward it, agree or anything. And I said, all right, I'm showing them that I could do this. So stop telling me now. So that's one way to do it. So I get in an interview. And I go to that interview. And it was actually fun. I'll never forget this interview. And I'm sitting across from the interviewer. And he takes my file literally and he throws on the table and he sits back. And he says, Dominic, so this is like the third time you're applying to our program. I see that you were waitlisted in the past. You got an interview. And he just looked directly my eyes and he said, what's going to happen when we give you a rejection letter this time? And you know, kind of the blood drained from my head. And I was like, oh, but I thought about it. And I said, I said, you know what? I'm going to find another way to prove myself. And I'll re-apply next year. I love that. And he said, okay, shook my hand. Left the interview. And I got an acceptance letter. Oh, what an amazing story. Yeah. So, but what were you thinking? What was I thinking? Yeah. I mean, you've applied that was your third time applying to medical school. It takes a very strong person to be able to manage one rejection. I can accept you should be able to get back up. But two rejections. And then willing to go into it for the third time. That's a lot. Yeah. What I was thinking was, he's, I'm going to do this if it kills me. I'm going to do because because I want to be a doctor, I want to be a physician. I want to help people. And I feel like I'd be good at it. I just felt it in my bones. I just love it. I feel like I'd be good at it. It was the right thing to do. So, and then again, I just had that feeling of everyone else is telling me, no, but two, they really know me. Do they really know what I'm capable of? And this is the best part. The best part is I get into med school. And I am so appreciative of this that I did so good in med school. And it wasn't like, and I told you, so I'm not an I told you so kind of guy. But maybe, and I told you so for me, because I was like, I'm tutoring kids that went to I. These, that probably got in on their first shot. A.S. their undergrad, A.S. their MCATs. And I'm helping them now. Because I had to learn how to learn. I had to learn how to struggle through that. And I think that gave me this resilience, and appreciation to be at a level that I was just so in love with what I was doing. So, Neeles has said, I did really, really well in medical school. And we, so for those people listening medical schools, and I didn't see. Yeah. What was your trick for learning? Because you had never been a good student, been very challenging. You did great at biochemistry, which is unusual for anybody. How did you turn it around in terms of a learning perspective? It's such a good question. And this is what I think happens to a lot of kids that have difficulty with learning. These people don't understand that you actually have to learn how to learn. And I said that a few times here. You know, I used to be under this weird impression, because I had friends that could do this, where they read a chapter, and they take a test, and they're fine. And I was never that guy. He was read a chapter and take a test, right? So I had to teach myself how to learn. So my way was getting a dry raceboard, reading a chapter at the physiology book, and writing down on that dry raceboard, all the points that I thought were important, it could be tested on, and then a race that dry raceboard and do it again, and do it again, and do it again, and do it again, until I knew it. Now here's another very, very, very important part of this. Is that something else that I realized was that when you go sit in a lecture in medical school, that lecture is teaching you the topic, the way that he thinks it should be taught, right? But not everybody fits into that mold to understand the way that they're teaching. So what I would do is I literally had four, I could tell you which one's I were, I had four physiology textbooks, and what I would do is read the same chapter on the topic in each one, and I would go, oh my goodness, that author explained that horribly, and that doesn't make any sense. And then I would open another one, and I would be like, that author did a really good job. Now I get it a little bit better, and then I would read another chapter, and be like, oh, why didn't they just explain it this way from the beginning? So what I realized is, is that using different authors, styles of learning, just to have an open mind to that, and then that changed everything from me, everything. So when there was a topic to study, I would read maybe three or four different chapters and three or four different books, and see which one I would, which one fit me. Thank you to Ned for sponsoring this episode of the show. I love something called mellow magnesium. Ned makes a mellow magnesium, and basically the stuff tastes great, it was designed to address your energy, your calmness. So basically, I take it in the evening, it has a blend of three different forms of key lady magnesium. It has GABA, L-theonine, which is great for relaxing, it even has a couple amino acids and over 70 trace minerals. Again, it improves my sleep, helps me chill out, maybe even helps strengthen my immunity. I will tell you what, it's a great, healthy way to end your evening. And full transparency, Ned shares all of its third party lab testing, which is pretty phenomenal. If you are wondering, Ned's products also have over 5,000 five star reviews, and they have generously offered 15% off, Ned products, with the code, Dr. Lyon, go to hello, Ned slash doctor, Lyon or enter the code, Dr. Lyon and check out that's HEOLO n ed.com slash Dr. Lyon for 15% off. How did you then pick psychiatry? Yeah, it's a psychiatry. I didn't want to be a psychiatrist. I did not want to be a psychiatrist. So here I am, I made it to medical school, so I'm going to be a medical doctor, right? And I want it to live her babies and I want to do surgery and I want to do all these idealistic stuff that people do when they go to med school and they want to be a doctor, right? So all of my friends were like, Dom seriously, you're going to be a psychiatrist, you just don't really. They totally did because because I was intrigued by the human mind and I was always paying attention to behavior and I was always paying attention to motivation and all these things. And plus don't forget all this stuff that I went through as a kid, right? I wanted to understand that and the anxiety and depression. And how did I get resolved? By the way, was there a resolution to this? Well, I think I think a lot of the OCD, I don't want to say a grad of it, but I sort of matured and became a little bit more self-confident and through a lot of pain and overcoming it. I certainly think that people need a lot of help with that now as a psychiatrist, like psychotherapy exposure and response prevention for ECT and even medications. So there are ways, it's not something that typically kids just grow out of, they probably do early intervention. I mean, looking back now, I say, wow, I could have really used some help. That's been a part of it. I think I'm a lucky one. I'm one of lucky ones that sort of made it through. I'm far from perfect now, not ashamed to say it. You know, I take an SSRI every day. So and that's helped me quite a bit too. And I want to talk about that too because there's no such thing as a magic pill in psychiatry, right? It's not like high blood pressure in medicine. It's very different. So, so psychiatry, here we go. So I want to be this idealistic doc. I want to do everything. My friends are telling me I'm going to be a psychiatrist in like no way. Not in a million years. I went to med school, psychiatry. It's not even real medicine. I said that. I did. I said it. That's it. I said it. So I enrolled and I got accepted into a family medicine program. And you enrolled in psychiatry too? Or you a family med? You just went straight down like like, but when you were doing it in med, it's family med. Okay, but when you were doing your rotations, what did you like? I liked everything. I liked everything. I did. I loved everything. And I was like, well, I think that's what I need to do. I need to be a family medicine doc. And this is the realization. And you know what's crazy is that looking back on this entire journey, I don't want to sound like some where we stern philosophy thing. I can. We'll take it. Man, every single thing happened for a reason. You know, every single thing happened for a reason. I wouldn't have done as good as I did in med school if I got handed if it was handed to me. I wouldn't have chose psychiatry if I didn't experience family medicine. Right? You know, everything happened for a reason. So so I'm in family medicine and I'm delivering babies. You know, like literally, literally, delivering babies, like 40 babies, a month scrubbing in on surgeries. You know, ICU call overnight, you know, pressures and keeping people alive on the vents. And it was amazing. I mean, I learned so much. But I'm in the clinic, right? We're doing our clinic days and people are coming in and they have high blood pressure and they have diabetes and they have common colds and they have little things here and there. And this is great. And I'm treating it. It's awesome. And then a patient comes in and they say, hey doc, you know, I know I'm here for for, you know, my blood pressure, but I'm so down. I'm so depressed. I'm so anxious. And then I just like these antennae would just go and I would want to listen and I would want to help them. And no one else was listening to them. And there's a shortage of psychiatrists as you know, they couldn't get help. They couldn't afford help. So now I'm listening to them and and more than anything, I understood it because I went through it. So, okay, cool, get good good. I'm good at that little kid or cadre of patients, right? So whatever, whatever, I still don't family medicine, family medicine. And then someone comes in and they say, you know, doc, I'm starting to hear voices. I'm starting to experience and then again, my antenna goes up and I'm perking and I'm going, I need to help this person. I need to learn more about why this is happening. And that's when I said, I need to do psychiatry. That's the path. Do you think that part of it is because the physical aspect is, and I see this gently more easily mastered. Someone has high blood pressure. It's 120 over 80. Okay, it's 140 over 90, we're going to give you meds. But the human mind is so, so difficult to master. Do you think it was a challenge or that it was you were interested in the pathology of the brain or was this something else? I think that psychiatry in and of itself, two physicians, two medically trained physicians, right? So these are people that are used to physics and chemistry and labs and x-rays and getting an answer. In psychiatry, there are very little answers, spoiler alert, right? Very little answers. And I think that's unbelievably daunting to the mind of the individual that goes to medical school. Because it's not an appendicitis that you can cut out. It's not a hypercolimea that you can treat. It's not a high blood pressure that you can give an anti-hypertensive for. It's so much deeper than that. And it's emotionally intensive and it's intellectually intensive. And I'm not saying physicians in general really in, right? But I think it's intimidating and daunting to a lot of people. Not to mention, let's add the stigma to it. Let's add the stigma of mental illness. Like we don't understand it. So, you know, oh depression, just cheer up. Oh, your anxious seriously stop worrying. You're hearing voices, you're crazy. Let's just lock you up somewhere. Right? So, I think it was very daunting for people. And I think that's that's generally why it wasn't a field at that time that a lot of people were going into. But for me personally, I got it. And I wanted to help these people. And even more so, that's what made me say. I need to do this because I would talk to my colleagues and I'd say, you know, I'm really interested in psychiatry. They go, are you crazy? Like why are you going into that field? Like what are you going to do? And I was like, well, I don't feel that way, which is even more of a reason to go to do it. So, another thing I'll never forget is knocking on the door of my family medicine program director. And sitting down across from him, who's, you know, this great family physician, you know, and saying, hey, Doc, thank you for having the in your program. I'm going to finish this year successfully. But I'm going to apply to psychiatry residency. And he looked, it's the stare. It's like 10 seconds stare, you know. And I was like, and you know what he said to me? He was great. He goes, Dominic, I don't know why anyone would want to go be a psychiatrist, but you need to do it. It's your passion. Go for it. I support you. So, I finished that year successfully. And then I was thankfully accepted to Robert Wood Johnson's psychiatry program, General Psychiatry. And then I finished that and then I did fellowship in child and that lesson psychiatry. So, here I am. So, that's my story. A little bit long-winded and sorry, but love it. I just, if anything, if it helps anybody, because, you know, well, I think it helps a lot of people because there's a huge stigma. I don't know if I, I mean, I told you, I don't know if the listener knows, but I trained in psychiatry for two years at the University of Louisville. And then I switched to family medicine. So, you and I did opposite type track, which is hilarious, which means you and I both did a much longer residency than we needed to, but the training that I received in mental health was extraordinary. And psychiatry, like you pointed out, is very misunderstood. It has a huge stigma. What do you feel some of the major misconceptions are of the science, the practice of psychiatry? I mean, let's face it. You are not the average psychiatrist. You could look at, I will say, you could look at a room of surgeons and you know what? These guys are such, oh, the orthochrome. Yeah, yeah. But I would say that you are not the typical psychiatrist, which also makes you a very good person to speak up about kind of the box that exists in psychiatry. Yeah. Right. So, here's one of the big problems with psychiatry now. There are a few number one. And I think, listen, you know, that old cliches, you can't make change unless you identify the problem. Right. And I think that's why it's important to say these things in a forum, like yours. So, number one, we've already talked about that each individual is completely unique. And we'll talk about the biosycossocial approach and how important that is to assessing each individual. But remember, you have medical students who are very medical minded who still like to fix things and they approach psychiatry in that way. And I'm telling everyone this out there that and I've been a psychiatrist for over a decade now and I'm a associate program director at a teaching program and I've worked in just about every level of psychiatry that you could imagine from inpatient to outpatient to addiction to emergency room psychiatry. Is that there truly is no magic pill? There's no medication that will cure any psychiatric illness. We have medications that help in, you know, I have a nice analogy for that, but but a lot of psychiatrists are still very reductionist and medically minded. Explain what that means. It means that if someone comes into your office and they say they're depressed and you say, okay, you took this questionnaire, you're checking everything for a major depressive episode, here's some prosack. Come back in two weeks. Let's see how you feel. And let's see how you do on that questionnaire. That is not going right. That is not going orc. Someone that's psychotic hearing voices delusional, apparently. We have anti-sacotics that are very strong medicines. All right, this person's hearing voices. Let's put them in a box of schizophrenia and let's treat them with a very strong anti-sacotic and let's just follow them updated. And see if that medicine stops the voices. Well, sure, we know that does reduce those positive symptoms of psychosis. But if you're not helping this person in just about every other sphere in their life, then you are going to crash and burn. Do you feel that that's because the brain is an organ and it's saying someone has pneumonia, you treat their lungs. Would you say it's because of that or that the illness is global in its influence? Yeah, I think so you're right. I think I think most physicians think exactly what you just said. You have high blood pressure, take this pill. You have a bacterial pneumonia, take this antibiotic. Your hearing voice is take this anti-sacotic where in and I think this might be a good segue to talk about the bio-sacos social model, is that it's very important and a gentleman by the name of George Engel came up with this model to assist behavioral health, which is unbelievably important. This is my quote, I'm going to be two quick analogies ready. So the DSM5, the diagnostic and statistical manual for psychiatry, is the psychiatry Bible for pathology and diagnosis. Now it's very, very, very important as physicians to classify behavioral health and illness. We have to have a name for the syndromes that we see. How can we communicate? Exactly. If I say this person is diagnosed with major depressed disorder recurrence severe with psychosis, as a clinician, you need to know what I'm talking about. I'm sorry. So we need those boxes, right? But to me, this is what I think. I think the DSM4 is like the primary color wheel, right? We're the primary color. There's only, there's not many primary colors. Reality is the Benjamin Moore color wheel. Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of shades and mutations. And I think somebody might be a little bit more to the red spectrum or the gray spectrum or the green spectrum, but reality is that, right? It's very hard to put things in very contained boxes. So the DSM is important, but it certainly does miss a lot, right? So so that being said, the bio-sychosocial model in psychiatry is so important. So every single person that comes to you, I don't care what that pathology is. If you're not looking first and foremost at their biology, now we know that behavioral health is genetic. We know this. There are so many studies that show that affect disorders by polar disorders. It gets a frendia, very, very inherent in generic. Genetic, I'm sorry. But we cannot, and then we say to ourselves, okay, if I take a dopamine blocker, I'm going to reduce the amount of the illusions or hallucinations in this individual. I'm saying things with an antipressant, if I increase serotonin and increase BDNF, reindraveneratrophic factor, I'm going to help this person. But if we're not looking at their social circumstances, what if you're in a terrible marriage? What if you have trauma from a childhood? What if you're being bullied? What if you're perception of the world is so skewed because of all of your experiences, which is, again, I'd love to talk about that, too. Definitely. How is a pill going to help, right? So you have to address those aspects of that individual's life or you're only doing a very small piece of the puzzle, right, to help them. If you're not, if you're not looking at their social circumstances, right, their socioeconomic status, their income, their education, their support systems, their peer groups who are they with, who are they surrounding themselves with. If you're not addressed, I'd drive at. Then you're not doing anything for these people. I have another analogy for you, I'm sorry. I think in analogies, you know, it's kind of a bit of a big thing, right? It's very actually helpful for the audience, as well as you know, of course. So when it comes to psychotropic medication, my analogy is this, let's just pretend that my job is to teach you how to ride a bicycle, the best possible way that you can ride a bicycle. That's my job. And I say, okay, I need to make it, but I notice the air in those tires is flat. I think okay, I could still teach you how to ride this bike, potentially, but it's going to be harder. The bumps are going to feel a little rougher. It's going to be harder to go up those hills. You might crash, right? You might affect the rest of the bicycle, right? There's going to be more stress on the other parts of the bicycle. So a medication in psychiatry to me is like making sure that the tires and the bicycle have the right air pressure. Okay. Now that's a very small piece of learning how to ride a bicycle. If I give you the appropriate medicine, it'll be easier to ride the bike. It'll be easier to go the bumps won't feel as harsh, right? It might be a smoother ride, but did I teach you how to ride the bike by putting air in the tires? No, I did not teach you how to ride the bike by putting air in tires. I made it easier for you. So that's how I approach psychopharmacology and the medicines that we have is I can make it a little easier for you with some of the psychopharmacology. But you also need to learn how to ride the bike. You need to learn how to live your life. And if you're not approaching all these other avenues, these other aspects of your life, the social, the interactive, the psychological, your coping strategies, your perspective on the world. Then I'm doing you a disservice by just putting air in the tires and giving you the bike and expecting you to learn how to ride. You know, there was when we were chatting about some of the things that you were, you know, that you and I were going to talk about. I have a list of great questions here. One of the things that, you know, I have personal questions, is it really it's to the environment that we live in now? The way in which we've been taught about stress, I feel as if the way in which we have been told and taught about our environment has actually made it harder to navigate. And I'm so interested in your perspective on stress, how have we evolved to handle it? Is it really this fight or flight that we keep hearing about? Is that accurate? Are there other ways that we can think about stress that we can navigate it? Yeah. Yeah. There's such good questions and so important. And that's why I love being here. Thank you for asking that question. Of course. So, let's go back to basics here and realize how complicated and simple at the same time that we are, right? And how it affects psychology and psychiatry and behavioral health and mental health. Evolutionarily, we are adaptive beings. We have to change based on our environment in order to survive. Now, the human mind and the human body is somewhat primitive in that respect. Because when it comes to survival, here's the truth. As amazing as we are as beings, physiologic beings, our survival mechanisms are really short-term. They are. They're short-term. And this is what I mean by this when it comes to stress. So, thousands and thousands and thousands of years ago or however far back you want to go, we develop this general adaptation principle. That was brought forth by an individual. Hans Celia. So, let's just go back when we were cave-women and cavemen if we felt a threat, what happened? Our body's experience to fight or flight phenomena. Okay. So, that flight or flight phenomenon means physiologic things now happen in the body based on what we're thinking. Okay. So, back then, if you were afraid that a tribe was going to throw a spear your way and you thought that then your body is going to change. And the way that your body changes is this huge survival sort of cascade. And it starts with, you know, all this fun stuff from medical school to thalamus and the hypothalamus and the corticotropin releasing hormone and telling our adrenal glands to produce north and north and north and north and north and south and changes blood flow. It changes blood flow to the muscles and removes it from our digestive system. It slows down digestion and emptying from the stomach and speeds up digestion in the colon and shifts blood vessels in the brain and where blood is going to flow. So, based on that thought that there's a fear that something is going to happen, our body just changed. Okay. Now, that's meant to be short-term. What do you mean by short-term? Short-term immediately. Get me out of this situation. Get me out of this situation now. Okay. I need to run. I need to fight. And in order to do those things, my body has just changed. Cortisol. You're flooded with cortisol at that time. You know, your adrenal glands flood cortisol. And what do we know about cortisol? Cortisol tells us all they ever to make more sugar. Right? Cortisol reduces the immune response. Reduce as IL6 and IL1 and TNF and, you know, all of these cytokines and immune mediators. So, but in the short-term, the short-term, the short-rate problem is, is what if you're under stress chronically? Right? So, even though we've been adapted to get out of these circumstances quickly, if necessary, our body does not know right now in the year 2024, whether we're being chased by a tiger, whether there's a tribe throwing a spirit us. Or we have a work deadline. Or our cell phones are pinging every three minutes. Right? Your body doesn't know that. All that it knows that needs to respond to a threat. It perceived threat. What a dops faster? Mind your body. What do you think a dops faster? That's that's easy. Your body. And that's part of the problem is that your body is responding subconsciously without thought. At that point, to the perceived threat, the subconscious threat. And that's an amazing question because it's responding subconsciously over and over and over for the exact reason is you don't have time to think in those situations. And evolutionarily, your body knows that. I can't sit here and calculate, well, maybe I should do this, maybe I should do that. As a matter of fact, blood goes away from your prefrontal cortex. And it just goes to the basic part of your brain, your mid brain, and your hippocampus, and your migdalene, all these parts of your brain that are like, look, you need to do this now. Or else. So it becomes subconscious. Now that's that autonomic nervous system response, right? That we all know about the sympathetic nervous system, the power sympathetic nervous system. So it seems as if it's black and white, but it's it. It's not. It's not. I mean, that sounds so great, right? And I think anybody watching your program right now that's taking an neuroscience course, or maybe neuroscientists out there, still really follow that paradigm of sympathetic, you know, is going to do all the things up in effort, nor up in effort, and heart rate increase, breathing, and creating shifting blood flow to various areas of the body, cortisol, and a million other things that take place. And then the sympathetic nervous system, you know, basically our vehicle system, that allows us to feel comfortable and relaxed and digest and slows down our heart rate, and makes us feel less guarded. You know, that's a very simple paradigm. And that's sort of what we've followed for quite a long time, but it's so much more complicated than that. And a few theories have been put forth, right? Based on that, like Steven Porter just for example, in the 1990s, put forth what was called the polyvagal theory. And, you know, it's not without controversy, and, you know, we can even get into that a little bit, but what Steven Porter just is saying is that, you know, it's more complicated in the sense that not only do we have fight or flight, but we have vagal branches that can also immobilize us, almost like old reptilian simple brains used to just immobilize and freeze. And why that's important, and ready to go down the rabbit hole, because here we go. Why that's important is this. Understand something that when we experience chronic stress or chronic trauma, and we have that autonomic nervous system that's just flooding our bodies with cortisol and up an effort and more of an effort. Eventually, you reach a state of exhaustion. And your body knows that. You know, I mean, we know as medical physicians, if you have too much cortisol, what happens? You're breaking down body tissues. You're in a catabolic state. We love to work out. I love to train. I don't want to be in a catabolic state. I want to be in an anabolic state. So, so now, some of these theories like polyvagal theory are saying, you know, you're going to go into a position of shutting down at this point. Your, your vagal system knows this and it's going to shut you down. And what I mean on him shutting down is a mobilization. This whole mental. Yeah, so in here, here we go. And also, we have to talk about this idea of chronic stress. Is that it's the perception of stress? Yeah. But if we, what if we change the perception of stress would we still have the same physiological responses? What can we do? I love it. What do you tell your, I mean, you know, your patients, what do you tell your friends? What do you, what are you going to tell the list of what can we do? I love it. You're brilliant. You're brilliant and you're leading me down the proper props here. So again, autonomic nervous system, fight or flight. If it continues, you go into a state of exhaustion and you'll probably shut down. And, and you know, shutting down is a very vague term. What does that even mean? So understand something and the viewers out there that I want you to understand is that this is a physiologic process. It's a physiologic and neurologic process. When you are in a fight or flight state, things change. For example, your visual acuity changes. You become able to see better for a very short time periods. Do you know that all of your senses change? So we know that the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, up frequencies of scary things. Um, not necessarily speaking tones, right? You're facial, muscles of facial expression change when you're in a fight or flight circumstance. This is all neurologicness. It's this is all in the data. So a point that I have is that when you're in a constant state of fight or flight, you are physiologically changing and your body is adapting to be prepared for a fight constantly. Now, how does that affect us day to day in person to person, right? It affects our thought process. And this is getting to your question. Okay. We also have something in our central nervous system called the particular activating system. Okay. And the RAS. And get this. And you know, when I first learned this stuff, I was like, well, this is wild, but we have so many things to process every single moment of every single day. Our bodies and minds in our senses or five senses are always scanning the environment for safety and comfort. Our particular activating system among other things is responsible for sleep wake cycles. It's responsible for, um, conscious awareness. It takes us through our REM cycles, right? But something that it also does that we've known in neuroscience is that it's a filter. And the reason that it's a filter is because we have so much input coming in all of the time. And the RAS is in the brainstem. It's in the anterior brainstem. It's a very small piece of our brain and then. And when is it fully developed? Thank you to Paleo Valley for sponsoring this episode of the show. Paleo Valley makes the best tasting beef sticks on the planet. And here's how I know. Because my children, who are very finicky eaters, ask for Paleo Valley beef sticks. By the way, not only are they 100% grass fed and grass finished. They are also a great source of protein. And they are fermented. They taste amazing. They have naturally occurring probiotics, which again could potentially be great for God health. Most importantly, they taste amazing. Absolutely love this grab on the go snack. In fact, I packed them with me everywhere I go. If you see me out, I might just be eating a Paleo Valley beef stick. They have omega-3 fatty acids, vitamins and minerals, CLA. And of course, bio-available protein doesn't matter what kind of nutrition plan you are on, these fit in great. You can grab yours. Head on over to PaleoValley.com slash doctor lion. That's PaleoValley.com slash doctor lion for a 15% off discount. That's a good question. We usually think that early 20s, about that time. Which again, we talk about kids, it's a little different. But now you're are you're a filter? Now think about a balancer at a door. Only letting in certain people, letting in certain clients. So your RAS is paying attention to some very specific cues. And guess what those cues are? Remember, this is about survival. Guess what those cues are. Emotional responses to circumstances. So what? Wait, say that again. That's so interesting. Emotional responses to circumstances. Meaning, if I see something that troubles me emotionally, my RAS is going to go ding, pay attention to that. Okay. So then what happens is, and that could be anything. That's the amazing thing about modern society as we get worked up over so many things now. This is why we are biased. And it's called the confirmation bias. The RAS is now choosing what we're going to pay attention to and what we're not going to pay attention. How fast is that something coded? Subconsciously. Right? Now that depends. How significant was that emotional response? And that's why we, you know, we can also talk about so TTSD and things of that nature when people really experience a trauma. But the point is with the RAS, a particular activating system. This is all part of the autonomic system. Is now you have a filter that's letting in things and not letting in things. And there's a confirmation bias in that. So let's just say it'll be super basic here. Wonderful. Let's just say that I feel that going outside is dangerous. Let's just say that. Because one day I went outside and I saw an icicle fall and just about miss me. I'm making this up. The RAS and I became nervous and scared and emotional. I made a hole fired and these parts of my, you know, central nervous system got fighter flight. So now my RAS goes, it's dangerous outside. Pay attention. So what's going to happen is day to day without me even knowing this. I'm going to see millions of sensory inputs here feel C. But my RAS is always going to confirm the danger that I think is present. So the RAS is going to say, oh, see that icicle hanging there? That's dangerous. Oh, when you watch the news today, see someone got on it today. It's going to confirm those those feelings and thoughts. So now you're looking at the world through a different perspective than someone else because your particular activating system is only filtering the things that it feels are important. Now it's doing this on a primitive scale because it's trying to keep you alive. We need this. Right? We need this and it makes sense, doesn't it? Of course. However, the problem is again, if we experience a tough childhood, maybe we were bullied and not, you know, I mean, this is this is such big topic stuff. But maybe I start to perceive the world in a negative way. Now I'm not even aware of these thoughts anymore. I just feel it. And now I look at the world as a dangerous place because my RAS is filtering and corroborating all of those thoughts 24 hours a day, seven days a week. I have a question for you. As you're talking, thank you for that beautiful explanation. Is there a way to increase our threshold for perceived stress? You know, even for example, let's take my kids. My daughter, my good at school, someone might bully her and she wouldn't perceive it as a threat. My son potentially could change the trajectory of his life. How can we, as parents or just as adults, how do we increase ours, our children, is there a way to increase our perceived threat threshold? Or are we born with it? Right. Well, I think there's a lot to answer and that and there's a lot to unpack there. But of course, there are genetic predispositions. Right. We have genetic predispositions to fear and anxiety. And there are studies out there that actually show as a fascinating study. Oh, boy, I was talking about it. So I don't want to miss quote it and believe as a university in Mexico, your listeners can look it up and I'll try and find it. Well, yeah, we'll link it. But anyway, long story short, pregnant rats who were exposed to an immersive stimuli, then gave birth their offspring were afraid of that immersive stimuli, even though they were never exposed to it. I mean, you know, so what that shows is that that fear is transferred through the genome, somehow, which again makes sense because if my ancestors were afraid of poison snakes, it's probably good information that I was born with a fear of poison snakes. Right. So but all of this is about survival. So again, to answer your point, each child is going to be a little bit different. Each child might be a little bit more risk of earth less risk of earth. There's a lot of temperament, genetics and personality involved in that. But in order to facilitate the least amount of projected pathology or problems with that, is how do you approach it? How did they approach it at that time period? Right. So how traumatic was that experience for them and making sure that it's processed appropriately? And then having the resilience to overcome it and learn from that? So let's say you didn't like going outside because the I-School fell. And you just decided that you just didn't like going outside, whether it was warm weather or not. And you don't have any conscious memory of the size of how can the listener think about evolving what number one, they're not going to know if they're a particular activating system is activated. Right? What would it be a fear response? Or is it really the subconscious burden that builds up over time? And if so, how can we remove that? So they can be the best version of themselves. Does it have to be therapy? Obviously, it's not the magic pill. How do they identify and then take action? And that's, and what you just described is 90% of the patients I see every day. Docum anxious. I don't know why. I don't want to leave my house. Why? I don't know. I don't know. I just, it's like it. When I walk out my front door, my heart rate goes up. And I start to sweat. And I feel like I'm going to die and have a panic attack. All right. So there are lots of ways to address that. So this is going to take us. You're so good at this. So this is the, I paid him a 5 under the table. So what we need to do in those cases is use a couple of very brilliant techniques that have been developed over time in psychotherapy. And again, spoiler guys, you know, Sigmund Freud was amazing and Carl Jung was amazing. We've learned so much from that. But psychoanalytic theory is kind of sitting and just kind of free-associating. You know, this sitting on a couch, you know, a sociologist. Very scholarly. But now we have more empirical ways to approach these things. So let's talk about that. So let's talk about that person that presents with anxiety and they have no idea why. And we just talked about the physiologic adaptations that are taking place, right? They're autonomic nervous system. They're particular activating system, potential polyvagal sort of circumstances that are lending itself to either a fighter flight or an immobilization type fear response. So that's all physical. Let me know that's happening. But I'm anxious. I'm depressed. I don't know what's going on. Well, Aaron Beck developed an amazing empirically verified way to deal with our thoughts, feelings and emotions. And it's somewhat basic actually. It's called cognitive behavioral work, right? You probably know about this. So basically, someone comes to you and they're saying I'm depressed or I'm anxious from having a hard time. They're, and trust me, there are many ways to approach this. This is one arm of the treatment paradigm. It's trying to understand what the thought behind the emotion is. And usually, not all the time, but usually we can identify the thought behind the fear and the emotion. Now, most people tend to carry with them these core beliefs. Aaron, Dr. Beck used to call them core beliefs. And these core beliefs might be the world as dangerous. I'm a terrible father. I'm ugly. No one loves me. Core beliefs that we've developed over time. How many do each individual have? Oh, well, it depends. I mean, dozens to hundreds, right? So that's not a set number. No, no. But you can, you can usually find the core beliefs that are associated with the presentation that they're having, like being depressed or being anxious. So what we try to do in that case is this. What we're trying to do is we're trying to do is sort of overcome the evolutionary process of preparing you for fight or flight or withdrawing into a space where you're depressed. And we're going to make you think about things that you probably haven't thought about in a long time. And that is, what is that core belief? And if we can figure out that core belief, let's challenge it. Let's re-challenge it. Let's retake your brain because right now you've learned that the world is a dangerous place for example. So let's re-challenge that core belief. Okay. Now this is the way I look at it. We have, whether we like it or not, we have an internal prosecutor and we have an internal defense attorney. Our minds just have these things. So I'm going to make something up. I'm depressed because deep down inside through multiple therapy sessions I've realized that I'm a terrible father. Let's just see that. Okay. Well, what is the validation for that? Let's have the prosecutor because all that's been happening, my RAS, my autonomic nervous system, has been reinforcing and showing me your terrible father. You need to do this. You need to do that your terrible father. You're having a confirmation bias of the core belief actually potentially could create who you are or simply create the experience 100%. So now we have to challenge that and how do we challenge that? Well, we develop a defense attorney. I object your honor, you're not a horrible father and this is why but what people have to understand is this takes work. Now back, back did an amazing thing with cognitive behavioral therapy because not only, you know, we have these core beliefs, these false core beliefs but we have to address them and then we also have to say so people do a very common set of cognitive restorative thinking, cognitive distortions. It's like non-reality-based thinking but we do it all the time. Again, evolutionary. Like what? Give me an example. I think. Okay. Ready? Just stored at discounting positive. Discounting positive. Discounting positives. As human beings, we do this. If I told you right now, 10 amazing things about you and then told you one negative thing. What do you think you're going to focus on? Be honest. Well, maybe you're so well adjusted. I don't know. I kind of, I kind of, I would say the average. They hear, I'll tell you the truth. You want to know the truth? I would focus on the negative and I would be so grateful. It wouldn't actually be how we so, so grateful. Okay. That's good. I mean, that's amazing. I mean, let's talk the average person, right? Just spend something negative about myself the other day. It's inside, right? That's called inside, but I was so grateful for the person who told me. That's like that. That is a perspective. That's so amazing. That's a perspective shift. That if, if we took that step in most people don't like the constructive criticism sort of, but really, really embrace it, then that's amazing. And you're in a good place if you could do that. Because most people can't do that. I know. I wasn't such a good place. I called everyone I know. Wow. Because it was, it's so valuable. You did do some psych residency training. I did. But I also think that we are here to be the best version of ourselves in. That doesn't happen in an echo chamber. You're on it. You're so on it. You're so on it. Your patients are lucky to have you and lucky to have this for of you. You're that guys. Okay. So cognitive disorder thinking is number one. Let's talk about the couple though. So, so discounting positives. We do that as a human species. We do that as a human species. We do that as a human species. We discount positives. Again, I'm going to go back to evolution. That's a good thing. discounting positives. Well, not really. It's a good thing if that negative is something dangerous that we need to focus on. Because remember, it's about survival. Our brain is primitive. Really? Does it really? Do you think it is all about survival? That's where it all comes from. It all stems from this. How we stay on the relay. Think about it. If I'm outside and I'm, it's a thousand years ago, whatever. And the sunset is gorgeous. And the weather is beautiful. And I have this amazing family. And I'm providing food for them. These are all these positive things in my life. But I hear rustling in the woods. What is that? I need to focus on that for safety. Our mind, even though it's 2024, we can hear all these positive things about our lives. But when we hear a negative, we focus and dwell on it. But the difference is we're not in a forest with a Sabre II tiger ready to pounce. We're not in 2024. Most of us aren't anyway. So, we need to retrain our mind to understand that that negative was maybe an insane, maybe it was a, somebody honking the horn at you. Maybe it was your boss telling you something. Maybe he owes, right? Who knows what was. But we focus on the negative. That's one cognitive distortion that we do. Another one is over generalization. We tend to over generalize things, right? Either put them in good or bad. We do black and white thinking. We put things in good or bad baskets. When that's just not life, life is very clear. Is that common? That's not splitting. Splitting is something that splitting is something that you're probably referring to like personality disorders where people will split. That's a little bit of a different coping strategy. Got it. So black and white thinking, over generalization, catastrophizing. Again, that's sort of falls in the insert that through them of discounting positives. We catastrophize our minds. Okay, it was the worst thing that's going to happen. And then we focus on that. But these are all cognitive distortions that we think every single day. We don't even realize them anymore. And we just find that we're nervous or anxious for the rest. So if you're truly doing cognitive behavioral therapy, what that therapist is going to do with you is go through these cognitive distortions. Be the defense attorney. Be the defense attorney. That every time you have these thoughts or feelings, that defense attorney is going to say, I object and here's why. This is what's good right now. So formal cognitive behavioral therapy is like homework. You do it. You have to practice it every day. And I know you're going to relate to this. I relate to this. Most people don't relate to this. Most physicians don't relate to this next point. But if I can drive something home right now, it's this. If I were to tell you that you can lose weight and improve your cardiovascular health and reduce your blood glucose and gain muscle. If you went to the gym and did XYZ every day or three days a week or five days a week, you'd probably do it and you'd see those results. If I told you, split it, you're depressed, you're anxious, and I said, listen to me. We're going to do a program of cognitive behavioral work. We're going to look at those cognitive distortions. We're going to spend 30 minutes a day. And we're going to look at your cognitive distortions. We're going to teach you how to have that internal defense attorney. We're going to review them. We're going to validate what's true. And I told you do that 30 minutes a day. Are people going to do it? Are they going to do it the same way they work out? The same way they train their body? No. And if you don't guess what happens, it all goes back to baseline. Just like if you don't go to the gym and work out and be physically active and use your mind, it's the same thing. And that's, and that's hopefully that's the gist of a lot of what we're talking about today is that mental health takes work as well. In the sense that we do have to practice these things. And we have to be aware of these things. Otherwise, we will spiral and our autonomic nervous system and our reticular activating system. It will just put us in survival mode and look at the world in a very different way. So we do have to approach mental health the same way that we approach physical health as I explain in that gym metaphor. So that's kind of cognitive behavioral work. Think I answered your question. I think I kind of came around full-circled. You did beautifully. Thank you. One of the questions I asked is this survival that we're always thinking about and chasing after survival. I would say in medicine particularly and maybe in every specialty or in every domain of whatever it is, we create paradigms of thinking. And then we believe them to be true. It's a theory and then we have a working theory. And I always wonder where, so you answer the question, you believe that we are here functioning to maintain survival. And there's the, and I think okay, so what's the flip side of survival that would be comfort and safety? Would you agree? But, Dengily, where does that fit in? I was, you know, as we were talking prior to this episode, I started reading about the Polybagus theory. And he talks a lot about the theory talks a lot about this drive for comfort and safety. And then I started thinking everybody's experience of comfort and safety is totally different. For example, some of the military operators that I take care of, their idea of comfort and safety is totally different. And then I started thinking about the relationships. So those comfort and safety and then this layering on of relationships, the operators, we are a military family. So obviously, I spend and I've spent a lot of time with other military families. The, for example, the seals, they have a brotherhood. And I always wonder, is it a brotherhood because of what they experience together, what it takes to get there? And then I started thinking, or is it because that's where they find comfort and safety that, however it is that they're processing, they're experience or how they've been trained that they're, this is a group of people that experiences comfort and safety as a collective unit and that other people may experience comfort and safety in a different way and that potentially we gravitate towards these experiences. So good. So good. And I want to, I got to expand on this, right? Great. You let me know if I get too tangential or circumstantial and just kind of bumper-bull me back because there's a lot to unpack there. This is going to bring us to a very important study that I want to touch upon. And, and you know something, I want to say something to here today while I'm here today is, you know, I'm not an innovator. I'm not a pioneer in any of this stuff. I'm, I feel like I'm very well read. I feel like, you know, as an associate program director, I keep up on things. And so I'm unbelievably thankful to the researchers out there that are doing this work. So, so busy right now, I can't do my own research for virtual, but I do need to say that. I need to say that, you know, I'm quoting a lot of things. These aren't mind-dependent thoughts. This is, you know, Stephen Porgeus with Polyvagal's theory. This is, you know, Robert Waldinger from the Harvard study. This is Aaron Beck, cognitive behavioral therapy, right? So, I give them an enormous amount of credit for the ability for me to verbalize what I'm saying today. And I'm certainly not to be in credit for any of it. Maybe I'll take credit for making it all make sense. I don't know, maybe that. But we all appreciate that. So, all right. So, what you just said to me is so profound. And that's why I want to talk about the Harvard study. I want to, okay, so everyone needs to know about this because they should read about it. Harvard did an amazing thing. They have been following people for up to 80 years. It's over 80 years at this point. And over the course of 80 years, this started a long time ago to the math, you know, minus 80 some years, where they started following children in Boston. They started following Harvard students. It started with a very biased sample actually. And that's one of the limitations. It was like white males in Boston. But now it has expanded tremendously and is much more socioeconomically and sociologically diverse. So, that being said, over 80 years, following people. And while they are following these people, they are doing questionnaires. And they're looking at their medical records. And they're looking at their neuro records. And they are looking at their family dynamic. Are they divorced? Are they married? Are they happily married? They're doing cognitive assessments. They're doing behavioral health assessments, depression questionnaires, anxiety questionnaires. My point is they followed individuals for over 80 years. It's tremendous. And I think at this point, there's over 2,000 individuals in the study. There's nothing has ever been done like this. So, one of the lead authors at this point, and obviously over the course of 80 years, it's been handed down over decades. And Robert Waldinger is there now with an associate. You actually just wrote a book on this. But what they really wanted to look at was across all of these years and all of these people, what truly makes people happy? Right? I love it. So, you probably know the answer. But I need to say it. It had very little to do with monetary. It had very little to do with prestige and position in life. But it did heavily, heavily. And there's a lot of nuance in the study. But the most heavily weighted reason for well-being and happiness, including mortality lifespan, was the closeness and satisfaction of your interpersonal relationships in your life. That's it. I mean, that foundation is so profound. Right? So, we were kind of joking around before the pod and I said, imagine, you know, we say, hey, quitting smoking, you'll live longer. Or, hey, you know, watching or exercising, you know, 30 minutes a day, you'll probably live longer. Right? What if we said foster your relationships, develop meaning and trust, and you'll probably live longer? Right? I love that. We have beyond headlines. Wouldn't that just be on the headlines of every medical journal and every like, you know, but it is. These are reproducible studies. I mean, you know, in his research or in their research, I mean, this is something that's so important. Now, what is this tell us? It tells us that we're social creatures. And I'm coming full circles here question about the seals and seal teams and coping with stress. We're social creatures. Okay. So Robert Waldinger and his colleagues and all the decades that preceded him have led us to this answer that meaningful, engaging relationships make us happy. Now, let's back up a little bit to our earlier conversation on the one. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Ready? So what if we've experienced trauma, we've experienced challenge, we've started to perceive the world in a negative way through our autonomic nervous system, through our particular activating system, through these cognitive distortions that we've developed over time, how do you think that's can affect our relationships? Negatively, why? Because we're on guard, because we're protected, because we're scared. So we won't open up to people and then we won't have relationships. And when you are in that fight or flight state, you somehow think that you need to do this on your own, your isolated, no one can help you. And then what happens to the level of your relationships and hence as per this study, this Harvard study, what happens if you have poor relationships? Thank you to Inside Tracker for sponsoring this episode of the show. You guys know how I feel like blood work. And if you haven't gotten yours, get on the horse because you have to know what's going on inside your body so that you can make the appropriate changes to optimize your health and wellness. And my friends, if you're not willing to do it for you, you should be willing to do it for those that you love. I absolutely love Inside Tracker. They take a whole bunch of biomarkers. Most importantly, it's very easy to get done. You can go to the insidetracker.com slash doctor lion. They have a store. You'll get 20% off. You'll be able to, if you are in the states where they have a mobile full body, click on it, schedule your blood work, no excuses, and not only that, Inside Tracker also offers inside Tracker Pro, which enables coaches and health professionals to provide premium and personalized services by leveraging inside Tracker's analysis and recommendations with their clients. It is an absolute win-win. That's insidetracker.com slash doctor lion. You're not going to live as long. You're not going to be happy. So, wow. So now we have to say. So, wow. So, it's not just like how to fix your relationships and all will be good. But if you don't, you don't have a chance. You need them in your life. But we also have to go back again and figure out why can't you have good relationships. What's happening in your life, what trauma, what experiences, what is your subconscious making you do that you don't trust people or engage in people. And you know, going back to Polyvagal theory is, is, do you know that this and here are some neuroscience for you. If you have perceived stressors and challenges in your life and traumatic experiences and you're operating on a fight or flight circumstance, you know if I showed you a certain amount of neutral faces you, I'm just using using an example, compared to someone that has not experienced stressors and is experiencing a pretty comfortable life, you will perceive the neutral faces as more threatening than the person that did not experience those stressors. So, has that going to affect a relationships? We're going to look at people as dangerous. We're going to look at our environment as dangerous. We're going to look at our social constructs as untrustworthy. So, here we go. Here's your Navy SEAL question. Well, first of all, I mean, the selection bias in that is just insane because these individuals finally making it to an operator is like selected selected selected selected selected selected selected, selected selected, right? Yeah. So now you have this group of individuals who are experiencing very, very high level stress. And when people do experience at high level of stress, they know that the only people that understand them and that they can relate to are their co-operators or the people that are involved in the same things that they do on a daily basis. And if they didn't have that, they'd probably in big trouble psychologically. And, you know, they know that. And again, I mean, talking about PTSD, I used to work in the VAPTSD clinic and I have a lot of experience with that as well. And why do you think that, you know, people with post-traumatic stress disorder present with dissociation? Dissociation. You're not present. You're just emotionally not present. Why do you have a flat affect? Why is your flat, why do they speak in monotone? It's that it's that unenomening nervous system that put them in that position, right? It's it's really fascinating. Can we cultivate comfort and safety to allow us to operate differently? Can we, I don't know, reposition what we think? I mean, because comfort and safety is different for different people, right? Some people are more introverted or some people experience comfort and safety. differently, but you know, I just, I, about you, you said in what we're talking about is that the body or the human is always looking for ways to survive. And then they're looking to survive and on the same hand or the opposite sort of the coin, they're looking for comfort and safety because there are two different things, right? The idea of survival is more fighter flight, which I always wonder, there's probably more evolved stress responses that we have. And then comfort and safety can one do both and can we change what we experience or can we teach our children to find comfort and safety in like appropriate things versus a friend group that might be bad for them or use, you know, you pick. Yeah. Again, amazing questions. I think, you know, I don't want to, I don't want to miss something here too. And I apologize if this seems more complicated at this point with what I'm about to say, but evolutionarily we also realize that we do better in groups, right? So they called the tended be friend, you know, power synthetic nervous system. So we do know that. And that's why our ancestors used to, you know, just work better in groups that takes a village that whole cliche, right? It takes a village. So we do know that too. And that's also a very, very good coping strategy. But you know, you're talking about comfort. Now, there's a very big difference in this appropriate level of comfort where you're still functioning on a day to day basis and getting through your life and, right, and progressing and overcoming challenges and having resilience. That's very different than what we call avoidant behavior. Now, avoidant behaviors are dangerous because avoidance breeds more avoidance, right? So why do you say that? Well, because again, going back to comfort, it's, you know, we know in child psychiatry, we learn real quick that when kids are anxious and they don't go to school. If they don't go to school for one or two or three days, we get them back to school. Literally statistics show that if they stay home for over thirty days, you are not getting them back to school. Avoidance of, wow, that's what we have to pause for a second because our adults, little children, is that, wait, our adults, big children. Okay, so we could potentially say what you learn towards children would then correlate to adults. That's odd, it's still odd. Okay. As a matter of fact, I'm going to, I'm going to rewind a little bit and say that, do you remember when we talked about the prosecutor and defense attorney that we have in our brain with a cognitive behavioral approach? Well, you know, Gibber Matae who's an amazing physician and again, I can't take credit for any of this stuff because these are their thoughts. But he would say that that prosecutor is your childhood voice. That prosecutor that's telling you, you're unlovable, you're a terrible person, you're a bad mom. That's a voice that you probably develops at a very young age. Right? So yeah, we're just big kids and we're still listening to that voice. Well, you know, the reason I ask is because think about all the people at home that are like, oh, I'm so anxious or, you know, people that are running companies and then they isolate themselves because they feel like they just need to be by themselves and not would compound the problem and there's no way of getting them better than. Right. Yeah, isolation is not good for humans. We know that for sure, neuroscientifically and psychologically and sociologically. But I was going to say something. It just, it just slipped me. There's so much to talk about. Oh, talking about isolation. Oh, we're going to go up. Well, well, you're thinking about that. I always wonder nature versus nurture. You are trained as a child psychiatrist. These behaviors. I know what you're going to say. You're going to say it's multifactorial. But what is stronger? Because you, your older sibling, I'm going to take you, for example, did they get rejection after rejection or something? Well, I kind of come from a different circumstance because my two older siblings are half siblings. So it's so half genetic. So just as an example, right? Yeah. Yeah. Because again, there's a lot of parents out there. I have two little kids. One would say, you know, I got my child's, we have parenting teacher comforts even though my kids not even five, but whatever, I got her report. And I can't say I wasn't shocked by it. They said that she was, you know, likes to be first and, you know, is kind of X, Y, and Z. And I can see where she would get that. But I wonder, and then my son is is totally different. They both are in the same environment. Which, yeah. Which is, what is true? Yeah. Wow. So yeah, as we're talking about epigenetics, we're talking about genetic loading of personality and temperament. We're talking about experience. So, and I realize, and I think that the listener realizes that these are super complex topics, but our children are the future. And while I have you here, someone who is trained in children, the psyche of children is no one better to ask. Well, I will say this, and this is probably, I don't know, I guess the best way that I can answer your question is that a lot of people, especially after the Harvard study came out said, you know, I'm just not a social person. And I just do them to be miserable, or I'm an introvert, like Holy cow, like, you know, or I have some innate fears. Like, am I just doomed? You know, to be anxious to rest my life. Well, I'm here to tell you undoubtedly that despite the epigenetic or genetic load, people change for the better all the time every day. And you can overcome that. Now, some people are harder than others, of course, depending on that load, the genetic load. But everyone is malleable for the same reasons that we talked about as it were adaptable individuals. I think so, yeah. So people can change. People can no matter what their genetic load or experience in life, which, again, it's biocycososcial, remember. The person that I'm talking to you right now sitting across from this table has an enormous amount of genetic, temperamental predisposition. But you also have all the experiences that you've experienced in your life that have shaped you, right? So here's you ready for another doctor, Dom analogy? Well, take it. Is the way that I look at how we were shaped? Do you know what C glass is? C glass. Right. So yeah. So picture picture a sharp object that's just tossed around the ocean for a hundred years and now it's this shaped soft stone. It's kind of like us, right? Is can you, can you figure out that one input that made that shape? No, of course not. There were hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of inputs over the course of hundreds of years that made that stone the shape that it is. And we're sort of that way as humans. Now, of course, we come, you know, what the rock is made of will affect how it is shaped or how easily it is shaped. Your, you know, is it a soft rock? Is it a heart rock? And then, you know, was there a sandblaster that was shaping it or was it just rolling in the surf, you know, for a hundred years? So so my analogies, that's a lot like people. And we're shaped by just so much. But we can change the shape and good psychotherapy and good intervention is kind of like a sandblaster. Right. To sort of change that shape and sort of reshape things for the better. I, you know, when you say reshape things for the better, it makes me think about this distorted thinking and that we kind of discount positives. Is it always, and we talk a lot about trauma, just everybody talks a lot about trauma. That seems to really influence and individuals behavior and their projection and life could there be something equally as positive that would also do that or our brains just wired to this negativity bias. We are definitely more wired to the negativity bias. But, okay. So, yes, positive circumstances affect us tremendously if we pay attention to them. That's that's the important point. Do we pay attention to them? Do we, do we, all right, look, I go to the hospital every day. I see death and dying every single day. I hate that. I hate it. I hate working with them. I see death and dying every day. I see disease. I see horrible circumstances. I see 15 year olds that have chronic illness and term illness. I see people. I see horrible stuff. So, every day. So, my life is sort of changed based on that because I am able to come home and say, oh my God, I'm standing upright. I'm healthy. Right. Not at the moment. Do I have any significant problems? So, but most people that that was a very psychiatry thing to say. Do you guys hear that? He said not at the moment. There are seasons in life, friends. That was hilarious and I caught it. Yeah. Yeah, life is a sine wave and it's important role with that. And that's called resiliency and that's a whole other discussion, psychological resiliency. And also, you're not getting off the hook because we have to talk about how do we regulate the autonomic nervous system. So, we talk about this particular activity system. We talked about the autonomic nervous system. And unfortunately, it seems as humans, we are primed for disaster. Let it happen. We're primed for it. There has to be, and maybe there isn't. Maybe some people like my husband are primed for disaster and and his response will be here versus my response would be through the roof. There has to be strategies. Yeah, there are. There are. And I don't want this to sound all overly pessimistic. You know, life is an amazing thing. We just have to pay attention to it. I think we had caught up based on our survival mechanisms to be a little bit more on the pessimistic side. Again, important and survivability. But these days, I mean, we're fairly safe. So, hopefully we don't have to stay safe. There was a couple of calls. What is it? Steve, I don't know. I'll look it up. Anyway, but we live in the safest time ever. But I don't perceive it that way. Right? We don't perceive it that way. And what's listen? I mean, okay. So, you wake up at the morning. And as you have in the zoo, right? You open your eyes. Or you show her and you grab your cell phone. And you start scrolling. And you see the news. I was a war here. There's a war there. This was just bombed. Oh, geez. Great. Another COVID strain coming around. Oh, there's my, there's my email. I have this work to do. I have that work to do. So, can you see how we're just setting ourselves up for failure? Right? And we do that day in and day out and day in and day out. So, yeah. So, I want to talk about these ways to sort of overcome this title wave of survival. By the way, he said most people. Some of us are waking up with a foot in our face. So, I remember those days to it over. I have three boys at home. Yeah. How do we how do we regulate this disaster zone of a nervous system? And I have to say, I question the fighter flight that we all talk about. I question the idea if we've just been taught incorrectly about these stress responses. So, we taught about the nervous system, the particular activating system. We know that we have hard physiological responses to these things. Ucho's psychiatry. It is incredibly complex. So, it's very difficult to say. Matthew has an experience and because of his experience or encoding of xy and z, he releases this amount of cortisol, this amount of oxy-chosen, etc. I often wonder about more evolved stress responses. And, you know, whether it's tendon-befriend, whether it's this courage response. And I guess, can we cultivate that and will that affect our ability to regulate the autonomic nervous system, this particular activating should we read light while we are doing brain neuro, you know, trans-mechanetic stimulation. What do we do? With practice. Yes, we're good. And again, I mean, listen, I was a fitness trainer, you're heavily into fitness, you know, your practice is very geared towards, you know, protein and take, and all these amazing things to help the body from a physical perspective and mental perspective. But I'm going to say the same thing. Like, if I came to you and I was like, listen, I'm overweight, I'm unhealthy, I'm eating horribly, is there hope? Is there hope? And you're going to say, yeah, we've got to work at it. But we have to work at it, right? And I'm going to tell you the same things, psychiatric, right? So I'm taking CBT off the table. I need to know, are we cool plunging? Are we, what do we do to get out of if someone is listening in there in a fearing side loop? Are there physiological things? I mean, because psychiatry is very heavily based medication and then the mental aspect, the cognitive aspect, you guys also have other tools like trans-mechanic stimulation. I don't know if they still do ECT for refractory depression. What have you found, especially in the literature, are there, should we be measuring heart rate, variability? Should individuals be doing cold exposure? Should, I mean, what can, someone at home listening? What can they do? Yeah. 500 push ups, guys. Yeah, so, okay, let's, let's go super, super, super basic, right? Yes. autonomic nervous system. autonomic nervous system is running your bodies unconsciously because we can't think about, I better beat my heart all night, otherwise I'm going to be in big trouble, right? I better regulate my digestive system to process the food. I can't think about that stuff. So our body is doing it autonomically, automatically. What is one autonomic directly linked to the vagal nerve that we can change? Breathing. Everyone's like, oh my God, I do not want to hear about breathing. But you're right. This is one of my, listen, and that's where the eyebrows come in. No, no, it's there. For this, 10 years ago, I would have I rolled that. I would have I rolled it. If somebody tells me to take the press again, when I'm nervous, I'm going to freak out because this is so woo, woo, Eastern loss of your crap. Listen, you know, the meditative practices, the deep breathing, the mindfulness, thousands and thousands of years ago, they may have not known the neurophysiology behind it, but man, they were right. Do we know, just out of curiosity, do we know how that developed or why? Have you ever read? I don't know. I mean, whoever you want to know. That's a incredible question. I think they started to realize, I mean, look, you just go to Buddhist philosophy and like one of the first tenences, you know, like suffering is inevitable. I mean, how drilling is that? Like just accept suffering and know that that's part of life and entenoppy, so distraught when you experience challenges and overcome them be resilient by knowing that that's a part of life, right? And they knew the thousands of years ago. But is that, is not wild? Wild or deep breathing, yoga, meditation. Like, these Eastern philosophies were right. Like I said, they did not have EEGs and MRIs and, and, you know, all the stuff that we have now, but they were on it and that's why I don't want anybody to I roll. I'm telling you, I read the literature for a living, I practice this for a living and you can slow down your sympathetic nervous system by deep breathing practices, by mindfulness, by meditative practices. You can absolutely do it. And that's the most primitive and basic start to all of this. You know, you said, take CBT off the table, take therapy off the table, take, you know, on stuff off the table, let's just start with that, right? Physical exercise. I want to hear about the breathing. Is there a technique that you have found really helpful? One, maybe one. I noticed before you sat down, you took a deep breath. Yeah. When, um, before we begin the interview, are there certain, is there certain cadence that you use? I wonder, I wonder if they, you know, wonder if your husband knows these from his his seal training. He does. He totally does. Yeah, because this is all I've ever heard is winter how we, for my for breathing. We know. But listen, the military is a very efficient thing in that regard that they're not going to teach you something unless they really think it's going to probably work or benefit. So when they have soldiers on the front lines that are getting shot at and they need to rest and sleep, they teach them a few things. One is box breathing. Right. It was the four by four breathing is as your husband probably explained pretty well, which is, you know, inhaling first or amount of time, four seconds holding for two to four and then slowly exhaling. That is going to activate your vagal nerve, which is a parachute. That it's just, you know, it's going to slow your heart rate down. It's going to reduce your blood pressure. Um, so all of those things absolutely 100% from a basic standpoint are going to help. So, I mean, that's the only one that I really know and then there's the flexor size. I mean, listen, we know cardiovascular exercise and, and you know, we know that that's going to also reduce sympathetic tone as well. You know, when you say sympathetic tone does that mean you're looking at heart rate variability or is that the anxiousness someone is feeling that they're blood pressure. Exactly. Heart rate variability, blood pressure increase, all of it. All that sympathetic tone that's sympathetic drive. It's going to reduce the cortisol and again, I got to be careful because I want to get two tangentials. My mind these things just pop up, but but going back to the CBT type stuff is, and again, ready for the eye rolls? I'm telling you the eye rolls. And it was me. I would have eye rolled. I promise you're living here. I would have eye rolled. No, no, they're not eye rolling. They're um, um, gratitude journals. Gratitude journals. You know, it's 2024. I look at MRIs and CTs every day. I look at labs every day. I'm a medical doctor. I'm telling you that writing an gratitude journal to drinking up in the morning before grabbing your damn cell phone. Think about five things that you're grateful for and just say them to yourself. That simple thing is. I'd like to thank one of the sponsors of the show. And that is first form. They have a great product called Opti Greens 50. And I'll tell you this. If you were like me, it's very difficult to get in a whole bunch of vegetables, fruits a little bit easier. And that's one reason why I love Opti Greens 50. Opti Greens 50 has a whole host of organic grasses and greens that are really important for the phytometrium profiles in your foods. And of course, many of us are not going to drink two ounce shots of wheat grass. You probably have to hold your nose. But Opti Greens 50 does that for you. Each serving provides over five billion CFUs. Those are colony forming units from 10 different strains of good bacteria. And this combination can help support digestion overall. Good health, which is really having a moment right now. So if you struggle with getting your fruits and vegetables in head on over to firstform.com slash doctor lion, that's firstform.com slash doctor lion. You guys are going to do this. So you know, we have a company. I would love to have you on as a guest. We have a forever strong community. We just launched. Before I did the book launch, we had 7,000 members in the community, which is amazing. And we just launched it. And I'd love to have you on as a guest. You call me. I got you. You guys, I haven't really talked about this and my assistant and my team probably in the kill me right now. Matthew over there, you're texting. I see you, you text in Alexia. We have this community. This is forever strong community. We've created an app for it. I think Matthew would know. But I love to have you on. You talk about this. You say the word. You say the word number. You do that. I'll be amazed. You say the word. You guys. I'm going to ask a link in the show notes. Allegedly, the team is going to put a link in the show notes. It would be so fun to have you on because these things that you're talking about. So we have the physiological, the breathing, the exercise. And then this idea, all of this builds resilience. And I do have some questions on and I hopefully you're still good on time. Because the, I guess one of the things that I always think about are the supplements and these THC and CBD, and oftentimes I think people think some of the, that they're benign. And also, you talk about medication the beginning of this. I am not anti-medication all. Doctors do not get paid for medication for prescribed. At least I don't know of any. And there's this thought process that my doctor wants to give me a medication. I says, I, etc., because they're going to be paid by big moments. That's not how that works. And so you guys, I do want you to hear that stuff. Yeah, if I can attest to that, I think I think psychiatry probably does take a big hit on that as well. You know, I've heard that over and over and over that were chills for pharmaceutical companies and stuff. And look, I, you know, I could be as honest as I can be, maybe you guys believe me, maybe you don't, but I've never been, I've never been a theater encouraged to prescribe medicine. But I didn't think it was, if I didn't think it was necessary. I mean, I have, you know, maybe the research is biased and things like that. But, you know, I teach a course right now in my residency program called the Prasal of the Scientific Literature. And what I'm doing in that course, I think any residency or academic medical program has this. And this is what the, what, what people out there that are maybe non-medical need, what should know, is that we teach our medical students and our residents to unbiasedly, or as unbiased as they possibly can because there's always bias is a praise literature before you make it well decision. Right. And trust me, what I tell you, that when I do a literature review and it's a, it's a, it's one of my, one of my residents brings in a journal and they're talking about this new drug. The first thing I'm going to say is who sponsored the journal? Was there any financial interest did, did, big, pharmaceuticals? Because maybe they did. And then we have to look at it critically. So, so yeah, I mean, we do look at those things, at least your good position. You are looking at those things. And it's very, I, I agree with you. And I did just want to mention it because the, you know, when you sat down, you said that psychiatry has a really big stigma. It is absolutely true. People, no offense, no offense to the psychiatrists. You guys, I did psychiatry for two years. They feel embarrassed. They don't want to say when, to psychiatrists, they don't want to say I'm on medication as if it is a personal failure. And it's absolutely not and this kind of sex segues into my question about, are there safe, so safety, any medication that eventually comes out from a cognitive standpoint is creating a highly regulated and been a bit around for has to go through fees, one gym, three trials. There's been a huge up swing in marijuana, DHC, CBD. And I'm just curious from a psychiatric perspective. What are your thoughts on that? Yeah, so, so it's a slippery slope. Yeah. And I'll tell you why. So, one thing that I also do is, is I'm involved in addiction medicine. Part of my consultation liaison psychiatry is doing detox. We also open a recap center, New Jersey Recovery Institute. But we, psychiatric, we psychologically, we have to be very careful on, are we solving the problem or are we reinforcing the problem? Are we avoiding the problem by taking the cells? All right. So, I think, you know, it's important to ask yourselves those questions, right? Now, I'm not going to vilify one medicine or one drug. And then I detox people off trust me, out of all, benzodiazepines, opioids, detox people off these medicines. Some people have problems with THC. Right. And for the listener, a clinical liaison means it means that Dr. Dom is very smart, a very smart psychiatrist. And he has to be able to understand the medicine because he'll be consulted, constantly is on what the consultation has, but we consulted for an acute individual coming in, is this delusions or delirium or withdrawal, exactly. Yeah, thanks for explaining that. It's the bridge between medicine, neurology and psychiatry, right? Yeah. Yeah. So, okay. Now, as a psychiatrist if somebody's having panic attacks, let's just use an example of benzodiazepines. If I give someone who has panic attacks in generalized anxiety, if benzodiazepine, ZNX, out of band, clonobin, polythamisolids. Am I doing them a disservice? Maybe. And the reason for that is this, it those medicines are wonderful and they work. They calm you right down. They calm you right down. Trust me, come to the ER some time when somebody's having an acute psychotic episode or a panic episode. They're a godsend. However, just like in life, if I constantly take away your discomfort. Let's kind of have them with, there's all. You're in an even more. Because you've never learned how to deal with that discomfort. You've never learned how to deal with it discomfort. And say, I'm going to be okay. I'm going to get through it. So, while certain medicines have been shown over time to really not be habit forming and you know, sort of thing, we do have to be careful of medicines or substances that we take that just mask the problem and don't allow us to face and become resilient and overcome. And that's why medicines like band's at Aspenes can be a problem. Okay. So, you mentioned THC. So THC, you know, it's a lot of patients. And I don't know what to tell them. I'm certainly going to have an expert in THC or cannabis. And I always want to will disinfect them. It seems like they'll be coming or lying on it in a way that potentially, I don't know if it's regulated, unregulated, what is long term effects and is this we can Yeah. So THC is an interesting one. It's wow. Can it warms a THC because, um, you know, legal for a long time, uh, whole political mess with that, um, then it was medically, prescribed for quite a while for only various things. And now it's being recreationally used, right? So, okay. So THC, um, people swear by it, um, they say it helps them relax. They say it helps them sleep, right? Now here's the truth. If if a patient comes to me and says they're using THC every single day, um, I'm going to do a really unique analysis on what's going on in their life. Is there any avoidance behavior going on? Is it preventing them from facing certain issues that they need to overcome? Yeah. So it's, it's a very kind of case-to-case basis, right? Um, would I rather and, I'm fine. You can quote me on saying this. Would I rather if, if, if if the person doesn't have an addictive personality, if they're not avoiding anything, if they're getting by in life perfectly well, and they say the THC helps me sleep at night. Would I rather say, take the THC and take Andy and I'd say yes? Because I know, yeah, Ben's a dozen of teens and and sleep aids can be real troublesome. I think we're really digital. Let's get on really difficult to get all of you. So yeah, but I think it's a real, it's a case-to-case basis. And look, I have people that use THC and they completely numb themselves out and dissociate and not facing anything in their lives. And that's a problem. That's a problem. That's very different than the person that says, hey, you know, I have chronic pain and THC seems to get me through my day where the person that says, hey, I can't fall asleep in night because she just helps me wander out and relax. Very different. So you're, um, so basically, and that makes a lot of sense. But if it is there to numb the pain, etc. Are you worried about so a lot of psychiatric drugs? Haven't been a block side effect. We see whether it's hacksaw or is it prexas seem to affect the course of metabolism that I asked in my chat with them? Do you have concerns about THC doing this kinds of things? Obviously, we do know it's an appetite stimulant. I think one of the biggest problems that I see with THC is the way it can be. But the other thing I see is that after a while it creates almost like this apathetic, a motivational presentation. And that can be troubling when you're really trying to get people to progress in their lives, to maybe go to the gym, to get out and do things and be social. So, um, you know, maybe, you know, tick on new challenges in life, right? There's something about THC that we've known for a very long time. It causes some amotivational, um, circumstances and people. So we do wonder about that. We have to be really cautious about that. And that's why I think over a year is just have to be careful. And you're right, listen, man, our, our psychiatric medicines for mood stabilization and anti-sacotics are decided effects for just tremendous medical. What are you going to do? Are you going to have someone here? Or is really having a difficult time functioning? Or have them gain weight? And then people would say, well, you're going to do a ketogenic diet and do all these things. And yes, and I mean, these are acute challenges. Well, that's why we're coming full circle again again. If someone has bipolar disorder and they're an anti-sacotic or mood stabilizer, that potentially is a weak gain as a side effect. If you're not addressing their lifestyle and their diet and their activity levels, then you are failing that patient. You're failing the patient. Leave. Right. So, so we have to address all of it. Where do you think the future of psychiatrists going? Genetic testing to see them at occasions? Where where are we going? Yeah, I mean, we saw we already have some of that. We have genetic testing and standard one that you use. Yeah. So, right now. So, this is important. I think people will get the or they're misunderstanding these genetic tests for psychotropic medication. What the genetic tests do is look at your side of Chrome system. So, the side of Chrome system is how we metabolize whatever we put in our mouth. With that, it's crazy complex. And there are various side of Chromes for various medicines. Like for example, one medicine might be metabolized by side of Chrome. That's two D6, right? Two D6 or, you know, some of the way. So, so what we're looking at is basically genetically. What is your side of Chrome system look like? So, if I give you medicine A, that is metabolized by side of Chrome 2, if that genetically you have a really slow side of Chrome 2, then you probably have side effects of those medicines because you're not metabolizing them appropriately. So, all they're doing is lining up the medicine with the metabolic profile of your genetics. That's all we're doing. We're not, we don't have the capability to know whether medicines are going to be effective treat your depression anxiety psychosis, mood disorder. All that we can do right now is line up your side of Chrome, the metabolic profile with the metabolic profile, how that medicine is broken down. That's all we can do right now. So, perhaps in the future, yeah, we might get a little bit better at that. But where's psychiatry going? I, right now, I don't think a lot of people realize this, but when you do boards in psychiatry, it's the boards of psychiatry neurology, they're combined. The difference between a neurologist, a board certified neurologist, and board certified psychiatrists is that 70% of my boards are behavioral health and 30% of the neurology. We're neurologist is the opposite, 70% neurologic and 30% of the behavioral. I see, you know, especially with training and things becoming more medical and learning more neuroscience, I have a feeling that psychiatry neurology are probably going to combine at some point. How do we super interesting? That's, that's where I think it's going to end up. I mean, this could be decades from now, but I just see it. I see you kind of gravity. Obviously, the more we learn about neuroscience, the more hard data that we have in behavioral health, and it's just becoming, they're just become, by default, they're just becoming more and more late. Well, Dr. Dom, thank you so much for coming on the show. If there is anything else that you want to talk about at the floor is wide open to you, but it's just, you are a well-prepared for your education and super-very-fall. Thank you. It's amazing to be here and honestly just to have this platform to get some of the info out there that's, I can't be more grateful for that. One thing I just want to end on is based on so much that we talked about today. We talked about the physiology of how we respond to our environment and how our autonomic nervous system can bias the way we think and perceive the world and how we can have that perhaps. We've come to the behavioral work and meditative work and insight work into our thoughts, right? And then talking about the happiness study at Harvard. I think it's very, very important for people to take home something. Is that there's a very big difference in life between hedonic, way of living, um, and a way of living, let's call it the eudamonic living. And the difference is this. Is a hedonic living means that we think there's a finish line that's going to make us happy? We think if I get to be from a, I will be happy. Science, social science, psychology, psychiatry has proven that wrong over and over and over. If you have a life thinking if I just get here, I'll be happy. You're setting yourself up for failure. You have to live a life where you're present and you're enjoying things now. And I know that's none of you. I know that's not easy. But one way of realizing that is debunking the hedonic treadmill of if I get that fancy car, if I just get a million dollars in my back account, if I get that nice house, if I graduate medical school, if I become famous, if I x, y, z, then I'll be happy. You're wrong. And, you know, we talked a little bit about something called effective forecasting, where psychology is kind of proven that we're kind of bad at that. We're bad at predicting what's going to make us happy. At least duration of happiness, have intensity of happiness. We know that we can't really predict that. We kind of get the basics. But for all listeners out there, going back to all that eastern stuff, being present, being thankful for what you have now, and looking at your life as a whole, knowing that there will be ups and downs and not thinking that a finish line is going to make you happy. It was probably the biggest thing we'll get hit away from that. That's, that's to so beautifully said. Thank you so much for coming in the show. I'm both.

What would be the takeaway then for someone listening, saying, I need to design a diet to lose body fat? So obviously higher protein, low carb, and resistance exercise, exercise in general is the combination that's going to be most beneficial. So that is a lifestyle change of how you approach it, but the higher protein and the exercise protects your lean tissue, particularly your muscle while you're getting rid of the body fat. And we think that's a sustainable weight loss. You've corrected body composition without jeopardizing your metabolic the active tissues. And I also want to highlight the activity that they did. Now I'm going to call you out here because we're talking exercise. And really it was five days a week, 30 minutes walking, and two days a week of resistance exercise. I would love to hear you tell us what their resistance training program was because the goal is for individuals to understand that everybody makes choices and not everybody makes good choices. And this allows you to make good choices in a way that it's not crazy. Because when you hear the exercise plan when individuals lost nearly 100% fat was nothing rigorous. Yeah. I mean, we again, we had our our midlife women who aren't well put, who aren't in general gym rats. They don't love going to the gym and pumping iron. And so when we do fine, contrary to the person sitting across the table, they were from. Yeah. And so we wanted to design a resistance exercise that was based on range of motion and stretch against resistance. So we had a 30 minute supervised session where they did about 12 minutes of yoga supervised. Again, it's more you know rigid type of resistance. You know, it's it's not necessarily movement, but it's resistance. It's body weight resistance. And then they did another 25 minutes of notalist machines, but we didn't require them to put any weight on it. We told them we're interested in range of motion. We want you to do two sets of 12 reps. And basically you can put on whatever weight you want. And so most of them did very light weights. And that had the benefit. And it had the benefit in both diets, but it had an enormous synergistic effect in the higher protein diet. Why do you think that was, do you think they were untrained individuals? Oh, yes, most of these were not exercising people. They were by definition obese. They were above 30% being a lie, 30% body fat. So they were sedentary obese untrained. And so it definitely had an effect. And it had a dramatic effect on that weight loss. And did you also look at blood lipids? We always look at blood lipids and blood glucose and blood insulin and all of the studies. Clearly when you're doing reductions of carbohydrates, which you're looking at is more than metabolic syndrome type of thing. So blood pressure, wascer conference, HDLs, triglycerides. We always find that when you go to a lower carbohydrate diet, you dramatically drop triglycerides by at least 20%. And in fact, that actually became one of our primary biomarkers for diet compliance. If we found individuals weren't reducing it, we knew they weren't following the diet. Can you give me an example of the gram that they started at the gram that you reduce them to to see that those changes in triglycerides? So when they first came into the study, their total carbohydrates were probably close to 300 per day. So we reduced everybody's calorie intake down. So when we were looking at the food-guide pyramid group, they were getting just under 200 grams of carbs per day. And then in our group that was getting the reduced carb, they were getting about 135 grams. What we have seen is that to get these triglycerides effects, you need to get below about 140 grams of carbs per day. So 100 grams, 90, 120 grams, you should see that effect. So we see the threshold of about 140. So if people wander above their snacking or whatever, and they wander above 140 grams per day, the triglycerides will come back up. And that's a really good marker. And if someone is listening, obviously check with your doctor, or we use inside tracker, you can look at where it's not that before it was very difficult to get blood work to actually see where you were at. And the way down, and I think about it, we look at a few things that are very simple. We look at fasting insulin, fasting glucose, triglycerides. And those are really the three that we examine to determine, is this individual healthy, do they have healthy skeletal muscle on the other side to that is, that is fasting. So it's unchallenged. Sure. There is real benefit to doing an oral glucose tolerance test and actually seeing what your your fed lipids do. And we, and I'll just interrupt you there. We did that in all of our study. So we actually did as opposed to an oral glucose tolerance, which is giving you 75 grams of a pure carbohydrate, what we did was give everyone a diet challenge based on their breakfast meal. So we basically looked at the glucose response and the people following the food guy pyramid versus the blood glucose and insulin response and the people following the low carb. So these are realistic responses to the meal. And what we found was in the individuals who we put on the food guy pyramid, the longer they were on that, the worse their blood glucose tolerance God. So making them follow that high carb or high low protein, which was actually different than their baseline. Their baseline was a little more higher protein and lower carb than what we put them on in terms of a ratio. And so by putting them on the food guy pyramid as the guideline stated it made it worse. I will never remember. I will never forget one of the dietitians that I had in my group at that time. I won't give a last name, but Donna had worked at a local clinic in the weight loss clinic for 10 years before I hired her. And she was teaching the food guy pyramid. And so when I got my group together, I went and hired her. I went and hired her because I knew she would teach the control correctly. She wasn't biased toward my thinking about protein. And she came into my after the end of the first study. She came into my office crying saying, I can't believe I was teaching people that way and it was making them worse.

Welcome to the Dr. Gabriel Lancho. In this episode, I sit down with one of my best friends, a world-class trainer and coach, Don Saladino. Not only is he incredibly fit and has taken care of and continues to train some of the biggest Hollywood stars, but this guy is a master in programming and an incredible business man. In this episode, we talk about how to design a program for fat loss if you are a beginner. We get tons of questions. We also talk about the three biggest mistakes to fat loss and thirdly does every little thing matter. What are the key factors that you should focus on for health, wellness, longevity and body composition? We talk about this and so much more. As always, I put out this content free. If you enjoy it, please take a moment to share it with a friend, subscribe, leave a comment, a rating. We create a ton of content for you and it means the world if you push that forward because remember friends together, we are forever strong. What's up friends? Did you hear the news? That's right. I'm hosting my first ever forever strong six week boot camp. What's a boot camp you're thinking? Well, this is going to get you leaner. Improve your metabolism. Help you move forward in your health and wellness goals. And you are going to do it with me and my team alongside real people for real results. What are you going to get? You're going to get workouts, meal planning. You're going to get my forever strong muscle centric training course. So much more. Most important, you're going to get support. It's never too late to start and the time to start is now. Head on over to my Instagram and DM me boot camp. I'm going to send you all the information. That's right. Head on over to my Instagram, DM me boot camp and I'm there to support you along with my team. It's a rock and roll friends. Don Saladino. Gabriella line. You are one of my best friends. I'm so grateful that I'm honored to be here. And it's just honestly like this the trip out here was not just about doing this. It was about seeing your husband or children. You and just it's fun. Just kind of rapping all that. It is. What are you doing? What are you ordering? It's just. We should tell people I really set you up. So you and I have known each other for about 10 years. We have been very close for almost a decade. Right. Not just through fitness and nutrition. But we've really gone through life. It's no family. Extraordinary. Yeah. And you are one of my most favorite people. And we're going to talk all about health wellness fitness. But the reality is if you guys don't know Don Saladino, you're always so humble. But you are extraordinary. You and your wife, Mal. Thank you. She's extraordinary. It's extraordinary people. So hopefully you guys will get a taste of not just health and wellness. But also who Don is as a human because you know my husband, he's a very good judge of character. We were up last night. I got a man crush on Shane. We were like sitting at the table talking about stuff. It's so funny. It's so interesting and so capable. One's amazing person. And I would say you are one of his most favorite people. That being said, I really set you up. Before dinner. We went to dinner. Oh my god. He's tiny number five. Yesterday, if you guys are in Houston and are looking for a great restaurant, tiny number five is farm to table. And so again, Don and I have been friends for a decade. And we really eat clean. We eat clean around the around and I was disappointed. I was still I'm jumping in. I was disappointed because I'm sitting there going all right. What you get a order? I'm just going to go times tail. No delay. Simple. Didn't really happen. You said you're going to order a protein style burger. And I was looking at you like you had nine heads. I'm like, who are you? Like, what are you talking about? We're really going to get a burger and fries. We're like, yeah, no, I'm just going to eat. I'm like, okay. And I've seen their taking 15 minutes ordering like apologizing to the waitress because I'm like, I'm so sorry for the changes. And then she's like, time's too. That was a full set up. I can't believe you. You even believe that. But well done sir. Well done. And Don Saladino. Just in case you guys know this, if you haven't read my book for Everstrong, Don wrote the training program and kicked off our Forever Strong Summit, which you will be doing every year hopefully. Every year and I haven't announced this, but we have two more books in the pipeline. I'm probably not supposed to be talking about that. But Don will be doing the training for both those. So I'm really excited. And I have to say your level of fitness puts everybody else to shame. That's that's nice to say. But you know, it's not if you guys are looking and watching him, his biceps are poking me in the eye. And oh my gosh, Matt, we did not do our prepodcast ritual. So I guess we're going to have to do it afterwards. Well, do it afterwards. Which involves post ritual. I've been here at all about this too. Which involves multiple pushups to Eminem. But we will be doing Maddie. Okay. Done. For the general population, we get so many questions about body composition. And the number one thing people want to know is what do they need to do to lose body fat? And again, you run multiple challenges, have so many different programs. And by the way, your clientele are some of the most famous people on the planet. So you can talk about the full spectrum from Ryan Reynolds, who I'm a huge fan of. If you're listening to this podcast, and if you're not, you should because you are probably deep funniest actor on the planet. The best. Ryan Reynolds Blake, lively, who else? Or any half away Emily Blunch, John Cresinsky. I mean, I won't name drop anymore, but there's the list goes on and listen, I've had a great career. It's interesting because it changed a lot. Right. I went from a trainer to a big box club to owning a golf performance facility, worked with a lot of rotational athletes, to then working with Hugh Jackman and getting people ready for the big screen. So you got to be malibulant business. And you got to this whole performance physique world is something I really fell in love with at a very young age because I want to perform like an athlete. But I want to look a certain way. And I want to, you know, I want to feel a certain way. And that's where what you do really comes in because without that, what are like the biceps or meaningless, right? Like we got to be healthy internally. So yeah, I think to answer your question of what do people need to do first off? I mean, we're all different in some people love this and some people don't love this. And I get confronted by a lot of people who say, time, I just want to want this. You mean want to get fit? Want to like, I just like for for people are like, oh god, I just wish I could wake up every day and be excited about going to the gym and be excited about eating right. And I'm like, oh my, listen, I'm more consistent in this than you know almost anyone any body. There are days I wake up and I don't the motivation might be, I don't believe that for one time. No, there days I wake up and you might be a little tired, you know, rough night sleep, yeah, travel. But the discipline never changes. It's like if you ask me would you rather motivation or discipline, I'd rather have the discipline piece because the discipline piece is going to allow me to push through those days that I don't feel motivated. So yeah, I made it the other day. I was on up and Newman's podcast and I think I haven't taken, you're going to laugh at like I haven't taken a day off. I don't mean I have my rest days. But I have not woken up since 1996 and said, oh, this is not a damn what a train. Like I always will go and do something. I'll find a way to be successful off. I'll leave. I'll leave feeling successful even if that's mobility. But I'm always keeping my eye on that discipline. And yes, I have cheat meals. And yes, I was an Austria a few weeks ago and I drank some beers and I do those things. But when I come home, it's businesses back on the plan and there's certain non-negotiables when I train. So I'm not expecting people to do that. But listen, we need training, right? And I think we need, you know, right around three days a week out of bare minimum, right? That being enough to change to lose body fat. And I think it would be. And I think that depending on your lifestyle, I'm not telling you for the other four days to go sit in the desk and not move or not be active. But if you got in and you did three days of resistance training and the other four days, you were active with steps and you were trying to get outside and you're hydrating and you're focusing on sleep and you're focusing on something that we love called protein, right? Never heard of it. Never heard of it. And trying to, the food I consume, I want it to be powerful, right? Like I'm not going to just eat like a chicken breast in some white rice. Which is the old school way to do things like, yes, we're going to have broccoli with it or we're going to mix like you're the way you eat or when you look in your fridge, very interesting and I love it. But it's very organized. It's very organized, but like you had your grass fed steak, you had, you know, some shrimp, you had some chicken, you had your potatoes, you had your rice, you had your vegetables and you had other things up top, your crowd, maybe your kimchi. Right, you know what is that? Yeah, we're looking at my food. Yeah, so like for fermented foods. And, you know, there was never, you were never sure to be able to consume something that was powerful. So I think there's a way to eat that's delicious. I think it does take a little discipline and a little planning. Like if you're going to wake up the next day and say, oh God, I slept in my meals already and when am I going to train? I never sleep in, right? Yeah, because I have a wish we do like little, little children who woke up and was like, where's Uncle Donnie? I missed that. But yeah, I think to answer your question, I think if you got in started with, you know, three, 20 to 30 minute sessions and the other day, it's not that long. It's not, it's not long. But then the other day is be active. Like like walk, take the stairs instead of the elevator, move like maybe after your meals go for a 10 minute walk. Doing these things that are really going to help you accumulate your steps and, you know, I think good things will happen and when good things start happening, then those magic words come in. It's like, all right, I'm seeing progress. What's next? So many people don't want to keep up with, you know, with that discipline because they're not seeing progress. So when you're doing something every day and there's nothing in return, it's really difficult to want to continue to do it. So that's my thing. If we could show them a little bit of progress, we're going to get them coming back a lot more. And progress begins, you know, there's the physical progress, but also being able to set a standard for yourself. You set a standard. You execute on that standard. If you were to say, if you're out there listening and you've never picked up a way, which I know some people are in that spot or maybe they've always been doing cardio because again, cardio is easy, jump on a piece of cardio equipment, but strength training is a non-negotiable for reducing body fat and changing body composition. Don has trained every type of person under the sun from famous people to athletes to tier one operators who we share together. If someone starts at 20 to 30 minutes of resistance training the three days a week, how should they think about it? Should be a Monday, Wednesday, Friday? What kind of it should be? How should they space it and would these be full body exercises? I like full bodies because now we're repeating what some frequency and I think someone who's getting started, the big complaint is, I don't want to feel too sore, right? Is that the big complaint? I'm like, how am I going to get really sore doing this? And I'm like, but so if you're turning around and you're training frequently, meaning like a Monday, Wednesday, Friday or Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, you're allowing yourself a rest day in between mentally we might develop some motivation which becomes a problem. When most people start training, they get so excited and they get overzealous and they jump in there and the next thing you know they're there for an hour and a half and then they're sore the next day and then they come back in and they do it again and then three, four days in they're like, I'm shot and I can't keep up with this and I'm like, I don't have that type of time and that motivation starts diminishing. So I want them to go in, I want them to hit it, I want them to leave there wanting more. Like, like leave there not being completely spent. And is that why you say start with 20 to 30 minutes because of 30 minutes, you could probably keep going. I can create any program for anybody. Like, if someone comes to me and they're like, I for some reason at 20 minutes, I lose motivation. I'll design for them the 18 minute workout. It's just, and I can design it in a way where we're going to check a lot of boxes. We're going to train the entire body. You're going to work, you know, you're going to work all five components of fitness, you know, is just strength, mobility, cardiovascular endurance, muscular endurance, muscular endurance, body composition. So, you know, all those five components, we're going to check those boxes with if we are, you know, training in a smart way and we're training in a very efficient way. But if you're coming in there and for a little silly pulling stuff out of the air, you're going to have a big problem. And there's not going to be any balance to your programming and you're going to over train certain areas of the body or some people don't like using the term over training, but you're going to overload certain areas of the body. And that could result in some issues in the future. And it's not a well balanced program. Not a well balanced program. But if you're training with a well balanced program, you're going to notice even postureally from a movement standpoint, you're just going to be in a much better place. I got some big news for you. I'm so excited to announce a partnership with quick silver scientific. Now, quick silver products, I have been using these for myself and in my clinical practice for years. So, when I finally had the opportunity to partner with them, I couldn't be more excited. Let me tell you about the three top products that I have been using for over six years. And they are thrivogen, nano-mojo, yeah, you heard it right, nano-mojo and life is almost good at the iron. These products are amazing. And here is why I love thrivogen, which is a woman-based formula. It has a ton of adaptogenic herbs, meaning things that help the body's resiliency. It has Ashwaganda, Rodeola, and many other herbs that help with resiliency, stress management, and overall energy, which is one reason why I love it. And it's in a formulation that allows for sublingual delivery, meaning you put it in your mouth, you hold it for 32, 60 seconds, and then you ingest it. It is been so helpful for me. And then the nano-mojo is a male-based formula. nano-mojo is absolutely incredible for guys that are really hard charging, and it really helps with resiliency, stress management, all of the things that I had mentioned earlier. These are two amazing products, and then of course there's life as a good at thion, or detoxification. If you have not tried any of these three products, you should go to Quick Silver, Scientific, Use the Code, Dr. Lyon, that's Quick Silver, Scientific, and Use the Code, Dr. Lyon for 15% off. Thank you to Shopify for sponsoring this episode of the show. Now wait, before you fast forward through this ad, think about it. If you are a small business owner or even a large business owner, or someone who wants to make their dreams a reality by selling something to the world, Shopify is your place. It is an online e-commerce site that allows the interface between the owner or the individual who is creating a product, and the consumer, a seamless transaction, what we call a point of sale. Why is this important? Because number one, many of us have things that we want to get out to the world, and frankly we don't know where to start. It seems very overwhelming. Shopify is an amazing way to get your product out to the world. And by the way, if you're a consumer, a guaranteed, you've been using Shopify. I know one of my best friends has an amazing company called Paper and Planko. I go to that website, I pick a notebook, I'm obsessed with notebooks, I put it into my cart, I check out. And by the way, it's easy, great customer service, and in part, that is due to the ease of Shopify. Shopify, quite frankly, is taking over the e-commerce site and space for both business owners and consumers. You can try your own Shopify account for a dollar. Go to Shopify.com slash doctor lion. That's right, Shopify.com slash doctor lion and start your trial for a dollar. Now back to the show. So take me through. I've never trained before. I'm starting with the 20 to 30 minutes, three days a week. I meet you at the barn, which is amazing. We start with some mobility or do we go, yeah, take me through. I'm still, listen, I'm a fan of mobility. I am. I will. It feels great. It feels great. I call practice. So what I'll do is I will personally screen someone. I'll run them through some type of a functional movement screening or if there is red flags. I've got a team of medical. I work with where they can come and do an SFM they or take them through their process. So once we understand how that person's moving, then I can design my practice or call what you want. Warm up movement, prep, pre-hat, whatever you want to call. I don't care. But like, then we can design that very simple approach based off of what it is that person needs. So if they're lacking an external rotation in the shoulder, you might work on that or thoracic extension or thoracic rotation. So it's very purposeful. I'm not going to take a woman who can twist her spine like gumpy and start working on open books. It's a useless movement for her. She doesn't need it. She might need to hang from a pull-up arm work on grip strength. I'm just making this up. But I think coming in and taking anywhere from three to five movements and just rolling through it to where your heart rate gets picked up. But we are practicing things that we want to get better at that I think becomes very, very important. And then, you know, it's how are we structuring the workout based off of their goals? And we designed you and I designed your foundation workout for exactly that. You guys listening. Again, there's been so many questions about how do I get started and what specifically do I have to do? Don and I created a workout for you. Hopefully it will be ready. We will link to it. We developed it. It's a three-day week. Dumball only program. Right. It's very, very simple. So we just not everyone has access to a gym and if you do, fantastic. So do you think that everyone at this day and age should have access to a gym? Um, you know what, it's, it's some people just aren't going to have the time. Right? It's like you have two kids at home. Like if I make the time, I make the time. You make, yes, yes, yes, you do. But like some people aren't going to have, you know, some people are going to have to be at work at a certain time. So I have no problem with you buying a pair of power blocks and getting an adjustable bench. You know that we have a pair? Are you going to see them in our program? I love them. I think it's like almost the, I think it's the ultimate in home tool. I agree. But you, you can buy a pair of power blocks getting the adjustable bench and your, you know, your, your nail. Yeah, you're, you're ready to go. You don't need much more as one of them is what I'm saying. So I don't want to discourage people who are like, listen, I have two kids I got to get on the bus and then I have to be at work at 9 a.m. Like, all right, you can't leave them home alone. Like, right, like, you know, you know, you get a, you know, you can't, you know, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't work out. That's not going to work out. Exactly. But you can't, what I'm saying, I think the dumbbell only program is allowing anyone to be successful. And then from that point, if you can get to the gym, yeah, that's why I'm here as a coach is to say, hey, listen, we don't have to do pullovers. We can go do a vertical pull, because you've access to a pull-up bar, a lap pull down or whatever it is, or yes, we have some pulling machines. Let's go have some fun with that. Let's add some variability. And so, you know, I think we're starting with the dumbbell only and then we can build from there. I love it. And when we think about exercises, specific exercises that we do, do you think that are a handful of exercises everybody should be able to do? Should we be squatting? Yeah. So as someone who is now going to start a dumbbell only program and we're just picking that for you guys. But the exercises that should be done, they should be able to squat. They should be able to press. How do we think about that? Yeah. So I like breaking it down. Like you've got your squat. You've got your hinge. What's the hinge? Hinge would be like your RDL. It would be something where you're getting less knee flexion out of. Is that where you bend your hinge you bend from your waist? Yeah. So like an RDL a good morning. Like you're a kettlebell swing, like a hinge. Even though a swing would be a little bit more, I think it advanced. If you got a newbie starting out, I'd be more interested in teaching them just how to do like a dowel hinge or maybe like a simple dumbbell R D L. So I like going with a squat a hinge and upper push and upper pull and it's a hinge push. Push. A pull. Is there a reason why it's in that order? No, you can go hinge squat. Pull push. I don't care. Yeah. I really don't care. I actually prefer like yes. If you wanted to varied up and start with the hinge at times like sometimes we're more focused in the beginning and sometimes we need to warm up a little bit more. Yeah. That's a good point. Praritize. Would you say that the more complicated the exercise the earlier on and should be done? I think so. So and I think yeah that my contract project a lot of like what CrossFit does but actually thing is a really good advice. Yeah but if we're teaching something like that's demanding a lot of power like a snatch, a clean you know something of that nature that's demanding a lot of speed. I'm like always programming that in the beginning because I want them to be alert. I want them to be fresh and I don't want them to be fatigued because once you start getting fatigued with those movements you begin to load this function and when you load this function bad things can happen. You're going to get hurt. Yeah. A squat or a hinge not necessarily squat. Yeah so it would be a squat a hinge. Okay. A push-up hole and a core movement. And a core movement. So what would be an example of each of those? So squat would be like a goblet squat. It could be a split squat. Which we did? Which we did? Which I which absolutely and I love the split squat because it's um it is um a unilateral movement and I categorize like split squats differently than the rear foot elevated. It's differently than front foot elevated. So those are three forms of split squats but I will program them all a bit differently. I'll I'll keep more of a vertical knee tibia if I am doing a split squat. A rear foot elevated split squat is definitely going to be more knee of a knee dominant movement and a front foot elevated split squat. I might be able to recruit the posterior chain a little bit more but I'm still keeping that vertical knee tib. So there's always a reasoning for why I'm putting something in the program but yeah I like balance. I like variability but I'm not going to start to begin around with a rear foot elevated split squat. It's a very difficult movement or requires a lot of balance and um you know I think but a body weight split squat is very safe. A goblet squat is very safe and there are times where we try and program that and it's not in the cards for the individual maybe because of some knee issues that they had in the past or balancing issues and then we figure out a call to regression or a lateralization to something else that they're going to be able to be successful with. So we've got those are our two so we've got the squat we've got the hinge which would be like let's just start with an RDL that's a Romanian deadlift. An upper push a push up something as symbols a push up or that's important right to be able to do push up and they don't even need a weight with a push up. I'm blown away by how many people are performing push up incorrectly right? No rep. Matt is the king of no rapping. But it's there's a push up is a moving plank. That's how I categorize it. It's like we're in a plank position so we're getting the benefits of a plank but we are moving so it's dynamic so when I get someone to push up I am trying to allow the create tension with the floor with their hands. I want them to squeeze or glutes. I want them to fire their lats and I want everything to raise and lower in one piece. I don't want their hips to stay down where you see people bobbing with their upper body and you're causing extension and lower back. It's just in my opinion there's a more efficient way to do it and people can still develop very strong physique by doing things inefficiently but I also believe in my opinion that when you do things inefficiently you're always in the potential of causing more risk. Injury. Over time. Could be. What about, okay, for the push up or a pushing motion we have a push up what else do we have with a bench press? Yeah we have a dumbbell. So we have a horizontal press or a vertical press is how I differentiate my my pressing so push up would be horizontal. A dumbbell flat bench press horizontal and inclined bench press horizontal. I see the dumbbell press vertical. A land-mind press vertical like a cannibal bottom up press vertical so like there's a handstand push-up vertical like there's different levels of a difficulty that we can assign to people. And then we have, so we have the squat hinge, the push the pull. And then we got our core movement. And we talked about, do we talk about the pull? No, okay. What are the exercises for the new be listening that want to include a pull? And again squat push pull core you do this three times a week. Yeah, because now we're accumulating some volume over three days. So we're in body building terms, someone would go in and let's just say this. Let's say they, let's see someone does legs on Monday. No, no, no, chest, it's universal chest. I purposely said legs just because I'm like, I always do legs on my, okay, let's say someone does chest on Monday and let's say they accumulate 14 sets of their chest work. And we also have to talk about set and rep range. 12 sets, 14 sets, whatever. I think your sets are all dictated by your intensity. So when I say 16 sets of chest, you can get a chest workout done in seven working sets, six working sets. How hard are you going to go? Less, right? So if you're doing, let's just say 16 sets for the sake of math. We can do 16 sets in one day or we can do four sets a day over four days. We're still accumulating more 16 sets. So like what I'm what I'm doing is we're training for different things. If someone's a body builder, yeah, we may want to go with a little more volume or intensity or maybe we may want to train a little bit more frequently during the week. If I'm working with someone for performance or I'm trying to get the moving and they just want like a strong build and they want to be lean and they want to be athletic, you know, I, these full body workouts, I think are a great approach and there's so many different ways I could structure them. I could still focus on strength and power. I could still do circuit work, right? I could still set them up in different ways and they're efficient. So I think when we don't have time, the full body workouts are a good way to check a lot of boxes. I think they're great. I in fact the program that we created, I'm going to be using because we're, you know, I'm managing some of these injuries and again, you can still make body composition improvements by just being consistent and and again, you can change it for if someone is moderately trained or more advanced, you would increase the either volume or intensity, which would you think is more important for body composition changes? Specifically that loss. Yeah, you know what? I would have to look at training age first. So if someone is new to training, if I'm coming in with an intensity approach in my opinion, most people are not going to be able to stabilize and maintain. I mean, if I had my wish out of it, I mean, I would balance out between some volume work and dropping down volume and raising intensity. I think it is, it's been my approach, my entire career. I will set my training up in the different blocks, blocks of like two months, right? Where is that how anyone to do it? No, no, this is just just how I, this is how I do it. So I'll set up like January and February will be the same program, but I'll have progressions every two weeks and the exercises will change in February and then March will come. Yeah, yeah, I mean, listen, I've got to pay a tag like during, I'm a hack hockey player really, let me be, be clear, but if you're playing three, four days a week, you know, you want to be careful about how you load the spine, you want to be careful about specific movements that you're doing, like your body is could potentially, you know, it could take a toll on your on your body. So I think exercise selection is important and I think is intensity is important when you're playing that much. Then when you scale off, I think it's a time that puts your foot on the gas in certain areas and maybe start focusing on a little more strength and power and you get a little bit more aggressive with certain things, but all throughout the year for me, it's like those workouts start with that practice portion and that's what allows me to feel very lost. I like that term, I don't like it, it's a fun term to use and it's not a scientific term, it's be very clear here, but it just feel more, feel more flossed and feel more loose and feel more recovered. The pull for the beginner, what are the best pull movements that again, you know, you and I talk, we're really training for longevity, even and everybody should, whether they're a military operator or an actor, it's your body's your tool. Resilience in, yeah. Exactly. What are some of the key pulling exercises that you like? Yeah, I'll break it down from like a vertical pull or horizontal pull, so it's no different than the pressing, vertical pull can be your pull-up chin-up, neutral grip pull-up, lap pull down, right? Like that's your vertical pulling, right? You're pulling high down and your horizontal pull could be like you're one arm, dumbbell row, your chest support or row, your face pull, right? Some with equipment, some with dumbbell, some with machines, it's, you know, if you have access to that equipment, I'm all for you, you know, have fun with your training also. Like if you're getting in and you're training at home all the time and you're bored and you're just like, oh, you know, don't and Gabrielle wrote me the Stumbelt wrote the Stumbelt program and I'm just getting bored of it, like go to a gym, get some variability, like have fun with your training, like going there and, you know, don't make it miserable, like I want you to enjoy it. I have a question that I don't know the answer to and you might not know the answer to this. Probably not. But this is so fun having you on the podcast. Where did these exercises come from? I mean, who invented, I mean, just think about it. We create these programs and then we continue them a squat make sense because that's something that my kid could do. But where do we, where did one determine that a pull is important? I mean, a pull-up would make sense, but some of these exercises have you ever thought about who developed them or what? Yeah, I mean, and I think we have a few names for a few of the movements out there, right? But I mean, people are inventing crap today. They're just like throwing a name on it and you say to yourself, well, obviously through social media and through the reach that we have, I think these things are so much more visible and fitness now is so much more accepted than it was, you know, even back in the 60s and 70s. Like that was fit that people who are fit, Jacqueline, I'll never forget it. Like I was, I trained with him once. Yeah. So he was, he came into Goldschirm. I want to say it was either as 90th birthday or Goldschirm's, like 130th birthday and they had Jacqueline kind of walking into the gym and he looked at me. I was in a sleeve of shirt and he's like, let's get me on camera with that kid. So I ended up working out with him and you know, he was 90 years old. He was in Climb Press in 55 pound dumbbells. And I got to sit with him and hear a story a bit. And when he passed, I was invited by his wife, a lane, her name was Elaine Lollane, right? And down we went to the Tribeca, one of the Tribeca theaters and I sat through this documentary. I got to be honest, I was Terry I'd most of the time because this guy, people were, he was like, back in the days, like, you know, I'm mixing all these fruits and vegetables in this blender and blending them together, people are like, this guy's crazy and he's, you know, pulling a bar, she's swimming and he's pulling this humongous barge and he's doing all these feats and he is really one of the people that kind of set the standard and I think kind of, yeah, in a way normalized, like, what it is, we all go to now moving weights and moving and I think it's such a beautiful thing. But when you turn around and you look at these exercises, some of these exercises have been around for centuries. I mean, thousands of years, like there have been people doing some of these movements and, you know, once in a while, you'll be able to find a picture of a physique from 100 years ago and you're like, oh my god, like he's obviously nanny, like he looks amazing, like, but it's cool to see that, it's cool for me to see it. But nowadays, like, yeah, like, you look at the RGL, like, it's a hinge, like, people have been hinging forever and suddenly someone's like, oh, we're going to call this stuff Romanian deadlift or, you know, it's like, there are movements that again, have been around for a really long time. The pull-up, like, oh, wow, that's a real scientific name, like, someone's hanging from the bar, like pull yourself up, like we're calling that the pull-up, like, it's probably how it literally happened and then we just hung with these things and now you see all these sports scientists now researching and trying to find out other ways to do things more efficiently. But I also, it's interesting about a lot of this research is we've all seen research that have been published and, you know, you've seen it then contradicted, you know, decades later and, yes, there's certain research papers that we'll, you know, even explain. Yeah, that you'll look at and you're like, oh, this is solid, but, you know, I also look at specific experts in our field that have been doing this stuff for 20, 25, 30, 35 years and there's some of the best research experts without having things published. Exactly who you're referencing. Yeah, so it's amazing. For me, that's, for me, that's impressive, like, just because a paper might come out and, it might say, well, there's no evidence that mobility is helpful. Well, this guy's been doing it for 30 years and this guy now is 70 years old and he moves beautifully. My evidence is going to push myself in that direction or sometimes it takes time for evidence to catch up with. Yeah. But we know or hypothesis. The, we talked about squat, push, pull, core exercises. Yes. Tell me how important those are for a beginner and what we should be doing. Because I remember I went on a good morning, America and I called her, I'm like, don't, they want me to do exercise. I'm like, you remember this? Yes. And I was like, here's what I'm thinking for the core exercises. I went, blah, blah, blah, sit up and you're like, oh, no, we're not doing this. So explain to us good core exercises and you want. Yeah, I mean, I want to be clear the situps been around for a long time and there are plenty of people that can do situps and never have back issues. I'm just, when I, but maybe it's not the, I mean, yeah. So the reason why I don't program it is because, you know, statistically, a lot of people have sore backs and a lot of people are sitting in this position. You're in this chyphotic position all day and and just adding, I think that flexion, you know, under strain can be, could be detrimental, right? So I'm a, I'm a huge fan of one arm carries or some type of one arm. As a core exercise. Yeah. Like, because always core exercise, we think that we're going to be laying on our back, right? We're doing situps or, you know, Matt over there doing flutter kicks, but now. Some of the strongest people I've worked with, they have, you know, we have assigned, you know, carry variations into their training diet and they've had an incredible level of success with it. I mean, they're so much benefit. There's so much bang for their buck out of that movement. And you know what, like, well, I've seen as a rehab tool. I've seen Dr. Charlie Wynegrov, you know, post surgery, bring someone in and it's a very whether it's shoulder surgery or whatever it might be, you know, starting them with a weight down low is going to be a lot safer than getting them up in this position here. So, you know, I've seen this uses a rehab tool from medical professionals, very successful. I've seen it used. And a core stability, your number one exercise is a, is it, would it be called an offset carry? It's just a one arm. Yeah. I mean, I mean, some form of a carry pending on, you know, what they're capable of doing, but I love one arm carries. Planck sir, I think I think a great introductory movement. I think get teaching someone to get into a plank position and create tension, these tension techniques, getting into position and say, listen, we're not going to hang out in this extended position. Squeeze your glutes, squeeze your legs, squeeze your legs, you want something yesterday about a plank. It was, it's not about the length of time that you can hold a plank as an individual could lay. But tension, yeah. But you said that it was about creating tension and being able to hold the quality of the plank under tension. Right. And that I thought was a really good learning tip. I think it's a great way to kind of supercharge your plank a bit, right? Where most people I could hold a plank for eight minutes. I create like, there's trust me, there's plenty of strength carry over from that. But when I see most people holding those positions, they're in a bad position. And they might be loading themselves in a way that I don't think is, I believe in my opinion isn't the safest thing for for them. So, I think teaching them how to do a hard-style tension technique plank for 10 to 20 seconds, where I'm literally like telling them, envision a tornado is blowing over you right now as you're in this plank position. What are you going to do? How are you going to stabilize? So like, well, I'm going to try and rip the floor apart to stabilize and going to exactly. Are your glutes going to be tight? They're like, yeah, you should trip position going to be packed. Yeah. It's like I'm moving around them trying to like palpate their body, trying to move them a little bit. They're just literally shaking within 10 to 20 seconds. And I submit, they're really an isometric hold. Exactly. And how many reps would they or how many yeah, would it be considered a wrap? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I would put them maybe under time. Like, so I would start someone off like, hey, listen, let's see if you can hold that position because I put people in the positions and they're like, I can't hold a plank and I'm like, okay, we're going to work up to that. And then there's other things like, yeah, they get they can't hold a plank, which I've seen. We can hold a light dumbbell with two hands. How late are we talking? As light as we have to go to we're adding external resistance to the equipment. We want people to get under load. We want them to get under load. And I think that that's probably one of the biggest misconceptions for people is they'll say, well, you know, I can't lift that. That's too heavy. It might be a 10 or 15 pound weight, but that's a problem in my opinion. But I think it's just a thought process because you could go lift your child or a suitcase and it's going to be a groceries. That's right. It's going to be much heavier than that. That's a good process. How about this? I'm traveling this afternoon. We got a suitcase that we're carrying. That suitcase is going to weigh a lot more than two pounds. Like you better make sure you're able to carry this up. I'll quote recently. I was listening to a physical therapist talk about the one arm carry and how he likes loading it's so heavy that he's like, if you can do a shrug with it, like it's too light type of thing. Right? So I thought that was a really good indicator, but I also understand I am not taking a newbie into the gym on day one when they're feeling vulnerable or they don't have that foundation. And I'm turning like, hey, Mrs. Smith, like you haven't trained in 40 years or ever. Like let's go for a grab at 24 kilogram kettlebell and go for walk-doried if it's heavy. Like God forbid something happens. Like we have to develop that confidence, whether she can do it or not, we have to develop that confidence. I want them to turn to me and I want people to feel empowered when they come in to exercise. And when they go and they play with their kids, I want them to feel empowered. We saw a woman that you know the day in her 60s. She was killing in the gym. Hilling it. Hilling it. And you know what? Most 20, 25 you're like, guys, she's stronger than me. She's my size. She's stronger than me. Sled pulling, sled pushing, sweating out of breath. Walks by me, gives me like a fizz on my god. Who is this superwoman over here? She runs ultra. Yeah, it's a press. And now we've just- And she moves well. There's not too many people who run ultra is where I'm like, wow, they move really well. Yeah, she moves really well. Yeah. And then so basically for fat loss, it's enough. And you know, I say fat loss and body, you know, recomposition this essentially would be enough for a untrained person to begin to put on skeletal muscle mass. Yes. You know what's cool about this? It's, you could take a newbie in here, I call him newbies. And you can run them through this slowly. As individual movements, taking time, talking them through it, holding their hand a bit. I can come into this work out right now. And this is not the way that I'm training right now. And we're going to talk about the way that you're training. Sure. Sure. You, again, I've known you for so long. There's a lot of complexities to your training and a lot of things that you add in that I think are really, really cool. Thank you. The rep range and tempo and time between sets for an individual who's just starting. Take us through where we should start to think about it. I think an individual just starting should monitor their rest time because a lot of times they're going to come to me and say, wow, it was weaker today. And I'm like, well, why are you weaker? Maybe on session week one, you were taking three minutes in between your sets. And maybe this week you're only taking a minute. Like in my opinion, you might not be weaker. You just might not be recovered. So I think by monitoring your rest time, that's important because suddenly I can bring a woman into the gym and we can go through dumbbell bench presses and maybe she's bench pressing 20 pounds in each hand and we're resting 60 to 90 seconds. Then the next week I come in for some reason. I'm just making this up. We decide to rest 30 seconds. Probably not pressing those 20s. But she's going to look at me and go, what the hell's wrong with me? Why am I going to get past the 15s? Why? So I think understanding that your rest is going to have a lot to do with your success with each set. And I do believe that when we're starting with someone new, I like starting with a higher rep range because I consider that practice. And I think they start understanding tempos. If I'm going to get a newbie in there and have them do five. Right? Five repetitions. We're practicing five reps. The amount of load I have to add to the bar is going to be a little bit greater than what I want them to do. I would like them to start with a little bit lighter weight. I'd like them to understand the movement pattern. I'd like them to practice and get connected with that movement. That's why I'm not against, you know, even someone new with them. Machines are bad. Machines can be a great great variable sometimes. It's like, all right, well, maybe we're so fatigued. If we are training to for high-perchrophy that at a certain point safety becomes an issue and now that we're on a machine, we can really push without having to require all that neuromuscular coordination and all that stability. Suddenly we can get on that machine and we can push. Or if someone is, I put people down on dumbbells to do dumbbell flat presses and they're like, whoa, safety's a problem here. Like, oh my god, they can hurt themselves. They can hurt someone else around them. Like, they don't understand that movement pattern. Get them to a machine chest press to where you can be on one of those things drunk and you can, you know, you can literally not not never try that. But I've never tried that drunk. You get what I'm saying. I think there is a place for a lot of these things. So to answer your question, I would like you to monitor rest time. See how you're feeling well. How long do you think for an individual starting? How long should they be resting? I think any more from 60 to 90 seconds considering we're not getting under heavy loads. I think is really conservative. I think that's a really conservative place to be. There's some people who are going to grab weights. They might be so fatigued that going in the next set. They're like, oh my god, I need more rest. Stretch out to 90 seconds. And you know what if they're still fatigued? Go to two minutes, you know, log it. If you're tracking it, track it because we can change a program stimulus by leaving the sets and reps the same, but almost progressing the rest times. You're saying something very smart here. It's all about the adaptation that we're looking for. We focus a lot on what is the individual exercise? And the reason I'm covering individual exercises isn't because so much that it's that specific exercise not to confuse people, but the movements are important, but it's the stimulus that we're after. And you have taught me a lot about how we can change the stimulus, whether it is volume intensity, rest times while doing the same program. You know, I, you know, I, I learned that for I stole that information from this old bodybuilding coach named Vinstoranda. And I remember reading about this guy probably when I started coaching in the late 90s. And it was interesting because I went back to some of his training methods when I broke ribs or I injured my shoulder and suddenly I couldn't get under heavy loads anymore. So as a young trainee, you're like, okay, well, can't bench press 225 right now. What do I do? And you're like, all right, we'll get on the, you know, in Climpress and press 8 sets 8. And we're going to do that on 45 seconds for rest for two weeks. And then two weeks later, we're going to do that on 30 seconds for rest. And then two weeks later, we're going to do that on 20 seconds for rest. And suddenly loads that were so light to begin with are feeling heavier than that 225. And you're just creating the stimulus and you're sweating and you're feeling successful. So I believe that we go to these, we can go to these tools when, you know, life throws us a curveball or a speed bump. Mm. I, I really like that. Thank you to Apollo, Nuro for sponsoring this episode of the show. I have been using the Apollo wearable for quite some time. You might see me in my stories where a tiny little square device, sometimes I wear it on my wrist, sometimes I wear it on my ankle. And here's why I love the Apollo. Number one, it is a tiny little device that sends small vibrations throughout my body. So I put it on my wrist. It almost is like a tiny little tapping and you can adjust the intensity and duration. There are multiple different programs and here's why I think just you try it. It helps regulate your nervous system. There is a lot coming at us, whether it's our phones or demands and the Apollo wearable allows me to almost, I don't know, reset my nervous system. I think that there's a lot of great science behind it. It is a safe, effective, non-stimulant, non-medication way to manage your nervous system. It helps with my heart rate variability. It can help me with sleep. It helps people with anxiety. It was created by a psychiatrist with whom I trust. Dave would love to have you on the show. It's really amazing. And if you are going to add one thing to your regimen that is non-supplement, I highly recommend that it's this. Go to ApolloNero.com. That's ApolloNero.com. Use the code Dr. Lion for 15% off. That's Dr. Lion for 15% off. Now back to the show. The 60 to 90 second rest that's in between, for example, our hinge or our squat. So we'll do how many reps are we starting with 15 to 20? I think 15 is a good number and I think at the very least that goblet squat can become a bodyweight squat. I actually think that goblet squat can get a little easier in the bodyweight squat because even if you put a light dumbbell or a light kettlebell someone's hand you're allowing that core activation. It's acting as a counterbalance. And you know, I've tried to have people squat and they're going on their toes and I'm like, all right, let's put this box down. I teach them how to kind of sit back on the box to where they're learning how to use their glutes a bit more and be a little less knee dominant. And that's how I would approach it. But don't feel that just because it says goblet squat doesn't mean we can't call that a realization work on those bodyweight squats. Bodyweight squats like pushups and pullups. I think are these foundational movements that we should work on. And how fast do we progress? So right now we're doing a repetition range of five to 15. Oh, 15. Sorry, 15 to 20 reps. We're doing 60 to 90 seconds in between two to three sets, right? You can ask you how many sets? Two to three sets is a good place to start. Again, we want them to feel successful. We want them to get out of the gym, you know, in a good amount of time so they can come back in and be hungry to come back in. Again, I'm trying to build this level of consistency and I'm trying to, you know, remove that vulnerability. A lot of people feel when they're grabbing a dumbbell or they're going to gym and they're around people. And the first couple weeks is all neuromuscular connection. It's all central nervous system. Yeah, learning the patty listen. It'll take longer than that. I mean, this is this is an art like the strength is uh strength. I love that line strength as a skill. Like we just develop these skills as we get more and more reps in. So I'm not going to say like two weeks, you're going to be great. Like now, like we need to put time in, but we could start progressing. I think two to three weeks, we could start progressing. And when like when do I like to change a program? First, when it's when we feel like it stops working, like when someone's going in there and they've been seeing progress and then suddenly they stop seeing progress, I'm like, all right, let's pull some new tools out of the tool bag. But different than changing the rep range, changing the, the, uh, actually, and talk about tempo either. Well, yeah, we'll get to tempo. This is actually, like you can run this template for I know people who are incredible shape that run full bodies all the time. And there's so much variability. Suddenly now, like that hinge can become a trap our deadlift. It can become a conventional deadlift. It can become something ballistic, right? Like we could start getting into hand cleans. And we could start doing things or kind of all swings or kind of all snatches. And we can do things that are a little bit more advanced and technical. When we're not doing ballistic so and we're doing what we're talking about here, uh, tempo. I think, and we all count differently. But I think going into like a, like a one Mississippi 2, Mississippi 3, Mississippi up is, is solid or some people might do, um, to produce more high to purge if you may be a 2, 2, 10, but you're not getting that fast. But what's the 2, 2, 10 path? It might just be like one Mississippi 2, Mississippi 1, Mississippi 2, Mississippi. So notice how that tempo 4 seconds to do both reps. 4 seconds to do both. So I'm just a centric and easy. Yeah, so I'm making this up. So like right now, if we do that 3 second e-centric and we're explosive on the concentric, it still took us 4 seconds to do the rep. But I approached that set a little bit differently than if I did 2 seconds down in a slow controlled concentric. That both sets are both 4 seconds. But we, um, I might program those a bit differently. And how often should someone be thinking or changing up tempos? That's a good question. I don't think I have like a set, um, you know, I might change the tempos with, um, the training block, if someone's been training a certain way for a while and I feel like they're starting the tap out. Like, rarely do I like to change, um, tempos when they're in this honeymoon phase of like getting stronger, getting stronger, getting stronger, like someone's coming in and their squats going up and every week. They're like a newbie and they're getting stronger and they're excited. And I'm like, great, great, great. Like I'll save those tools for when I feel like their progress begins to plateau that I like that. Are there certain weights that people should increase by, for example? Is there any kind of standard that you increase your squat by 5 pounds? Yeah. It would be a week. Would it be a month? How do people? It's a great question. Like when you, when you turn around to a movement like a squat, you're going to be doing a heck of a lot more weight than someone's doing a side raise. So if I take a female and she's gobbled squatting 30, 40 pounds, which is very, you know, very, very normal thing to do. She's not side raise in 30 or 40 pounds. She might be side raising, you know, 5 to 10 pounds. This is a range. I'm not like, I'm saying, I'm just going to be in here. But I think the percentage increase on the side raise is going to be, you know, miniscule in comparison. There are all depends on all depends on the lift. Yeah, I think it really a lot of it depends on the lift. The squat and the deadlift, like I went up, I was traveling. I wasn't like today was the day where I was like, all right, I'm not going to go crazy heavy. So I went up to like, I think on the deadlift for a set of five, I want to say 420, right? But last week, I did 405. So 15 pound increase is significant. It's, it's a lot, but I'm ramping up my deadlift. So I'm in this phase right now where I'm leaving a lot in the tank. I'm not going to jump 15 pounds on a side raise or a bicep curl or a rear fly or an isolation movement, right? Like those are going to be much more miniscule. That's a, that's a really good perspective for people listening and they shouldn't be trying to increase weight. There should be this component of progressive overload. Yes. Because if they're not, then would essentially they be just maintaining. Yeah. I mean, I know some people that have incredible physiques and are in great shape and they just kind of, you know, every time it's like the same thing over and over. Like, let me, let me be clear about something. The fact that you're getting in there and doing something is better than not doing anything. So like, and if I was getting stronger, every single day, every single week of my life, I'd be the strongest human being on the planet. Like, right, ever. So like, it's, you're not going to continually get stronger at these lifts over and over. And that's why like variability. It's like, all right, if we're turning around and we're training a more of a hip dominant squat, a wide stance squat, and we're kind of tapping out there. There's no reason why we can't go to a heels elevated. A little bit closer, a little bit more knee dominant, loading the body a bit differently. We've already worked on being very strong and a hip dominant way. I'm starting to tap out there. So in my opinion for what I'm training for, let's go load our parameters a bit differently. And you know, if I was a nationally ranked power lifter, maybe that's not the way I'm going about it. Like, but I know for what I train for, which is what pretty much everyone trains for. And what is that? You can be a jacked and tan. Well, well, listen, no, no, seriously. Like, we want to, we want to have high levels of energy. We want to look better naked. We want to be strong. We want to be able to rinse and repeat every day. You want to be able to wake up and feel resilient. You don't want to wake up and get out of bed and be like, oh my god, my back. So like, my program is going to look a bit differently than someone else training for a power lifting beat or criss-bump stead training for the Olympia, right? Like, there's, there's different ways to assign programming. Is there any truth to the idea that if someone is a X number of pounds that they should be able to squat, are there standards that? Yeah, people are making up these standards, but I don't really get it. Like, and I've read this a thousand times. Like, there was a category of the day. Like, everyone should be able to do their bodyweight on bench or squat. I'm like, okay, like, great. Like, I saw the other day someone, there was this test. Like, it was the old man test. Like, someone is, they were talking about putting on your shoe. You're, you're, I'm sorry, you're sock and you're shoe in lacing your shoe without putting your foot on the ground. And if you can't do that, you're an old man. I'm like, no, maybe you have maybe hips that don't move because of God's will. This is the way you've been put on earth. Like, it's just your bone structure. Like, these are circus tricks. So I think sometimes people get good at certain things and they want to like standardize it as like a test. Or suddenly like, oh, if you can, you know, bench double your bodyweight, you're, yeah, tell you you're strong. Like, if you could double bench your bodyweight, like, for me that would be me, I'm at 210 pounds. I would be bench pressing 420 pounds. I can't bench press 420 pounds. The charts and the, I think there, I think there's just made up. And I think maybe it gets you in the, like, oh, this is someone who's strong. Like, okay, I could squat double my bodyweight or my strong shore. I could squat. You start seeing the percentages. Like, and if you could squat, if you could bench press like 1.75 pounds, this is just numbers. People make this up. Like, why? Like, so I don't know. I think people obsess over these things sometimes. And at the end of the day, what's quantifying this stuff for us? Like, if you live to 100 years old or live to 90 and your healthy and you're not in the hospital and you can move really well and you could be strong. Did it really matter whether you were able to squat, you know, double your bodyweight, could Jackal Lane squat, triple his bodyweight? Like, probably not. Like, I don't know. I said, the guy was 180 pounds. So what is it? What's the math on that? He squatting 500 pounds? No, he's not going to squat 500 pounds. He never was able to. That makes, he was, he was, he was a machine. So that's what I'm trying to say. And, and I think it's a really good perspective because we do have these charts out there and are they valuable? I struggle with it because, again, the way that someone's weight is distributed is totally different. Whether they're 30 percent body fat or 15 percent body fat, what percentage of their body is muscle versus how tall are they, how long are their limbs like he's exactly. I had a body of mine in college. He had a 500 pound bench press and he couldn't squat 500 pounds. So people like, well, he just had a strong bench. Yeah. He said a really strong bench. The guy is bodyweight. We're still squatting. I think 480. So what? He's done him a week because he can't squat more than they, it's just sometimes we're just made a certain way and we're built a certain way. We have to stop listening. There's so much clickbait out there and there's so many people making up the standards. It's nonsense. And it really is about about being able to train for life. Yeah. Yeah. It's stronger over time. What about, as we're thinking about the newbie who's going in for body composition changes, we've really addressed strength training, which isn't complicated. It's three days a week. We went through squat hinge, push pull, and a core exercise. Simple. What about cardiovascular activity? Yes. Where do you stand with high intensity interval training, sprint interval training versus zone two? Where should I love it all? I love it all. I mean, I love high intensity interval training. You saw me yesterday on the air bike and I chose the air bike because again, it got off a plane much safer, much better way for me to get my heart rate up to the specific area. I needed to get into the specific zone I needed to be in. I went hard. Was that a max effort for you? Yeah. It was pretty close to it. I mean, I was trying to get into the red. I called the idea of the red and the legs were burning and I'm on this new program that I put together and I'm trying to ramp it up. So every week, it's feeling better and the recovery is better and the intervals are progressing. But I'm running those higher intensity intervals only twice a week and that I even think's a lot, right? But I also play a hockey twice a week right now. But I don't categorize that as high intensity because I monitor my heart rate out there with a chest strap and I'll look at the comparison and because, you know, you're waiting for the puck or you're looking at where the play is or it's stop-go, stop-go, stop-go, stop-go. It's like, all right, your heart rate, my average heart rate is definitely lower. My max heart rate is definitely a bit lower because it's not like you're not out there in the sprint the entire time. Like there's a little bit more strategy to the game. So I would categorize that more as my medium intensity intervals. And then you got your soul steady state, which, you know, everyone likes to talk zone two now, which has been around for a long time. I think it's way overplayed. Way overplayed. Way overplayed. It's been around for a long time, but I think it has its place. I think people who are fatigued. I think people who are trying to just move and work up a sweat. I think this mindless piece to it also, where maybe you get off a plane and you're just tired, but you're feeling like you're a taning water from the flight and you just need to get that blood moving a little bit, putting that in-cline up and doing a power walk for 30 to 45 minutes where your heart rates in that 120 to 140 range and you're, you know, you're breathing, but you can still have a conversation. I think there's a lot of benefit to that also. So I think there is a time and place for these things, but anytime someone's like, oh, high intensity all the time. I'm like, we don't know enough of the story. Yeah, and I swear, which I love training with high intensity. I know you do. In a blast, my nervous system. It's very difficult to recover, you know, depending on if you're just doing it, which. Yes, but we also look at the movements. We also look at the movements. Like there are movements that would certain people trying to do high intensity. I would not program. Like I'm a big sprinter. I'm a big hill sprinter. Like I love it. I find that to be incredibly challenging. And it can be very, very dangerous for people who are not proficient at running. When they get fatigued, you have the, you know, a possibility of them tripping and falling, like, I'd rather than get on a nearby bike, or I'd rather than get on a ski or a versiclim or something that stationary locked in safe, and it's like, just go. Like you just, what do you want me to do? Like today, I want you to go at an 8 RP 10. That means like not 100% 20% off 100%. Like that's where we're going to stay. Or guess what? You have 15 seconds right now. I want you to envision like, I have a stake on your back and there's a pack of dogs running after you. And they're like, oh my god, like I'm not going to tell them to do that when they're running. Like that's going to become, you know, they might be compromised, but putting them on a nearby bike. I think it's really safe way to go about that type of training. And high intensity exercise. So this is high intensity interval training. There are numerous different ways these protocols play out. Right? What would a beginner think about for let's say we wanted to add it in to a training program with this look like 20 minutes of. I intensity. Yeah of 20 seconds on two minutes. I'm doing even, I'm doing even less. So tell, I'm just through that. I might, I might have some, someone just getting started. I might put them on the bike and say, all right, listen, let's do like a 3 to 5 minute warm up. Or if it's at the end of the workout, they're already pretty warm and we could. It doesn't, it doesn't matter when someone does interval training. Oh, I don't, I mean, I like I did it yesterday as a standalone day. Like my Wednesdays lately had been interval days where I come in an eye practice. And what do I practice? I practice like some gymnastics stuff, handstands, L-sits, ice cream makers, front leavers. Like I try and work on that stuff, but I didn't have access to all that yesterday. So what did I do? I came, I did mobility. I did about a five minute warm up on the air bike. And then I, I went eight intervals of of of of a one to three work to rest ratio, which means the first week I was running my challenge group through, actually the first month I'm running them through a one to three work to rest ratio. So that means for week one, 15 seconds of work, 45 seconds of rest. Week two, 20 seconds of work, 60 seconds of rest. So we're still at that one to three. We three and four would be 30 seconds of work, 90 seconds of rest. So I would run them through that for a month. And I think for a new be, you could start with like three sets. I think they're going to be blasted on three sets of just three. Yeah, I mean, 15 on 45 off. That's that's three. That's three minutes of work. I mean, that's that's a joke. But what we'll do over time is we could start increasing volume. If you want to get technical, I start looking at how their heart rates were hovering. And then when it recovers, and they can handle more, I might pile some more volume on them. But we're not always going to just keep adding volume adding volume. I think we should top out that high intensity training no more than like 20 minutes. I think that is like a max. If someone's doing high intensity training for like 45 to 60 minutes, like it's probably either they're like, they're like an absolute savage, which we know a few of them, or they're just not training in a high intensity way. Maybe they're doing more of that medium intensity, how I categorize my hockey game, right? Maybe they're just kind of downshifting a bit, and they're not trying to blast it. So high intensity for me is trying to get someone close into that red of like, oh my god, max heart rate, like we're approaching it. This is really painful. I am out of breath. I cannot have a conversation. But again, when we're starting with someone new, let's keep the volume down three sets, and we could start progressing over time. And I just want to highlight here, there's a, it's actually really well done paper that talks about all this in the world journey, world journey of cardiology. This is a 2019 paper, and just for the listener, the variables improved by high intensity interval training. Again, yes, you will feel better, but it improves VO2 max, which we know. It improves HSCRP. So if you're getting your blood work, these are inflammatory markers. It improves mylo-proxity, which this is a marker that we measure in our clinic, and a whole bunch of other things that includes insulin resistance. It improves insulin resistance. It does a lot of things with very not low effort, but very short amount of time. Very short amount of time. It is very, it's very efficient, but are there times I'm not using it? Yeah, I mean, I think, you know, you got to look at those other stress factors in their life, which most people are. Like remember training is a stress. It's good for us. It is a stress. So if you're, you know, outparting the night before and you're dehydrated and or you were on a plane or you're jet lag. Like these are times where, you know, I would, you know, second-guess the level that you're pushing someone. Now again, not everyone, your, your beast. Like you can handle things or I can handle things. You're a husband can handle things, right? I've got friends that can handle things, but you know, other people, I just, I don't think the juice is worth the squeeze what I'm saying. And you said two days a week, Max would this be for everybody. Yeah, yeah, I think that's a good way to go. And there is a, a sound saying that you can't do more, but I'm saying that's, I think that's a good standard. And there are multiple different protocols out there, Martin Gabala, if you, if you heard of Martin Gabala, he's kind of the godfather of high intensity, he's infiltrating. Yeah, and he says a lot more. He, no, no, no, he, there's just different protocols and his is, this is a robek, 10 times one minute hit, hit protocol, high intensity interval, protocol. Well, we're going to work up to that. And that's what I meant about the work to rest. So like month one, this, this month, I'm programming a three to one. Yeah. Next month, I'm programming a two to one. The month after I'm programming a one to one. And a one to one would be one minute on one minute off. So like where, you know, I think again, we're, we're trying to change that stimulus by manipulating, not only the work ratio, but the rest, oh my god, the rest is going to completely change the the work after you. So I enjoy that. I think it's, I think it's, I think it's, I say fun, people are going to think it, me, I'm saying it is fun. Especially if you can get hooked into that zone. He starts gameifying things. Oh, I got a golden day. Like, let's go. I got to be here. And when there's certain monitors now, where you, I'll set my phone up. I use, um, oh god, I, I use, um, not first boot, my zone. I use my zone. And it's colors. And it's what's kind of cool about it is, I heard of that. Oh, yeah. So my zone, it's in front of you. And it's already calculated your max hurry. And I know I got to hit the yellow or the red. So how hard I work? Until I hit the yellow. I'm aiming for the red this set. But like, if I get in the yellow, I'm good. And I got it. So it's like, and then out of nowhere, you see it lighting up and you're like, oh my god, I'm in the green. I'm not working hard enough. And it's, it's pushing you to try and get there. And it's, it's, it's challenging, but you're able to quantify what you're doing. And that's actually really important because think about it if you are too tired or mentally fatigued, you might not be in the mental zone to be able to execute what you need to to actually get the stimulus. And tracking it's really important. We track food, we track blood pressure, all these things. We should be able to track progress and output in the moment. What's really important. It's, what's interesting is a lot of the wearables now are tracking cardiovascular, but they're not really tracking that resistance training piece. I know, even I work with a euro or companies like WOOP out there. Like, you can go and do max effort lifts, which oh my god, my heart rate is. You know, when you're trying to stabilize while squatting, you know, four wheels on each side or whatever it is, your heart rates up and in afterwards it's not really recognizing, you know, that effort in that work, right, through the things that they do to quantify like WOOP, you know, uses strain, et cetera. So it's not really, it's not able to take in a consideration yet, you know, those other factors. So even the wearable market right now we're finding it's not perfect, but it's not perfect yet. Yeah. It's going in a good direction. It is and it's really helpful because I think previously, unless you were in a lead athlete, people weren't tracking high intensity interval training. Do you think it's more important to track heart rate or it is to track the me giving example? There were periods of time where we were in the gym and we were doing a 500 meter row. We knew that that 500 meter row should be sub 2. Yeah. Do you think that that's is more important to try to get to the sub 2, you know, 500 meters or is it more important to track heart rate? You know, it's funny about the sub 2 thing. Heart rate's going to change so much according to age, right? So if I'm up in that 160 range, I am cooking. I'm 47 years old on Monday, so I know my max heart rate's around calculations around 181. So homin that 160, one, you know, 160 to 170 range, I am like blazing. But the other day I was talking to a woman who's in her 20s and I'm like, where's your heart rate at? She's having a conversation. She's like, how about 181? And they're like, okay, well, she's 21 years old, right? So I think when you try and compare heart rate sometimes, it's very, it's almost, it's all like individualistic. It doesn't, it's the heart rate's important for you. But I also know that most people out there, when they're looking at heart, they don't know what they're looking at. Like, I would challenge and say 90% of the people out there who were heart rate monitors are just like, oh, well, my heart rate got to 180. I'm like, what does that mean? They're like, right? Like, they don't really know. So, to answer your question, if the goal is to be sub 2 because you're training for an event or something, that's pretty important. You know, but also, I think understanding that when you're training that if I'm at 170 or that woman, I was just talking about, is that 170, those efforts are completely different. So it is also about the F. And I need to understand the efforts because if someone is taxing themselves out by getting close to that to their, you know, threshold, that might mean there's so much more effort going in and there's so much more fatigue than then I have to understand that in reference to talking them about rest and recovery and their program design and what they're doing the next day. That woman who is doing that 180, whatever was that 180, one who's now 170, that's a joke. Like, she's, she's writing on a piece of paper and she's doing that. Right. But I think they're, I think they're both important, but I think we need to understand what we're looking on both for. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And that kind of leads me to this sprint interval training. So high-intensity interval training is up to 80% really your max output, but sprint interval training is different. That's 100% effort. And it seems like that's not very well tolerated by. Yeah. You know what's interesting? You should talk to Derek Hanson about this. My podcast partner, you should bring him on. He's probably one of the, God, he's probably one of the best in the world. I know when it comes to running mechanics and sprint training and he's very rarely having anyone do 100% efforts. Like he's working on a lot of falling starts. He's working on a lot of things between 10 and 20 meters. And he's working on a lot of techniques. So I know it's very difficult. What you start getting people in a 100% range for sprinting, it's like a lot of risk. Yeah. I mean, I've got to be honest, I'm rarely going to design that for people. I might take myself there, but I better make sure that, okay, as my travel been that week, as my warm up, as my body feel warming into that. Because like I said, I mean, you said, line again, there's a cost of doing business. Do you think for that now kind of, and I guess we'll round out the conversation of the newbie, nutrition. Sure. What are your thoughts on how they should be, aside from the whole food component, focusing on protein? Again, you and I've talked for years, but I do your thoughts about how an individual who's starting out really focusing on losing fat, what are their key nutrition strategies that they should be focusing on? First thing we want to do is, as you know, you're like the queen of all this stuff. I can't like, I'm actually talking to you right now. I know you know all this stuff, but I think what it's understanding where what are we starting with? Because if someone's like, oh yeah, like, well, how do you eat? Well, I eat dinner. And I'm like, okay, what's your dinner like? It's like, whatever a burger fries or whatever it might be. And you're like, okay, like, I might kind of the word I use is like marinate them into this a bit. Like, I'm not going to turn on the vehicle. I want these three square meals tomorrow because they're going to puke and feel full and feel like shit and excuse my language. But like, what I might start doing is like, all right, listen, let's try this. Let's start with a really small breakfast and let's maybe incorporate a protein shake for lunch. Oh, I can have shakes for lunch. No, you can have a shake now for for lunch. And then I'm trying to kind of marinate them into getting those three square meals a day. And then how many times a day? Well, I like to understand my clients macros. I'm not saying they all have no. It is a big contentious topic in the field. You have to know what you are eating. I disagree. This whole intuitive eating thing. I think it's I think it can be used. You and I could turn around and intuitively because we know what our portions need to look like and we know what that's going to translate to. You get someone in there who has a lot of questions and they're, I don't want many other day. Well, can I just count calories and I'm like, well, if you count calories, you technically can get all your calories from carbs. Right? Technically, right? There's going to be a little protein in there, but it's not really breaking down the ratios. Like, let's just start tracking one meal and let's get comfortable with that one meal. And then a few weeks later, like, oh, this is easy. All right, let's do lunch now. A few weeks, this is easy. All right, let's do dinner now. So I like to understand where they starting, but I also understand that every meal during the day is an opportunity for them to consume nutrition. And if I need to consume, I'm making this number up. 3000 calories a day to break even, I hit my maintenance calories. If I'm eating 3000 calories a day, that's, and I'm only eating three times a day. That's a thousand calories a meal. Most people can't do that. I can do that, right? Yes, but I've seen you eat. Right, but now suddenly, if I goes to five meals a day, that's 600 calories a meal, a little bit doable for most people. So, like, yes, I like, we we talked about that reverse dieting approach and I think it's very helpful for all. Right. And then talking about intermittent fasting, like, I don't have a problem with fasting for some people, but you know, you're now diminishing that opportunity to consume nutrition. And if you only have eight hours a week during a day, well, how are you eating? Are you having like a salad at lunch? And having a handful of nuts at three o'clock and then going into a big dinner because you're probably not consuming the fiber that you need, right? Very important. You're not consuming the protein. You're probably not getting the ratio of fats and carbs that you need. And if there's that much variability going on in your day, your body of my opinion is not going to reap the benefits and it's not going to change. And I would say that there's really that there's evidence to support that. So, the book, forever strong. Yeah. One of the reasons why I wrote it. The Bible. So, one of the reasons I wrote it is to eliminate that chaos. You should know what you're eating on a daily basis. Yep. You should have a strategy in place and it allows you to be consistent and it allows you to actually understand what you're executing off of. And if you are someone new to diet in nutrition, these are fundamental things to build the house. And then, for example, I mean, the reality is Don does measure his macros. He knows what he's doing for the most part. But I'm not measuring them this week when I'm with you, right? I'm thinking about we know what our meals are going to do. But we also do pull out a scale because you and I want we want to see over under what the person was. What did I go? Right? You were right. I said it was seven ounces. This is a steak you said no. It's a thing about how to make a skill that is a thing we're all bite out. Yeah, no. It's pretty funny. It's just important to recognize, again, you've made your career like this. I have never seen an eye inner, I've been seeing patients for 20 years. Thank you. And it's extraordinary to see because, you know, how you've been able to fine tune your body. I mean, you had your a pile on your ankle. It looked like you're on house arrest. Yep. You had your magnesium before bed. I mean, you have your, you had your water. You have all these things. But I enjoy it. Yeah. And you enjoy it. Like we, but we, we enjoy it. But, you know, you have to build to that, you know? Um, yes. And it is allowed you to maintain a body composition all natural for decades, which is unbelievable. So if you're out there and you're starting understanding that while Don may be at one extreme, which for you is actually not really extreme is just, frankly, discipline, that there are ways to lead up to doing these things. And actually, frankly, no matter where you are in your journey, the more dialed in you are, the more effective you are going to be. Yep. Periodine of story, whether you are training for a marathon, whether you are trying to make moderate improvements if you were someone who is in advanced training, of advanced training age, in order to move the needle. You should always be striving for something better. 100%. And, and I like those small winds. And sometimes we don't have to recreate the wheel. It's some, I think I told you the story about a buddy of mine years ago. You know him is named John. He came to me. He takes a shirt off in my office and he's like, one of my closest buddies. He's like, I just want my top two abs and I just started laughing. I'm like, what are you talking about? Top two abs. I'm like, what are you doing? Because I don't want to eat like you. I said, okay, you never said that. So, broke down its nutrition with him. He was training is pretty good. It gets into the gym three, four days a week. It doesn't do a lot of cardio. It gets his steps in. And we just modified a couple things with his nutrition. It was so simple. It was to the point where he looked at me and he said, that's it. And I said, yeah, and he came back in a month. He took a shirt off. And we literally saw this line of definition starting to break out his abs. And he said, this magic, these magic words to me is like, oh my god, can't believe that's all we need it. What's next? And that was like, that was almost like a light bulb went off in my head because we don't have to sit there and deliver that a plus program there. Unless, obviously there's massive health concerns and someone needs a big help or they have to give a ready for something. Exactly. But John was a perfect example where if I handed him my program, he's not going to be successful. He's not going to like me. He's not going to want to do it. And then what good am I doing? And I think that's what coaching is. It's like, let's start with that minimalistic approach. Let's see how they respond to it. Let's have them come back. You're going to wow. It's working. What next? And if you could do that with clients, that's why I've been successful in this career. And when you are working with, you know, movie stars or even just athletes, how often do you try to do change their nutrition plan? How tight are you? Because you definitely keep them on a really tight nutrition plan? Yeah. How often are you changing their macros? Ryan Reynolds, we really haven't been. Ryan Reynolds has been this progression over 15 years when I met him and I could talk about this. I mean he was very low carb guy and I met him and I'm like, we may want to get that up a little bit and he didn't really like believe me early on. And I remember I'm sending me, you know, he sends me updates and he sends me an update and I'm like, oh my god, he's going to look on a meeting, sweet potato notes and this is like a decade ago at that point. And I think a big light bulb went off in his head and now he's a business person. Now he realizes the importance of performance. Like it's not just about him getting video on on screen. He's got to go home and now he's on Zoom calls with the company with his companies or his managers or whatever it might be. So we're soccer team over football team over in Wales. So I think someone like that, he's a little bit more of a robot. Where it's like, okay, let's look at this, little tweaks, you good, you're good, but like he's a dream. Right? And then there's other people that come to me and it's just how much time do you have? And like two weeks, I'm like, oh, that much. You can get ready for something. Yeah, like two weeks, like really like, what do I do? I'm like stop drinking. No process. I was going to ask you about alcohol for someone wanted to and I, I, alcohol kills you. hesitate to use the word crash diet, but if someone is, let's say someone has to be innovating student two weeks and obviously we don't want two weeks. No, but this happens. I know. This is their job. Right. We have to do it. What do you do? No cheat meals. No booze. I mean, when I say process, I mean, like, I don't mean like going out and have candy bars. I mean, mentally process stuff like all of a sudden, mentally process isn't it? Like, I'm okay with all of a sudden. Like, that's, that's fine. So I want to be, yeah, I want to be, I want to be a shake away protein shakes process. Yeah, right. Fine, fine with those things. I think the alcohol piece is massive. Yeah, we'll get them training not seven days a week. It'll probably be six days a week. Like, we're probably going to put our foot on the gas a bit. And without be two day two days meaning cardio on top of that. Yeah, especially if they have to get leaner. So this is where you would add cardio and it's probably more than zone two. It's probably a little bit higher. Yeah. Yeah. We're going to have to do those higher intensity days, but we're also going to have to balance that out with zone two because listen, I've done it. We're overloading about that now and in those two week period of my, the thing most people understand is that there are no good to me if they go on set and they're like, like, like, following us. Yeah, following and following a sleep. So like, we have to send the set and we also have to understand that just because the movie starting in two weeks doesn't mean we stop what we're doing because maybe that shirtless scene is in four weeks. Right. Now training has to so I have a two week period of time to put my foot on the gas and then when filming starts, wow, we have to manipulate that work. So we can overload for two weeks then we can back off according to their schedule, but still get it in and activity still high, eating still clean. But alcohol is the one thing that people, I think they miss. I like to like, I love good beer. I was in Austria. I was having one or two beers a day delicious. Fell fine. Hydrated at eight my protein still worked out snowboarded 70 hours a day. It was awesome. But it beat you up. It beat you up. And the amount of what it does to you hormonally, what it does to your rest and recovery, how it pulls water in you. Like, I'm a single digit body fact. I all year long. Like, you get puffy, you get inflamed, you know, all things you start feeling a little bit differently. That's sleep quality drops. That ready to drop. Your HRV drops. These are all massive problems. So when people are like, well, you know, I have, you know, my doctor said, I can have have whatever you want. That's right. What are you training for? Are you training for the cover of muscle fitness? Are you training to be shirtless in Wolverine? Or are you just training to look good on the beach and have a good time and have a good quality of life? Because those are different. I'm giving you different answers to those questions. But alcohol, there's it's I, I agree to. It's it's it's tequila, clear, gluten free. It's alcohol is alcohol. It's poison. Just understand what you're getting. It is. And for women, for Perry menopause and menopause. I think that it is one of the things that really make make, it just makes things worse. It makes recovery difficult. It makes sleep worse. It makes body composition work. And I have friends that will certainly argue with me about this. That the evidence supports that if you are able to manage your calories, then there's a place for it. But from a, from a brain effect over time and, uh, the the the the most obvious thing that you can measure is your resting heart rate at sleep. And when you have a drink or two, I very, really know anyone who's resting heart rate doesn't go up by about five, six feet. It's like, all right, what is that telling us right there? It's like you can have a couple of drinks and that happens. Like that's a pretty drastic. You do that over time. And then that there's that chronic inflammation in there and your body is just not healing and resting. Do what you want. Like you can live my, my grandma and her four sisters lived to be the ages of like 95 and 105. Like I think they smoked a cigarette every day. I think they drank a scotch every day. They had low levels of stress. They had high quality food. And they got away with that stuff. But again, they were not like my grandma was in a wheelchair. She wasn't looking for these bodies. She wasn't like, oh, how are they looking for body composition changes? That's how we're looking for it. And that's where increased that and that's where increasing dietary protein people will say, well, one gram per pound ideal body weights too much. But if you're looking for body composition changes, you have to hit your dietary protein. You have to manage your total people saying it's too much. Um, and I've always heard this, but what it like what evidence is pointing them in the direction of like, oh, you don't need that much. Well, there's a difference between minimum amount to prevent deficiencies and optimal amount to move the needle for body composition. Right. And the evidence supports double the RDA, which would be point eight grams per kg, but double the RDA will show improvements in every area for body composition while carbohydrates are controlled. Lean body mass, decrease body fat, you know, there's that's another question. Oh, I'm curious. Right. Right now, um, wouldn't a lot of they come down to where your, uh, where your blood results are. So like if I'm consuming 1.25 to 1.5 grams per pound of body weight, I'm doing this because I need my calories a lot higher because I'm burning a lot more like people talk about my Michael Phillips was eating 12,000 calories a day. Could you imagine V. A clean. I'm like it's impossible. He's not eating a fiber-styled. He's not eating slow burning carbs and getting 12,000 calories a day. It's impossible. Right. But like wouldn't you, um, isn't it too much if you looked at someone's blood panel and you're like, oh, wow, they're liver enzymes are all for or something is. No, that's a really good question. Okay. So that's one of them curious. Yeah, that's a really good question. We don't have any evidence that would say that one gram per pound of your body weight or even higher would have any negative effect. No, but that's what I mean. So if I'm consuming 1.5 grams, I'm going to be able to go, I'm going to go high 1.5 grams and you know my blood work and you're like, wow, this is perfect. Then why is my, why am I proteins too high then? This is where social media has come in. But I would challenge any doctor, and he like, I would like to hear that answer, why if my levels are all perfect and I'm consuming 1.25 to 1.5 grams per pound, which is over a gram, I challenge them. I'd like to know. I want to get educated. Why am I too high if I have to keep my calories high? And if my, um, if my blood tests are perfect, like why would I be so? I can't so would be that you're not. Okay. Well, I'm asking out there. I'm asking all the gurus out there. I would love to love a description. We have solved it. Yeah. You know, again, nutrition is very contentious and you have to understand what is, what are the ultimate outcomes? Yeah. You might have longevity experts talk about how a reduction in dietary protein is going to be beneficial. I don't even want to say these things. It's not. It's not. A sea elegance is not a human and we are talking about maintaining strength and mobility. All of these things that require dietary protein. Right. Yeah. A great. It's ridiculous. A great. Let's talk about protein. Specifically, first forms natural way protein formula one. People ask me all the time, what kind of protein powder I use, what kind of protein powder I recommend. Formula one makes many different kinds of protein powders, different flavors. A natural one, you pick it. It mixes amazing. It makes it extremely easy to get your protein in and really there. It's a way protein isolate. So you're getting the majority of your calories from protein in the shake. Taste great. Super easy to travel with great breakfast, dinner, maybe even lunch. Whatever you need, it's got you covered and it has all the amino acids necessary. We'll help improve body composition, muscle mass, all the things that protein does. And by the way, when do you need protein? Well, you need it every day. And that's why I love first forms protein powder. They're formula one. Go to firstform.com slash doctor lion. That's firstform.com slash doctor lion. Have you done your blood work? If you haven't, I've a solution for you and that is one of the sponsors of the show inside tracker. Why is blood work so important? Well, you know, I use inside tracker. My friends use inside tracker. Also, my parents use inside tracker. Inside tracker makes getting blood work very easy and user friendly. They have an amazing interface. You can check it out on your phone. You can check it out on the desktop, which, you know, hopefully you're using a small one. Inside tracker allows you to look at really important biomarkers like hormones, iron, thyroid, insulin. The list goes on. ApoB, it never stops. And by the way, if you're a professional annual of clients inside tracker also has a pro platform, amazing. I really feel that inside tracker has revolutionized health care and listen, blood work can be expensive, but it doesn't have to be. Inside tracker is offering my listeners, 10% off, 10% off. Anything on the store in the store, anything as it relates to subscriptions, 10% off go to inside tracker.com, like inside tracking your body, use the code doctor lion, and do not wait if you are due for your blood work, give this a shot. It's extremely valuable back to the show. If you were to say some of the biggest roadblocks, problems, mistakes that people make for the goal of losing body fat. What are your top three mistakes? Oh God, top three. Okay, I can give you top two. You want top five? No. Top three, or fat loss mistakes. Fat loss mistakes. One would be non understanding what's really going into their body. We're going to side by. Let me just explain. So like, well, I eat healthy. Well, what do you eat? Well, for practice I have three egg whites and I have a piece of toast. Okay, what do you have from lunch? I have a salad and a piece of fish. How big is the fish? This big? For dinner. It's not like, even though they might be consuming foods that are nutritious, they are under calorie. They're under protein. So I think not understanding what's actually going into their body, that protein piece massive. They don't understand. They just think they're choosing good foods. They're grazing all day. They're eating little things like nuts. Oh, I nuts and fruit. I'm like, well, you're nuts and fruit 10 times and your fat is probably over 100 grams and you weigh 100 pounds. And because you're so full, you're not able to get enough protein in. So not understanding what's really going in your body. I think is a huge problem. And that checks a lot of boxes. Resistance training. I think we got to prioritize this a little bit more. Oh, I want to burn fat. So I'm just going to start with cardio. I'll get in a resistance training. I'm like, do both. Like, I love cardio. I enjoy cardio. I just do. It's just, it's, I like the sweat. I like the mindlessness of it. I like the, you know, it's quite a can be quick. But do that with your resistance training. If we have more muscle, ladies, I don't mean we're getting bigger. But when I train. Right, but like I train Blake lively. I train Emily Blunt. I train any halfway. These are very feminine athletic physiques. They are strong women. And that is important. So understanding the importance of resistance training, but also coupling that with with cardiovascular is two and the third. Third biggest fat loss mistake. So we had food. We had resistance training. Oh, God, you know what? It's got to be this. That, that, that, that rest component is so underlucked. I just, I think I'll cool Paul check. It's the best fat burner and it's free. I've had people who we've increased sleep quality over weeks and they've lost significant amount of fat loss. When you are under resting, you are not repairing your hormones and you're not repairing your body and you're not going to have that energy and your body is not going to move and burn. Really simple. Like, so what do we just say? Nutrition, training and rest and sleep. It's like those are the three things. That's on us, not cold plunges. If you get your training, you get your nutrition and you get your rest and recovery to like 80% being really, really solid. Like at least you're going to see some pretty dramatic results. And I just think it's not that simple. Most people really underestimate rest and sleep. That, and it's in the data actually that individuals that are not sleeping, pulling night shifts, they're blood glucose is worse, they're blood pressure is worse, insulin, all of their metabolic markers seem to be worse. I've seen people put on significant amount of body fat who have private chefs who are training six days a week and they're like, why am I getting weight? I'm like, you're sleeping three hours a night. Well, my doctor said that's like the rarity and I'm the one like that's adequate. I'm like, no, it's not like I don't mean to disagree with your doctor, but this is not working for you. You need to train. Well, I can't go to bed early. You need to train sleep. Well, I'm not hungry for breakfast. Well, you got a train. You got a train to be hungry. When I say that, it's like starting incorporating some proteins, start getting some amino acids in your body early on. Maybe a piece of fruit will build that. Right, sleep. I sleep three hours a night. What time do you go to bed two in the morning? Can you make it one thirty? Yeah, I can't. How do I do that? Well, let's start winding down earlier. The next thing you know, John obacoco, I could talk about him. You're getting a bed every night three to four in the morning. Now it's 10 11 at night. It's like that is, you have a need. How big is that? There's a reason why the guys down 120 plus pounds and we're going to lose another, you know, he's 491 pounds now. So our goals to get him down in that 250 range. He's got to have surgeries. He's got to have specific things, but getting his BMI down right now is something we have to do before we explore any of that stuff. So yes, sleep, huge. Where do you think the industry is going? The fitness industry. Where do you think do you think that there's any new training technology or again, you've been in the fitness industry. You've seen really, I mean, you've been in it for 25 years. You've seen multiple iterations of different things. Yeah. I've been working with tech for over God, for as long as I've been in the business. I mean, readiness devices that weren't, you know, wearables that were, I remember laying on a megawave and it's laying on a floor for three minutes with a head sensor, a chest strap, a palm sensor, like, you know, and having to keep your eyes closed and measuring, you know, HRB, you know, this was, I don't know how long ago. So it's, I think we're as it going. I think our access to research is becoming better and better. I think the right research out there is becoming pretty awesome because it's pointing us in a direction to be able to make really good decisions. I think a lot of these readiness trackers and a lot of these tech pieces are getting better and I think it's giving us information to be able to make good decisions. But I also think, you know, with a lot of this stuff comes excuses. And well, the research says I don't need to do two sets. Well, that's a very good point. Yeah. It's starting to hear people say, oh, but resistance training, that that's, I don't need to do that much. Yeah. Like, I only need to set it. I'm like, well, yeah, like I'm watching some of these biohackers now that like exactly to be honest, like they're, they're not like some of them are really impressive and some of them just aren't. They're like, they're, they're coming in and they're posting their training and they're like, well, I just did this on the light press and I'm like, your range of emotions terrible. That might be a poor choice of exercise and your intensity is not where you think it is for you to receive the benefits. Like, when you see someone do a max effort set, it's scary. Yeah. It's, I've been there. It's, it's not pleasant. I've squatted three, fifteen for thirty on my back and almost had a brain aneurysm. Like, I had to land the floor for like a half an hour. Like, it's not something that most people. And I'm not saying that to be proud. That was a style of training that when you're going in a high intensity training, it is like someone's holding a gun to your hand and they're like, you better get this right now or there's like, frightening stuff's going to happen to you. So, I think we take a lot of this research and I think we just, we kind of skew it and we make it into what we want to make it to be and at the end of the day, you still got to work hard. You still got to put effort in. You still got to meal prep. You still got to get to bed early. It's, it's sometimes I'm watching a TV show and like my wife has a joke with me. We never finished your show together. Because a 39 o'clock home feeling I'm going to bed. Look, what type of life is I love my life? Like, I have two beautiful kids, beautiful home. I live a great lifestyle. I could do what I want. I could work from where I want and I'm building the businesses and I'm having a lot of fun doing it. So, allowing me to go to bed early just means that I'm able to get up and I'm able to attack my day. So, that's important to me. That's what I want to do. Do I have those nights where we go out? We party or we go out. We're out late. Yes, we do. Very once in a blue moon. Very once in a blue moon. And when I do it, I enjoy it. And I say, all right, you know what? Big deal. You'll catch up in a few days and you'll move on. And that's how I approach that stuff. But I think we're getting such good access. But I think people are forgetting the fact that you still got to go in there and you still got to put that work in. And it still needs to be challenging. And you know, if sometimes it gets frustrating as someone been doing this as long as I have, when someone starts every conversation, it's like, well, the research states and I'm like, okay, I get it. We're, we're trying to make good decisions here. But this person needs just to get off the couch. This person just needs to move. Example, do I like spin bikes? They're fine. Like, do I like someone sitting down and training all the time? The answer is no, especially when that person's been in their desk 10 hours a day. Do I want them on a bike? No. If someone is going to turn around and say, I love spinning. It got me off the couch. I am in better shape. My blood's are better. My body composition's better. I feel better. I better sex drive. I sleep better. Yada, yada, yada. Am I going to turn around? I don't like spin. I'm just like, great. I said, but can we do things to kind of complement you being in this position? Yeah. Can we do things to maybe open you up a little bit? Can we work focus on getting those glutes to get a little stronger? Can we focus on that thoracic extension, that thoracic rotation, that shoulder mobility? These things that maybe five, six days a week are going to destroy you? Being able to do that's where, as a coach, I'm going to come in and I'm going to assess the individual and I'm going to help them become great at what it is they love to do. You, again, I've actually trained for many years. How important? I'm always seeing you do something different. You're always adding in something different or trying a new, it's fun movement or it's not fluffy, but it's fun. I like doing different things. Really challenging. Again, I've trained with you whether it's a rotation slam, broad jump, all these other things. How important is it for new skill acquisition? Newbies are just developing new skill. For example, my training age is like 300, not just getting. You're great. You're a great shape. I don't believe it. So for someone who has been training, the listening to this, maybe their physician, maybe there are a coach, we have a lot of those listening. How important is it for them to learn new physical skills? I think it's important because I like challenging how the body moves and I feel like the body can feel better if you're putting in variability that makes sense and that's not fluffy. What do you mean fluffy? Fluffy means like the guy doing pistol squats on the boosts who ball and then everyone in the world's trying to try it. That will be on. All right. Do you be a favor? Like you're trying to attempt this right now and you can't do a proper bodyweight squat. Let's learn the bodyweight squat. Now, there is that freak out there that can turn around with double kettle bells overhead, which I cannot do and do a pistol squat on the boosts. I'm jealous. I can't do it. But you know what? I'm not going to try. I'm going to try and continue to get great at the things that are going to make me a better athlete and then are going to put me in a really good place to be successful. So I think it is it is it's important, but it's not like it's not imperative. Like if someone turns important but non-parative, I like that. Yeah, but it's like it's important if you want to continually improve and reach and get better. But again, what about that person who's like, and I've run into him once in a while, like how's your training going? Like it's great. How's your body feel? Amazing. Are you happy with your body composition? Yeah, I'm in a really good place. Considering like what is I like to do in life, it's not perfect, but I take my shirt off and I feel good and my wife's happy with it. And I'm like, like great, great, great, great. Like what they're doing seems to be working, no injuries. We're in a good place. Am I still trying to get them to try new things? Yes, because I still would like to develop as their coach. I want to push them. But am I saying like what you're doing is wrong, because you haven't changed your program in the last six months. Like for me to say it's wrong would be unfair. Why am I going to beat that person up? Like they're doing good stuff. They're in a good place. As a coach, I'm in a way going to try and trick them into getting into better shape and developing things and wanting to excel exceed without feeling like, you know, they're putting themselves in a place where they're not going to be successful. They're happy with their own. Yeah, that's fair. For example, someone who doesn't swim doesn't necessarily need to learn a lot of the other. I mean, as long as they can swim. What about supplementation? Yeah, great top. What are your top? I'll say three, but it could be five. It could be ten, which I know is not ten. But he supplements for longevity that you love. Become a big magnesium fan. I know. I'm a big magnesium fan. I'm a big vitamin D fan. If your levels are, you know, I know. I'm a magnesium do like. I like thorn. And which is a magnesium bike. I sent it. Yep. So I use that vitamin D. I think getting a good omega in really solid. That's three right there. And I'm going to turn you on to use creatine. I use creatine. And you know, I've been using it for 25 years. I've been using it for 25 years. I've been using it all glutamine for about 25 years also. These are supplements. I've just kind of kept in my regimen. I make a little morning a mixer where I'll get in and I'll take, I like switching up the strains of my probiotic. I just take one. Um, first thing in the morning I'll take that with some water and then I'll prepare my elixir, which is like glutamine, creatine. I use like a good greens, reds or reds powder, which you always got me turned on to early on. And actually we had, we cycled through. So we did reds and greens. But then there was a period of time where you really ramp up your training and we added in. Do you remember we added in blue? Yeah, blue. Yeah, blue. Yeah, I call it purple. Yeah. Blue algae. Yeah, blue algae. Then we added in macia berry to get different. Yeah, macia berry. Is that you said macia? Yeah, macia. But whatever, I'm going to say wrong macia berry. We added in macia berry. Macia berry powder. Macia berry powder, myself. Polyphenols for you. Yeah. But again, that's what I mean by putting things in your body. They're powerful. So yeah, I think that would be that that was really it. Um, I'm turning you on to two other ones. Yes. We're going to start you on a beta hydroxybuty right 10 grams. And we're going to put you on, was I going to put you on your elethin A that was on my mind. But I think we'll start with beta hydroxybuty right? But I would love to start you on some your elethin A. Yeah. And one thing that you got me reintroduced to recently was, um, you know, I will have, I'm not a big pre-workout person, but um, coffee right? We're going to do coffee with bugs, collagen which sort of like. I love their collagen. So bugs makes a great collagen and they make, um, oh God, what was the other thing we were adding in the U.C.T. And then bugs MCT. They have a M.C.T. powder. So mixing that in, you got to use the broth. Uh, we're going to find out the portion of the parts. They have like the kids, evidence. They're we've gone through four or five. They're there the best. I love them. Yeah. Um, and that was one of the reasons why so Don, you're very tight with your nutrition, very tight with supplementation. It's interesting because I do your blood work. I do your talk about it. I mean, I'm really happy with it. It's really good. I mean, it's it's a joke. Everybody else has something that can be approved up and improved on it. And then I look at yours. I'm just like, uh, Don. No, it's in, it's in a good place. I was more, you know, it's more shocked about, um, my testosterone being raised. I think we went from like six, eight into nine, 30. And people were like, well, what did you do? And I'm like, you know what? I really think at the end of the day because they were thinking like, well, is it the plunging? Is it the song? Actually, we got you sleeping, but because you were doing home construction. Yes. Remember, um, you didn't air filter filters, but also like, I'm not going, I thought about it. Oh, I'm not committing three hours a day anymore. Like, uh, duh, could you imagine like, you don't have to wake up at three, 34 in the morning. Oh, he's now now. It's more like five or five, 30. And I'm like, wow, that makes a huge difference. Yeah, definitely a time where we'd want to test your testosterone. It's in the morning. You need that early morning sleep. And there's always reminders. Like last night, you remind you, you keep every time I get around, you remind me of certain things. Like, we just ate earlier last night that I normally would. And I had my magazine wasn't hungry. I ate, which meant I frontloaded my calories beautifully yesterday. I fell fall. Guys, an eating machine by the way. Yeah, but like, but I slept like, I slept great. And I looked at my aura and it was like, what did you do last night? I was like, sweet, you know what's sitting there like, all excited. I was so pumped up. And, um, yes, so your blood work always looks really great. And you, and we also do gastrointestinal testing for you because the more an individual train. And sometimes we see gastrointestinal permeability, it just with the increase in training volume. And yours, it just looks really good for what we can tell from the gut microbiome and these inflammatory mice. It looks really good. But you did so well with the MCT oil and collagen that just leveled my mouth. And so that's why we're going to add in beta hydroxybuterate or add in 10 grams. I think it's going to be really good for energy brain function. It's anti-cadabolic. I think it's amazing for muscle. Right. Um, we are going to put on, we're going to put you on some year-old with an egg. Okay. Helps with endurance with strength. We use my top here. I'm going to get you some. And I think that you're going to feel it. Though that combination of what you're already doing, I think it's going to be amazing. Hello, it's a, it's a fun, but it's, it's fun. It becomes like, become like a game. You have a good time with it. But again, I try telling people like, it's one thing to enjoy doing this. It's another thing to obsess over this until you get yourself so crazy. And like, you'll have moments where like, okay, like, I'll never have to tell in the story, too. And she's a pretzel. What the pretzel's right. So like during her, during her first pregnancy, she was like, I'm like, well, how are you to play in your nutrition? And remember, I was crazy. I am way better. I was so sure. Yeah, I'm doing meal delivery service and all this stuff. And I'm like, okay, okay. And in one day, she faced times in wishing. I remember you were up on the museum of natural history. I think you were around there all like up on the west side. And she's got her phone and she's chewing it on like, what are you eating? She holds up a New York City press on. I'm like, yeah. And she's grown up. Yeah. So, you know, early on in my career was very just obsessive about nutrition. I was going to get it right. Remember this and it was like, how are we going to focus on body composition? And then you go through different phases of life. I mean, and then I got pregnant. Yeah. I mean, I would come in with my meals packed just like you. I was like, don, what are we doing? This is my percent body fat. Yeah. Or am I a lift star? I mean, it was pretty intensive. And then you get pregnant, go through pregnancy. You have to shift your focus. It can't be about body composition. It's all the time. You know, all the time there's other things. There's other things. There's other things. And then I think that you come out the other end. And then you have more of a balance. I agree. Mental attitude about the whole thing. I mean, seeing how you're living your life now, I mean, I get choked up right now. But like seeing how you're living your life now, I think it's like you found it, man. Like you've got an incredible husband. You've got two of the cutest little kids. I got to come over to the school to pick them up. It's funny because they're all calling the Uncle Downs there. Everyone's like, oh my God, this is her brother. But just to kind of see what you've created with all this. And it really, it warms my heart a lot because, you know, we never always had those moments where like, oh yeah, things are like great and perfect. And God, I mean, we could do a whole talk on business right now. The things I had to go through. People don't understand. And it really allows you to appreciate what you have now. I have one last question that I have been thinking about a lot and I wasn't sure I was going to ask you. But I'm going to ask you. Where does faith come in? Oh, yeah. Yeah, this is this is a good one. You know, I was raised. When I say I was raised from a religious family, I don't want you to think it was something that, you know, went to church on days. My mom was a U.S. Dick minister and, you know, it was something where at a young age I was exposed to it. But I made a lot of mistakes. And I did a lot of things throughout that period of time. Like any other kid. So when I say, I, you know, whatever whatever you believe in is what you believe in. But if I say I believe in God, I don't want anyone to think for a second that I am, you know, trying to be a goody two shoes or I didn't mean I make a ton of mistakes and it always happened. But I think even now today church, you know, I'm pretty involved with St. Patrick's Church and in Huntington, I fell into the head-hurt position years ago because my, um, is my sisters, fiance died in a car accident. Carbel's story, I don't know if we ever talked about this. And, um, he, um, fell asleep at the wheel on the way home, uh, from the train station. And, um, I would always go to church when I was home. And his father, John's father, was the head-hurt of the church. So I went to, um, to go help him out. I said, John, I'm at the masses. Let me help out. He said, thank you. And then he got ill, had a back down. Then the head-hurt brought me in as the assistant, usher. And then the head-hurt died. I know it sounds terrible, track record. And then I became the head-hurt, very good friends of the Montenegro. So I'm involved with the church. And, uh, faith is something that, um, every day, I, um, I try to improve. Every day, I try and reflect and I try and look at the things that I, that I want to do better. Or every day, I look at demons that I'm fighting and I say stop thinking about that or get your, like, I, I, I, I, I've ramble, like my thought process goes off sometimes. So my bumps in the subway are thinking about it for two hours. Is that, is that the best use of your time? Is that the best use of your energy? Um, so, um, I know it's something that I rely heavily on, and is still a part of my life every day. Um, and it makes me better. And it, it's, it's, it's cool because the more I practice it and the more I try to improve it, the better I feel. So that's why I'm so heavily, that I want to be involved in it. It's just, that's all I can say. I'm never going to turn around and talk religion or politics of people. I'm never going to turn around, say that you should be doing this. This is your business. But I do these things because it's simple. It makes me feel good. And when I make a mistake, I'm like, damn it, you know, like get your shirts together and, and, and, and, and reflect and recognize and move on. And, and from taking that approach, I'd be just become a much happier person. That's simple. Well, Don Saladino, you are one of my most favorite people. Love you. I love you. Love you. Love you. Love you. Love you. Love you. Love you. We talked about fitness, but the reality is you're an incredible business man. Thank you. And I strongly suggest people follow you. Thank you. Listen to what you say. Listen to some of your other interviews. You are one of a kind. Appreciate you. And listen, right back at you. I mean, for me to jump on a plane and come out to see it says a lot about you, right? I mean, I love you. You've always been one of the most I'll tell you right now besides my wife, my sisters and my mom, the most supportive woman I've had in my life is you, I'm going to link where people can find you. Thank you. You have many programs and I'm excited to share the program that we've been together. It's fun. It's fun. It's fun. We're going to have a good time with it. It's it's going to be good. And if anyone has ever asked any questions, should me a DM? I'll get back to the moment. Friends, Dawn Saladino.

One medicine is in the business of saving lives, and the other business is improving the quality of life. You're right. People don't talk about sexual health. We talk about muscle health. We talk about exercise. 40% of men suffer from the ED at 40 years of age. 50% at 50%, 60% at 60%, 70% at 70%, 100 at 100. You live long enough. ED is one effect most men. 43% of women over the age of 50 will have some degree of female sexual dysfunction. I don't want to take a drug. I don't take a pill. What can I do naturally to improve my sexual function? The more severe ED had, the greater the improvements you would see in sexual function just by exercise alone. So I can't stress the importance of diet exercise sleep and stress reduction. I call those the four pillars. Realize it healthier people tend to be more sexually active. Dr. Mohit Kerala, thank you so much for coming on the show. I am honored to be able to sit with you. You are arguably the world leading expert on testosterone and and neurology. Truly a pleasure. Great to have you. Thank you. Tell me about what inspired you to be doing what you're doing. And just to lay the foundation for people. You have published over 200 scientific papers. If not more, you are really leading the charge and transforming the way that we think about sexual medicine, the way we think about endrology. You are an absolute maverick. How did you get here? First of all, you're too kind. But the reality is this, I look at two types of medicine. One medicine is in the business of saving lives. And the other business is improving the quality of life. So what I do is improving the quality of life. You know, patients come to me many are depressed, they're anxious. You know, sexual dysfunction is not commonly discussed, but many, many people suffer from this condition. And they don't want to talk about it. So what we do is we try to improve the quality of life. And you're right. People don't talk about sexual health. We talk about muscle health. We talk about exercise. We talk about cholesterol. Do you think that the reason that we don't is because people are embarrassed or it's a stigma or is it the thing that really impacts them so much that maybe they're shame around it? There's a huge stigma around it. And many patients are very embarrassed to discuss this. I want to give you just an example. There was a survey that came out two years ago. It was given to over 1500 patients. And what they found in the survey was that 69% of patients said, they don't even know where to get sexual medicine health care. They have no idea. What was really surprising about this is that roughly 50-1% of those patients ever discusses with their provider. And less than half of the patients ever discussed it with their partner. So I think about this. They're embarrassed. So I call this suffering in silence. They don't want to discuss it. Majority of patients who suffer from sexual dysfunction don't talk about it. And it's a major concern. When I think about overall health and wellness, I think it's important to define sexual medicine. What is sexual medicine? What is anthropology? We're going to talk all about hormone development. We're definitely going to talk about hormones. Everybody wants to know about testosterone for men and women. But what are some of the definitions that we can start off with of understanding? There's so many components of sexual dysfunction. I'll give you some examples. First, you can think of erectile dysfunction, which is the most common. We can think of the low libido. Don't forget that we have sexual dysfunction in men and women. It's different, right? So many men and women can suffer from HSDD, hyperactive sexual desire disorder. Parones disease, which is an abnormal curvature of the penis when the penis is erect, 9% of all men suffer from parones disease. That's a lie. Pretty significant. In fact, if you look at the statistics for erectile dysfunction, 40% of men suffer from ED at 40 years of age. 50% at 50%, 60% at 60%, 70% at 100%. You live long enough. ED is going to affect most men. So it's a very, very prominent common condition, but we don't talk about it. Other conditions, premature ejaculation. It's at 30% of men. The 30% of men suffer from that condition. Right? So low testosterone. We know that low roughly 52% of men over the age of 40 will have low testosterone. And many of these men will suffer from the signs of symptoms. 52% let's pause. Yes. 52% of men will suffer from low testosterone. 40% of men by 40 years old have some kind of erectile dysfunction. Absolutely. Now, let's talk about that low testosterone for a second. Just because you have low testosterone doesn't mean you're a candidate for therapy, unless you have symptoms. So you have to have signs and symptoms and a low testosterone level. Now, if you look at how many men have signs and symptoms and a low testosterone level, that number drops about 8% almost up to 10% under over the age of 50. That's still a significant number of patients who suffer from this condition. We don't talk about it. And when you think about for women, what are the numbers for women? 43% of women over the age of 50 will have some degree of female sexual dysfunction. Now, when you talk about female sexual dysfunction, there are four components. So let's talk about them. Low libido, a rousal, which means blood flow to the genitalia or the breast, or gasmic disorder and pain. So 43% of women, that's significant. Now, the key thing about female sexual dysfunction is that she has to have one of those components and she has to be bothered by it. Let's say a woman comes in and she says, I have a little bit of a better, but she doesn't have FSD. So she has to have signs and symptoms and she has to be bothered by the condition. 43% of women, now realize that other 43% of women that suffer from this condition, only 9% of those women seek therapy. And in those cases, the remainder just suffer in silence. And how long have you been in practice? So I've been practicing now for 17 years. 18 years. And you did something before? Yes. So before I was an analyst, I did my MBA. I was a healthcare analyst for two years in Boston. And I didn't like it. I just didn't like it. I just felt like, you know, every day it was just a presentation and meetings. And I just felt like it just didn't feel like I was making a difference. So I went back and took some more pre-workers at classes in medical school from Med School. My wife was in Boston at the time and she was going to medical school. So I loved what she was doing. And applied and came back to the University of Texas and finished my medical school. This episode is brought to you by Maui Nui Venison. Maui Nui Venison is one of the best finest tasting red meats on the planet. Maui Nui Venison is a mission-based food company. We love it. My kids love it, especially their little jerkeys. By the way, not only do they use them as swords, but as snacks and listen. That is a hard sell. Getting your kids to eat healthy. Maui Nui Venison does an amazing job. It is high in protein and low in fat, which again, depending on your macros, is amazing. And high in B vitamins, iron, all of the micro nutrients, vitamins and minerals that we need. Not only that, you don't have to go anywhere. It will come straight to your door. That's right. Go to MauiNuiVenison.com. For your first order, you will get 20% off. Amazing. Who doesn't like to save money. And the product is extraordinary. Go to MauiNuiVenison.com slash lion or not that kind, L.Y.O.N. And try it. You will love it back to the episode. How did you decide on yourology? For those listening, yourology is a combination of surgery. Really, you can do anything. I think yourology is one of the most important specialties that we have. It's somewhat of a gentle lens or gentle woman's. Or whatever you want to say. Specialty, you do surgical procedures. And you take care of lifestyle. So hands down, there is not a better specialty than yourology, not one. Yourology, not only is taking care of patients medically, but when they need surgery, you are also the surgeon. It's one of those very few specialties where you get to do both. So I don't send out surgical cases. I do my own surgical cases. And remember, when the business, when you look at yourology, the best specialty in yourology is sexual medicine. Five-far. I know. You are consuming the quality of life and many patients don't know where to see care, but hands down by for the best specialty. And you're not biased. I'm not biased, but it's incredible. And how would one define endrology? So it's really the study of testosterone and endrogens and the effect those have on the body. So, you know, endrology is a subset of sexual medicine. So sexual medicine could be erectile dysfunction, because it's a pre-mature ejaculation. There are many conditions. And neurology is a subset because it affects many of those conditions. But mainly the study of testosterone and how to fix the body. That's fascinating. And have you seen the landscape change? Because we're hearing a lot more about hormone replacement, testosterone, not so much sexual health. But over the last 17 years, have you seen changes in the field? Absolutely. There's more discussion. So we're much more open to talk about sexual dysfunction, like we're doing today. We don't see that in 15 years ago. And the reality is that patients now demand it. They're saying, look, I want a better quality of life. I want to have a better quality of life and sexual dysfunction now is become more and more important. Now, we do see a lot of clinics that are popped up, that are offering therapy, and that's fine. That's just a testament to the fact that more people are demanding care. But patients now want to have a better quality of life and sexual medicine is one way to improve their quality of life. Do you feel that there are still a lot of misconceptions out there about, for example, you've really led the way, the site, the idea of for many people they believe that testosterone causes, for example, prostate cancer. People also believe that testosterone is dangerous and could cause cardiovascular disease. What I think is fascinating about your work and you've done work in multiple domains in sexual medicine and and in neurologies, you've really challenged some of these beliefs. And I'd love for you to speak on that because medicine is interesting. We get an idea in our head, I see we, the collective, medical societies. And then we execute on that without challenging the underlying science, just like the women's health initiative. Yeah, so there's so much to talk about about testosterone. And I think you'll let's talk about prostate cancer in 1941. Huggins and Hodges said that testosterone actually can increase the risk of prostate cancer. And from that date from 41 for decades, we believe that testosterone increases the risk of prostate cancer. It wasn't till the A-U-A guidelines came out in 2018 and said, look, testosterone does not increase the risk of prostate cancer. That was a strong recommendation. So that's important. So we used to believe there are many years. But the paradigm is completely shifted. If you look now at how we use testosterone, there's now data to suggest that if you can give men testosterone and normalize their testosterone, their risk of prostate cancer may be reduced. In fact, men with lower testosterone levels may have a higher risk of prostate cancer. And there's a wonderful study that came out in 2015 out of Hopkins. Do you know how they treat men with metastatic prostate cancer? They give them high doses of testosterone. This is called bat bipolar, androgen therapy. And what this high dose of testosterone does, it tricks the prostate from becoming insensitive to sensitive. Right? So who would have thought decades ago, I'm going to use high doses of testosterone to treat men with metastatic prostate cancer. But it's very clever as you increase the dose of testosterone and then bring it back down, which you do as you trick the cancer from becoming insensitive to sensitive. And in one of the studies, you see a 50% reduction in the PSA, 50% reduction in metastatic disease, unheard of to give men high doses of testosterone with metastatic disease. So the paradigm is shifting completely. And how we think about testosterone and its true effects on prostate cancer. Now let's be fair. We don't have a large randomized placebo control trial, saying yet that testosterone is safe in men with prostate cancer. And that's why the guidelines say, you know, we don't, it's the risk benefit ratio is not been established. But it's interesting, treating men with metastatic prostate cancer with testosterone. Amazing. It changes everything. Yeah. In your practice, what are some of the most frequent disease disease processes complaints that you encounter in both men and women? I see so many men and women for sexual dysfunction. So when I see men for sexual dysfunction, I see a lot of men for erectile dysfunction. So that's a very common condition. And how would that be defined? So it's inability to obtain or maintain an erection. So inability to obtain or maintain. That's the easiest way to define it. Some men can obtain the erection. They can't maintain the erection. And the statistics are very similar to when I told you about low testosterone. 50% of men know these 50, 60% over 60 same numbers. It's amazing how many men suffer from this condition. And we don't talk about it. So erectile dysfunction is a very common condition. Pre-mature ejaculation. So, you know, 30% of men will suffer from some degree of premature ejaculation, which can be very bothersome to the relationship. The average man will ejaculate within seven minutes. Pre-mature ejaculation will be less than one minute. Right? And there's a discrepancy. You know, so it's very important to realize that men and women premature ejaculation can have a big impact on their relationship. How about pronies disease? 79% of men suffer from this? And what is the cause of that? So we, I believe that so as men get older and as they sort of developing a mild erectile dysfunction, they start increasing the risk of having a buckling incident during sex. So let me give you an example. If a man has 100% rigid penis. He's fine. He's not going to injure himself. If he has a 50% rigid penis, he's not going to be able to penetrate in the first place. But he's in trouble when he has a 90% 80% 70% rigid penis because of what's going to happen is he's going to penetrate and he's going to buckle and injure the penile tissue. And when he injures the penile tissue, what happens is you develop a scar. Now, the best way I want you to think about this is if you have a balloon. And if I put a piece of duct tape on that balloon and I blow that balloon up, what do you think is going to happen? It's going to curve in the direction of the duct tape. That's exactly what happens in terms of coronases. In seven to nine percent of men in the world suffer from this condition. And these men tend to be more devastated. I mean, they are truly depressed when you look at them psychologically to have this kind of curvature. And when the curvature is greater than 60 degrees, they can't penetrate. So it's very devastating. Yeah. And then for women when you see women on the flip side, what are their most common commonplace? The most common complaint I see is low libido, right? So many of these women have low libido, but it can be multifactorial. So you can't just say, hey, give them testosterone in the world is great. I mean, there's many things. It's a stress. It's a relationship with a partner. I mean, there's a her medical condition. So you have to take into account everything for her low libido. Many women suffer from pain with intercourse dysperonia, right? So we talked about that earlier. Many women just have four or a rousal decreased blood flow to the genitalia. And they have orgasmic dysfunction, inability of pain and orgasm. So you really have to do a deep dive and figure out what is the actual cause. I firmly believe that lifestyle modification for men and women does help with sexual dysfunction. And I will repeat that over and over again, the four pillars are your diets. Diet exercise, sleep, and stress reduction. Diet exercise, sleep, and stress reduction. Significantly help. Losexual function and men and women. There's something very interesting between the difference between men and women. If you look at a man typically, a man typically has sex to reduce stress. He has a very stressful day. He comes home. He just wants to have sex to reduce stress. In women, it's the opposite. She has to reduce her stress. I want to say something. Right, it's a 180. So if I tell a man if you want to have a better sex life with your partner, reduce her stress. Do the dishes. No, seriously. I've never used the stress. If you can reduce her stress, you're more likely to engage in sexual activity for him. It is for sex to reduce the stress. I can see where that would create relationship issues. And probably one would have to treat both parties as opposed to treating one party. You nailed it. It is a couple's disease. When I started my practice in 2007, I was so proud of myself. I was able to get these men, these amazing erections, amazing libido. Everything was great. They'd go home and they'd have no no sex with. In fact, the women were very upset. They said, look, we haven't had sex in 10 years. And now he wants to have sex all the time. It's ruining our relationship. Right? And I thought to myself, they're right. I mean, the reality is that you can't raise one libido without raising the other. Or you're going to set up for conflict. Right? So if you're going to raise one libido, raise the other. So very quickly, I started getting into the field of female sexual dysfunction. I said to myself, if I'm going to treat the men, I'm also going to treat the women. And raise the libidos together. Raise the sexual function together. Otherwise, it's a set up for conflict. You have been saving marriages for decades now, which is incredible. Let's talk a little bit about hypogoranatism. Yes. And the signs and the symptoms, the definitions and how one would go about treating that. And what is the evidence show? Let's go back to like the basic signs. Just the basics. Remember that testosterone in men, 90% of testosterone in men is made from the testicles. 10% is made from the adrenal glands. Women are a little bit different. If 50% from the ovaries, 50% from the adrenal's. Now, there's a signal from the brain. And that signal is called LH, which goes to the testicles and says, Come on, let's make testosterone. It's like the gas, right? So if someone has low testosterone, there's only two areas the problem can be from the brain or from the testicles. Either the testicles are not producing or the brain is not producing. One or the other. So my job is to figure out where is it coming from. Number one. Secondly, you want to be able to treat them. And you want to understand that giving men testosterone can make them infertile. So many patients who go to these clinics that are 32 years old and they take the testosterone. They come to me and say, no one told me I can become infertile. Now I want to have a child. A little bit of an issue. Now we can reverse it, right? But the reality is if you're thinking about taking testosterone and you're playing on having a child, hold off. You can use medications to make you make testosterone. That's safe. I can use off-label, clomophine, citrate. I can use HCG. I can use things to make you make testosterone. But do not give a young man testosterone if he's planning to conceive. And make sure he's fully aware that if he does take testosterone, it will shut down. His natural production. Right? So I think that's very important to have those discussions with the patients. But testosterone, again, is not only for men. It's also for women. I use a lot of testosterone and women. And they also benefit equally as well as men. And I would say for libido, women benefit more from testosterone than men do. And with the men when you start them on HCG or inclomophine or clomid, do you expect to get a certain percentage rise in free testosterone? If you say, I'm going to give you 3,000 I use of HCG a week. I expect your testosterone free and total. I don't know the percentage that it is, is to go up by 300 points. Is there some kind of expectation that you have? Yes. So remember this, when you're using medications to raise a man's natural testosterone, you are dependent on his ability to do it. Some men can, some men cannot. As they age, they're less likely to. So I tell the residents, it's like putting fuel in the car. You can put all the, you want the car will only go as fast as it can. Right? So the younger men tend to respond better. So typically what we do is we use HCG or clomophine citrate. But at some point, at some point, the body says, I can't do it anymore. I can't make any more testosterone. But younger men tend to respond. I like to use clomophine citrate. It's off-label. It's used for women for fertility. But what it will do is it goes to the brain. Increases something called LH and FSH. That goes to the testicles. And the man can start producing his own testosterone. Now, there's, I'm a little bias. I believe that clomid can do something called the discrepancy effect. 40% of men in my opinion, roughly, will have an increased number in their testosterone. But they don't feel it. They say, doc, I know my number went to 800, but I don't feel it. And there's a reason for that. The way clomid works, it blocks estrogen receptors in the brain. And men need estrogen for libido. So they have a bunch of estrogen sitting around. They can't see it. You take that same man and put him on testosterone. He'll say, okay, now my libido's back. So some men who take clomid will not feel that improvement in libido. HCG doesn't depend on the brain. And it goes straight to the testicles and starts producing testosterone. The problem with HCG, it's pricey. It's an injection. It's invasive and it's pricey. But it works. I'd like to thank one of our sponsors, Kozy Earth, Nullison. I love Kozy Earth. Here's why. Number one, Kozy Earth makes amazing sheets. And by the way, you want to transform your day, then you better have a good night's sleep. And we know that the bedroom is not just for, well, you know, sleep. I'm sure that's what you're thinking. Kozy Earth makes incredible, incredible sheets. They are temperature regulating if you've never tried Kozy Earth. You should. And by the way, my listeners get 40% off, which is basically free. Go to cozyEarth.com. And you can use the code, Dr. Lyon, for 40% off. But wait, not only do we use Kozy Earth sheets, which I have been using for years before they were even interested in sponsoring the podcast of things guys. Um, Kozy Earth sheets, they have towels amazing. Makes you just want to, I guess, kind of be naked in a towel. They also have pajamas. And they have blankets. So you cannot go wrong. In fact, your whole house should be outfitted in Kozy Earth. Everything. Good at KozyEarth.com and use the code, Dr. Lyon, for 40% off. And prior to making the decision of putting someone on, Clement or HCG, do you look at, do you like their LH and FSH numbers in a particular range before you say, okay, this person is going to be a responder. So for example, the people listening, blood work is now highly accessible. To individuals and maybe they'll go on inside tracker or maybe they'll go on. Some way to get their blood work this direct to consumer. Could they, and also we have lots of physicians and healthcare providers listening say, okay, well, the LH and FSH are three or under three versus say 10. How do you decide? Great question. So remember, as the testicle start to fail, your LH and FSH go up. Right. So the higher the LH and FSH, the less functioning the testicles are. LH is a good marker of the testosterone production. FSH is a good marker of your sperm production, right? So in men. So as I go up, this less functional. So in men, if the LH and FSH are high, typically H, C, G and Clome would will not work, right? And the number you want to think about is 7.6. It's a good number to be shown that that's kind of the cut off. So if his FSH and LH are 10, 15, probably not going to work the best. It may have some mild benefit, but not really worked that well at all. So in those cases, what you want to consider is a third medication. Again, off label, it's called an astrosol or RIMITX. It's been used typically from women with breast cancer. And what it does is it blocks the conversion from testosterone into estrogen, right? So essentially instead of baking the man, make more testosterone, you're preventing him from losing what he's got, right? And so we use a lot of RIMITX or an astrosol in those men who have elevated LH and FSH. So it's important, you're right. Look at the LH and FSH. If it's high, giving them more H, C, G or a Clome would probably not work. If it's below, it will work. And we typically use Clome at off label. You do. And when you start with an astrosol, the dosing is relatively low. We very low. Very low. About it's different than what people think or a lot of the TRT clinics are giving individuals one milligram three times a week. It has negative effects on both density. You nailed it. So this is an important, I used to think that testosterone was the key driver for libido and sexual function. But there are many studies that have shown that it actually is the estrodyle. It's the conversion from testosterone into estrogen, which gives that man that libido and improvement into sexual function. This was the THINKLSTAN study. And so what we know now is if you block a lot of the estrogen, these men will complain of libido. So I called the sweet spot. You don't want the estrogen to high, but you don't want the estrogen to low. I personally like to keep it between 30 and 50 in the sweet spot. So when I first started my practice, I thought estrogen was for women. Testosins for men. I'm going to give them a lot of an astrosol and shut them down. And it was a big mistake. Right? And now what we do is we manage it. We give a half a milligrams one. So we just enough to get them from high back into the normal range. And that works really, really well. So getting those men in the normal estrogen level is very important. Estrogen is extremely important for men. It's not just for women. It's extremely important for men, particularly when it comes to sexual function. It's a very important. That's relatively unknown. Individuals listening probably have never thought about astroviall. For men for sexual function. You'd mention it. You really like to see the range between 30 and 50. Is there any evidence that above 50 would be a problem? But I think that there can be an adverse. The main one is gynecumastia. Right? So as the estradiol level goes up, men can get breast tenderness. And I've seen personally that I see men typically getting it's a mood LaBillity as well when the estrogen goes up so high. So what's the point of keeping the estrogen so high? Why do I need, I have a beautiful wonderful medications that can bring them back into the normal range. My only request is not to shut them down. Because in the old days we said, just give them a milligrams a day. The reality is they do need it. So if someone's high, just bring them back to normal, but don't shut them down. We also need it for bone mineral density. So men also can get osteopeenia osteoporosis and taking away their estrogen, particularly for two years a longer, can result in osteopeenia osteopeenia osteoporosis. That's really important when you think about, again, what you talk about, these overall pillars of health and these lifestyle factors. When you are replacing testosterone. So typically when they're young, you don't like to do it. But people that want to have children fertility issues. Again, you said that a community reverse over time I know that I've read many of your papers that there's a certain strategy. Start them on, HCG. To help and then if that doesn't work, you would consider also adding in chromed. I am curious about the dosing of chromed. And we're talking about chromed, is there a place also for in chromed, right? And how do we dose chromed people ask, can you be on it for five years at a time? So chromed is dose, I dose it every other day. And the reason I dose it every other day is because if I dose it every day, seven percent of patients will become resistant to the drug. We call that tackyphylaxis. It's roughly seven percent. We don't see tackyphylaxis on chromed if you dose it every other day. Enclomethene is not FDA approved. So never made it through the FDA. But if you think about chromed, it has something called a cis and a trans isomer. cis and trans isomer. And the trans isomer alone is chromethene, right? So, the chromed has cis, isomer and trans isomer. Enclomethene has just the trans isomer. It's a shorter half-life. And we did a recent publication and abstract that we presented, showing that patients typically have less side effects. And they may have more benefit with the Enclomethene. But still not FDA approved. It's compounded typically. But chromed is readily available. It's a fertility drug for women that we use off-label in men. And the dosing, again, is every other day. But chromed as I mentioned, can have that negative effect. Where some men will come back to me and say, I have no desire for sex. I have a low libido. And I know my number says 800, but I just don't feel it. So I explained to patients before I give them the medication. Okay, you may have this effect. If you do, we'll switch it to HCG. But if you don't, great. It's cheap. It's effective. And it's commonly used. And it can be used every other day. Do you start them at 25? Just start them at 50? How would a provider or a person listening go and speak with their provider about that? Yeah, so I typically do 50 milligrams every other day. Now some patients say, look, doc, I can't remember every other day. Sometimes I do one day. I forget the other day. I say fine. I take 25 milligrams a day, which is half a pill. And you may become resistant 7% chance. 93% chance you won't, but if you get the 7% we'll deal with it. You know, but again, it's a reality. You can become resistant to the drug. So we try to do it every other day. And how long could someone stay on that if they're getting good benefits? Great question. So you can be as long as your testicles can produce. You can be on it, right? So at some point, so the testicles tend to atrophy. We undergo apoptosis. We undergo apoptosis. We undergo apoptosis. So the long you live this greater cell death than the testicles. Eventually they will stop producing. And your testicles will say, I don't care how much clomid you give me. I'm done. I'm out. I'm out. Right? At that point, you make the switch over to testosterone. Now typically though, if the patient is not interested in fertility and they're a little bit older, it makes more sense for me to start the monotestosterone supplementation. Because I think they tend to feel better on exogenous testosterone and it's a lot cheaper. A lot cheaper. And there are different forms of testosterone. There is now an oral form. I'd love for you to break down testosterone replacement and the forms. Yes. So there are so many different. When I first started, there's essentially gels and injections and patches. We don't use patches anymore. I mean, like there's patches. Yeah, patches. And there's one patch that was actually placed on the scrotum. We better now than those android germ not commonly used because 37% of patients. We get a very bad skin reaction. You have to take the patch off every day. Now the gels are very commonly used. But the problem with the gels is that they're dependent on skin penetration. So let's say I put a gel on your body and you get zero skin penetration. You get nothing. Let's say you get 10%. That's great. If someone gets 80%, that's even better. You get a lot of different types of skin. So there's numerous other injectables or very popular. And before you move on, the gels, the, so someone would not be able to know going in. Is it based on skin type? Right. So everyone's skin's different. And some patients skin has better penetration than others. But one important thing about the gel, you mentioned that you bring up. You can get transference. Right. If you have a baby at home or pregnant wife, you do not want to prescribe. A gel to that patient because of the risk of transference. So I think you got to be very careful. But because of the variable absorption, the poor penetration in many cases, most patients, as long as they're not needle phobic, like the injectors. Because you can do them sub cue. Now they are the ones you get like testosterone, Nante andcipientate are off label sub cue. But they meant to be intermuscular. But there was a medication called a ziastead. They came out several years ago. And ziastead essentially is just a spring with testosterone nanteed in it. And it meant to be sub cue. And typically when you inject someone sub cue, you can use less testosterone. About 20% less. You know. So if I have to use 100 milligrams, I am in a patient. I can use 80 milligrams sub cue. The starting dose for the ziastead, the sub cue testosterone nanteed, is 75 milligrams. So testosterone injectables are great. There's a long acting injectables. We have in the United States. We have a V, which is a 10 week long acting injectable. But most people like the short acting because they're cheap, because you can get it from a compound pharmacy. And you can get sipping it or nanteed at the most common. Now I tell the residents, how do you know between sipping it and nanteed? How do you know which one to use? I say think of C for child E for elderly, right? And kind of use the number 50 to 60 years of age. Because if you sipping it has more sodium retention, it's more anabolic. So you get more swelling and it's slightly longer half life. And nanteed is less anabolic and less sodium retention. So I typically, if I give a 75 year old man some sipping it, he's going to make it from swelling in his feet more and deeper. So I try to give the older patients nanteed, the younger patients sipping it. But these two medications are fantastic. And quite frankly, you can use them interchangeably slightly because the half life will tilt the same. If you run out of a nanteed for someone young and you can use sipping it. But very effective, very cheap if you get a mcompany form of sipping it. And we have our patients inject sub Q. I think sub Q works for better. And I think they should inject twice a week and I have them inject on Sunday and Thursday. And the reason being is because they peak in 24 hours. So if you inject Sunday, you're ready for Monday. If you inject Thursday, you're ready for the weekend, right? So I do half dose, I split it. Otherwise I have these huge peaks and troughs. If I don't split it and I just like to have them much smoother graph. When you do sub Q, does that change the conversion to estrogen is your less estrogen conversion or ester dial conversion is there. Are there other mechanisms that make the person be able to use less? The absorption is better. There's no the only key thing is we can use less testosterone. But there's no other kinds of conversion. Remember the most of the conversions when you see on the skin, right? But this is beyond the skin you're going into the fat. But we feel that I've seen that better absorption of the medication. It doesn't matter if it's an antate or sipping a better absorption systemically when you use it sub Q. So that's why you use less dose. And that's why the starting dose for desired stead is 75 milligrams where most people are taking a hundred milligrams. I am that little conversion. So if you're using sub Q, just remember you're going to get better levels. And you may need to go down a little bit on the dose to compensate patients' love sub Q much better than I am. It's easy. You know, if you're not using the ziostat, which is an auto injector, you can draw it up yourself. Yeah. You can inject sub Q. And you can do it Sunday Thursday. Very, very effective. Very cheap. And very patient for very happy. And what percent just in general, what percent of testosterone gets conferred. So for example, if someone comes in and their testosterone is 300, they feel like crap. Their free testosterone is low. Do you say, well, I'm going to start you on 150 milligrams. I expect your testosterone to bump up to X and I don't know. 0.6 percent will be converted to ester dial. Yeah. So this is the way you want to think about everyone's different. But if you look at testosterone, 0.3 percent, 0.3 percent is converted into estrogen. 6 to 8 percent is converted into dihydrotestosterone. So those are the numbers you want to remember. Now it can vary because obesity fat cells contain a substance called aromatase. And aromatase eats the testosterone and converts into estrogen. So in patients who are obese, they tend to have more conversion into ester dial. But the good way to think about is 0.3 percent for estrogen. 6 to 8 percent for dihydrotestosterone. Now what's the problem with that conversion? If you have too much estrogen, you can get gynecumastia. Right? And I also believe that patients have too much estrogen. You can get some mood, mobility as well. If you have too much dihydrotestosterone, you can get milk powder and balding, baldness. So men and women. For men and women. So how do the drugs work like propcia and these medications? They block the conversion from testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. I'm not a big fan of these. I'm going to say propcia. I do not believe the use of men and women should use this medication. I think it has significant negative side effects and some can be permanent. But that's how it works. So essentially, if you have a patient who's getting too much estrogen, what you can do is you can put them on a low dose anastoresol, estrogen blocker. And when you block that conversion, estrogen comes down and their testosterone goes up. So you can work around it. But I think it's very important to follow the testosterone and endosterodial and DHC in these patients. And is there a number of DHT that you like to say? Well, I try not to shut it down. I try not to mess with their DHT at all. You know, I really feel that the what I've seen with irreversible sexual dysfunction, suicidal ideations, terrible side effects, with setting the DHT down. I don't believe in doing that. So I will not prescribe medications that shut down DHT. Which would be a patient and that's right. And I will not. So, but I'll do a work around. And so, there are medications that patients will go for a hair transplant or they may look it because the main thing is hair loss, right? Right. That's the main thing. That's what they worry about. Just had a conversation with a woman who heard testosterone was low. Yeah. But she really struggled with hair loss. Yeah. And she wants to go on testosterone. She needs testosterone. Yeah. And she's already on oral monoxidil things, you know, looking at her copper. Yeah. What would you do in this situation like that? So oral monoxidil is very good. You can use a 1.25 milligrams to put on these are off label. Yep. But it does help. Remember that you just tell the patient when you use oral monoxidil, you're going to lose some hair first. And then it's going to come back. Right. There'll be a dip. The second thing you want to let them know is that you can use topical monoxidil also. It does not have the oral. That can be very helpful. But I really do not want to give them medications that will mess with their androgens orally, particularly like propisa. I just feel like it can have a negative adverse effect. Look, I'll just tell you. So we did a study. I got looking at propisa in men. They effects of something called post-finass ride syndrome. And in my study, there were 25 men that came to me from all over the world. They came from South Africa, Scotland, everywhere to be in my trial. When they took the finass ride, they had negative adverse events, not only sexual dysfunction, but they also had depression, low libido, poor cognition. And in my trial, during my trial, two patients committed suicide. Oh my gosh. Because it's increased suicidal ideation. And so I am very over to giving patients finass ride. I just feel like because remember, in medical school, we were taught that testosterone and the medications block the conversion from testosterone to five out of a negative effect and it blocks the conversion to DHT. But we weren't taught about the other 12 pathways. We were taught about that one little pathway to testosterone DHT. You give a finass ride, it blocks the conversion. But the other pathways are extremely important because they block the conversion to what we call neuro steroids in the brain and aliprogonalone, which are responsible for depression, anxiety. So some patients that are taking this will say, I have anxiety, depression, suicide ideation. Many countries have put on their package insert, increase suicide ideation if you take finass ride in the US we haven't yet. But there are many countries that already said that. So I think it's very important that patients know, finass ride can have a significant adverse effect mentally and with depression. That is really important. You guys, if you are taking for Pisa or finass ride, this might be something to really, obviously I'm not, we are not your physician, but really consider removing from your plan. There are better options. Yes. That's safe to say. For DHT, that is more antibiotic. Yes. It's more antibiotic and testosterone. It's really important. I'd like to take a moment to think one of our sponsors, fatty 15. Yeah, the name is a little weird, but it's exactly that. It's an essential nutrients. Fatiessids are critical and C15. I have to say I was very impressed with the founders. I met them at one of the nutrition conferences. And I learned all about fatty 15, which is why I'm excited to bring it to you. Here is what Fati15 does. It is very good for cells. Cells incorporate fatty acids. You want them pliable so they can move as opposed to stiff and exposed to oxidative stress, which happens in everyday life. Fati15 is research backed. It's good for mitochondria. It plays a different role than omega-3 fatty acids. And it doesn't go rancid. So you are taking an essential fatty acid and synahame fatty 15 in a way that it doesn't go back. It doesn't go bad in your body. And I think that that's really important. And most people are deficient in this essential nutrient. You can try yours by going to fatty15.com slash Dr. Lion. And no doubt you will get 15% off. Your first 90 day supply. That's fatty15.com slash Dr. Lion. Is there a number, a target number that you like to see for men? 80 or 100 or again very, very well. Yeah, it's 40 x. So like testosterone's DHC is 40 x, but I don't like shutting down their DHT for the men. And reason I mentioned with propitious. But do you want to hire? Is there a target? My target is typically on the T. I look at the T level. And the T level typically is 300 to 1,000. Now, if a man comes to me in some physician say, he's at 400. He's normal. That's not, it may not be normal for him. The reality is we did this wonderful study several years ago looking at something called the sensitivity of the energy receptors. These are called C.A.G. repeats. Right? So that's how my list. Yeah, that's right. So the higher the C.A.G. repeats or 27 or higher. If it the higher the C.A.G. repeats, the more insensitive the energy and receptor is. And we showed several years ago that those patients who have more insensitive receptors need more testosterone. Makes sense. If you have more sensitive receptors, you may need less testosterone. So how can you assume that every man the cutoff right now is 300. About 300 is normal. And it seems like it keeps getting lower. Well, in some cases, right? So it will talk about the every man. If you're above 300, you're normal. If you're below 300, you're not normal. That's not true. Every man has his own cutoff. Every woman has her own cutoff. So if the range is 300 to 1,000, what we found is if you put the patient in the upper quartile of normal. Then most of the patients have met their cutoff number. So if a patient comes back to you and his number is 450 or 500, and he says, Doctor, I still have symptoms. The response should not be. Well, you're in the normal range. So let's find out if something else is going on. The response should be. Let me raise your testosterone even more in the normal range. Because some patients will continue to see benefit. Right? That should be the response. And same with women as well. So I think it's very important to realize it's not one number if it's all. It's a range and you sometimes need to take patients into the upper quartile of that range to see symptomatic improvement. And if someone has a gag repeat and they're insensitive, they're hydrogen insensitive. Typically, providers will not go over 200 milligrams of testosterone weekly is there. But what I'm hearing you say is potentially people might need more, and they just don't feel it. Would that be reasonable to say? Absolutely. So some patients, we're all different. Genetically, we're all different. Some, you can't assume that everyone's going to feel great at a certain number. And certain patients will all, we all feel great. Maybe this gentleman over here needs an 800. Some men just need 400. And they feel great. And it gets a little deeper. You got to look at the free testosterone also because of the SHBG is elevated. And we should definitely talk about that. But it is not one number fits all. Right? Everyone is different. And every man and woman have their own cut off. And you just want to get them above their cut off in order for them to see symptomatic improvement. And I'm not saying you have to go sue superfluous, physiologic. But if someone doesn't feel it, if they have their very hydrogen insensitive. Yes. And you're on what we would consider the max dose of testosterone. Yes. So the max dose of testosterone. And correct me, according to the guidelines would be 200 people wouldn't go. Well, don't go along the dose, go on the number of their blood tests. Right? Because some patients I need to put them at 200 just to get them into the normal range. Like it just varies. Okay. So the some patients will need 250, 250, it varies. I'm mom looking at their blood tests. And I'm also looking at two other things. I'm looking at their risk of a rithorciosis. So if someone has too high of a red blood cell count, there is a theoretical cardiovascular risk. If it's above 54. Right? So testosterone increases the red blood cell count. Right? So for everybody, well, do some people respond differently. And there isn't a rithorciosis. Right. But it depends on the if formulation you use. So we publish a study looking at all different types of formulations. If you give someone an injectable in our study, it was 68% chance of having rithorciosis. If you gave someone in a pellet, it was 35% chance of getting rithorciosis. If you gave him a gel, it was 12% chance. So if a man comes in and he's saying, look, my red blood cell count keeps going up. What I have them do is I have them donate blood. That's one option. Or you can have them decrease the dose. Most of them don't want to decrease the dose. So we have them donate blood. And we typically have them donate one pint separated by a week to drop that blood count. Because most men don't want to stop the medication. But another option, another smord option is, okay. And then injectables have a 66% chance of rithorciosis. I was going to switch you to an oral. I drop it down to 5%. And he doesn't have to donate blood so often. Now some men don't like oral. They like the injectables in the way they feel. But it's that peaks and troughs that causes the increase. There is a theoretical increase cardiovascular risk. If someone gets above 54 on the blood count. So that's why we want to stay away from that. Now I just want to be fair. I want to stress theoretical. I'm not up to you until 2022. Before that year, there was not a single study to show that secondary arithosoitosis. Meaning if I give someone testosterone and their blood count goes up, there are a higher risk for getting a cardiovascular event. That was never shown. It was only shown in patients with polycythemia Vera, which is a blood cancer. Right. That shows if someone has polycythemia Vera and their blood count goes up, they're increased risk for having a cardiovascular event. That was never shown. Never shown with testosterone. There was one study at the University Miami and showed a 1% difference mild. But this was a database retrospective study saying that maybe there's increased risk. So just be very clear testosterone is theoretical risk if that blood count gets too high. But how do we reconcile that? Because again, you said it's a theoretical risk. When you administer testosterone depending, then the arithoricytosis would be something that we would expect. I think that there's the hematologists. I'm not sure that they, I think that they have guidelines that they are not necessarily concerned. I don't know if. To some degree, you know, they're all true. I think that you know, the numbers you want to remember is 54. Above 54, we ask our patients to donate. In fact, at 51, I ask my patients to donate blood because why am I waiting to the trouble number 54? Just preempt it, do it ahead of time. Right? And some guidelines will state that at 52 don't start the testosterone. So if the hematica is above 52, don't start. So we will live within the guidelines and that's fine. I'm happy to live within the guidelines. And the guidelines you feel, obviously they're important because they said the standard of care. They set the standard of care. And so what you can do is very simple. If you have someone on injectable and he's getting rid of the cytosis, switch him to an oral, switch him to a jail, maybe switch him to a pellet and it drops it or they can continue to donate. They can donate blood and keep their levels low. And some men are perfectly fine with that. Now remember this. Some patients, this is very important. Some patients that keep donating actually have underlying obstructive sleep app. They have obviously, and we catch it, right? Because it's manifesting now because they're taking testosterone. You send them for a sleep study. They have sleep apnea. You treat the sleep apnea. I guess what? It's not getting the rest of the cytosis with their injectables. Right? And so we can unmask a lot of sleep apnea just by putting these men on testosterone injectables. That's really important. I know that you really believe that sleep is important for overall health, cognitive function, sexual health. Do you think that there's a risk? Because they're in the guidelines that if an individual's a hematocrit goes up and we ask them to donate blood, it could probably, I mean, it does. It lowers their iron stores. And so again, we're, we're functioning within the guidelines. But do you think at some point that those guidelines are going to be re-evaluated? Well, they are. So one that's going to be re-evaluated is the cardiovascular risk. So the cardiovascular risk was in the guidelines and they were in the 2018 testosterone guidelines. But you should, I got to tell you a little bit of a story. So here's the story. I love a good story. I love a good story. For decades, for decades, we gave men testosterone. And the studies would show that men with low testosterone levels were much more like it had a heart attack. That's interesting. Molly Schuars in 2016. One of the first to show men with low testosterone were like the heart attack. Many prospective studies after that. And then there was this concept that maybe if you normalize a testosterone, it potentially could decrease the risk of heart attack. But in 2010 to 2014, there were four studies that came out saying that if you give men testosterone, you will increase the risk of having a heart attack. Three of those four studies were retrospective, non-randomized database studies. So some limitations. So the FDA in 2015 said, look, we want a well-designed trial to make sure that testosterone does not cause a heart attack. And in fact, we're going to put a warning in the package insert saying that it could increase the risk of cardiovascular events. And until you give us this trial, we're going to leave the warning there. So this trial was called the Traverse trial, an amazing trial. The largest randomized, perceived control trial in men looking at, does that? Five thousand. Fifty-two hundred men, big deal. Fifty-two hundred. It's a big deal. And we massive. And so I was one of the investigators in this trial. And basically help design this trial. And we basically not only looked at cardiovascular risk, but we decided if we're going to do this trial, we might as well look at other things as well. So we looked at the risk of prostate cancer or high-grade prostate cancer. And we looked at five other domains. We looked at risk of diabetes. We looked at bone fractures. We looked at sexual dysfunction. We looked at anemia in these trials as well. And so the, just the story was this, is that when we did this trial, 50 to 050 to 100 men randomized to testosterone gel or placebo. 45 to 80. That's all. 45 to 80. And that's all. Because it was a trial before this called the T trials. And the T trials only looked at men over the age of 65. But this trial looked at all men above and below 65 years of age. Where do they find no increased risk in cardiovascular events? That's really important. No increased risk. So this is a multi-center randomized control trial over 5,000 men between the age of 45 to 80. Yes. No increased risk of cardiovascular disease on testosterone. And we did something very interesting. We only selected patients who were high risk. I know. It's an extraordinary study. We'll link it extraordinary. Yeah. Think about it. In order to be in this trial, you either had to have cardiovascular disease, meaning cerebral vasculitis, cardiovascular disease, or you had to have risk factors for cardiovascular diabetes, hypertension. So these patients were already at high risk for having a heart attack. And in that study, in spite giving them testosterone, we saw no increased risk of cardiovascular events. Now, you should know about three little exceptions in the study. We did see a slight increase in those patients who had renal deficiency. Very tiny. We had a slight increase in pulmonary embolism. Very slight from 0.5 to 0.9 percent. So it was very tiny. And so I think that's very important to realize that there were some slight curveballs. But the end of the day, no increased in cardiovascular events. Now, look at the other studies that came out of this. It was fantastic. We saw that there was no increased risk in prostate cancer. That's very important. We saw that there was no increased risk in BPH or lower urinary tract symptoms. It's in the package insert. If you give a man testosterone, make sure you follow his urinary symptoms because it could get worse. That's not true. That's not what we saw. In fact, most of the studies, not the traverse trial. Most of the studies show that long-term testosterone in men either have no effect on their urinary symptoms or an improvement in their urinary symptoms because testosterone can be a strong anti-inflammatory for prostate. That's a lot of reconsiderations that we have to think about. The patient population to provide her because just number one people will say, well, I can't go into testosterone. I'm afraid it's going to affect my heart. Right. I don't want to go into testosterone because I'm afraid it's going to cause BPH and keep me up at night. Right. These are really important things that actually prohibit people from taking action to improve the quality of their life by the utilization of hormone. We needed the traverse trial because when the traverse trial first started and the FDA talked about the risk of testosterone cardiovascular disease, if you look at a graph, the utilization plummeted in men. It plummeted in the use of testosterone. This was a fear that if they took it, they'd get cardiovascular risk or any kind of cardiovascular disease. But how unfortunate because many of these men were benefiting from the medication, but they stopped it because they were fearful that they may get it heart attack. But they actually didn't need to stop it because they were benefiting as well. So that was those two were the big findings cardiovascular prostate, but there were other findings as well. There was improvement in sexual function. Now, there's two types of sexual function. There's libido and actual rectal function. Testosterone as monotherapy still should not be indicated for pure erectile dysfunction. It does help when someone's taking viagra. Let me give you an example or see how we call these BD-5 inhibitors. If a man says, look, I've been taking viagra and things have been great. And all of a sudden my viagra stopped working. If you check his testosterone and it's low and you replace it, 30 to 50 percent of men will say, you know what? My viagra is now working again because if a viagra and testosterone work were very well together. But in the guidelines testosterone as monotherapy is not meant to be used for erectile function, but it does help with libido. In the reverse trial, we did see a significant improvement in desire in libido. What are the other things we saw? We saw improvements in anemia. That was very important as well. We didn't see any improvement. We saw improvements also as a sexual function. We saw improvements in anemia. But we didn't see much improvement when it came to other conditions such as diabetes. That's interesting. You would think it would improve some muscle mass, but if they're not exercising, it's not. Right. Can I make a? There's a big difference because there is a very famous study called the T4DM. The T4DM study showed that if you give men testosterone, it actually improves insulin resistance. Right. But in this trial, it did not show improvement. Now the T4DM used a different medication. They used something called libido, which actually has high levels of testosterone. Get some well into the superficial, logical or normal range. But in our trial, if you were above 350, you're considered normal. So if you have a testosterone level of 370, then some would say that's really not high enough to see Symptomatic improvement in insulin resistance. So I think there's some limitations with this trial to say, did we see improvements? We did see improvements in anemia, make sense if you give someone testosterone anemia. You know, blood count goes up in the introvert's trial. But I think that's very important to realize that there are a lot of benefits of testosterone. It's just not about sex. Right. What about for women? You know, the numbers for women are much lower if an interview is looking at their labs, their free testosterone. Would be considered normal even if it's one. Yes. Do you think that those numbers are correct? My patients seem to do and feel much better when their free testosterone is higher than these lab values that we're looking at. And it's very clear. Yeah. In women, free testosterone is far more important than total testosterone. And the problem is that her SHBG can be completely variable. So remember, in sex hormone, body, and sex hormone, body, and body is bad. So the higher the SHBG, the less the free T, right? So what is the number one cause of elevating SHBG birth control? Yes. Sky rocket, SHBG. Now here's the creature. Yeah. Right. But here's the clincher. The clincher is, is that it did you know that if a woman takes birth control pills greater than five years. And then decides to stop. Many of her SHBG levels will not normalize. They'll stay permanently elevating. Right. So many years. You're starting the package insert. You're reading my mind because I've got to say, many years ago, we tried to put it in the package insert. And we couldn't get it in because causing irreversible sexual dysfunction in women irreversible. And because if the SHBG stays high, I don't care what her testosterone is. The free testosterone is going to be very low. But there will be any way to overcome that if you do it that high not. Yes. So the only way to win is to increase the total T to overcome and you can have a higher free T. But most you have to be able to follow that follow the free T in women not the total T. Follow the free T. It's very important. So I think that you know, women are a little bit different. You have to pay more attention to the free T. You have to be careful on how fast and how much testosterone you're how much of a rise because she can get acne or facial hair. Right. And so, and then if you overshoot, you can use a bring it back down. In women you start low and you move up very, very slowly on those doses. Do you like injectable for women's up to you? I do. So I think, you know, I think the transdermals don't absorb very well. And the way you want to think about the dose for a women to men is it's one tenth, one tenth the dose. Now remember, testosterone is off label for women in the United States. Why is that? Why? Yeah. You know, so they tried many years ago in Trinza was a patch that they were trying to get through the FDA and just never got through the FDA. I think it's a shame because women benefit, I think, even more than men when it comes to testosterone supplementation. Let's talk about bone mineral density for them. Lobito, cognition, just overall well being. So, but it didn't get approved. So, typically for women, either use a testosterone pellet. I'll use a cream which is compounded because there's nothing FDA approved. Or all use an injectable. The most women will go to the pellet or they're using injectable. And the way I use mind-jections is, again, sub-cue. And you just have to dose it different and use typically one tenth the dose. One tenth the dose. And do you have any concerns being outside of range? And this is more for, you know, both the listener and the providers. Do you have any concerns about that? I think the can main concern is for women. I can start getting acne phases. But what if they don't have any of those side effects? And you are outside of the normal range. Yeah. They feel great. Yeah. The other thing I worry about is in terms of rhythm cytosis, right? So, there are some other things I can occur. I typically like to keep them in range, but the upper quartile of normal. And just, and this is, I just pulled this up. This is, again, the lab values are going to be different. But this is 0.5 to 2.4 to 2.4 nanomolts per liter. Yes. So small versus a male could be, again, the total would be 300 to 1,000 nanograms per deciliter or 10 to 35 nanomolts per liter. Yes, but this is very important. Why are we so fixated on the number? Let me just put that out there for you. So, if you treat a woman for estrogen, she says doctor, you know, I'm postman of Puzzle and I have hot flashes. So, I say, sure, man, I'm going to start some estrogen. So, I don't check her level. She's postman of Puzzle. Right? And she comes back and she says, you know, my half flashes are better. But I still have some. I'm bothered by them. I don't check her levels. We just give her a higher dose of estrogen. Why is this any different? I mean, the sum degree, you know, we're so fixated on the number. I completely agree with you. Yeah, this is symptomatic improvement. And I'm number. Right. And I bring this up because, let's say, a woman is at 2.4, just even from a medical legal standpoint, you know, that's not enough for her. And let's say she's still completely symptomatic. You push her to double that or, and she has no or with her psychosis and feels so much better. Yeah. I agree. So we're still fixated on the numbers. And many times before I tell the patient their lab values, just say, how do you feel? Thank you. I say, how do you feel? It's just a feel great. Because sometimes, I say, your levels are low. It's a well by the way. I don't feel like great. I say, no, I want you to tell me how you feel first because that's very important. Yeah. And when, for, so for women, you'll use a sub-union jacket. Sub-union jacket, which is or cream or a pellet or a pellet. There's my three favorite. So, you know, typically I will, again, this is off-label, but she will, will compound at 50 milligrams per ml. And she'll start out at 0.1 ml once a week. And it's sub-cute and it's easy. She wants to do it in injection. I'll compound the cream at 4 or 8 milligrams per ml. And that's easy. But, you know, the cream sometimes has poor variable of the skin. Yeah, it seems that way. It can be tricky. It can be tricky. And then a lot of them love the pellet. You know, and so they'll come in at once every four months for a sub-cute and it's pellet that's placed on the side of the hip. Very effective. And she's auto-pots, she doesn't think about it. And so she likes it. And what about alternative treatments for women who, let's say they have concerns about going on to testosterone? You know, we're talking about Adi. Yes. I would love to hear your thoughts on the alternative treatment. Yes. So, Adi's nice in the sense that it has no hormones. Right? And this is either his or her breast cancer. The beauty about Adi is it doesn't increase the risk of breast cancer. Right? And so basically, Adi increases dopamine in the brain. You can increase neuropinephrine. And these hormones increase the desire for sex. Right? So, Adi's been around for a while. And many patients will use the Adi. And sometimes in conjunction with the testosterone to help with libido. But what's nice about Adi, it is FDA approved. FDA approved strictly to increase a woman's desire for sex. And it can be very effective. So, several years ago, I said to myself, If Adi is good enough for women, why don't I use it from men? So, I went to the FDA and actually got an IND from the FDA to be able to get permission to give it to men. So, I have the only IND in the United States to give Adi two men strictly to increase their desire for sex. Right? Because men and women are not that different. If I increase dopamine in a man's brain. If I increase neuropinephrine in a man's brain, he also won't have sex. Right? So, Adi is a great medication, very effective. There's one other medication out there. And before you continue with the re-enemy reason why someone wouldn't go on Adi. Well, really, I mean, there's some side effects. There are some side effects. I tell patients to take half a dose every day for two weeks. And then you can desensitize yourself. And then to go up to the full dose. There's a cost and some insurance doesn't cover it. But it's cost pretty reasonable for three months. You know, so those are some of the things. And I tell patients if you don't benefit after three months. And don't... It takes about three months for advocacy. Great point. Because I said you don't expect... If you don't see anything in a week, don't quit. Right? Don't quit. You give me three months at the end of three months. If you see benefit, a great... If you don't, we can move on. But I do think that many men and women do benefit from it. And because it works in a different pathway, it works in a brain. Could you potentially use it in combination? Absolutely. So that's what works the best. If you use testosterone and adi... That's what we've been doing. That's what we've been doing. It has been doing. It's very effective. Because it's two different mechanisms. Right. And not to mention, it seems like adi has side effects that... I don't know if they lose weight. They sleep better. It seems as if there's these other benefits. So 100%. So two other things that patients will talk about is weight loss. And sleeping better. And so many women say, I'm in. Right. I think cre sex, weight loss and sleep better. I don't know why. The other one... But yeah. But again, those are side effects. The main goal is libido. Now, look. I just want to be very clear. Adi is phenomenal, but you have to also... Work at it too. I mean, it's part of your relationship. I can't fix your relationship with your husband. I know you can't go. That's a thing, right? Yeah, but with Adi. You have to work on it. And you have to give me the four pillars. Give me diet, exercise, sleep, stress reduction. It's a program. program and you can add the ad to end and it works beautifully. But if you think that I'm going to take ad and everything's going to be perfect, we know work. You know, really it's really synergistic when you put the work in. This episode is brought to you by inside tracker. You've heard me talk about inside tracker many times. Why is inside tracker important? Well, you have to know what's going on in your body. Otherwise, you are just kind of out there with blindfolds on and nobody wants that. Inside tracker is an amazing blood work, bio marker, full platform. It includes technology. It includes wearables. It includes blood work to show you exactly what your biomarkers are, things like insulin and glucose and thyroid and hormones. All of the stuff that you should care about. An inside tracker makes it available for you. Inside tracker has been very generous and is giving 20% off to all of my listeners. The entire store, you can go ahead and pick whatever program that you want. Some of them include fitness tracking data, others include biomarkers, many different biomarkers. I use inside tracker myself. You can too go to inside tracker.com slash doctor lion for 20% off. That's inside tracker dot com slash doctor lion for 20% off. Now back to the episode. Just because you mentioned exercise, there is a paper here, effective aerobic exercise on erectile function, systematic review and meta analysis of randomized control trials. Could you mention the impact exercise has on sexual function? We publish this just recently and it's really important. So patients come to me and say, look, I don't want to take a drug. I don't take a pill. What can I do naturally to improve my sexual function? This was a study looking at exercise. It was a meta analysis. We looked at 11 randomized placebo control trials looking at the effects of exercise on improving sexual function. What we found was that on average, the IEF, which is a score for sexual function, improved by about 3 points, strictly with exercise alone. What's very interesting is the more severe ED you had. The greater the improvements you would see in sexual function just by exercise alone. So I can't stress the importance of diet exercise sleep and stress reduction. I call those the four pillars. You have to, you and I, both of us can do better on diet exercise sleep and stress reduction. And every day when you wake up, every night when you go to sleep ask yourself, what am I going to do better on those four because to me those are the key? What is that one you have to work on? I know that one I have to work on. I have to work on all four, but I would tell you this, I think that I can always do better. I'm always hard on myself. I have to do better on all four. But I think stress reduction, because the stress is, I mean, it's what we do is for high stress, but you've got to find ways to take time out. And most of my CEOs are really good at diet and exercise. They go to the gym. Right, that's actually easy part. That's easy part. When it comes to sleep and it comes to stress reduction, they're out, lousy. They're lousy. Well, I can, because it's a sleep in many ways is not in your control somehow. And so it's how you process. So diet exercise, we got it. Most patients, most guys are lousy and sleep and stress. Now, a lot of them are successful because they manage stress well. That's how they got there. But sleep is the trick you want. You got to get the sleep down. It is critical for overall success. The thing that's so interesting here is we talk about healthy lifestyle. What do we get people there and erectile dysfunction is a huge problem? You publish this paper that looked at the effect of a aerobic exercise on erectile dysfunction. Without medication. Right. Yes. I mean, realize it healthier people tend to be more sexually active. And this study shows that lifestyle modification, diet exercise alone can significantly reverse erectile dysfunction. Reverse. Reverse. Right. That's really important because most people say, just give me the pill. I say, fine, I can give you the pill. But let me tell you something that you can do to actually truly reverse erectile function. See, remember that ED is a progressive disease. So what happens if I give a man Viagra today, it works fine. But eventually it's going to stop working. And that patient will then go on to an injectable, propaneal injections. Eventually that stops working. And then they go on to pyruy epinol prosthesis. So there's a spectrum here. How common is that? So ED affects 52% of the men over the age of 40. It's very common. And I think another way to look at this is 40% of men at 40 have erectile dysfunction. 50% of 50%, 50, 60, 60. You live long enough. You're going to get erectile dysfunction. And so, but it's reversible. ED is reversible. And typically, with lifestyle modification, if you improve your lifestyle, it's significant to improve your erectile function. Most men say, just give me the pill. I say, fine, I'll give you the pill. But you understand that that pill is going to eventually stop working. And we'll have to go to a stronger pill. And then we have to go to a penal implant. And so, a lot. So if you work with me, we can prevent ED from occurring. Remember that ED is the first sign of a heart attack or stroke. That is really important. So if a man gets ED today, 15% of them will have a cardiovascular event within seven years. That is really important. That's what they say. Those are big. Say it again. That's a big number. Yeah, this is the prostate cancer prevention trial. If a man develops ED today, 15% of them will have a cardiovascular event within seven years, that's important. Because ED is the first sign of heart attack. And there's a mechanism that's how can you explain this. The penal arteries are one to two millimeters. They're very tiny. The coronary arteries are three to four millimeters. The crotted artery can be six millimeters. So remember from physiology, if you get a occlusion, 50% of an artery, you start seeing end organ damage. So what are you going to include first? You include the penal artery first. Then you'll include the coronary artery. Then you include the crotted. So ED typically is the first sign that something else is going to happen. So that's very important to realize that. So we take ED as a first sign of a cardiovascular event. If a man comes to me and he has ED and two cardiovascular risk factors, we send them for cardiovascular evaluation. Just to make sure there's not a cult cardiovascular disease. I think that's really important that man out there, particularly young men, if you have ED and there's no other cause, should be thinking, is there something going on with my heart that could be causing this condition? You typically screen, you know, when we think about the blood panels, I know that you get astrodiol, testosterone, free testosterone, SHPD, hemoglobin, hematocrit, PSM assuming you still, so could a PSA? Do you also look at say, ApoB? Absolutely. So ApoB is much better than all the other ones. So ApoB, LP little A, and LP little A is a non-modifiable risk factor. It is what it is. But ApoB can be modified. You'd like to keep the ApoB below 100, you can say 1, 30 or 100. But these are great gauges to let you know what is going to happen in terms of a cardiovascular risk. So I like the way you're going with this because I think it's very important to realize that the first sign of a heart attack in men could be his erectile dysfunction. And that's been shown, as I mentioned earlier, 15% will have heart attack risk stroke within seven years. If a man presents to you with ED and he appears relatively healthy, if it's not psychogenic, you should ask yourself, is this the first sign of cardiovascular disease? And we take it very, very seriously. Also, do you, there's a whole push for these weight loss drugs? Do you also look at who coasts in selen, human global and ANC? Because what I love about the way you practice and the way you think is it is not just unidimensional. We're talking about erectile dysfunction, but you have your forepilers. You are discussing things on a broader scale and really more holistic. Right. The impact of these weight loss drugs, those Zempek, some, some agatied, as a appetite, what are your thoughts on them and how could those affect infertility, sexual function? So we're studying those right now and I think you can have a positive effect. So remember, what does fat do? Fat contains something called arromatase. It eats up the testosterone and converts it into estrogen. So the more fat cells you have, the less testosterone you have, the more estrogen you have. So basically, we like to look at these levels. Losing weight, I believe, will help with fertility. I think it will make a big difference. I think losing weight will help with sexual function. And so we have a trial right now looking at that, giving these medications like semiglutide to reduce the fat, to see if I can see improvements in fertility and sexual function. I think it's going to make a difference. Let's be honest, health, it's survival of the fetus, Darwinism, healthier people tend to be more fertile. Right? So healthier people tend to be more fertile. I want you to think of this in two ways. There's two ways to play this. There's offense and defense. Right? Offence and defense. And when you talk about offense, you know, I say, okay, I'm going to focus on the four pillars. Diet, exercise, sleep, and stress reduction. I'm going to do things to improve my body. But defense is looking at what we call the forehensionment. I got this from Peter Tia. You know, looking at if you're going to something bad, it's going to happen. See if there's going to be cardiovascular disease. It's going to be either diabetes metabolic syndrome. It could be a cancer, right? Or it could be neurodegenerative. Right? There's other ways that can get you. So what's we do something very silly? We wait till we get the problem. And then we treat. I said, I have a heart attack and now I'm going to go ahead and figure out how I'm going to improve my cardiovascular health. Right? So wait till I get diabetes and then I'm going to try to improve my diabetes. No, the name of the game is prevention. So prevention on the over here. And then also on this side, trying to go offense and defense at the same time. Very important. And so we go hard on the patients. You know, we look at cardiovascular risk. We look at apob. We could help you a little a. We look at their cholesterol levels. I look at apoe for neurodegenerative. So you can look at my cholesterol. Right? You can look at insulin levels in these patients. So we go very hard on cancer screens as well. I like using the grill as well. It helps me understand what else this patient could have. Yeah, I was I would, you know, we had lunch another day. My husband was there. It was it was great. We were talking about what you were doing in your practice. You mentioned the grill, which is fantastic. And also scans, whether it was a nervous scan or CT. Yeah. The first neurologist that I've ever heard doing this. I think it's important, right? Because the name of the game is prevention. Right? If I can catch something today, why would I, I would only do what I do for myself. I saw a scan. So you can get an MRI full body scan. I'll let it sometimes hard to get. You can get a CAT scan. But some type of imaging. Again, this is not standard to cure or something that I think I offer my patients. It's progressive and it's, as you say, offense. It's offense, right? I want to know what's going on before it happens. And I think that's very important. So we use the grill as well. I think it's very helpful to tell it's 50 cancers that you may be missing that you can pick up today. So these are all things I can do to prevent cancer prevention. So focusing on the cancer, the cardiovascular, the metabolic, the neurogenitive, those are the four categories. Because again, if you are going to die, those are the four ways I can get you besides having a car wreck or a plane crash. But these are the four. If you know that, you would go heavy on those four and preventing those four from happening. And that to me is more the defense. For event, find the way to prevent the offense is die exercise sleep and stress reduction. And when you put it together, you got a great program. You have a winning team. What effect do you think that these drugs, the weight management drugs, have on sperm quality? Do you think that there is any indirect or direct effect on sperm quality? We know some basics. We know that patients who are healthier have better sperm quality. That's a survival that is Darwinism. Healthier patients, healthier people tend to have better sperm quality. So I would assume that we're doing the trial now that patients who lose weight would potentially have better sperm quality. And that's what we're studying right now. So we're looking at semen analysis in these patients and we're looking at testosterone levels in these patients and hormone levels in these patients to make sure that we see an improvement over time. Healthier people tend to be more fertile. That's just the way it is. Is infertility a big thing that you're seeing? So 15% of couples will have infertility. It's a lot. We don't talk about it. 15% and the majority of time, 50% of the time, it's a female factor. That's true. What percent of time? 50%. That's a female factor. 30% of the time, it's a male factor. And then 20% of the time, it's both male and female. So indirectly, the male is involved 50% of the time when they present infertility. But if you think about it, you know, one out of seven or one out of eight couples will have problems with infertility. That's a lot of people. It's a lot of people. And it's emotionally really, really devastating for people. Absolutely. What would you say if you were trying to preserve or increase fertility from men? This important is lifestyle modification. Healthier men are more fertile period. So if you want to improve your fertility, it'll lose weight, exercise, alcohol consumption. So remember that alcohol can actually cause damage to the testicles as well. And typically when it's about 40 grams of alcohol, I was going to ask you the day. 40 grams. So each drink that you take in alcohol is about 14 grams roughly. So that second drink probably okay, that third drink is where you cross. So you want to watch the alcohol, marijuana consumption. So healthier people tend to be more fertile. And so I tell men that you want to become fertile, exercise, lose weight, right? Less processed foods are very important as well, right? Sleep. Remember that men only make their testosterone when they sleep. You don't make your testosterone. And endogenous testosterone is a very important persperm production. Let me repeat that. So endogenous testosterone is a very important persperm production. Endogenous testosterone makes you infertile, right? But endogenous testosterone. So irreversible. But reversible. Take some time. On average, our studies showed anywhere from 3 to 7 months. But we could do it 3 to 7 months. But there's no guarantee that I can get you back to baseline, right? So I started out with 80 million sperm per milliliter. I took testosterone. I went down to zero. And now I'm back to 30 million. Okay, I have 30 million per ML. But I'm not as fertile as I used to be. But I am fertile, right? So it'd just be very careful on the definition. If you're meant, you know, women go through menopause and then that's it. They can have a child bed for men. Can they always produce sperm? They always produce sperm. Sproom production goes down as a men age. And we see that just typically 40 to 45 years of age is starting to precipitate as a drop. So it does go down. So it's not that you can always. Now there's other ways to get the sperm. I can always do a biopsy of the testicle and get the sperm. If I need to, if he's not producing, mill fertility is pretty easy. It's only two things I got to figure out. It's either they're blocked or they're not making it. There's only two options when I see these patients. The blocked are not making it. And so if they're blocked, I can unblock them. If they had a vasectomy, I can unblock the vasectomy. Right? If they're not making it, it's a little trickier. So you have to figure out why they're not making it. What you can do to help them. And many times you have to go in and do a biopsy of the testicle. Find the sperm. I don't need very many. Just need several. Yeah, you know, it's a one good one. It's a one good one. And, but again, I tell the patients. Healthier, people are more fertile. I need you to focus on your quality and health. Very important. And what about for women? I think you focus primarily on men in your clinic when it comes to fertility. Do you work with women at all? I work with women in the sense that I work with all the IVF centers here in Houston. And so when the couple are trying to conceive, they'll send me the mill patient and say, hey, we have an issue. We can't get this find the sperm. He has no sperm on his ejaculate. Can you help us out the treatment? And that sense is where I work with the women for fertility. Do I work with women for female sexual dysfunction? All the time. All the time. All the time. But fertility, my main focus is improving the quality of the sperm and finding the sperm in these men. You know, just circling back to women and sexual function, you had mentioned that their SHBG goes up. And both men and women, right? A male will and can always make testosterone. And he can, for example, my dad, my dad's 74. He cringes every time I say it. Maybe he's 73. We got his blood work done. His total testosterone was 800. Yeah. His free testosterone was amazing. And he, again, he's an older gentleman who does all of the offensive pillars that you talk about for women and testosterone production. Does that always decline? Yeah. So you bring up two important points. The first one is we were taught in residency in medical school. This concept called male menopause. And it does. It doesn't exist. It doesn't exist. It doesn't exist. It doesn't exist. Because what happens is, as men get older, aging alone doesn't drop their testosterone level. It's the acquisition of comorbid conditions that drop their level. So obesity. That sells eat up testosterone convert them to estrogen called the realmethization. Right? HIV, AIDS. I potentially all these conditions that you can acquire start dropping your T levels. And if you look at healthy, healthy 80 year old men, they have normal testosterone levels. It's still in normal range. Right? So healthy men will maintain their testosterone. But women are a little bit different. So women will typically make 50% of their testosterone from their ovaries 50% from their adrenals. And as she goes to menopause, it's a precipice drop in her testosterone. And her adrenals are starting to decline every year at 20 years of age. So it is absolutely makes sense that her desire for sex goes down. Because the number one desire driver for sex in a woman is her testosterone level. And if 55 years old when she's post-medipausal, there's almost no testosterone. So you can't blame her for having low desire. Secondly, she has vaginal attributes. She has pain. So now she has no desire and she has pain within it. And you want to have sex all the time. She's got bafflecia. Right? So come on. But it's not fair. So if you improve the testosterone level, if you use local vaginal estrogen therapy, if you help her, then it makes sense. But to assume that a woman post-medipausal is going to want to have a great, great libido doesn't make a lot of sense. Yeah. This episode is brought to you by first form. First form makes incredible protein powders. That's probably one of my most calming questions that I get asked. What kind of protein do you use? And first form makes great flavors. They also have a natural way, which is amazing. We make putting out of it. We also make somewhat of like a ice cream type shake. And if you are looking for protein powder on the go, then look no further. This form makes a great one. You can check out their protein powders, which by the way, also mixes amazing. Nobody likes that chalky tasting protein powder, or you're drinking it. Kind of choking, not sure if you should spit it out, or maybe it doesn't taste good. And there's an aftertaste. It's a whole situation. First form has fixed that. You can try yours. Go to first form. That's one STPHORM.com. And use the code Dr. Lyon. That's first form.com slash Dr. Lyon. We talked about testosterone. We talked about Adi and there was another one. It's a Bremelanata or Vilec. This is FDA proved also to significantly improve desire for sex and women. We have two drugs on the market. One is called Adi. One is called Vilec. Adi is an oral pill that she takes every day. Vilec is an injection that she takes typically several hours before sex. Now, Vilec should be taken no more than eight times a month. But she does not have to take it every day. Both have different mechanisms of action. But both significantly increase the desire for sex and women. Cash. I mean, it just seems like a combination of one or two of these things would be amazing for women and not have to suffer. Yes. The testosterone for women, you'd mentioned that women after menopause. I know that there's some concern. Not sure how valid it is after a 10-year window. Not wanting to put people on, estrogen. What about testosterone? Yes. So there's been no data suggest that testosterone increases any kind of cancer or malignancy from women. So the fear that we have with estrogen and progesterone is that we can get a very in cancer and we need other kinds of cancers. But that's not been shown with testosterone. It's also been used from decades in women with no really adverse events. Remember the concept of testosterone and these women replacement is to put the woman who is low back into the normal range. It's not rocket science. We're just going from low back into normal. And the effects that I see in women on testosterone tend to be greater than we see in men. I mean, the libido goes up. Her energy goes up. Her muscle mask goes up. Calgmission goes up. Again, realize that it's off label in the United States. So many years ago, they were trying to get it through with a drug called intrinsic. It is used throughout the world in all label in different countries. But it's off label. So what you use in a woman is one tenth, which you use in a man that conversions very important and goes slow. You don't want the acne or the facial hair because you can get very upset. So it's very, very slow. Very slow. But it is effective. And let's talk about other benefits. Bermin or density. Yes. I mean, you know, we talk about estrogens for women for women for women. But testosterone, there are many studies showing that the combination of testosterone and estrogen for bone mineral density is better than just estrogen alone. Improving a bone mineral density. Her cognition, her skin, I mean, we can go on and on. And it's just very unfortunate that it's not FDA approved for women now. But you can use it off label. You can use it off label. You can use it off label. But just go slow. Just remember one tenth, the dose is how you want to remember it. That makes sense. Yeah. The blood work that you do. And we talked a lot about sex hormone binding. Globby. Sex hormone binding, globulin, and that testosterone for men. The production doesn't have to decline. Presibutously doesn't have to be drastic. But sex hormone binding, globulin, goes up its individuals age. What can we do about that if anything? I have tried certain supplements. It doesn't really move the needle. The question is, if we give boron or if we give x, y, and z does it actually have a meaningful impact, I haven't found it. Yeah. The way the best way to solve the problem is if your s, a, b, g is fixed. Just raise the total t. It's a math formula. Right. So if you want to have a higher free testosterone, raise the total t above what you need to have a higher free t. And it works. There are things that can lower the s, h, b, g. But the benefit with the amount of work you have to do is not worth it. Just raise the total t and you'll get there. That's very, it seems like a very straightforward, easy answer. But people still really, really struggle. Yeah. And don't give fixated on the s, h, b, g. The numbers. How does she feel? How does she feel? That's the most important part. Everyone's like, well, my number is not high enough. So I must not feel good. So therefore, I don't feel good. That's why I never let them know their value first. I say, how do you feel? Right? They say, I feel better. It's basically every person has their own cut point. We all do. And I just have to get above your cut point to get you to feel better. And that's all doable. I know that I want to honor your time. So I know that we're running out of time. But are there certain common misconceptions that you would love to clear up? Whether it's through sexual health? Just anything in your domain that really needs to be stated. We talked about prostate cancer. We talked about cardiovascular disease. We talked about propisa, finast, right? These are all so meaningful. Are there any misconceptions? There's several. So first of all, we know now that testosterone does not cause prostate cancer. Right? For decades, we were taught that testosterone causes prostate cancer. That's been put to rest. Now we know that testosterone does not increase the risk of heart attack. With the reverse trauma. Finally, people say, if I take testosterone, I'm going to get a heart attack. So that's been a misconception. Those are two big things that I think people should know. I think that people should also know that E.D. is the first sign of heart attack. Huge. That's really important to you. If you look at that, something called arterial diameter theory, as I mentioned earlier, you will include the smallest arteries first. And so E.D. will precede cardiovascular disease in many cases. And so if a young man presents to you with E.D. and no other risk factors, I get concerned that's, I may have a cult cardiovascular disease. And if they have two risk factors, I will send them for cardiac evaluation. So just because the E.D. could be the first sign of further problem, particularly cardiovascular. That's a really important point. And you even mentioned about infertility and alcohol. I think people fail to recognize that. And then the impact of marijuana or other drugs. Yeah, they can. So people use these recreation, but they don't realize that they can have a significant impact. I've never seen a great study to say, how much marijuana do you have to smoke to have damage to the testicles? We do know that alcohol studies are typically 40 grams. So that tells you if I have more than three drinks, I'm going to start causing damage to my testicles, meaning that I can impair not only my sperm production, but my testosterone production as well. Right? So just careful in moderation if you're going to drink. But you know, these are all, quote, canata toxins just be very cognizant of the things that can cause damage to the testicular tissue. What are you working on now? Let me, refase that. What are you not working on? I'm kidding. But you are very prolific when it comes to publishing and exploring questions that are going to have a meaningful impact. What's on the horizon? So we have a lot. You know, I have a basic science lab and in the lab, I have some amazing people in the lab looking at something called the CIG repeat. So we're looking at something called the sensitivity of the antigen receptor. And we talked about this earlier. We found that those patients who have who come in and I raise their testosterone to 800 and they say, doctor, I still have symptoms. Maybe there's something genetic going on. Why they still have symptoms? If you check the CIG repeat, if it's long 2728, it explains that these patients may need more testosterone to get symptomatic improvements. We're looking very, very closely at that. We're still looking at shockwave therapy. I think that, you know, we didn't talk about treatments for ED, but some of the questions. Let's talk about it. Let's talk about it. Yeah, so my favorite way to treat ED is lifestyle modification. So let's be clear. I say, look, don't go for the pill. So for the diet exercise, sleep, and stress reduction. How fast will you see a change? You think our workout? It depends on how quickly someone is willing to put in the lifestyle modification changes, right? But we can see them over, of course, a six to 12 months. If patients want to commit, there was a wonderful by Esposito. She did a wonderful study, randomized control trial two years, lifestyle modification, or no lifestyle modification in 110 obese men, 55 in each arm. She followed them for two years. This was in JAMA. And with lifestyle modification and weight loss, they saw a significant increase in rectal function without pills. I mean, this is just, yeah, without pills. So I say, look, the best way to do this is to lifestyle modification, because it's not just your actions. Your overall health is going to improve. Unfortunately, most men say, just give me the pill. I say fine. But lifestyle modification makes a big difference. So the key is here that if you can do the lifestyle modification, most patients, if they stick with it, I see numerous other benefits as well. And then the shockwave therapy? Does that work? Shockwave therapy is what it is. So essentially, when I first saw this, this came out in 2010 by a gentleman named Dr. Vardy in Europe. And what he was doing was he was taking a device. It's a shockwave device, essentially, and shocking the penis. It's basically like a pulse, electrical pulse. The body showed was in those patients that got shockwave. They were seeing improvements in rectal function. Now, I'll be honest with you. When I first saw this, I thought it was ridiculous. It made no sense to me. But it's actually brilliant. Because what you're doing is you're tricking the body and you're inducing a trauma state. And when the body sees trauma, the body is an unbelievable healer, unbelievable healer. So you're telling the body, I have trauma in the penis. And what he showed in that study was that those patients who did the shockwave saw significant improvement in rectal function. And then there's been a boom in the experience. Absolutely. Everywhere you look, there's shockwave devices. And for women too. It had been also for women, for sexual dysfunction, for many causes. But for sexual dysfunction. And it makes sense. This actually came out in the cardiac literature before it came out in the neurological literature. That's the thing. Whether you shockwave on the heart and induce trauma and you get neolandiogenesis and blood vessels within the coronaries. So we use it now for, you know, for ED. But you have to be careful. There's different classes of drugs. There's class one, some class three, class one, do nothing. They're pneumatic. They don't do anything. But they make a click. And so patients here, and it's a big business. It's anywhere from 500 to $1,000 a treatment. And if you buy a class one drug, anyone can buy a machine, anyone can buy it. And so you have to be careful because they don't really do anything at all. And if you treat someone for six treatments and they pay six thousand, that's a very expensive expensive. And they placebo effect. Is it 30%, 30% to 40%. Is it really? Had you know that? Yeah, it's 30%, with this drug, thanks. So 30% to 40% of patients who get the class one, machine will say, I got the best directions. I've ever had my life. It's a placebo effect, right? But the class three, now ones are regulated. And those machines have been shown to have efficacy in improving sexual function. So using the right type of machine, these are called electromagnetic, electromagnetic, they're very good machines. And remember that not everyone sees improvement. So remember that a lot of patients will, I think mild to moderate, see the most improvement, but not everyone will because ED is a multifactorial. There could be a second genic cause. There will be a lot of other factors going on as well. But right now those are not covered by insurance. So it's a cash business. Do you think they're effective? I do think they're effective if you're using the right machine and the right patient. Right, right machine and the right patient. If you're losing a class the electrolytic, electromagnetic, if you have patients with mild to moderate, ED, they don't have significant fibrosis and scarring, then you have a better shot. But it's not necessarily correcting the underlying cause. I mean, again, there's it's a multifactorial, but it's improving the quality of the tissue. And that's really important because you're bringing in new blood vessels into that female tissue. Moving the cause. So basically the body is one of the best healers. If I cause any trauma to your body, your body can heal it. It's pretty clever, except when it's gone to the state of fibrosis. If the penalty is completely fibrodic, I can't get you from scar back to normal tissue. But if they have not fibrodic, you can actually reverse the ED process by using these. Now there's stem cells that have out there. We had the first stem cell trial in the United States for ED. Using a, this trial was though using FDA-proved machine. And we did find that there was some benefit in ED, but it wasn't sustained. It was only about six months. So unfortunately, there's not a randomized placebo control study with stem cells for ED yet. Yeah, that's that, because that's an easy study. Right, but there's not a randomized placebo. There's a lot of randomized placebo control trials for shockwave showing benefit. And the last one is PRP. The platelets is a third realm. There have been a few studies, so just in the maybe beneficial. A recent one out of the University of Miami showing no benefit at all. So again, be careful, because a lot of these treatments are a cash. And you just have to be very careful, because this is a very vulnerable population. Yeah. And they're willing to pay the money. So it just got to be careful. And I just thought about this as you were talking, does the penaltitial tissue to get you an acrophate? It does with non use for sure like any muscle. And so where do you see the most acrophie in men? Typically around 52 years of age. Why 52? That's odd number. It's because that's when women go through menopause. So as she goes through menopause and they stop engaging in sex activity, he will see more and more acrophie the penaltitial tissue. He'll develop something called venous leak. So now the blood will come out faster than it goes in. And so once you get venous leak, then it's harder to get an erection. So really important to keep the penaltitial tissue healthy as we get older. Do you think educating on this if you were to wave a magic wand? Do you feel like your contribution would be to educate on this much earlier? Absolutely, because as you stop using the penaltitial tissue, you can start developing fibrosis and scarring, which I cannot reverse. So you want to keep the tissue as healthy as long as possible. Maybe you're not having sex today. Maybe you're not. Maybe you will want to have sex in five years. And if you don't keep the penaltitial healthy today, you won't be able to have sex in five years. So it's really important to keep the tissue healthy. Yes. Well, that gave listeners a free pass to have lots of sex and they are very excited and hopefully have a great and willing partner. Dr. Mohit Kara, thank you so much. I encourage everybody listening to follow you. I will include all of the links you are doing extraordinary work. The world is so lucky to have you. Thank you.

And I was interviewing another Nobel laureate, a guy named Leon Letterman who ran the Ferming National Laboratory, and Leon told me that he liked to walk around the laboratory at night and talk to the graduate students because they hadn't learned how to lie at. And so this was a learning experience. And we ended up these researchers, they do the experiment, they gather the data, they interpret the data, they write a paper, the paper gets reviewed, they rewrite it, it gets published, and then we read the newspaper account, which makes it look like this sort of wider black thing, they discovered acts, or they didn't discover acts. And the truth is that even the people who discovered it, often can't decide among them whether or not they really discovered it. And the people who know the most about whether they might have discovered it, aren't the heads of the experiments. And the guys who in the Nobel Prizes, they're the technicians who actually built the equipment. And so it would say to me, like, my equipment can't do what they think it does. It's not good enough. Thank you to Timeline for sponsoring this episode of the show. Timeline nutrition is pioneering science. And in fact, they make one of my all-time favorite products. They make a product called MidoPear. And MidoPear is the first and only clinically tested uralithin''a. What is uralithin'a that you're asking? It is a post-biotic that our guts typically make. It's a metabolite. And actually 60 to 70% of people can't even make the appropriate amount of uralithin''a. Uralithin''a is important and works along some of the same pathways as exercise and calorie restriction. Essentially, it helps the MidoCondria turn over and induce my topology and improve the MidoCondria health. And why do you care about that? Because you care about your overall health and well-being and you care about muscle health. If you have not tried MidoPear, please go to timelineutrition.com slash doctor-line and you will get 10% off here order. That is timelineutrition.com slash doctor-line or use the code Dr. Lyon to get 10% off. Gary Tubs, you are an absolute legend and I'm so grateful that you are joining us and going to share your wisdom and your perspective. Certainly medical journalism and journalism in and of itself is an ancient art and one that is absolutely necessary. So thank you so much. Thank you for having me. Now you have a new book out. You've written many books. Yeah, the new book is Rethinking Diabetes and it's kind of, yeah, I have this problem and I write books which is I'm fascinated by how we came to believe what we believe and whether or not it's right. So I tend to take a historical perspective to go back and look at the evidence and then I get carried away and the result is a book like Rethinking Diabetes. Can't wait to hear what your next book is going to be on. The next book is just going to be a similar history of the obesity thinking and because the fundamental one, I mean if you were going to divide, say virtually everything we think about nutrition, all our concepts in nutrition are based on sort of three fundamental pillars. And the primary pillar is that we get fact as we eat too much and it seems intuitively obvious and it's kind of biologically naive and I've written about this in every one of my books. It's been at least a chapter if not a theme but it keeps getting ignored and it's back because to say that you don't get fact because you eat too much seems like too much to take on and I keep thinking if I write a book only about that and that history then reviewers and critics can't ignore it. They could ignore the book entirely which is a likely scenario but they can't ignore the arguments which is that when you go back and look at the history clearly obesity is caused by a sort of neural hormonal phenomena. Some people are predisposed to become obese, some people aren't and then the question is what triggers had predisposition but that'll be the next book and an ideal world is going to be about this concept of how we came to believe that obesity's caused by energy imbalance and the title I would love to give it is the biography of a very bad idea. My editors already rejected that but that's how I think of the title itself. You know you do have a very interesting history. Again medical journalism, health journalism is challenging in and of itself. Especially for an individual who is not professionally taught you are very from what I understand self taught in biochemistry and some of this literature is that is that true? Well when it comes to biochemistry I would say that I'm just not taught. Um, the my background, my background was in the hard sciences. I have a physics degree. That engineering degree from graduate school. I then decided I wanted to be a journalist. I got a journalism degree and became an investigative science reporter because As I started reporting about science I realized that there was a lot of bad science out there. Um, a lot of just like there's bad plumbers and bad doctors and bad lawyers and people you don't want to hire to do the job. They're supposed to do the world is full of bad science because science is so difficult. One way to think about is we've you you discover the easy stuff you always get the low hanging fruit and you're left with the hard stuff and hard stuff is hard because it's hard. So you need the exquisite skills and intellect and rigor and meticulous techniques and And like any profession most people don't have that level of talent and So a large proportion maybe even the great proportion of everything that's published is either irrelevant or wrong or misinterpreted or I mean Pick your problem. Um, so I Back in the mid-80s Trimble to think that I've been working that long but back in the mid-80s I had the opportunity to go off to Geneva Switzerland to the big physics lab called Surn So the biggest lab in the world and to follow what I had been told would be it The greatest breakthrough in physics in 40 years these people said that The guy who would win the Nobel Prize that year said I just had to turn on my accelerator get a little more data and now it down And I asked if I could Well today we would say be embedded with his collaboration You know I slept on a hot in a hostel on the laboratory I spent about 18 hours a day with the physics Physicists on the experiment and I watched them realize that they had screwed up and that there was no discovery And these very very very smart scientists had to deal with the fact that they had embarrassed themselves and not only have they embarrassed themselves They embarrassed themselves with the journalist present recording at all for post-airony So the book that I thought was going to be about a great breakthrough turned out to be about Sort of expose a about the politics and sociology of this very cutting edge high energy physics and I became obsessed with how hard it is to do science right and how easy it is to get the wrong answer And I've been doing that ever since it's just Physics has an advantage over Medicine and nutrition and public health and then you can actually Control your experiments. They experiment I was writing about costs I don't probably a couple hundred million dollars back then today the equivalent experiments cost Ten billion dollars to do when you have collaborations of five thousand Physicists and they're trying to figure out You know exactly what they're doing in these experiments and how I want to interpret them in medicine and public health We have none of that it's like dealing with people is Excruciating a difficult often it's unethical So you get these hypotheses and you can never really test them well and as a result Human nature sets in and people decide hypotheses are true anyway So it's like you have this idea like the very first big story I did a nutrition was it's about salt and blood pressure And this was the late 90s and like everyone else I thought if you ate a salt rich diet It would give you hypertension and so we're all eating low salt diets the food This bland beyond belief, but we choked it down and I Stumbled into the realization that there was actually very vitriolic controversy over whether or not Salt consumption sodium actually was the cause of hypertension and whether eating a low salt diet would do any good And I spent nine months doing an investigation for science on this one magazine article science was the journal The one of the two most prominent science journals in the world and um I interviewed 85 But before you tell us that I have to stop you because you didn't mention you did go to Harvard and then you went to Stanford and you studied physics No big deal But the switch to health How was that and why was it the switch out why from physics to then health was it that you were just simply sick of eating the bland food or There are moments The there was a moment so after I did this physics book so again I start off I moved to this laboratory I lived with these physicists for nine months I watched and realized how they had screwed up their interpretation of the experiment I learned a lot of lessons in the process like there are 150 physicists in this collaboration and then numerous technicians and And the collaboration I divided up into two groups the people who only interpreted the evidence that the equipment collected And the people would actually build the equipment and didn't trust it to do what the other group thought it could do And while I was doing that it's research I also traveled around the world to talk other physicists and I was interviewing That another Nobel laureate that got it in Leon Letterman who ran the Ferming National Laboratory And Leon told me that he liked to walk around the laboratory at night and talk to the graduate students because they hadn't learned how to lie at And so this was a learning experience and you know we again when we end up like these researchers They they they do the experiment they got the data they interpret the data they write a pipe or the paper gets reviewed They rewrite it it gets published and then we read the newspaper account Which makes it look like this sort of wider black thing they discovered Acts or they didn't discover acts and the truth is that even the people who discovered Often can't decide among them whether or not they really discovered it and The people who know the most about whether they might have discovered it aren't the heads of the experiments and the guys When they're Nobel prizes they're the technicians who actually built the equipment and Said would say to me like my equipment can't do what they think it does It's not good enough You know, so I became obsessed with this like I said after the book came out Okay, saw me young man. I'm the book and I'm just turning 30 years old the Living in New York it's a snowy day in February I Been told that the book is a right up on my book and page six of the New York post so New York post is the yellow journalism New York paper now. It's the very conservative slightly yellow journalism paper and page six was the gossip column And I've written a book about high energy physics and the headline is egghead swabble over Nobel prize And in the article this Nobel laureate I had actually gone to Stockholm with them when he won the Nobel prize read gotten fitted for Black tie and tails together something I'm sure he regrets to this day Anyway, he is quoted in the paper calling me an asshole I'm a 30 year journalist. I'm thinking I'm never gonna work in journalism again And what turns out is that is I go back to my job writing about other subjects and They tell people about this Nobel laureate and the physics fiasco I've written about May say oh well, if you think he's bad, you should write about something so And it turns out in every field of science every discipline has somebody who's gotten very far in the field by playing fast and loose with the facts You sort of got the mentality of a Hollywood movie producer and not a scientist And I started suddenly I had this career doing investigative science journalism And then when my second book was about this great scientific fiasco called cold fusion It was the fiasco of the sort of late 20th century Basically you put heavy water and a beaker with a platinum electrode and you turn it in and you plug it into the wall and you get fusion power and Complete ballocks is a British would say Anyway, that book was called bad science. I interviewed about 300 people for that one book I mean it was the great science right in the horse freedom of jutsom used to say that I had done more research for the stupidest scientific subject than anyone in history After I was done with that book I had a lot of fans in the physics community people who didn't like the no ballory at that I was exposing and my first book and They said if you are interested in bad science which was a title of the coke fusion book you should look at the shin Public health it's terrible and They had one particular subject in mind which was this idea that electromagnetic fields from power lines would cause Brain cancer leukemia now it's still kind of alive as the idea that you're self-untilled do it Put them you know in the wrong pocket you'll be sterile for life that kind of thing The listener wants to know is it true? No, I'm not as far as I could tell I mean The science is terrible and the physics Would say it's impossible if you believe physics which I tend to do good on the laws of physics So anyway, that was it. That was my shift. I wrote an article for the Atlantic about election magnetic fields in power lines And I had my first introduction to the field of observation or epidemiology So that's the field where you You know find people who are like people we'd a lot of meet for instance and you compare them to people who don't need a lot of meat You see who's got more disease and who dies earlier I was stunned at how sloppy the science was so from the first Seven years or so of studying bad science I had all these brilliant experimentalists really really smart talented Men and women teaching me about how meticulous and rigorous and critical and skeptic you have to be because otherwise you'll fool yourself And embarrass yourself and then I wanted to just feel it about epidemiology where they said oh well We don't we can't really It's just too much for luxury we can't be meticulous and we can't be rigorous so we're not going to be skeptical And we're just going to assume we're not fooling ourselves. I'm just kind of stunned By the scrambleations I wrote the an article for the journal science unhappened the analogy that that was Sort of infamous at the time. I was I didn't realize it but I was among For the 1990s I became the leading critic of this field of observation of epidemiology there had been another fellow in the 1980s Since 2000s John I in 80s it stand for it has been that person And then I stumbled into diet but by this point I was comfortable working with the tools of Nutritional science I knew what it took to it Cheve a reliable result in an experiment. I knew how carefully it had to be I've seen how easy it was to screw up effortless By this point I was used to talking to the graduate students Because I figured they wouldn't lie to me so if I would do a story about a Some quote discovery I would interview everyone not just the Investigator who's the last name on the paper the first name on the paper but all the people in between and if there were technicians who were Think I would try to get the technicians on the phone to see what they thought so this was just It was time consuming and but did and it gets you in trouble too That's the other you don't make friends You're probably less probably less in trouble now because what's so shocking as a as a physician who did clinical research and was in practice and is in practice We still rely so heavily on epidemiology as if it is somehow the Result you know that it's proving something rather than it potentially being just a hypothesis and really low quality data You must be shocked I am It's not so much fun. I'm shocked Thank you to thesis for sponsoring this episode of the show I will never recommend something that I don't use or take myself thesis is a Neutropic company and what's a Neutropic nitrobex are Compounds typically found in nature that really help Individuals with things like clarity mood energy This is exactly why I use thesis I use a whole bunch of different Formulas but clarity is the one that I am on to lately and in clarity It comes in one little packet there is lions main mushroom Alpha GPC caffeine Outfining all things that are clinically tested to help improve Clarity and cognition head over to take thesis dot com slash a doctor lion and there will be a quiz for you to take in which they will curate Your very own custom box that's take thesis dot com slash doctor lion They have compiled thousands and thousands of data points so that you will get your perfect match The it has there was a period of which I mean this is a field that is constantly challenged Consumely accused by influential researchers of being as you put not just low quality data But very low quality data and yet it is guaranteed to show up in the newspapers Whenever somebody does it I mean I was just reading an article today in the Wall Street Journal about the benefits of exercise for Maybe it was a pancreatic cancer story So you take people you get 6,000 people and you follow them for 10 years I think seven years and you look at see which ones get in better shape in which ones again were shape Over the seven years and then you see how that affects pancreatic cancer risk or colon cancer colon cancer And you find out that the people got better shape have a 35% lower risk of colon cancer Their mortality is the same and they died at the same rate and at the same times but they had less colon cancer So the report of roadered off this might have been in New York times is though this study showed that Exercise getting in better shape what we're doing to risk of colon cancer which is not what it showed What it showed is that people who get in better shape Have a lower risk of colon cancer but then you'd love for this idea that maybe the people who gotten better shape over those seven years were different Then the people who got in more shape So they might have been healthier to begin with That's they might have been more health conscious to begin There's a lot of reasons why people would get in better shape why they would work out and the reason you do randomized control trials Reason that's high quality evidence is because you take all those possible different reasons and you randomize them such that The people who you're now gonna tell to work out the people aren't gonna be told to work out you could assume are identical Without randomization you can't do it So this study that was written on the New York Times the Wall Street Journal whatever was is simply incorrect and it's interpretation And nobody pointed this out to the journalist and the journalist is very well accomplished had no A parent knowledge that people like me had ever been criticizing this kind of interpretation of the evidence So it's in some ways it's getting worse because the longer we go without the good clinical trials The good experiments the more people everyone involved is willing to accept this low quality data How do you think that this colors societies view on health and wellness? Most of what we believe is based on These epidemiologic surveys because as I'm always writing and my colleague me and a title says writing and others When you actually do the experiments we can never confirm these hypotheses But most of what we believe about a healthy diet about the need and again I'm like you I'm a physical activity not I go crazy if I don't get to work out every day It's I you know makes me feel better. I have no idea if it's gonna make me look longer Well, if you have muscle you might I would like to think so but I also have Yeah, I mean again, I was a football player when I was younger I had a brief ill-conceived amateur boxing career and so most of my physical ailments today are the results of physical exercise You could argue that they were the wrong physical activities to do or not physical activities. I'm letting my kids do But yeah, that was But it when you're 21 23 25 years old that's stuff for a man You don't care how long you're gonna live when you're that you know because you feel like you're immortal You don't care if you're gonna be able to remember your cat's name when you're 67 Because you don't have a cat when you're 23 it's sort of um that's right So these are there any recent studies or Developments in the field of nutrition that have really caught your eye lately and I do want to talk about your book because I really have to Commend you one of the things that I absolutely love about your work is it challenges everything and humans are funny If we hear something repeated over and over again we believe it as truth Even if it's not it's just the repetition somehow Makes it true to us and maybe it's the familiarity or that nobody questions the model You know it seems like every day there's a new Epidemiology study coming about how red meat is bad for us, etc. etc. These things always peak my interest and I'm curious if there's any recent studies or developments that have peaked your interest well You know obesity drugs, but that wasn't the My assumption In general is Let me give you the context so again when I was doing the work I was doing in the late 80s and through the 90s I had to learn A lot about science and the philosophy of science and the history of science to understand whether I was crazy or not Right because I'm so critical and skeptical what's being done from and When you start reading this sociology of science and history of science you realize that it like I said it the accepted wisdom is that the great bulk of everything that's done is meaningless and today It almost has to be meaningless because for instance you know we have tens of thousands of Medical journals Many of them have to pay people or people have to pay to submit articles on every Professor who's got graduate students who are going to become PhDs or MDs have to get papers published for those students so they can get their degrees The amount of noise generated is enormous Yeah, and so the question is and the problem is You know the way the news is works and I've written about this in the past newspaper reporters is supposed to report about the news and the news is what just happened So they're reporting the front edge of scientific research the sort of the noise is going up and down It's like if you've ever looked at the Wall Street Journal and they tell you that that day You know the stock market has gone up 0.32 percent and it's because and they always give you a reason if it's gone up it's because interest rates are down or they have really no idea Why it's gone up to them because it's just fluctuating but that's what they have to say every day and you see the same phenomenon on science So and one of my favorite quotes of this effect was an Australian former physicist turned philosopher of science named Zeman who said Physics the science in the textbooks is 95 percent wrong and the science there 90 percent is wrong and the science in the The textbooks the science in the journals is 90 percent wrong the science in the textbooks is 90 percent right and the job of the Sciences to find the right stuff that's being published and then figure out that it's really right and then Eventually it shows up in the textbooks maybe 10 or 20 years later but in the meantime It's been in the newspaper as a reporter over and over again. So in general I tend not to believe to take Pay much attention to anything and the recent news other than to be horrified by how it's being reported was such a certain day. The You know as you know I'm a proponent I have come through my research to be a strong proponent of carbohydrate restricted diets So and do you see more and more clinical trials every day Reporting on those and there's some very interesting findings that particularly the field of metabolic psychiatry which is brand new where there's you know anecdotal and small clinical trial evidence that ketogenic diets have been from markable efficacy for some pretty awful cognitive disorders like bipolar disease but I remain skeptical As is your nature? This is my nature. Yeah. As is your nature until it is true. And then, but until it's just hard to figure out why you should continue to remain skeptical But even with my skepticism I could say to people as I do in my books look Here's a guy who was living on the street one of the The funding in this field of metabolic psychiatry comes from the bazooki family in California because their son was by-polar and suffered from bipolar and schizophrenia and was homeless and in the now the prisons. I mean, this was a kid who was I think it was at Stanford when he dropped out and was so burdened by this disease that he couldn't function and then eventually he was on 20, 30 different drugs and eventually they got him home and transitioned him to a ketogenic diet and since then he's had a somewhat remarkable recovery. You can't swear that the diet did it. Maybe there's a coincidence maybe whatever covered anyway or if he had gone vegan I would have worked you don't know. But you can say to people look it worked for him. Let's work for Matt Bazooki. Maybe it will work for you. Give it a try. Is there anything that you feel as if you know and I say that cautiously because you're always challenging what you're thinking and what you're doing? I know you love exercise but you know you've been in journalism gosh for how many decades now at least. We'll keep it at least too many and I am curious is to are there a handful of things that you believe to be true or at least undeniable and has your thinking evolved since your earlier works. So you know you've had good calories bad calories why we get fat the case against sugar the case for keto and now rethinking diabetes. I'm just waiting for your case for muscle. I'm hoping that that's your next book but um is there something that's evolved since your earlier works or you consider a new research finding and debate in the field or something that has changed your personal perspective? Well okay so let's it's because before I did the research I was the follower of the conventional wisdom. Okay as many of us were so this was a 1990s I lived on a very low fat diet. I'm guessing it was probably less than 20% fat. Like God forbid I should have read the skin of a chicken. Um the uh I believe the conventional wisdom. I believe that we got fat because we took in more calories and we expand. I believe that heart disease was caused by eating too much saturated fat that if I read meat I'd get colon cancer my mother had told me them the 60s. So the more and more research I did all of that changed. Now the very first book I wrote good calories bad calories was 45 years of work. Four years of research and interspersed with two years of writing. Um it was in that research I delved into virtually every subject I've written about since then. So that was sort of the beginning of everything I was doing so there was there were no claims I mean it book is right with there or so I hit to admit it. My estimate is that in this 500 pages and another 150 pages of foot notes and bibliography there's probably 200 from very minor to some very embarrassing mistakes. Errors that I should not have made. Um and um. Very scary. I have to stop you. You know every writer feels that way. I would like to think so. An occasion every writer feels that way cringes when they read their book yeah including myself so. Well this is it if you were going to ask me which book I like. Well yeah. I'm asking you which book do you wait wait hold on you're not off the hook. Each book must have taken you how long did each book take you? Well good calories bad calories was five years but plus the two years previous in which I was doing the research on salt and dietary fat for science investigations. So arguably the better part of seven years um the why we get fat was written specifically as I say in the introduction to be a easily digestible aka readable version of good calories bad calories because so many people had written me saying this book had changed my life would you now please write one that like my husband could read or my father could read or my doctor could read. I had doctors writing me saying this book changed my life could please write one that's my patience could read because they're not going to get through this. So why we get fat was relatively easy um maybe a year of writing there wasn't a lot of new research on it. If the sugar book was um probably well again that was research that was done from sort of 2008 on word but maybe in total three years of work um the case for keto was a book I probably could have written without any research at all but that concept made me very nervous. I'm that I've been reviewing 120 odd physicians and another 20 or so dietitians and nutritions and chiropractors who had sort of shifted to my way of thinking so I could benefit from how they thought about it because they were doctors like you know they did treat patients and so they would have a different than in many ways of better perspective so that was probably a year and a half to two years total and then the diabetes book was another three years but again always built on as I say in the diabetes book I'm unpacking subjects that I might have touched on in a single paragraph and good calories bad calories but this or before dance or treatment. The cool thing about the diabetes book well all of this work you're the advantage I had of anyone who came so the people were challenging conventional wisdom before me were just died they were basically physicians who were trying to get their patients to lose weight and they weren't making any progress with the conventional wisdom and then stumbled on carbohydrate restriction or atkins or protein power sugar busters whatever you want to call and and realize that that worked for their patients and it worked usually for them so they wrote diet books um I was the first journalist to really delve into it and I came along at a time where the internet made it possible to find virtually all of the relevant literature so back between when I was doing good calories bad calories 2002 to 2007 I had um they she undergraduates that I had hired in New York and Boston and Los Angeles and their jobs were basically to get an email for me with 50 references I needed and then they would go to their local medical school and they'd have to you know get the pull the books and zero oxid and then they'd send me a box with however many of the 50 references they could get and I had filing cabinets and I kept filing new filing cabinets and um so I was able to do in five years what would have taken 30 or 40 years previously because it would have required me sitting in medical school libraries with my stack of quarters or my you know card I had bought and now I could get all of that in five years today you can download it all. Thank you to element for sponsoring this episode of the show it's spelled LM and T and it's pronounced element. I've been using element for a handful of years it really helps me maintain hydration especially when I'm traveling and also embarrassingly so I don't get dry mouth before any kind of speaking engagement I love my element and I also put it in my iced tea. It contains a science backed a electrolyte ratio that's a thousand milligrams of sodium 200 milligrams of potassium and 60 milligrams of magnesium and here's the thing. Let's say you don't feel dehydrated maybe it's subtle maybe you have a headache or you're getting muscle cramps to other reasons why element could be very valuable for you. Right now element is offering my listeners a free sample pack with any purchase that's eat single serving packets free with any element order it's a great way to try all a flavors go to drink lmnt.com slash doctor lion that's drink element dot com slash a doctor lion you will get a no questions asked refund if you don't like it so it's totally risk free. Well you found some things that I was very surprised at and I think is often difficult to find just diving into some of the content of your rethinking diabetes you talk a lot about the history the history of how diabetes was treated the first person that was given insulin this farmer and then just getting the historical perspective I think can be challenging but I would love for you you know to just help us understand a little bit of the history you talk also about um this letters to rollo and this idea of this animal based diet that was seen by patients and you know just things that are probably at that time very unusual so if you have a moment I would love a little quick history lesson that again people should certainly pick up your book and read it because it's extraordinarily well written but there's some interesting historical perspectives in here yeah so I mean the question one question why would you do this today 2024 why bother with the history and so I'm trying to answer I have a bias going into this right because already I'm pretty convinced that that ketogenic diets are can put type 2 diabetes into remission so that's a pretty remarkable observation that's not getting enough attention by the medical community so that that's my bias going in but simultaneously you want to understand like certain points in time when things happen so friends in 1971 the American nutrition the American diabetes association puts out their first dietary guidelines and they recommend that patients with diabetes get more than half of their calories from the one map or nutrient carbohydrates so they can metabolize safely without pharmaceutical health so they can need protein to some extent they can eat all the fat they want and they'll be fine but as soon as they take eat carbs they have to take drugs and I don't actually think the American diabetes association was trying to sell drug but I want to understand what their mentality was and so you have to look at the data they cite and then go back in time so you pull those references so I'll cite this study and that study and you pull those references and those references may or may not support with the ADA saying but those references also have references and they're so you just keep going back and back and time through these references and eventually you get to 1797 which is crazy which was a very first successful the very first time of physician successfully treated a case of diabetes so back in the 19th and much of the 20th century the 19th century in the 18th century when diabetes would only appear when people were very far along in the disease state so you know today we're going to diagnose it based on your hemoglobin A1C or your blood sugar level and you may have zero symptoms but they didn't do that prior to the 1970s so do you either get a diagnosed when you went to the doctor and they did a urine test and so you had sugar in your urine or you were manifesting the symptoms of the disease or hungrile the time your thirst you all the time you're losing weight you might be emaciated you might be you know weak and unable to actually walk and then you'd shop in the doctors and this British army colonel Meredith shows up to see this British army doctor John Rallow and Rallow decides that their sugar in the urine may be Meredith this is the only the second case of diabetes he's seen in 20 years the disease was that rare so it decides maybe Meredith can metabolize the carbohydrates in the diet he just thinks him is the plant food that he's eating so he puts him on a non-plan food diet they called it the animal diet back when Rallow did it was fatty rancid meat blood sugar I got it just disgusting disgusting but Meredith got better and as long as he stopped to the diet he stayed better so Rallow right up Meredith's case he also treats another a general who also gets better on the diet by that time he had dropped the rancid meat and was just gone through fatty meat so no starch is no brains no sugars very little alcohol basically a ketogenic diet although they're not calling it that and Rallow writes up his case study and he distributes to this pamphlet to physicians throughout the United Kingdom and nowadays thanks to Google books you can get the pamphlet you don't have to take anyone else's word for you could download it and read it and they did multiple additions because when he distributory said look this diet seems to do wonders for diabetes we never thought this was curable before can you try it on your patients it's like beta testing and tell me what happened right me back and let me know what happens and a couple dozen physicians from around the UK right and back and for the most part people stick to the diet the diabetes gets better or goes into remission and Rallow publishes subsequent additions that you can download from Google books reporting on what these doctors said and then through the 19th century this becomes what we would call today the standard of care so diabetes is still a very rare disease the physicians are kind of aware there's two different types there's a acute kind that tends to hit children what we would call type one today that kills quickly by the time their diagnosis that's pretty much a death sentence and then there's the chronic form that dissociates with age and obesity what we would call type two that could be put into remission by this animal diet and the type one could be slowed down it kids would still die pretty quickly but they would die slower if they did meet carbohydrates and when I say standard of care every major diabetes specialist in the US and Europe and again there's only a half dozen of them when they're writing about this this is a diet they're telling their patients to be honest you know like a British Frederick Pobby the leading British diabetes specialist says you know he gets his patients on these diets after a month or two they like eating this way better than they did anything else and they could healthy this Italian and Contani used a lock his patients up for three however long it took to make sure they didn't eat any you know fruits bread, grains, starches and only this fatty meat and green vegetables a Frenchman you know being French had a said look you could cook the green vegetables in butter and it makes everything much more palatable the Germans were by and and by the end of the 19th century because they're often dealing with patients with type one and not differentiating they got these kids coming in or amaciated you want to fatten them up right that was the assumption we want to put weight back on these people so that they'll have more strength and health so we should give them as much calories as possible and we can give them carbs and by 18, 60s they know that some 60% of the amino acids and protein gets converted to glucose so the body needs doesn't respond well to that with diabetes so let's give them as much fat as possible and now they're putting their patients on basically they're eating butter and heavy cream and it's you know it's atkins to the end of the gray and the patients are for the most part thriving not the type one patients but the type two and then skipping one period where they decide starvation is the best way to go thanks to a misconceived Harvard doctor and by the way the reason I don't mention my Harvard degree and my Stanford degree in the is because when you spend your whole life saying don't listen to authority figures yeah I don't want to try and convince anyone that I know what I'm talking about because I went to Harvard or Stanford right and sort of especially when I know what bad science they've done in both those. Can you? Is it putting you on the spot to mention that because with that people I mean I'm sure that you've spoken about it but quite frankly I'm often surprised by certain pieces of literature that come out of the Ivy League just absolutely floored. The Harvard School of Public Health and this is an issue we could get into because it's right in the meat versus plant the bait. The Harvard School of Public Health pioneered the field of nutritional epidemiology prior to the nurse's health study at Harvard which was started as a test of oral contraceptives and cancer and then was transitioned by this guy Walter Willard into an nutritional study nobody had written on that title. In his literature and I have seen him speak often. You know he's an interesting character. We are weirdly to his credit. We've co-authored articles together even though I had a front page New York Times magazine that covers story that criticized his works specifically but anyway the point is they sort of pioneered the science of nutritional epidemiology and you know you and I know that what these studies do is identify associations between foods and diseases but the associations are only can only generate hypotheses but the reason they do those studies is because they want to establish the cause so they want them to imply causeality and the longer the studies go and the more they built their career on this the more they feel confident because they've been telling people the same thing for decades so people have started to believe it they believe it's true and then they kind of in their whole career gets invested in this one type of experiment the non-experimental and non-experiment as opposed to taking the epidemiology, taking the hypothesis and testing it against a randomized control trial. Exactly and but the problem is when they've done that the randomized control trials very rarely support their hypothesis so then they have to decide it's you get trapped you can just as you can get trapped into belief system you can get trapped into a sort of experimental methodology or a scientific methodology then is that why not interrupt you but is that what you mean by pathological science pathological science so that term coined by another Nobel laureate chemist named Irving Langmere is the science of things that aren't so and one of the themes there always I mean it means that you're misinterpreting something you say so you're seeing something that has a mundane explanation and you're assuming and then disseminating the the idea that you've discovered something novel and interesting about the universe and it's always based on ultimately misinterpretation of what your scientific method technique can do I mean it's funny one and this is where my history comes and when I was writing about the high-end physics and living at Sarn the physics lab so they have this Adam smasher which is this huge ring that circulates in that case protons and anti-proteons and then smashes them together at certain points on the ring and at those points where they collide you build these they're called detectors but they're like mansion size cameras and so these particles collide and they throw out the shower of debris and these detectors capture the debris so what kind of particles came out how fast were they going what was their momentum in this direction in that direction ideally you see everything that's like you imagine smashing cars together and then having a box around the cars it's as well the part of a fender went off here and a part of the light went off there and the body part went this way and the body part weighed seven pounds and the fender weighed 2.3 pounds um you got to know if what you detect or is telling you is what's really happening so you have to be able to calibrate your equipment that's like rule number one that no bellory at I wrote about who was a brilliant guy even as he got so many things wrong you used to say you got to know if you said it at zero are you really seeing zero or are you it's like you get on a scale right in the morning and you're way four pounds more than you thought you did to the first thing you do is you you calibrate the scale you do get off the scale and you see if it reads zero when you're not standing on it and if it doesn't then you would just a little knob or whatever the electronic scales have and then you get back on and hope that your four pounds are going to go away but they're absolutely crucial thing is knowing that when you're not on it it's showing zero because if it's showing something in nutritional epidemiology the detectors are these cohorts of people so 130,000 nurses and the nurses health study 30,000 of them get diet surveys and every year or two years or four years you have them so out the surveys about what they're eating and then you get their medical reports about their disease states and then you're doing these associations but the idea is thank you to inside tracker for sponsoring this episode of the show blood work is important guys we can exercise eat right but you gotta know if you're being effective and this is why I love inside tracker inside tracker allows you to get data on a whole host of individual biomarkers from your blood it provides a personalized plan to improve your metabolism improve sleep it is also created by leading scientists in aging genetics biometrics it analyzes your blood DNA and fitness tracking data not too shabby if you ask me here is the thing again you're doing all the things right but you do need to take the time to get your blood worked on and analyze what is going on inside also inside tracker is offering inside tracker pro which enables coaches and health professionals to provide premium and personalized services by leveraging inside trackers analysis and recommendations with their clients so please go to inside tracker.com slash doctor lion that's inside tracker.com slash doctor lion for 20% off. How do you calibrate that detector so the nurses and the surveys and it's all this the equivalent of the physics detector looking at the collisions and how do you know if you said it is zero that it's really zero and they can't do that they've never been able to do it there's no way to do it that's why you do randomized control trials because then you could take all these other possible explanations for why when you step on the scale it shows or when you're not on the scale it shows a pound get rid of all that so anyway getting back to Harvard the Harvard people just that was their career that was they made them famous that's how wide water will it is the most highly cited scientist in nutrition it's why you become head of your department and you get awards and you speak everywhere and it's why we're so familiar with them but if it's built on a fundamental misconception about what is the detector can do he's what does he do about that knowledge you know how many of us can say you asked earlier if I change my opinion let's say I was definitively wrong and I could tell you about the thing I believe and I often he because I say I'll never change my mind on this people say well that proves how it's his bias and I would say proves how it's honest which is the most important thing because all of us are biased anyway the the you invest your whole life on this and then it turns out to be you were wrong not only we wrong everything you wrote it's meaningless that's the implication if that were the case then I'm just hoping an individual would course correct that you can build your career on something but there it seems as if to now begin to do randomized control trial say for example not right an Ivy League group believed that the plant based diet was going to move health and wellness forward then they would do a randomized control trial yes it would be very expensive but maybe we choose a handful of health markers that are meaningful and we execute on that and so then that way there would be proof of a hypothesis or at least even if the study isn't highly powered maybe it's a small study at least it begins to prove a concept or un-proved a concept and yeah that's what I argue and that's why I co-founded Lucy with my former buddy Peter Ritea but there is you know these people they're not clinical trialists so that's a different skill and there there are epidemiologists so that that's one problem they don't do these kind of studies they should certainly argue for them to be done but as I said never case where they have been done and when they did this in the past the studies failed to confirm they hypothesists generated by their associations so they were stuck in this position do we believe the studies or do we believe what we've been doing our whole lives and like most people they decided to believe that what they were doing their whole lives is right and so these studies can't be trusted and there are reasons always to distrust as I said in the beginning most of what was done in science is wrong so maybe these studies were wrong so it's just it's this terrible place to be and I feel for them my first book Bad Science about cold fusion and these two professors at the university of Utah who claim this remarkable discovery and they destroyed their lives and we're saying they could ever happen to them and then the rest of their lives they had to pretend that they believed it because there was only way they could save what they thought of as their dignity the reality is a scientist you should be able to say look I was wrong I admitted but when it's your whole life well I don't know so I don't know if you know this but my long time mentor is Dr. Donald Laman I don't know if you knew that but he's trained me okay so he's he of course knows you he trained me for 20 years my recent book is dedicated to him from all of the things that he has taught me and continues to teach me and he will always say that there has to be intellectual integrity to the the the best of an individual's capacity and there are many studies that he has done where he said well this just doesn't show what we were hoping it was going to show but that doesn't mean that it was ignored he's pretty strict on that and you know just looking at the history of your your book it seems as if there's been so many ups and downs where there was a lot of evidence for what looks like a carbohydrate restricted diet but that was often ignored you know I would love to ask you is there a turning point in history that from writing this book from this historical perspective that you think perhaps we could have gone a different short a different way maybe it was the the next iteration of the dietary guidelines is was there a turning point that you you feel like because of the injection of either researchers or funding or politics that we went the wrong way well there were a lot of turning points I used to joke that could never write this but for instance it the obesity epidemic was caused by Hitler because the German Austrian research community had come to believe that obesity was not an energy balance problem it was a constitutional sort of neural hormonal disorder so people are born pre-disposed to come obese and they don't get that way just by eating too much or exercise into little and then in 1930 this American guy named Louis Newbar from the University of Michigan came along it said oh no no I proved it's all about eating too much here is my six studies and he said it definitively and dogmaticly and by that time the German and Austrian community was already beginning to evaporate under the emergence of the Nazi party and with the second world war that evaporated completely and the German language medical literature which had been German had been the lingua franca of medical science until World War II if you wanted to do cutting-edge medical science you had to be able to read German and ideally you spoke German and you had gone to Germany or Austria to work with these great scientists and their institutions which we had none of those in the United States oh a couple of them anyway so this whole idea of obesity is a constitutional disorder and people are pre-ordained to put just like an elephant is pre-ordained to be fatter than a giraffe some humans are pre-ordained to put on excess body fat and there may be very little they can do about it but if you believe that obesity is caused by eating too much you tell them to eat less and exercise or you say that diet that works is the one that gets them to eat less and then you give them the wrong advice and you go from there so it's sort of that if that had never happened World War II had never happened if the Nazis had not emerged then many of these researchers were Jewish so they were you know either had to stop researching or they came to the US where they got like minor positions because nobody wanted to deal with these Jewish academics unless they were physicists and could help them build a bomb if that hadn't happened that's the first place it goes around the second place and wait before before you continue I want to read a passage from your book because I really loved what you said and basically what he had said was all obesity is simple obesity and he talks about how I just had it here it was so good it was basically something like emotional intolerance perverted appetite he called it and so not by a constitutional or endocrine disorder there is no specific metabolic abnormality in obesity yeah no it's um I mean that's what people wanted here basically we all had this we had a preconception of what makes people fat doctors had it researchers had it's like all it takes is to see one character like Shakespeare's fall staff sitting in a restaurant eating a lot of food and you know that he got fat because he ate so much food and we don't tend to think our brains don't tend to reverse causality very easily we don't think well maybe he's eating that much and he's that hungry because his body is trying to get fat we just see the the obvious so and yeah this one guy knew Burke basically and what's fascinating and this is going to be in the next book and it's probably going to bore people senseless but um as you watch the 20s and 30s is it progresses and like you say now if you get virtually every study published from both German and English and I could use chat GPT God love it to translate the German I mean it's crazy what we have access to now in 2024 and you could see how people were influenced not just by new works work but by their misinterpretation of earlier work or the for instance the addition they cited of a particular textbooks and one of the most influential people in this field was a German pediatrician named held a brock who did these studies of obese kids in their families famous studies and she interpreted what she saw as these kids getting fat because their parents are overfeeding their mothers are overprotective and overfeeding them and she knew there was an alternative way to think about it the kids are pre-ordained to get fat and that it screwed up the mothers couldn't stop it so that screwed up their relationship and how the mothers treated the children and she wrote about that but then she cited these papers his textbook chapter saying that obesity's caused by eating too much and that was at 1926 German textbooks she probably brought it with her when she fled Germany in 1933 and moved first to Boston and then to New York but there was a new addition of the textbook might have been available only in Germany that had completely switched from eating too much to constitutional hormonal disorder who had that newer addition which was already eight years old she interprets her data differently she interprets her data differently everyone who comes after interprets their data differently it was all based on her and this guy Newberg and then the first guy to write about these animal experiments it was like crazy so this kind of brings me sorry sorry to interruptors a little bit of the delay it it makes me wonder clearly there is dynamic personalities and historically dynamic personalities that make bold claims that then generate whether it's standard of care or lack of standard of care what challenges I guess this is a two part to the question what challenges are barriers do you anticipate and reshaping the narrative around this diabetic parameda or narrative because clearly from your book you believe and there is evidence for carbohydrate restriction so number one what barriers do you think we're up against and number two for the healthcare providers for the professionals for the individuals who are just lay public listening to this how can they contribute to this paradigm shift I think I'm buying my book and give it to their doctors not that they shouldn't read it themselves but it's like I said it's more a medical history than it is certainly not a self-help book the um okay so let me give you go mad it's a bad habit I am gonna give it a little bit of history again just there two ways so until 1921 with the discovery of insulin the only lever that physicians could pull with their patients to control their blood sugar with dietary you want to key and they didn't measure blood sugar but you want to keep them healthy tell them look you can't metabolize these foods don't eat them and if you don't eat them you will manifest symptoms of the disease and you'll be relatively fine and then you get a drug therapy insulin it's as extraordinarily powerful drug it's so powerful the lowers blood sugar so easily that now you have to tell people to start eating carbohydrates to protect them from the drug therapy which will kill them otherwise so they call it insulin shock or insulin overdose which was basically hypoglycemic episodes low blood sugar that could kill people so beginning in 1921 you start you take the one food that they you would tell people not to eat and now you tell them they have to eat it and doctors find out that the more and more they eat it the more they could give them more and more insulin and they'll be kind of happy or and I have no idea the long term risk of benefits but in the short term particularly with kids if you let them eat whatever they want give them the drug so since 1922 that's basically been our philosophy use drug therapy to control the disease symptoms and pay lip service to diet and the alternative has always been look this is a disorder where you cannot metabolize carbohydrates that you're consuming without drug therapy if you don't eat the carbs you don't need the drug therapy okay pretty simple concept the way was phrased to me I was in capsid it was interviewing myself this chef turned journalist um in transcaced he interviewed me first about my sugar book and then he said by the way type one diabetes myself and I said oh well I'm doing a book on diabetes I would like to interview you for that so I did yeah so he described he's when he was diagnosed in 2017 he was 36 years old and when you diagnose particularly with type one diabetes suddenly you're like thrust into disease land like you may never have thought about this is easing your life and less some relative or friend had it now you've got to learn everything about it as fast as you can and you have no preconceptions so his doctor explains whom look you know you don't make enough insulin your pink race is going to run out of insulin and you need the insulin to metabolize these carbohydrates without him your blood sugar will be too high and you have all these chronic complications so we wanted to continue eating the carbohydrates but you can eat you know and measure the amount that every meal and snack and then we can dose the insulin to that and yeah and then we're going to get a diabetes educator teach you all about this and he says to the doctor wait a minute what you're telling me is that because of this disease carbohydrates are not toxic to me and in someone as he antidote and you want me to eat the toxin and take the antidote why don't I just not eat the toxin and the doctor is like stunned by this he's never thought about that and then he starts giving all kinds of morale that's really hard to do you're never going to be able to keep it up nobody complies but that's always been this sort of alternative therapy this is a disorder that only manifests itself in response to the carbohydrates in the diet we don't need the carbohydrates we know from the last 20 years a clinical trials and not eating them is safe it's not the healthiest way to eat depending on how you want to interpret those trials and we now know that if patients with type 2 diabetes don't eat the carbohydrates they will most of them will go into remission and not need drugs so why don't we at least tell patients that that's a viable option and in order to do that we need the doctor's to understand that so that's gets back to your question the challenge and the reason I wrote this book is to get the physicians and the diabetes educators and the diabetes associations to rethink the type of rethinking diabetes they look a lot of people are just going to want drugs we all love a good drug you know but if given the choice between being on you think okay I'm going to start with one drug with the other message you get is this is a chronic progressive disease it's going to get worse so people start with one drug which used to be called monotherapy and 10 years are going to be on two or three drugs if their blood pressure goes up they're going to be on blood pressure lowering drugs if their LDL goes up or even if it doesn't they're going to be on statins they've gained weight they're going to be NGOP1 and Hagenus they're a lot of people and they all these drugs have side effects and complications you know so maybe some people just want to do the naughty the carbohydrate thing which means they're basically on a ketogenic diet or a carnivore diet or you know you can do it as a vegan diet a difficult and being healthy is a better option than slowing the progression of the disease and if I can get the physician community to understand that then they have to do their homework they have to go down the rabbit hole and understand these diets and now there's you know a gazillion books people are written them that'll help them understand that and then when they're next patient is diagnosed they could say we have these two options it conventional way the ADA way is well hopefully the ADA we say you know we're going to give you this drug and we're going to ask you to control your carbon take and this other option is you're going to do this keto thing not eat the carbs and you're probably lose 50 pounds and be feel better and we won't ever have we may never have to go to drug therapy and then let the patients decide but the doctors have to be able to give them informed advice I'd like to take a moment and thank one of the sponsors of the show first form if you are not eating your fruits and vegetables then you should definitely try opti greens 50 opti greens 50 is packed with 50 hand chosen ingredients to help support gut health it is a blend of natural fruits and vegetables and grasses to maximize the nutrients you get in every scoop some people don't like to eat a bunch of fruits and vegetables even though there is a lot of data out there that having fruits and vegetables in your diet can be very beneficial opti greens 50 includes a low temperature process 100% organic grasses non GMO non synthetic botanical superfoods I hate to use that term but it's as close as you're going to get if I don't nutrients digestive enzymes post biotic probiotic opti greens 50 blend is amazing you can get yours please go to first form dot com slash doctor lion that's first form dot com slash doctor lion and that's tough because again just the nature of medical care is not I say it's not treatment based but it's not it's not root cause based I guess it's a it's a better way to put it it's there's an issue what's a fastest way to treatment in an ideal world what you would like to see is and I'm just putting words in your mouth is that you would see a carbohydrate restricted diet and you said there's many ways to make it work whether it's keto carnivore vegan if they could do it with low carbohydrate which seems pretty challenging but in an ideal world this would be an option is basically what I'm hearing you say and that we need to get healthcare providers we need to get wise consumers and individuals that because 100% of people eat and getting it done in that yeah and that's I mean none of this every time is in a drug it makes it harder to get this message across but the drugs are always treating symptoms we have non-vented the drug yet that cures this disease or cures obesity um yeah it's just we and it kind of be tested by the way I mean Verta health and San Francisco let's go and look at it what I think is a pretty compelling trial showing that this diet can put diabetes and formation it didn't show whether it was better than any other diet but it did show that this one works and works in a way that nobody actually ever thought was possible so yeah that's that's the challenge now is and that's what the book was written to try and to help not belong because I recognize I'm not going to get rid of skepticism even the one percent or zero point one percent of physicians who would make the effort to read a book like mine when they're done are not going it's not going to remove their skepticism but hopefully they will say to themselves this is interesting like let me try it I think I remember giving a talk to a Cleveland clinic conference so I was at their Las Vegas base and um I was talking right after lunch and I ate before my talk and then I got to watch all the cardiologists at the meeting walk up to get the very nice lunch that was all you know salmon and skinless chicken breasts and vegetables and and I was watching them walk out and they definitely looked like the sort of typical distribution of overweight no obesity among the public has significant amount of them or struggling and try it yourself learn what you can about it understand that enough that you could communicate I mean the problem is if you're seeing a page for 15 minutes it's easier to write a prescription take this drug I'll see you in a month move on to the next patient that's always going to be a problem but then we have diabetes educators um the nutritionists and dietitians um I mean it's crazy because this way of eating is now had more clinical trials testing it than any diet and history and even the American diabetes association agrees it's better tested and more effective than any other diet that they promote so they they're coming around as slowly as humanly possible because not especially a health association doesn't want to say oh by the way we made a mistake or phrase anything in such a way that somebody else might go away to them and it's entirely different from what you were saying thin years ago um but uh I mean we'll see what happens you know well you've done a lot of great work in the world and and I have to say one of the things that I'm most grateful for is you're willing to step up and challenge I'm sure that that always that that may not be easy and you certainly have to get extremely thick skin but you're willing to do it for a greater purpose well thank you it um it's just way why do all this work I mean this is what everybody does this right you do the work and you come up with the idea and then you get the appointment and nobody's listening to me so then you go out there and try to get them to listen I was lucky because I did have very um powerful soap boxes in the beginning of my career so when I wrote something or spoke it you know people paid attention but um it's important that's the other thing it's like it would be great if all we cared about was keeping you know 30 40 year old athletes healthy as long as humanly possible but I it's not really what my interest is my interest is in helping all these people who are not healthy become healthy and that's a different you know there we have all these obstacles on our way which include unfortunately the health of those stations yeah which is wild what would be your advice to individuals who just trying to find a way of eating so they're certainly going to read your book but what other advice would you give them are their red flags that they should look out for in the general health landscape or providers well I think here's where context is so important so I mean if you're young and healthy and I am assuming for instance if I never went on this crazy low-fat diet on in the 90s when I was also getting a significant proportion of my calories from sugar because of either fruit or fruit juice or smoothies all of which I thought were benign and there was a parent in my life when I thought wouldn't be a great idea to open a job but juice you know franchise in New York I had been living at job and then you realize later that these things are all different ways of sort of maximizing your sugar content of your diet but I think if young men and women you know the generic conception of what a healthy diet is isn't bad and will keep many people healthy you know they they can tolerate it so the cold fruits vegetables whole grains I don't go for the low-fat part of it but other than that you know legumes if that's your thing then and it's working keep doing it then if it if it starts to go right if you start developing metabolic disorders then the hope is you fix your diet which means going more you know lower and lower and carbohydrates and the carbohydrates you do consume have to be slower and slower using Tim Ferriss's term you know and if it's becomes a real problem then it's they basically keto minimizing insulin is the way to solve it so it's um but it's all context dependent for me to tell a 25-year-old marathon or that you should eat ketogenic diet I mean I could do it but why why should it right but if that you know the world is full of people who ate these healthy diets unlike Peter or Teo was one and Sammy Incan and the founder murderer other who were like fanatic or athletes in extraordinary shape who became you know Peter famously gained 30 pounds on this diet and Sammy Incan and became pre-diabetic despite working out hours and hours and hours a day so at some point when it gets there food is a level you're going to have to pull more exercises going to solve a different exercise going to solve but I do see the benefit of you know um working out like I said and building muscle and having muscle and staying active but at some point I think you know we all like I worked out you know it was in Sammy Peter level but I worked out an hour and day it was a writer that was my social life right when you live in Los Angeles you go to the gym where you run on the beach you know those are your options there's no literary life the partake of so it's not like we're strolling down boulevard as you wouldn't pair us so but it didn't stop and I was eating what I thought was a very healthy diet and it didn't stop me from gaining weight and I'm sure I was probably pre-diabetic or some such I didn't never checked up so well very very impressive repertoire of writing thank you so much for spending time chatting and your new book you have many books rethinking diabetes we will link it here I'm really grateful for the work you do and I'm grateful that you challenged the way conventional thinking is done and hopefully conventional practice thank you again for having me

If you have lotus oceorone, it makes you at a greater risk for cardiovascular disease. Wait, wait, wait, stop that. I would be concerned if you were walking around with lotus oceorone. I would be concerned that you wouldn't have a bone fracture. I would be concerned that you're going to have heart disease. I would be concerned that you are at a greater risk for obesity and diabetes. Wow. 40% of men in their 40s have a reptile dysfunction. If you have a reptile dysfunction, you are at a greater risk for heart-taker stroke. A reptile dysfunction can bring it to a heart attack within three to five years. That's scary. Obesity will lower testosterone levels and lower sperm health. If you have pores, sperm health, you have a 2.6-time radar likelihood of having cancer. 92% of men that were depressed also had low teeth. When individuals age men think that their testosterone has to go down, is actually not true. Testosterone in say a 75-year-old could be potentially just as good as your testosterone in your 20s, which is shocking. That's very exciting. After the statement came out from Tobias Colour about your penis can shrink up to one centimeter if you don't use it. Have you ever heard that before? That was scary. I can tell you. I've had that struck fear into my heart. Everybody's heart and immediately it just went viral because part of the problem is there's always this echo chamber of testosterone steroids. But when you tell a guy, his penis is going to shrink one centimeter if he doesn't have sex, the world is listening. You're going to take action immediately. And those actions can include penis pumps, lots of sex, and therefore that leads us to the conversation around testosterone and erectile dysfunction, use it or lose it. Yes, yes. As a senior B46-year-old male, I'm coming to you as the expert is the doctor that you are. Because I'm looking at my testosterone and I'm wondering, is someone that suspects that maybe my testosterone test testosterone isn't what it used to be? What's the first steps I take when I go to my physician? First of all, you're looking great for 46. Well done, almost 46. testosterone is interesting. testosterone is the primary antigen for men and also women. When individuals age men think that their testosterone has to go down, it's actually not true. It's totally unfair and not true. Testosterone in say a 75-year-old could be potentially just as good as your testosterone in your 20s, which is shocking. That is shocking. It is shocking. There is hope for all men, something called SHBG goes up, which may make free testosterone a little less available. But the reality is, how do you know if your testosterone is low? There are a handful of signs and symptoms. Number one, the thing that would get a man to the doctor, almost immediately, is if his penis doesn't work. A rectal dysfunction, 40% of men in their 40s have a rectal dysfunction. That's scary. That is scary. In addition, obesity, diabetes, all of which contribute to low testosterone, which means you have to get your left-to-right. But also, everybody should have their testosterone checked. By the time they're 40, a man should know and I would argue even earlier. If someone is under 40 listening to this, the sooner you get your testosterone checked, for a baseline, the better. No, we're not going to get it checked. What do I ask for? Because you alluded to it, there's different forms. So is there a particular form on looking at? And we should review your blood work. But if you are going to the doctor, what you want to look for is total testosterone, free testosterone, FSH, LH, unusual for a guy to have his estrogen attack. But we always check an ester dial, and believe it or not, everything is not testosterone related. You have to check your thyroid and even a pro-lactin level. Sometimes there are things in the brain say an adnoma or some kind of benign tumor that would affect testosterone production. Wow. Ester dial. Ester dial. Why am I, I'm a dude. That's a word of an estrogen. Why am I estrogen? For us, the target level that we like to see in our clinic is between 30 and 50. Those are the numbers that a guy would want to look for. And I would say that when a guy goes on testosterone, one of the things that the typical TRT clinic does or has in the past is they immediately put people on an aromotace inhibitor. That would be a remitax to suppress estrogen. What we found was that when that happened and very early on, I mean, again, I've been in practice for, I don't know, over 10 years, the guys that had estrogen suppressed. They really, they seem to lose their libido. There may be a role for estrogen and libido. But what about, so you're suppressing the estrogen because of the concerns of the kind of comastia? Yeah. But having that 30 to 50, I don't have to worry about that. Hopefully not. And obviously everyone is individual. And for someone listening, we're not giving medical advice, but how we do it is very low. People do not get put on an estrogen block or just because. If their estrogen is above 50, we would start an estrogen block and that would be at a very low dose and a remitax of 0.25 twice a week or maybe even just 0.5 once a week. Here is the catch. When a guy is obese, he might make more estrogen. Oh yeah. But that doesn't mean that you wouldn't treat him for testosterone. You don't use an aromotace inhibitor as monotherapy. Meaning, let's say you have an estrogen that's 100. And I've had guys in my clinic that have an estrogen on 100. We don't immediately go, you know what? I'm going to block your estrogen before starting testosterone. So you just go to the testosterone. Now, I'm not obese. I exercise. I try to get enough sleep, regardless of what my kids do. What is the cut off? Because, you know, I look at 300 nanograms per decelerator. And I'm still above that. But then how do you determine is that a hard number for you or or there are the things you look at? They're the guidelines, which the medical guidelines would make 300, the hard number. So the EUA-Glyte guidelines. But these numbers, it is kind of arbitrary. That 300 number was just picked. Here's the rub with that. It's not just about testosterone. It's also about your antigen receptor sensitivity. It's something called a cag repeat. And some individuals have very sensitive antigen receptors, meaning they require less testosterone. And some individuals have very low sensitivity receptors. Meaning they would require higher levels of testosterone. 300 would be the cut off, but it depends on where you go and what country. The cut off in other countries is lower. It's an arbitrary number. You also have to look at how people feel. And it's funny. One of the things aside from just looking at the testosterone level, the diagnostic criteria for low T would be two levels in the morning with 300 or less. Two hundred and ninety nanograms per decilator. But what if this person also is starting to have erectile dysfunction? Is starting to have that deposition, fatigue, depression. I was looking at one study, 92 percent of men that were depressed also had low T. That's not surprising. That's not. No. Yeah, how it is. And actually, it's not surprising. It makes that it's a good point because if someone has low testosterone, how are they going to want to exercise and eat well? Yeah, you tough. And your great interview you had with Dr. Morgan Taylor. He talks about that. That last, what, like, 5 percent, that motivation that people have in testosterone gives it. The other piece of it that I thought was interesting. I want to ask you about is what about the health concerns? Because again, got young kids. I want to be around for them. Is taking exogenous testosterone going to put me a greater risk for prostate cancer or things like that? There are very few areas in medicine where the myths surrounding the concepts and the way that we practice medicine have been devastating. The hormone area is probably the biggest area where we have failed people. For years, we castrated men because there was this belief as a spoke about that testosterone caused prostate cancer. Yeah. For 30 years or more, they castrated my can you imagine? No. I don't want to. And testosterone has been around for a long time. The first testosterone has been used since the 1930s. Because of this myth and this thought process that testosterone caused prostate cancer, it really created a snowball effect. Meaning testosterone therapy has not been routinely used. You do not go to your doctor when you have depression and they don't typically measure a testosterone level. testosterone replacement therapy is really critical for a number of reasons. If you have low testosterone, it makes you at a greater risk for cardiovascular disease. If you wait, wait, stop that. Yeah. I've always heard that it puts me at greater risk. What about my cholesterol? I don't like that. So you're telling me it's protective? It is. It is protective. And that's where the traverse trial came. They did a trial called the traverse trial. And it did not increase the risk of cardiac events. Wow. Again, total myth. And if you have erectile dysfunction, you are at a greater risk for heart-taccer stroke. So I'm hearing I shouldn't be concerned about testosterone replacement therapy. You could actually be protected. It could actually not put me at greater risk for some of these disease, cardiovascular health, prostate cancer, etc. It could actually be protected against some of these. I would be concerned if you were walking around with low testosterone. I would be concerned that you were going to have a bone fracture. I would be concerned that you're going to have heart disease. I would be concerned that you are at a greater risk for obesity diabetes. Wow. And you touch a little bit about the sexual health component. Why take test? Why not just like see how else you're biagra? Well, erectile dysfunction, just going back to erectile dysfunction, can predict a heart attack within three to five years. Wow. I don't care about if your penis is shrinking. I care about if you are going to die from a heart attack. And a stroke within one to two years. An individual who presents with erectile dysfunction, obviously there's psychogenic components, typically when guys are younger. But if a 40-year-old male is having problems with an erection, we have to think about cardiovascular disease. If you listen every week and feel like we are in this together, which I believe that we are learning, growing, and building strength, then I created a way for us to get connected even more closely. It's called forever strong insider. A premium community for listeners who want to go deeper. You'll get ad free episodes which I know you'll love. Bonus Q&A is where your questions shape the conversation. Behind the scene moments because what's facing offlarious from my daily life and written takeaways to keep at your fingertips. But more than that, you'll be supporting the show so that we can keep creating content that matters. If you've ever wanted to feel part of the inner circle, this is your invitation. Join us at foreverstrong.supercast.com or through the link in the show notes. I don't want to marginalize this or make fun of it, but it reminds me of the gauge on a car. Right? And the overall health of a man, if I were to give you one marker, it would be testosterone. The one marker for overall health and wellness for a man, and his morbidity, mortality, his risk of heart disease, would be testosterone. Why is there this stigma with it? I mean, it here, this from you, but I've had a lot of other physicians throughout my career, the military moving around and having it, and not one of them has ever talked to me about testosterone. We're like, have it checked. They're like, you're young, you're healthy, you're exercising, you're fine. It's a great question. And individuals are really misinformed. There's always been a stigma with sexual health. I believe that that's part of it. And because of the perceived risks of testosterone replacement therapy, that have been out there, and then of course you bring in this idea of steroids, that people are afraid. Well, you mentioned steroids. Yes, I want to ask about that because, you know, I hear testosterone replacement therapy, and then I look at like a bodybuilder online and it's like talking about their own steroids. Where does that line? It seems that line's blurry. Like where is that? Is that the whole madden I was talking about? Is that the whole Nadia or not? That's the Nadia or not, like the Kenny Cayos thing they do. The Nadia or not, the conversation is totally wrong and misleading. We make testosterone. The idea of steroids and testosterone replacement therapy being one in the same is just not true. Stair-rides, if we were to define steroids, let's think about testosterone, but then synthetic agents that are given at super physiological doses for specific performance outcome. That is not the same as a testosterone replacement therapy, replacing something that is low within physiological norms. An individual who has low testosterone is at risk for heart disease, is at risk. For bone fractures is at risk for depression, is at risk for obesity. There are a whole host of comorbidities that make testosterone really critical. Rather than thinking about synthetic steroids and then turning an entire generation off. But I will say it's not without risk. Testosterone, replacement therapy. There is some risk. There is risk. What's more to look at? Infertility doesn't mean it always happens. If someone is listening to this and says, you know what, I am 30 years old. I want to go on testosterone because my levels are low. I feel terrible, but I want to have children. One of two things. Number one, you banks firm. Number two, an individual can go on TRT with the understanding that they will take HCG. And that it might take three to seven months to get the body back to functioning normally without testosterone placement therapy. But once you start, it doesn't mean that you have to always be on it. But then on the flip side, why would you go off? Follow a question of that. What if you are done having kids? Let's say. And you're just wanting to feel good and, you know, kind of regain some of that 23-year-old figure. What risks are to that individual? I would say there is no inherent risk that I could think of. An individual would want to make sure that their hematocrit, hemoglobin, hematocrit is not too high. Maybe they have sleep apnea so you'd want to check that prior. Or if someone had active prostate cancer, then you'd obviously want to see someone just to, again, find out the details. But from my perspective in the literature, there is no risk for replacing low testosterone. Which is crazy. Because, you know, one of the things that you'd said to me, said, okay, Gabrielle, we're going to sit down, we're going to do this episode. I want you to convince me to go on TRT. And that doesn't remind myself, okay. Well, how can I convince you? If your levels are good, do you need more testosterone? And the answer, I would say no. If your free testosterone is where, let's say, it's in an ideal range and your feeling great, more isn't better, would you feel great? Probably, if you went on testosterone, probably, but would there be a medical indication? No. Would there be dangers for an individual with low testosterone going on testosterone? No. And that has been one of the biggest misconceptions, because we have millions of men. I was looking at the data, let's say 40%, 25% to 40% of men in their 40s have low testosterone. Roughly, a very small percentage would ever look to get treated. The most recent data that I've seen in the general male population, maybe 3% of men are treated. Which means we're failing guys from a primary care level. If a guy comes in, who's overweight and obese, and he has low testosterone, we should be training him. Yes, I didn't exercise, you have to do all those things, but we should be training. So, even, because that's my next question, you have somebody who's overweight or obese. We know that it'll be, he's probably contributing to them having low testosterone. So, you wouldn't just have them lose weight, you would do it concurrently, or would you try to have them lose weight and then you're going to be out. Honestly, personally, I would have them do it concurrently. Here's why, when an individual has low testosterone, it's setting them up for issues later on. And as a physician, my perspective is, does lifestyle matter, yes, but come in and treat it. If 92% of men in this one-bedroom study had depression and low tea. Now, I'm asking a depressed person, potentially, depressed and obese, to give them another three months, with how they're feeling, I would say, I wouldn't feel comfortable doing that. Yes. Of course, I didn't exercise, we have to do those pillars. But it's not like women, women go through menopause. Tax day, new years, Christmas, it's coming. Menopause is coming for women. But for men, it's not true. Men can maintain the same level of testosterone. Again, certain things change, but to have a man suffer in silence for absolutely no reason, and know that it's something that is treatable, I think, is a huge mistake. We have to go in there and we have to treat. It's not to say that, again, diet and exercise, we know, and sleep are key. I was looking at some data looking at five nights of poor sleep, decreases testosterone by 15%. And then also, you and I were talking that an individual can increase if they lose roughly 15% of their body weight, they can increase their testosterone by 250 nanograms per deciliter. That's a lot. That would take someone from 300 to 550. But the same goes for if someone gains weight. They would go from 550 down to. Well, and I love that because you talk about the reality of the motivation and the mental component that if you can start treating them, they might actually have that motivation to start losing that weight they never lost, whereas if we're assuming they're going to do something that they have not done before to get their testosterone back up. Now, what about these testosterone beasters, like natural excental mutation, Tangat, Ashwaganda, how effective are they? It's not my first length therapy, and it's also not my second length therapy, and we have evidence-based protocols that work. We have spent, I mean, I haven't spent, but there's billions of dollars that go in to make sure of the efficacy and safety. We know testosterone works. If someone wants to use Ashwaganda, you know, when I was treating the military operators, I always put them on 500 milligrams of Ashwaganda. But it wasn't for their testosterone per se, maybe it was for their stress. Maybe it was for their cortisol response. We have to be very clear as to what we are treating. And if we are not clear as to what we are treating, then the outcomes that we are measuring become blurry. This episode is brought to you by something sweet, and it's not me, it's Manakura. Let's talk cards, specifically honey and no, it's not another nickname for my husband. I usually call him something else. People have this idea that cards are bad, and that is simply not true. I use Manakura honey daily. Well-positioned cards like Manakura honey, they have been amazing for my personal training. I think of Manuka honey, which is what it is, is a functional carbohydrate, not just a sugar. It's serving a purpose. It's not just adding empty carbs. Honestly, we use it anytime, we need a natural sweetener. The bees collect the nectar from the Manuka tea tree in New Zealand. It's very complicated. The nectar is unpacked with bioactive ingredients and the honey that is produced as three times more antioxidants than your ever honey. If you are looking for a good honey, and you are looking for something sweet, you can check out their website to learn more, head to Manakura.com slash doctorline for $25 off your starter kit. So along those same lines, we talk about some of the alternatives. I also see a lot of influencers on Instagram who are not physicians. Talk about testosterone hair, but you should be taking a testosterone. What are your thoughts on that? It goes something like this. And this is being generous. If you had abdominal pain, would you go to the dentist? No. You mean to tell me that if you had abdominal pain, you wouldn't go and call your dentist for abdominal pain. I would not. Okay. If you were looking to get your testosterone treated, would you have a criteria for people that you are listening to? Speaking of the dietary supplements and kind of those testosterone alternatives, what do you think about these influencers on Instagram who are talking about testosterone, but aren't physicians? Social media landscape is fascinating. In the era of the velocity of information that spreads, it's unbelievable. Do you know that Actans, you've heard of the Actan's diet? Yes, it's a great one. It's peak one out of 11 people around the Actan's diet. That's crazy. I believe it. Do you know how many books he had to sell before that happened? I know I did. 10 million. Okay. An individual can go on TikTok and they become a viral success in two days. Doesn't mean that they are correct, but it does mean that they are popular. My perspective on influencers. Influencers by definition are there two influence, they are not experts. They should be if they are smart. The best influencers are educated by the experts and then go and quote influence. The problem that I'm seeing is that it's like taking medical advice from a mechanic. Maybe you want that mechanic to read your MRI. Don't want that. Don't want that. They might be confident. The questions are they competent? The done in Kruger, effect right, and believe it. Yes, yeah. Therefore, when I'm thinking about who I'm going to go to and listen to, they have to be trained professionals. The reason that people go to influencers are no offense to the physicians and scientists, they're not usually entertaining and it can be very boring and it can be heavy. But they're typically well trained and correct. The influencer space, they believe that they are experts and that can become damaging. I think because of when you talk about sound clips, even asking you about testosterone, there's pauses and there's considerations because you're going through this breath of knowledge just in your head of all these different situations and things that we know of and research, whereas that influencer, they're so absolute and they can give that sound bite basically because of their ignorance. That's right. They also have nothing to lose. A trained professional spends years cultivating knowledge and excellence. They're very thoughtful as to how they think about things. An influencer, they don't have the same rigor. They come across confident. Definitely. I mean, that it's competent and it becomes very damaging for people because I remember I was listening to someone's speak and they were talking about how everyone should be on testosterone. I mean, is that true? No. What if an individual has normal testosterone levels? And that individual is listening to an influencer. They go on testosterone and they shut down their fertility forever. Then this person is unable to conceive or in order to conceive, they're going to have to go get sperm extracted from their testicles with a needle or something. Not fun. I mean, I don't know. I don't have a set, but I can imagine that that's not fun. Yeah, they have to be very, very careful. Infloncing can be a good thing, but it comes with responsibility. And again, the people that are reckless have nothing to lose because they never work for anything in the first place. It's a good point why people should listen to your show to get qualified. Also, it's not me, right? I am not. If I have an opinion, I will tell you this is my opinion. I will also tell you this is where the evidence is. This is where it's limiting. These are the things that we have to be cautious of, but I would say that the smartest people, the most impactful individuals have a scope of knowledge. And they will tell you where that knowledge ends because there is intellectual integrity. Love it. And then the flow is our hotline. I mean, what could possibly go wrong with the internet around? What could possibly go wrong? Well, back to testosterone. Yes. And now we've agreed that it's pretty good stuff. What about the different forms of administration? So I'm looking to go on it. What's the best way to do that? Great question. The first thing that you have to figure out is what is someone willing to do? There are a number of different modalities as to how to get testosterone. And there is testosterone intermuscular injections. That would be in the shoulder of the butt. There or the thigh, but I don't recommend that. There is- What is your recommended method? I mean, hurts. Okay. No, no. I've seen it. All right. All right. Let's see. It seems like it hurts. Yeah. There is testosterone sub-cue. And that's my favorite way of delivery. Sub-cue testosterone a few times a week allows for a steady state. As opposed to a weekly injection gives you a high peak in a high trough. That's what you and Dr. Morgan Teller were talking about. He naturally discovered his patient started feeling bad. What at the end of two weeks? And he checked her testosterone. That's true. So you're not getting that with the sub-cue. You are not. Okay. Also, one of the reasons that we monitor blood work so much is the elevated hematocrit, which is the blood viscosity can go up because of impart that big peak. If you are administering it through the week, sub-cue, you don't get that huge peak. And for someone who is a responder and seems to get elevated hematocrit, which is why people go donate blood, this could be an alternative, which I think is fascinating. Yeah. There's also other ways of administering testosterone, which people don't often think about internal nasal. I can snort it. You. Well, I wouldn't necessarily say snorting it, but you can get it. Yeah, put in your notes. Okay. Twice a day, one to three times a day. Here's why someone will use that. Short acting. You could use it before sex. You could use it before a workout. It does not seem to have the same long blood lasting effects as an injection. Wow. Interneasal and also may affect fertility differently. The less impact, less impact on fertility. All testosterone you have to disclose must, can affect fertility, but this seems to be a bit less. I wonder, like cognitive function and brain. I mean, it's just from the proximity piece. Does there any, you know, there's a little bit of a question. I don't know, but that is a fascinating question. There's also oral testosterone. That's lymphatically absorbed in that's chisitracks. Typically, you take it with a fatty meal. What about my liver? It doesn't go through first-pass metabolism. All right. There's also Androjell. If you have kids, don't recommend that. Also, I would say once someone goes to injections, they have a really hard time going back. So we have gel potentially patch, but, no, really, this is not. You have I am injection, sub-Q injection, internal nasal and oral. The sub-Q, I just got a pinch my skin, throw it in. And we could probably show people how to use that. It works really well for people. What they have to look out for is depending on sensitivity, they can get a reaction, which is very itchy. But it seems to be the best way. Both men and women seem to really like that the best. And so do I have to mix that or can I just, can you just pull it straight out? Yeah. Right. Okay. Easy. Easy. It's super easy. Or are there any like needle-list options besides the oral job? Like, is there some injectors that are in there? There is an auto injector now, too. Oh, okay. Yeah. Again, the needle-list option would be the internal nasal, which I don't think has the same impact on the blood levels. We don't see that. But also has potentially less effect on fertility. Great to use for sex. And for working out, the other thing is Kaiser Tracks, which you take more than once a day. A lot of people like that as well, which is the oral, which is absorbed in the lymphatic system. And the gel. But don't recommend the gel if you have kids because you don't want your kids growing a beard. I mean, now that you put that in my head, I'm thinking about it and they would be pretty cute with the beard. But okay. Would you as someone who wants to, or someone who is considering testosterone, do you think you would have a proclivity to one or the other? I think I'm okay with injection. Never injected myself with anything. But I don't have a problem in needles. I can watch somebody draw my blood. So I don't think I would. One of the other things is the managing someone's expectation. How fast is it going to take them to feel better? Yes. And you don't start testosterone and feel better immediately. Do not put that in your head. Because guys will say, okay, well, I started. I just don't feel anything. You should really give it three months. Will it take three months? It won't take three months. But give it three months. After the first month, you should start to feel better. Typically faster. But the reality is, let's say you start testosterone. Your levels are low. You go on it. What can you expect to feel? Yes. Typically, people feel less joint pain. They feel less fatigue. Their sex drive increases. Their mood gets better. From a physical standpoint, they find that their recovery seems to be more robust. Three months in, when you are in a good dose of testosterone, the world looks different. Like, a was saying that 5%. People feel better. I love that. That's very exciting. I'd like to acknowledge one of the sponsors. And that's our place. I'd also like to acknowledge my mom jokes that are coming in hot about my old pan. It was so toxic. Even my veggies wanted to detox after dinner. That's about. Seriously, non-stick cookware is still used very convenient, but it comes at a cost. Non-stick contains harmful chemicals like Teflon and other PFAS, which can reach into your food. In our home, we use our place, which is toxin-free, high-performance cookware, and appliances designed for safer, simpler use. The hidden dangers of traditional non-stick cookware is loaded with forever chemicals. Dump them, it is not worth it. If you want to start somewhere, start with the 4-piece cookware set. It is your best way to overhaul that kitchen. Stop cooking with toxic, cookware, stop spending time with toxic people. Upgrade your place today. Visit from rplace.com slash doctor lion. Use the code, doctor lion for 10% off, site-wide. That's 10% off site-wide with a hundred-day risk-free trial. Free shipping free returns, you will experience a game-changing cookware. So, here we are. I'm vain. What can I expect by go on test, fostering the next three to six months in terms of my body composition and muscle gain? Your vanity will not improve. But aside from that, you and I were talking about the Pashan, his study, and there was a study designed where it was 600 milligrams of testosterone and aunt that weakly for 10 weeks. There was 25, I think it was 25, 50, 125, and 600 milligrams, which is a lot of testosterone and aunt that weakly, no exercise plus testosterone, no exercise. People gained seven pounds of lean mass. Yes. Exercise plus testosterone was 13 pounds of lean mass. 13 pounds. So, you're telling me, some exercise, some testosterone replacement, I could gain 13 pounds of lean muscle mass. And I'm sorry, it was 25, 50, 125, 300 milligrams, and 600 milligrams. Have you ever go with hot 600? I would not, and here's why. Okay. It's a great question. And I have very much struggled with dosing, because the average starting dose is anywhere from 125 to 200 milligrams weekly for a man. What if a man goes on testosterone and doesn't feel better, but he clearly has low testosterone? And when I say low, let's define less than 300. He might be an individual who has androgen insensitivity. Typically, people do not measure category pizza. You cannot go to the lab and get a category pizza. The average person will never know if they have an androgen sensitivity or not, receptor-sensitivity or not. What if, and I, you know, looking back on my practice, I had a guy who many, many years ago came to me, and he was taking probably 500 milligrams of testosterone a week. As I said, brother, listen, I'm sorry, I'm not going to be prescribing that. And he said, doc, I swear, this is the only amount that makes me feel good. Even though his total ant is free, we're high. Because there is individual variation, but I personally would never go to high. I guess that makes sense, and this is more probably in that steroids line. Because I have heard body builders say they don't take that much, like compared to other gossip, but they still grow. So that individual could be a very androgen sensitive. And so it's true, like a lower dose might be more effective. So your question, is there a certain amount of muscle that someone is going to be able to put on probably? There is probably a cap, but when an individual starts with testosterone, let's not say steroids, it changes how much they can probably put on. Again, I'm not saying this in absolute, because this is my opinion, think about it. An individual goes on testosterone. Is there a level as to how much muscle they could put on? I mean, there's probably a genetic cap. But if someone then adds additional animal agents, like we're seeing in the enhanced games, is there a cap for the amount of muscle that they would be able to put on? There might be a cap, but it's still super physiologic. Right, this is very interesting stuff. Well, it's interesting because there should be a level of, again, we are talking about health and wellness, and should you go on to testosterone or not. If someone is low, they're hypogonatal. I believe that they should be able to be replaced. I am not concerned about the risks. I think the benefits outweigh the risks. Now, if we're talking about someone who is using agents, to enhance performance, and enhance physique, you are going to arguably trade health for performance. For vanity. Yeah, but if you are not an opt-on range for free testosterone, and you go on it, there is very little risk. You're going to get the health benefits. You're going to get some vanity. You're probably going to improve body compositional. It sounds like a win-win win when we're cross-hobbing. I believe that's a true. And of course, if you are going on testosterone, how do you do it responsibly? Number one, you educate yourself. Number two, you are taking frequent blood work. You start with a... That's frequent. Exactly. You start with a baseline facet in the morning when your testosterone is specific to highest. If you go and have breakfast before your blood draw, you potentially could lower your testosterone reading, maybe 20%, maybe even higher. Could that? Not saying anyone should do that. Of course not. It's possible. Two readings of less than 300 would then put you in the hypoconatal category. Once you initiate treatment, we typically check it four to six weeks later, because you want to make sure that the hemoglobin hematocrit, again, there's some controversy as to, do you need to donate if your hematocrit, which is that viscosity of that blood goes up? And I would say, we should follow guidelines. Yes, you should probably donate. Is the evidence great? Not necessarily, right? And someone who lives in altitude will always have an elevated hemoglobin in a matter of... Right, so I say that there's a performance benefit there too, right? My runs might get a little better. They might get slower, who knows, but yeah. And then you want to check, we typically check every three to four months. And then what range do you turn to keep people at? If we were just talking about total testosterone, it should be anywhere from what I have found is that men feel better anywhere from 500 to 1000. But if you have very sensitive receptors, you might feel great at 350. So it's just looking at the blood work and then following up with that individual, seeing how they feel. And then making sure they are doing all of the other things, like diet and exercise and training, you know, we were talking about erectile dysfunction, and how are you going to solve for erectile dysfunction? Well, believe it or not, exercise can improve erections. That's awesome. Uh, penis pump can also improve erections, and that would be somewhere I was reading 80 to 90 percent effective, not very romantic, but still. And then exercise 150 minutes with just the guidelines because you need blood flow. Right. The vasodilation, you need blood flow. What diet? I guess fat intake? I mean, how does that affect testosterone? Now, you definitely not an answer as a PhD in your professional sciences. We're going to have a certain amount. You have a certain amount of fat. So you would never go to a new level or that could negatively affect your testosterone. So you know, under 20 percent total fat in your micro nutrients. I would absolutely agree with that and also don't gain weight. Do you stay lean? Obesity will lower testosterone levels and lower sperm health. I was looking at some data earlier that if you have pores per mouth, you have a 2.6-time greater likelihood of having cancer. The sexual health with the male obviously is so important, but it is kind of this canary in the coal mine in terms of what goes on with that is predictive of cardiovascular health, cancer, all these other factors. Yep. So, Seaman, okay, if I were to say all right, Nick, what health markers should we measure? So that I know that you're healthy or anyone, or my husband, testosterone? Believe it or not, a seaman analysis is something that people are really beginning to look at as a marker for overall health. The moral BCR, the more unhealthy you are, the poorer Seaman quality is. Also affecting fertility. Makes sense, but yeah, I imagine a lot of people aren't doing that. Right, thinking about it. Okay, yeah, no. But what about the fact that obesity is rising? If 74% of adults are either overweight or obese and the youth is becoming increasingly more obese, we are going to have increasing rates of infertility, which we're already having. Yes. Poor sperm quality and lower testosterone. And for the individual, it's a problem, but where it's also going to be a problem is, if we think about the world that we're trying to create. And I know you and I believe the same thing that we should have robust humans, build a stronger, better world. We are not setting ourselves up for success. We are absolutely setting ourselves up for failure. And you have to attack diet and lifestyle early. It's much easier to raise kids. That will hurt your stomach. Yeah. There's nothing easy on it. All right, that's just, but yes, I hear you. Yeah, that's just like this. So let's say someone doesn't want to go on testosterone. What could it do? If someone wants to try to raise it naturally, they could try HcG. Okay. They could try Klo-Med. Some clinics use in Klo-Med, those are two ways that I would consider trying to increase testosterone naturally. Would I say saw Pometo or all this other stuff I wanted? I would say sleep, train hard, eat better, have sex. I think that's very helpful because people are being sold. There's a lot of test boosters out there, marketing, we're seeing, and so from an expert like you to say, hey, I'm not using any of that. This is what I'm using. Anything orally is pharmaceutical grade. It's from my hearing. Well, there is one thing that we touched on, which was Cialis and Viagra. Daily Cialis is really good for blood flow. Over all. It is. And it's really good. I think we're going to start seeing more and more use of Cialis, especially with the prevention or augmentation for cardiovascular health as well. I've seen some performance benefits and exercise, but it's so then, let me make sure I'm hearing right. So again, 46 year old healthy male looking to optimize performance might be on testosterone, but otherwise, found sexual health, but you would say Cialis for cardiovascular health, potentially low dose. Think about it. If a rectal dysfunction is going to be a predictor of a heart disease, or heart disease, heart attack stroke within three to five years or stroke within one to two, Cialis is good for the penis. It's also good for the heart. So, so kind of a preemptive strategy. What dose is there? Do you do 0.5 to 5 milligrams? Do you do you do 5 to 5 milligrams to Cialis a day? Yes. Normal. I think that most people should be taking it. Next, go, I'm not on that. I'm taking note here. I'll let me put that down. We're seeing that, again, it's really important for blood flow. If a rectal health is an indicator of overall health, an erectile function, Cialis is used for... I'm experiencing it. And even like cerebral blood flow, something about like before talk or before a mouse, that's exciting. Thank you for all that. Nick, you and I have been talking about if you're going to be starting TNT for a long time. And you came to me and you had all of these concerns. I did. I'm ready to get you were afraid that it was going to cause prostate cancer. Yes. You were also afraid that it was going to cause heart disease. You were afraid that what else? Irreversible. I didn't know about the administration. How hard that would be? Did I have to inject into my vein, etc. You answered all that. Do you think that people will have additional questions? If you were to say, okay, what did we miss or what is next? No, I think you should charge everybody for this episode because you gave them a free consultation. I'm going to hold you to that. And with that, Nick, thank you so much for making the conversation so accessible to everyone. Thank you. Thank you.

You're giving your female patients testosterone. Why are you giving them testosterone? There is no f***. Wow. Not all men suffer from low testosterone. All women will go through menopause. From 1999 to 2020, menopause hormone therapy dropped almost 30%. So the women's health initiative did more damage to women's health and hormones than any other single study in the history. When someone is in parry menopause, should they wait? I hear a lot of people say, well, I want to wait. We for what? These things don't get better. I see a lot of providers putting patients on estrogen cream. We don't recommend it. Every female listening to this podcast needs to be taking notes and considering this, no matter where they are in their life cycle. All women should have vaginal estrogen. And when they're entering parry menopause, vaginal estrogen with ulcer testosterone will prevent vaginal apathy. Women are not nearly a study as it should be. It's embarrassing. It's actually embarrassing how little we know about women in relation to the signs of this stuff. We cannot stop menopause or parry menopause, but we can get ahead of it. Just for the ladies out there listening, we're never going to treat menopause. It's happening. What are the most common kind of signs and symptoms that a woman is low on estrogen? Number one, you won't believe this, and this might be very surprising. But when a woman is going through parry menopause, one of the first signs, she will be getting hot flashes. You've heard about hot flashes, maybe you've even seen it. Have you ever seen a hot flash? I have not. Uh, you know, I've never seen a hot flash. I've never seen a hot flash. I have not. Uh, you know, I've never seen a hot flash. I've never seen a hot flash. I have not. Uh, you know, I've never seen a hot flash. Uh, you know, we live in Texas. Yes. Very hot here. But before moving Texas, I was in New York, and nobody was walking around with little those handheld fans. Have you ever seen that? I know that, yeah, the handheld. Yes, this. Sure, sign and symptom that a woman is going through menopause. Okay, yeah, no, not funny, but true. One of the most common signs or even symptoms that a woman is low on estrogen, hot flashes. Also joint pain, believe it or not, frozen shoulder. Frozen shoulder. Yes. And I learned this from, uh, Jocelyn, Dr. Jocelyn, she's an orthopedic surgeon who, yes, recently on the show. And I didn't realize that when women are going through muscular skill, until pain, it's not just overturning. Go figure. Then why aren't more women on estrogen? Well, I've got actually some numbers here for you. Are you ready for this? Okay, from 1999 to 2020 menopause hormone therapy dropped almost 30%. Why is that? From the women's health initiative. So it was 26.9% down to 4.7% Holy smokes. Yes, so the women's health initiative did more damage to women's health and hormones than probably any other single study in the history. You thought castrating men? Yes. You thought castrating men was bad. The women's health initiative left 20 years of women from being treated for menopause, meaning you asked me what the signs and symptoms are. Hot flashes, brain fog, mood, poor sleep. All of these things can be contributed to low estrogen, not to mention change in a lipid profile. A woman's life who is going through symptoms of menopause is, again, it is so challenging. And I've seen it and it really affects their lives. Could you explain for the audience that the women's health initiative, that was looking at the relationship between estrogen and cancer, if I remember correctly? The women's health initiative did a number of things. And the thing about the women's health initiative is it used prem pro? It didn't use Estrodile, which is what we now use so prem pro. And then it used a synthetic progestin. They found that it increased the risk of cancer. And it was, for example, I'm looking at this here, a higher risk of thromble embolism, stroke, and breast cancer. When that happened, they created a mass hysteria, and it really turned people away. Everybody, you can't, so the baby got thrown out with the bathwater. Everything got thrown out, which I think is devastating, because we're seeing rates of osteoporosis, and dementia, Alzheimer's dementia, in every week we haven't seen before. And it could have been prevented. The average age of enrollment, by the way, for the women's health initiative was 63. That's 12 years past normal menopause. A woman typically begins parry menopause, and parry menopause is a big term. It's around menopause. A woman could have these symptoms for 10 years. Wow. Yeah, really, really bad. But the thing is, is that the women's health initiative equated this Prampro on synthetic progestin with hormone replacement therapy, and it really turned people away. So just to be clear for the audience, they should not use that as a reference point. No, it dropped hormone replacement or menopause replacement therapy by 60%. It left millions of women under treated. So now that the audience of an educated and we're looking at this, what are some of the options? What are some of the delivery options for a woman who's considering going on estrogen? Well, first of all, you don't do estrogen alone. You go to your provider. You get total estrogen, estradio, progesterone, you get FSH and LH. Typically those numbers will increase so become high when you are in menopause. And around parry menopause, they'll be all over the place. Testosterone. Testosterone. Free testosterone and sex hormone binding globularine. All of which are important. These hormones are so important for a women, not just for brain and bone and heart health. And of course, lab values, but also vaginal estrogen. One of the things that I hear all time in my clinic and strong medical is that sex becomes painful or women are getting more UTIs. And then to top it off, they also can't train. And they're getting weight. Wow. It's interesting, not all men will suffer from low testosterone. All women will go through menopause. And yet, for based on statistics, a smaller percentage of them was going to get treated than men, despite the fact that every woman listening to this podcast is either getting experienced this or experiencing this now or it's only a matter of time. Yes, you would definitely go, if you are a woman, you will definitely go through menopause. And now we're seeing a resurgence of the conversation around menopause, which is so important and perimenopause, because there's a lot of myths out there and especially with the delivery system. For fertility and for pregnancy, so if a woman doesn't want to become pregnant, when she's young, she's typically put on birth control. Yes. Birth control will increase sex hormone binding labulin, which think about hormones or like kids. So we have kids both of us. We do. And they can't go anywhere alone. Same with hormones. Hormones don't go anywhere alone. But when you increase sex hormone binding labulin, you make free hormones less available, which means from a young age, if women go on birth control, then she will likely require, for example, testosterone to have a higher dose of testosterone than she would normally to get the same result. Wow. I don't think that's discussed a lot. No. Yes. What is definitely not discussed is that birth control while important, that when you are taking an oral agent, it can affect the microbiome. Actually, we worked on a study with the legendary Alvaro My Eyes and the gelpin. Oh, yeah. We just recently published a study on that. Oh, yeah. It affects the microbiome. Also, we'll irreversibly increase sex hormone in the microbiome. And again, someone will say, well, isn't preventing pregnancy important? Yes, but there are other ways to do it like an IUD, which is the marina, a non-hormonal IUD. If a woman is entering parry manavas, and is starting to get increased bleeding, an IUD can be very helpful if she doesn't want to take the pill, which personally I don't recommend. But again, you have to look at your blood work. No, that's great. Hormone replacement therapy is in an option for somebody. Are there any natural treatments that women in the baby? For menopause? For menopause. We're never going to treat menopause. It's happening. You're never going to stop it. And I was recently at this amazing event. I went to a place called Nutopia, which actually I came work to your house to practice this talk. And it was this talk about conscious consumerism. One of the things that I kept seeing was take this for hormone balancing, this food for hormone balancing. That's the wrong message. Hormones being quote balanced. What does that even mean? The outcome that we're looking for, probably, in younger women is fertility. Polycystico variants in heroma is the number one cause of female infertility, which in a large part is related to the health of skeletal muscle. No amount of supplements is going to fix that, but a good diet and training regimen will help. Which, again, I know that we're talking about menopause and hormone replacement therapy, estrogen and progesterone and testosterone are not used to treat body composition for menopause. Which people will say, I'm going through menopause. My body is changing. Astrogen should never be given alone. It should always be given with progesterone, progesterone protects the uterus and the endometrium, delivery systems for estrogen. Someone listening to this are number one delivery system that we like in the clinic is an estrogen path. Now, we live in Texas. Yes, we can use it. Which means it's hot. And if you are swimming a lot and going in the sauna, you might find it's not great for you. Then what do you do? Yeah, so if you're using a Nastroviol patch, what's the, you mentioned one mistake you've avoided, swimming a lot. A great question. Actually, I called Dr. Rachel Rubin. I don't know if you know Dr. Rachel Rubin. I do think she listens to this podcast. Rachel, I'm looking forward to seeing you at the North American sexual medicine meeting. But she said she'll use injections. And if someone cannot tolerate a patch, then potentially an estrogen injection. I think that it's a little volatile for people, but estrogen patch is the number one way to go. People ask me all the time, what kind of protein powder I use. And in order for me to feel comfortable recommending a brown, I need to know it's clean and transparent. And that is one reason why I love when the sponsors of the show peory. Because every single batch of PW1, way protein is, get this third party tested by the Clean Label Project for more than 200 harmful contaminants, including lead, heavy metals and pesticides. It also has 21 grounds of minimally processed, clean, high quality, way protein powder from grass fed cows milk, no hormones, no GMOs, no pesticides, they were probably massage. And also, it has 2.4 grounds of loosein. PW1 way protein is made from a few cleaning ingredients and comes in two delicious flavors. Burbin Vanilla, which it has real venelaceeds from Burbin Vanilla from Madagascar. PW1, our chocolate with dark chocolate from raw organic cacao powder, sign me up. Go and get 20% off site wide by going to peory.com slash Dr. Lion and use the code Dr. Lion at checkout for 20% off. That is P-U-O-R-I.com slash Dr. Lion and use the code Dr. Lion for 20% off. So for the injections, how do you do that? Is that 70 tinius or in about skill or? You can do all hormone subcube. And you could even mix it with your testosterone. Whoa, whoa, whoa. And also guys, we're not giving medical advice, but we get so many questions on hormone replacement therapy or menopause replacement therapy and because of all the myths out there, I thought we could break down a little bit what we do in clinical practice. No, but I want to go back to that. And pump the brakes. You just said testosterone in terms of hormone replacement therapy when we're talking about the female patient. Yeah? You're giving your female patients testosterone. Yeah. Why are you giving them testosterone? I don't want to say it's because it helps their husbands feel happy. I'm just kidding. I don't want to say it's because it helps their husbands feel happy. I'm just kidding. I'm totally kidding, guys. testosterone is really important for a women and it's important for sex drive. It's important for muscle mass. There is no FDA-approved testosterone. For women, even though we can treat hypothyroidism with thyroid hormone, we can treat menopause with estrogen, estrodiol. But there is no FDA-approved testosterone. Is it women? Do you think there's just such a stigma with testosterone and women or just a lack of understanding? All of it. I was shocked when I started treating women with testosterone. I was shocked at how little data is out there. And actually we're working on a study at Baylor on safety profiles to really help move the needle for people. But in the US, it is not prescribed and you're losing much as it should be. There is no FDA-approved indication. People typically give testosterone off-label for hyposexual desire disorder. Is that the only reason? I mean, not if you're a microchenec, but that is really one of the indications which is unbelievable to me. Yeah, that seems a little sexist, right? In terms of that's the only reason people are prescribing it to a female. Well, the off-label indication, but when you think about it, testosterone is important, not just for men, but also for women. And there are testosterone receptors everywhere. One of the things that I was here for from women is that there are free to go on testosterone because there are a freight of losing their hair, getting acne, voice changes, that their clitoris will grow. If you are being treated by a physician who is tracking your blood and you are given appropriate doses, not superficial, logical doses, you should not have a problem. In then for their labs, are there any values that hard-fastery you're just looking at the holistic patient, kind of profile every time or their numbers that kind of like the males have the 300 nanograms per deciliter? What does the female have? And that's a really challenging question because we don't have great data for women. The typical dosing strategy is one tenth of male dose. If a man gets 100 milligrams of testosterone, a woman should get done, which that would be on the high end for us, the best delivery system for testosterone in my opinion is a sub-Q weekly or bi-weekly injection. Which they could do also with their estrogen if they don't want to do the estrogen eye match. So that's all that one. Good. And you're probably thinking, what would you start with? Yeah. Are you wondering what you would start with? I am wondering what you would start with. I would typically start a woman on testosterone before if she is younger and she has not gone through menopause and looking at her labs, she has low libido. Why is libido important to treat? Mental health. There's a lot of other factors. But the guy might get real. But I know. Just setting up those also hilarious. Think about this. The relationships having a good relationship with your spouse is everything. And everything. You're not going to be able to live well if you are constantly at odds with your spouse. Now I've been a doctor for well over a decade. There are two things that people that couples fight about. Money and sex. I can't help someone's financial situation, but I definitely can help their sex life. OK. And it is a couple's responsibility. A couple's disease. And I want to say disease. But hyposexual desire disorder would be, it has to last for at least six months. And it's not just a fluctuating libido and it's not just in her head. And oftentimes, it has to do with hormonal changes. Wow. That's great. And I'm sure very helpful for a lot of the listeners. What about, so when a female goes on testosterone, are there any body-compossated changes? Or are there any other things? Because you mentioned some of the masculizing effects of testosterone. What can a female who wasn't on testosterone expect once she gets on testosterone? What I have seen is that women's muscle mass can increase if they're training. You'll also see her recoveries better for a woman going on testosterone. I think it's really important to manage expectations. When women come into our clinic and they say, I'm going through menopause. My body composition is totally changed. When they start estrogen, progesterone, and testosterone, we typically don't see a change in body composition if that's all you're doing. Which, and I can't give you an answer as to why, but as opposed to say a male, we were talking about that other study you put a man on testosterone. It goes up, muscle goes up. But also the dose is so much different. The dose is one tonth, a male dose. When she is training and her diet is together, we do not necessarily see a negative change of body composition through menopause. And that's probably one of the most common things that women will say. I'm going through menopause. Let's take away hot flashes. Hot flashes bring forth those two listen. We hear that all the time. But also women release struggle with body composition changes around this time. And the question is, is it related to hormones? Probably. But once you replace those hormones and our symptoms are better, if she is not training, eating well, and drinking less, we won't necessarily see changes in body comp. Yes, you gotta do it. But I mean, it makes sense because like estrogen is going to affect insulin sensitivity. So last estrogen, last insulin sensitive. So I mean, it would make sense that you can prove that, you can prove body composition. I know we're talking about menopause, but paraminopause is there fertility? Like what's that look like? A woman still wants to conceive? Are you guys planning to have any more kids? No. We are not. This is a great question. A woman who is going through paraminopause, which paraminopause is that time around menopause can happen, that can last 10 years. The average age of menopause is around 50. Which is so disappointing. It's happening. I do think just for the ladies out there listening, we have to accept it and it kind of sucks. Because with lower estrogen, our skin changes, our joints change, our hair changes. And how can we stop that from happening? Well, we cannot stop menopause or paraminopause, but we can get ahead of it. What do I mean by getting ahead of it? If a woman is having symptoms, but still menstruating, let's say, her periods are terrible and she's not sleeping. We would start with progesterone first for sleep. Micronized progesterone, and that is given early. I see a lot of providers putting patients on estrogen cream. We don't recommend it. We recommend Micronized progesterone. The absorption is better. Also, functions as a GABA agonist, helps people sleep. There is also progesterone trokies. And I'm going to give you another tip, postpartum, some women that go through really bad postpartum depression. Sometimes, providers will give, say, just a shot of progesterone, 200, no, I'm shot. And that can help. With postpartum depression. Wow. And the cream is that just an absorption, just a... Yeah, and also the metabolism. Cream is interesting. It's really tough for people. Now, the delivery mechanisms for hormones. Let's think about what they are. Injectable, topical, and oral. Injectable, there's a lot of ebbs and flows because you inject it. There's a peek in a trough. Topically, you have less ability to control the delivery system here's why. And I'm saying delivery system, that's not the right word. For example, an estrogen patch. And I've used estrogen patches. I switched from the Vivaldeut to generic. And I looked at my numbers and my numbers in change. It was because my skin was not compatible with that patch versus the Vivaldeut. And again, I've no relationship to these companies. The skin quality and the kind of skin you have. Makes sense. Please, a roll. Yeah, it's thicker skin or, you know, for whatever reason. You mentioned those other delivery methods. When we were talking a little bit about testosterone, what about the nasal estrogen? There is, I do not use an nasal estrogen. What a great question. Why not? I don't know. I don't know because the patch works so well. I don't recommend estrogen cream because think about it. The patch exists. Have you ever seen an estrogen patch? I don't think I've ever seen one of person. The patch has the designated amount. As opposed to the cream. The cream is, it's totally messy. You might do two pumps and maybe you got this time, you got a bigger pump. I can see that. But the absorption for estrogen cream, I'm not a fan. What I love estrogen cream for, and I think all women should have vaginal estrogen. And when they're entering parry menobas, vaginal estrogen, with also testosterone and even DHA in the cream, will prevent vaginal after-feed and protect people from UTIs. Wow. Is that compounded, that combination, or is there a product out there that already does that? We typically use compounded, but every woman listening to this, who is going through parry menopause or someone who is suffering from UTIs. Number one, do not get conspated. Constipation increases your risk of UTI. Believe it or not, it affects the anatomy. And number two, estrogen cream is really good for the flora. Wow. For the vaginal flora. Yeah. Did you know that? Thanks to one of the sponsors, it has me asking, why go out when your pajamas feel better than most relationships. Cozy earths pajamas and blankets are so irresistibly soft and breathable. And of course, stylish, you'll find yourself planning your evenings around that. After a long day of traffic, kids, stubbing your toe on the coffee table, I may or may not have done that. This morning, slip into Cozy earths bamboo stretch knit pajamas. These lightweight, ultra soft pajamas are crafted from breathable stretch knit, bamboo viscous. That sleeps noticeably cooler than cotton. They are perfect for keeping your temperature regulated. And if you thought it ends there, well, it doesn't. Sink into luxury with their bubble cuddle blanket. It's unique, textured bubble design and plush faux fur. It's amazing. And it adds beauty to any rub. So if you're not sold yet, let me get to the point. A hundred night sleep trial. A ten-year warranty on blankets, lifetime guarantee on a peril. Man, it doesn't get better than that. That's right. Cozy earths, the extra comfort with promises, the last. Head to cozy earth.com and use the code, Dr. line a checkout. Pour up to 40% off your new favorite pajamas and blanket. And of course, if you get a post purchase survey, tell them that you heard about it here. Thanks to one of the sponsors of this show, Bon Charge. Ben, if you're a mom out there and you've been carrying a whole team, I got a different form of therapy for you. And that is red light therapy. In listen, good light impacts sleep hormones mood and even your ability to recover and focus. And on Charge has created science back tools to help me live in better alignment with my circadian biology. Artificial light is overloading us. They have blue light blocking glasses that are staple in our house. They have red light, they have red light light bulbs. They also have infrared, p-m-f-m-s to help chill my body, relax my muscles and support full body recovery. If you've never tried red light therapy, this is the time to do it. They have some of the best devices that I've ever seen great for skin and might have a control health and overall resilience. If you care about your skin, if you care about your sleep, if you care about your body and want to try something new, check out BonCharge.com slash Dr. Lion, use the code, Dr. Lion to get 15% off your entire order. Simple, proven, designed, do support your biology. You mentioned DHA and so we talked about with males. Are there any supplements or anything like that that are out there for estrogen production or things that you put females on that you'd recommend? DHA is one of the agents that we use. Okay, believe it or not, because I kind of poo-pooed any kind of oral hormone balancing, but DHA definitely can be used. We use anywhere from 5 to 10 milligrams depending. You can even go to 20. Sometimes women will get some acne from it, but there is potential evidence for it to be supportive. DHA use in women. Also, we were talking about hyposexual desire disorder and the genito urinary symptoms of menopause. There is an FDA-approved vaginal DHA insort, which is 6.5 milligrams and it is called intrarosa. And it's indicated for postmenopausal women with painful sex and Volvo vaginal atrophy. The DHA versus just the estrogen, because minor sinning, the DHA, it can go to estrogen or testosterone. So is that just kind of given the body, for lack of a way to reduce what it needs to produce in the ratio that's needed? But also keep in mind, if a woman is in menopause, DHA is separate. And that's one of the blood markers that we measure. I don't know if I mentioned that earlier. We do measure DHA. DHA can be important for inflammation as well. If a woman is on estrogen, progesterone testosterone and you measure her DHA in its low, definitely supplement it. But I also want to be clear in terms of expectation. A woman who is in menopause isn't going to take DHA in all of a sudden feel better as if she is on menopause replacement therapy. DHA is always used in conjunction. It's never like a monotherapy. It can be. It can be when you're young. But again, the fine young. The fine young. That's right. That's such a good shriek question here. When you are young and you are making hormones, you have a lot of flexibility. As you get into parry menopause, you'll see that sometimes cycles become irregular. You will see sleep gets disturbed. But if you measure your blood work, the blood work, you might go to the doctor and the doctor who might say you're fine. And you go, you know what doc? I'm just having brain fog. I'm not feeling well. And you have to be able to treat symptoms. And one of the ways that we, and there's various ways to measure, you know, you can do it very complicated. There are month tests. Can you imagine testing urine or blood levels for a month to see what your markers are? That's what I'm not fun. But I think that figuring out how you feel as a woman and understanding that there is a cyclical nature. And starting, I think, progesterone, which is protective, uterone protective can be very helpful. And our starting dose for women. Again, we use a micronized progesterone. It could be a hundred to two hundred milligrams. Women with endometriosis seem to respond really well with micronized progesterone. And it's a great place to start very safe. Again, right now we have a landscape of coming out of being afraid for the last 20 years. And so in that same vein, I have a female friend who went to their physician and asked about these things and were immediately shut down. Media, your font, everything's with an ornament of value. So I want to ask you, you know, how do you recommend that patient who maybe went out and asked their provider about these things we're talking about? And they get shut down immediately to tactically push back. And then is there a point or cut off point, you would recommend that they go find a new provider? Probably immediately. Okay. I mean, because part of being a physician and you know this, you see patients, but you have clients, you know, as a ranger and dietician and taking care of high performance individuals, it's a team sport. If someone is coming in and saying, hey, I'm going to give you an example. Are you ready for this? Yes. I know a patient, she's postmenopausal and she missed the quote window of opportunity for a menopause treatment. There is information out there that once you are 10 years past menopause that you cannot be treated with hormones. We'll think about all the women that missed. That doesn't seem right. Right. Part of it was the increase in coagulability with an oral agent. There's concerns about blood clots, strokes, but we have to recognize that number one, women are not nearly a studied as they should be. It's embarrassing. Yes. It's actually embarrassing how little we know about women in relation to the science of this stuff. Number two, there is a lot of information that's taking a long time to get out. For example, oral, say, oral birth control might increase coagulability, which is the clotting in your blood. There's very little evidence that an estrogen patch, because of the delivery method, increases coagulability. Or, again, people are concerned about DVT. So, back to the story of this woman who's posed for a pause, I told you a lot of nicotine gum. And the provider said, well, we're not going to put you on estrogen because of it. But the reality is we have to re-educate and understand that is, I appreciate the safety of that, but we have to recognize that the information out there is not the same. It's not just about estridile. It's also about the delivery mechanism. From a safety standpoint, estrogen is specially delivered in a patch. It's very, very safe. So with that and kind of back to that case, a woman goes into the physician. She's experiencing this. What should she say? Is there a lack of a better word of script or a word she should say? And then you're saying, if that physician immediately shuts you down and they're like, you know what, you're fine, you're not in a disease state. Yeah. You would say immediately go and look and try to find another provider. I would. There I believe that there's two ways to looking at preventative care and medicine. Again, there's probably a lot more than two ways, but there is the physician that is going to treat you for a cold. Treat you for things you're coming in, you're sick. I'm treating you. Yeah. And then there are the physicians that are thinking long term. For example, we know men are processed coming. Hot flashes are real. It's not just hot flashes. It's osteoporosis. Is someone falls and breaks a hip. It's not just, I have brain fog now. We're talking about Alzheimer's later. If you treat these things early with velocity, then your chances of living a long, healthy life and one that is enjoyable increases as opposed to, you know what, you're not there yet. Your FSH and LH are not really high. Your estrogen is not zero. Why would you wait? No, that makes perfect sense. And so is there a resource or a kind of a place for when an interested in this? What we're talking about to find these more forward-thinking, preventative physicians that are out there? Well, we treat it in our clinic, strong medical, but also you can look at their various organizations of physicians that are trained in menopause treatment. Again, there's the endocrine society, a-cog, nams, NAMS. I don't know who came up with all these acronyms. But yes, and I will say that people will go to non- hormonal medications. If someone says, well, you know what? I'm having hot flashes. Someone might say, okay, well, let's put you on an SSRI. Well, or I'm depressed, let's put you on an SSRI. As opposed to just like with men, if a man is depressed, well, we check his testosterone, or we should be. We should do the same for a women. Pressure. Wow, I didn't even think about that. So that is really a great point to highlight is some of these psychological issues that we may see that we're going to psychotropics could actually be fixed via hormonal therapy. Totally. The next question is, when someone is in parry menopause, should they wait? I hear a lot of people say, well, I just, I want to wait. We for what? And I don't mean to be negative. Not getting better. But these things don't get better. You are not, I mean, could you suffer and go through hot flashes? Totally could do that. Will your brain fog stabilize? Maybe. The next question is, how are we also going to protect your bone? Do you need to train? Yes. Hormones and be better? No, you have to have these lifestyle factors in place. But the conversation needs to change a bit in the way that certain things are not going to get better. You are going to have less estrogen. You will have typically less progesterone. Your testosterone may go down. These are not things that through a flour or an herbal tincture or psychotherapy is going to change. It's that time again, man flu season. Wait, no, just kidding. All flu season. And needed immune support. It's an easy to take delicious, elderberry powder and it's designed to support optimal immune health for the whole family. Man, when I was pregnant, I could not figure out what to take. And most immune support products aren't designed for all ages and all stages. Needed, immune support is safe. And effective for the whole family. Kids, pregnant moms, nursing mothers. It has zinc, elderberry, pre-botics and post-biotics in optimal forms. And of course, dosages that are clinically studied, safe and effective. It is formulated by a group of pediatric practitioners and moms, one serving daily for optimal, immune support all year round. And let's face it. There's a lot of stuff on the market and it's important to get clean products. Go to this isneeded.com and use the code Dr. Lyon for 20% off your first order. That's this isneeded.com. This is really exciting and eye-opening because basically every female listening to this podcast needs to be taking notes and considering this, no matter where they are in their life cycle, whether it's pre-emptive or there are already experiencing this and either get treatment right away. Yes. And therapy is very safe. It is approved MHTZomenopause hormone therapy, considerably lowers a risk of hip fractures. That's huge. Hip fractures. Which can be a death sentence. I mean, people don't understand. A hip fracture when you're 70 can be fatal. Yes. Yes. Cardiovascular. Protection. Again, it's not the only treatment. We can't say, well, I'm going to give you estrogen and it's going to prevent your cardiovascular disease. But it's going to rage H-E-L for my liver type glycerides. Yep. And also, trans-normal estrogen, micronized progesterone, and then the merena, it does not appear to increase the risk of DVT, which, again, has really one of the main thermos. Which is one of the reasons why people have really turned away from it. Trans-termal estrogen, micronized progesterone, also it appears to be favorable in blood pressure. Wow. But that's something that we didn't talk about testosterone can increase blood pressure. That is, again, something that we didn't mention. But I also looked up to numbers and recent reports indicate that only 1.8% of women over 40 are using hormone therapy for menopause, even though 100% of women go through menopause. There is like 98.2% of the population out there that needs to be on it. Yeah. Yeah. And it becomes a really important conversation. The estrogen and progesterone people are much more open to it now. And that's FDA approved. But testosterone is not. I just want to put that out there. I think that that is fascinating and important to understand. Yes. No, especially given all the benefits that you just highlighted, why wouldn't it be FDA approved? I wonder if that's coming with enough people using it off label, right, or just the surge. And then the other thing is imaging. And we didn't really talk about this. There is also a lot of information out there where people are afraid to get mammograms. At 40, you shut. There is no reason why you wouldn't go and get a mammogram. People are afraid of radiation. And I would say, listen, you've got to put these screening pieces in place. But what about the woman that cannot use hormone replacement therapy? Yeah, what does she do? Well, this is where a real conversation comes in with both the oncologists and the menopause. It's not as expert because not all cancers or breast cancers or uterine cancers, whatever kind of cancer, necessarily would exclude you from taking hormone replacement therapy. Now when you take a look at men, there are men that have prostate cancer that are treated with testosterone. Yes, that's important. And they do better. You have to, it's not throwing out the baby with the bath water. Separating for taking each of those instances separately and looking at it. No, I mean, this is all great information. And I think for that female looking to consider a hormone replacement therapy, you have that conversation. You've laid out a great roadmap into how they should approach that. And then most importantly, if their physician is not willing to have that conversation with them to find a new physician. I agree with that. Let's talk about how often individuals should get blood work. Yes. And depending on where you are in your cycle, you can take it on day 21, etc. But let's think about how often a woman should be getting her blood work who is going through menopause treatment or even perimenopause. At baseline, four to six weeks after she begins a therapy. And then I would do it again another three to four months to make sure that she's regulated. Do we regulate based on blood work numbers? Not necessarily. She should have symptom control, a vasomonder symptom. She should be sleeping better. She should be feeling better from a mood perspective. And also, we want to see, again, this isn't direct treatment. But if her cholesterol numbers really tank during menopause, which is what we see perimenopause menopause, we should see some improvement in that if she's being treated. And then of course, it's not always hormones. You have to look at thyroid as well. Meaning it's not always sex hormones. You have to look at everything. So you should have thyroid panel would be part of that always. It's going to get with it. Let's talk about how a woman can take testosterone. How a woman can take. A woman can take. But the size of the mix, yeah. Okay. How a woman can take testosterone. A woman can take intra-neasal testosterone. All right. A woman can take testosterone gel or cream. Very messy. She can also take testosterone intermuscular, intershoulder. But she can also take it subcue. I imagine the cases are kind of similar like the male and that you're going to see more of the peaks and troughs intermuscular or now. It depends on if a woman is. And I think that eventually women will be able to take it early through the lymphatic system, which would be so Kaiser Druxes used for males. But I do think that eventually they will be using it for women. Women do the best clinically that I have seen with subcue doses of testosterone. And we start anywhere from five milligrams a week. It should be typically one tenth of the dose of a male. Five milligrams is often two low for women to feel better with libido. Uppards of 10 milligrams a week seems to be a sweet spot for women. We're talking about this just to clarify, would you ever would test testosterone, just be the only therapy you would do? Or is this always in your collection? Actually sometimes. Oh, wow. Sometimes it depends on the woman. Some women you put on estrogen, they don't feel great. Progesterone is great for sleep and some women do great on progesterone. But nearly all the women that I have treated do very well on a low dose testosterone. Therapy. That's surprising. I think because what percentage, I don't know if we have that or like women who are, I mean, we talked very low to low percentage and women take an estrogen. What percentage probably are taking testosterone even below that? So we talked a lot about estrogen replacement therapy, hormone replacement therapy at these females. What are some of the risks associated? Are there any? What's that saying? There's no free lunch. I mean, they're my way. But when it comes to hormone replacement therapy, in listen, everything has a risk and we have to balance the risks and benefits. Whether it's terzepotide, ozembeck, all of the agents, everything has a risk. Astrogen, progesterone, testosterone. The risk isn't the same for everybody. Would I say that it is a benefit? I would say yes. But it's definitely case by case basis. Can there be an increased risk in breast cancer or uterine cancer or depending it depends on your genetics with your lifestyle, with these agents. A good provider is going to sit down and go through everything with you so that you can make an informed decision. But we can mitigate certain risks that we know. So for example, if we know that an oral agent is going to increase the risk of a coagulopathy or some kind of clotting that we would use transdermal instead of oral. Got you. So look, you get not only the substance, but also the administration, the router delivery, all like that. And then getting uterine ultrasound, getting a mammogram routinely, getting prinovo or a full body MRI scan, also doing the early detection, cancer screenings, there are all things that we can do because ultimately the idea is how do we live as better shone or humans? That is awesome. Yes, I love it. Again, hopefully this was valuable and helpful for people in understanding what kind of blood to get, how the deliveries are done, why it's important. And again, this is just the beginning of the conversation. Yes. Thank you so much, Nick. No, thank you.

There's this idea that fasting is some miracle thing and the reality is if you're young, your body will tolerate fasting pretty well and you'll recover from it. But what we know is that fasting and older adults probably generates a fairly significant loss of lean body mass and to the extent that it's muscle loss, its chances are not recoverable. If you're going to recover, it's going to take massive volumes of resistance, exercise and you can maybe do it but we think it's a bad idea. So fasting to me is something more than 48 hours. I think for anyone over 40 they should never do that. I think if you're 20 year old and you do it you're probably fine but I think having balanced diets is a much better approach. Think it a timeline nutrition for sponsoring this episode of the show. As you know muscle health is everything. You cannot age well if your muscles are not healthy. Why do we care about muscles? Well, from a number of reasons and within muscle is mitochondria and that's exactly where mitochondria fits in. mitochondria is the first clinically proven tested uralithin A. This is a post biotic that between 30 to 40 percent of the population makes. That means the majority of you my friends do not make uralithin A in your gut. Here's why it matters. Uralithin A is a compound that helps mitochondria and in fact there's evidence in humans that it improves strength and endurance especially as we age. Mydo pure is incredible. It comes in many different forms. I personally use the capsules. My husband uses the powder. There's a ginger powder. These products I wish that I had developed them myself. Head over to timelineutrition.com slash doctor lion for 10 percent off. That's a timelineutrition.com slash doctor lion. Dr. Donald Laman nice to see you again. Welcome to the Dr. Gabrielle lion show. I would say a veteran at the show. Yeah, but finally get to do it in person. We can sit across a table and look at each other. Yes, we have spent funnier off at least 20 years talking about protein, muscle and all things. Go figure. But today I thought it would be really valuable. Number one, I had to learn something at least two new things if we were going to podcast. And I've already learned a handful of new things which I'm really excited to share. The other key component to what we're going to do. We're talking about today is protein distribution. This has gotten a lot of attention lately. I would say that you're in part a. Yeah, you are somewhat to blame for the whole protein distribution. And for the listener, what do we mean when we talk about dietary protein distribution? We know that protein is made up of 20 different amino acids and you must get protein from the diet. And not all protein is created equal. And each individual amino acid, they all do various things. The overall amount in a 24 hour period is crucial. The next layer to that is the distribution and the distribution really depends the meaning of that or how much influence and impact that is going to have is really based on a few things. And number one, that would be age. So why don't you kick off the a little bit about the foundation of where some of this distribution conversation came from and where we are now. Wow, yeah, so there's no pressure. So I think just to build on what you said are need for essential amino acids. And amino acids in general is both the total quantity per day. So for an amino acid like lysine, that seems like it's just sort of a daily, maybe even every other day. Because it's a very slow turning over pool where really the big discovery back in the around 2000 actually was really the discovery of the protein distribution. And what we have slowly learned is that is more important and older adults than as it is in younger adults. Young adults seem to be able to stimulate protein synthesis throughout the body, but in muscle and grow with kind of small meals. And we know that a 10 gram meal will trigger protein synthesis, a 20 gram meal. But we know that in older adults, adults over 40, and a lot of the research has been done with adults over 60, it takes more than 30 grams to actually stimulate protein synthesis. And it turns out that the real key to that is loosing. So we can go into a little more detail about that as to why the loosing mechanisms unique. But I think the starting point is that the young and old are regulated different on protein synthesis and a real key to it is the protein and the loosing and the diet. And that brings up the next way of thinking about it is typical recommendations are based on protein per day. When you look at the RDA, the RDA might be 0.8 grams per kg or 0.37 grams per pound of body weight that does little to differentiate a 18 year old versus a 60 year old. And that creates challenges for people who want outcomes because really, you know, this whole podcast is about how can we learn and have more information. And we can allow for better outcomes in our life. And when you think about muscle protein synthesis, again, muscle protein synthesis, by the way, is a marker of muscle health. It does not mean we have to get very clear on the metrics at which we are looking at muscle protein synthesis does not necessarily translate. It certainly is not a one to one translation to muscle growth or size. So we have the process called protein turnover and it's a process of synthesis and breakdown. And those are both always gone going. We know that the synthesis tends to be higher right after meals when we have amino acids coming in and breakdown tends to be higher during more fasting or post absorbed period. And then that is a 24 hour net between the two and for children, the net is anabolic is growth and for adults, it's maintenance. So basically you make and break down the same amount of protein each day. And you know what people don't recognize is that amount is somewhere between 250 and 300 grams of new protein in the body each day. When you're whether you're 16 or 65 to be healthy, you still have to repair and replace 250 grams of protein in your body every day. And to be clear, we should highlight that when we're talking about muscle, we're talking about myofibular protein. And when we are talking, there are also other proteins in the body that are going through a process of turnover and growth, et cetera. Taking it one step further. Well actually, you know, when we talk about muscle, it's both. I mean muscle has enzymatic proteins that are regulated probably one way. And then as you've just pointed out, it has myofibular, the structural proteins that are regulated in a different way. Which would be regulated through mTOR. And we're going to talk all about that. And the reason that I quite simply the reason that I brought that up is this idea of muscle protein synthesis via mTOR regulation is certainly a hot topic. But that is where the dosing becomes important when we are looking at that mechanism specifically, but there are other ways in which proteins are synthesized in the body above and beyond mTOR and muscle proteins in the system. The other thing is that when we think about ways in which to stimulate muscle proteins synthesis, there's amino acids, there's growth hormones, there's energy in the form of glucose and of course exercise contraction, the mymost favorite way. As of late, we're now hearing that or we've heard, and again, this is largely your fault, how should we consume protein? Should we be consuming it in a 30 gram meal with a proper distribution or should I say an even distribution? Supreme operating<|no|> Minimum antibis milk, pres Golf emotions, we need to do the same with a visual caller, what is that act doing now? And since we r like discriminatory claims, this is on the right times, it feels based on what the nervous system is doing, whatever our thoughts and some new effects rotate. should probably discuss that. How can we begin to think about distributing protein throughout the day for optimizing metabolic health? So the way we got into this fix, the way we got to go back in the day, corn fields development. The way we started thinking about it is we basically were studying the branch and we just needed to be an acid loose scene. And we discovered that it had a very unique role in adults, in stimulating protein synthesis. Others at the same time had been studying protein synthesis in adults. And we always sort of realized that as we get older, the rate of protein synthesis goes down. We always sort of thought that was aging, not much you could do about it. Way back when I, my very first graduate student paper, way back in dark ages. I think before I treated it. Yeah, before electricity or something. We basically showed that protein synthesis went down with aging because the messenger RNAs changed. The ribosomes efficiency changed. So we knew it was there. And then some really unique research from the Galveston group, Bob Wolf and others showed that, while in young adults a small meal would trigger muscle protein synthesis in older adults that same meal wouldn't do it. But if they increased the level of essential amino acids, increased the level of total protein, they demonstrated the older adults would still respond the same as the young adult. So while we had a change in efficiency, the capacity to respond was still there. And what we demonstrated was that was really dependent on the amino acid loose scene until your ex-year comment also to some extent exercise. So that was kind of the breakthrough. We knew that all of the research that we were doing at that point was after an overnight fast. Why were we looking at that? Well, that point was a catabolic point. We knew that synthesis was downregulated and we were asking how could we get it back up. How could we stimulate it to an anabolic period? So that, you know, that was the meal. And then Doug Patton Jones and I were sort of looking at it. So well, that's exactly the opposite of how everybody eats. Everybody in the United States, the average intake is around 90 grams and most of it's a dinner. We're on 60 grams a dinner and less than 12 grams at breakfast. So we said, let's redistribute it and sort of make it a cute experiment. We decided that the normal approach was 10, 20, 60. And so we would go to 30, 30, 30. And that worked. We found higher net protein synthesis per day, but everybody concluded that it had to do with an even distribution. When in fact, and we probably misnamed the paper, I think we used the word balanced. It's terrible. When in fact, what we really did was increase it at breakfast. It was really shifting from dinner to breakfast that made the difference. But everybody latched on the fact that it had to be even. And we've got all kinds of misinterpretations from that. And you know, this reminds me of, and we have been talking earlier about there were early demonstrations from a French group. And that was our novel. And they conducted a crossover feeding experiment. They had 15 women, average age. They were 68 and the women consumed 64 grams of protein throughout the two 14 day trials. And one trial, the protein was distributed across four relatively small balanced meals. And whether bodybuilders do that, there's this idea that we should eat small amounts of protein throughout the day. And the way in which this group did it, they had meals ranging from 12 grams to max 20 grams per meal, called eight quotes, bread pattern. The other trial, it called the pulse pattern distributed protein in three uneven meals. So they did four grams of protein, 51 in the middle and 20 grams. But with one single large meal and the total protein intake was the same. Essentially, what I'm saying is that both groups consumed the same amount of protein. One was distributed at this kind of pulse attile way. And the other one was an uneven distribution. And do you remember what the results were? Yeah, exactly. The one that grouped one of the meals had an uneven distribution, but had 50 grams in that one meal. That one actually accommodated the losing threshold concept. Basically it was large enough where the other ones where they spread it more of an even distribution. Now all of the meals are below that losing, losing threshold. So they might stimulate liver proteins synthesis, but nothing gets high enough to stimulate muscle protein synthesis. And I think after a relatively short time, they were able to measure more total protein synthesis, higher nitrogen balance, and actually a change in lean body mass within, I think, just a few weeks 14, 14 days or so. So that's exactly right with the same total protein and take the pulse pattern generating higher rates of protein turnover, which we should talk about. What does that mean? Higher rates of protein turnover, more positive nitrogen balance. And I will say nitrogen balance is not an outcome. But it's, it's the step toward an outcome in that they're retaining more total nitrogen. So your first level of a biomarker would be a measure of protein synthesis, something what's direct. So we see more total net protein synthesis, which is what Doug Patton Jones and I did in our study. Then the next level would be, and we can see they retain more nitrogen. So that means it has to be going somewhere, presumably lean mass. And then finally they showed an actual change in lean body mass by dexa. So that's kind of the three levels in increasing evidence. So they, they showed an increase in lean body mass by dexa. But dexa is a particularly sensitive. Well, dexa is, as you know, is measuring body fat. And so you're extrapolating to lean mass. And muscle is sort of just a part of lean mass and liver and kidney and gut probably change quicker than lean, than muscle. So it's an extrapolation. But we, the data suggests that it had a more antibiotic effect on the body by doing the large meal. So you know, again, it's kind of summarizing the aspect of is having the spread and even spread the issue or having meals that exceed this losing threshold, the issue. And I want everybody to recognize it's this losing threshold, that's the issue. And frankly, the earlier in the day, the better. Why is that? Because you're coming out of an overnight fast and everything's down regulated. And that gets us into what does, losing really do. Yeah, what does it regulate? And it regulates M. Tour. M. Tour is part of the protein synthesis mechanism. It regulates one part of it. And it's, it's a part of the initiation factors that are specifically down regulated during fasting. And so what we're measuring is the recovery from that fasting period. It's important for everyone to recognize that there's always protein synthesis going on. If you look in the liver in the middle of the night, you've been fasting for eight hours or you're still making liver proteins. You're still making albumin. If your liver stops making proteins, you die. Likewise, and muscle, you're still making enzymes even in a fasting period. What you're not doing is replacing the mild fibular structure. And that's what you're turning on with M. Tour. The M. Tour triggers two initiation factors. One E.I.A.F.4, and another called S.6, which is a ribosomal protein. And what they do is turn on the capacity for protein synthesis. They select out certain messenger RNAs that are oriented to mild fibular proteins. And they ramp up the capacity. So it's important to recognize that it's not like an on-off switch. M. Tour turns the whole system on or turns it all off. It's just a part of the mechanism. Thank you to Ned for sponsoring this episode of the show. Ned makes an incredible product called Mello. I am stuck for the next apocalypse full of Mello. Why Mello? It does exactly that. It chills you out. Ned's Mello Magnusium was designed to address fundamental imbalances that come with being a human. What's in Mello Magnusium? Well, it is a super blend that has three forms of magnesium. And this is what we typically recommend in my clinic because magnesium and different forms have different availability and have different targets in the body. Mello Magnusium also has GABA and Elfianine and other amino acids and trace minerals. You know, when I think about products that I'm using and I strongly suggest that you think about this, it really matters how we are making up for the vitamins and minerals that we are missing. It's impossible to get all of them just because of our modern life style. Ned does a great job. It is fully transparent. Ned shares all of its third party lab reports that are available for viewing. Again, transparency is everything. Head over to hll0ned.com slash doctor lion for 15% off. That's helloned.com slash doctor lion for 15% off. Yeah, and I think in my earlier days of explaining it, I would say that if you were eating a meal that was lower in lucine, not reaching this threshold, which the threshold in the literature is between two and a half, which is probably a little on the low end to three grams of lucine to stimulate this amtore mechanism. The idea, though, is if you are still getting proteins and amino acids, they're still beneficial. Again, we're dealing with whole body protein turnover. And we talk a lot about muscle. The reason you and I talk so much about muscle is because that is the pinnacle of health. You cannot be healthy without healthy muscle. However, the body is turning over what? 250 to 300 grams of protein a day. One is not eating that, so there's a recycling of amino acids. So when we really begin to think about how we create a meal that is meaningful for aging, then this is where I think distribution comes in. Yeah, and you mentioned that we need two and a half the three grams of lucine that seems to be sort of the triggering level. And we need it within a fairly short timeframe because the effect that we're looking for is we have to increase the blood level of lucine from a fasting level, which is about 100 micromolar up to about 300 micromolar. So we need it to to three fold increase and you have to then take in around three grams of lucine within a relatively short period of time so it gets absorbed. And so that's kind of the key. And that will turn on this myophibular part of the process. The challenge is that in the literature, many, or much of the data is based on isolated lucine or amino acid mixes or even way protein, very fast absorption, fast absorbing proteins or again and or amino acids. How does that then translate to a meal? A mix because people are not saying, you know what? I'm going to open my cabinet and I'm going to I would like one side of lucine, another side of me thining and then I'll take a little bit of licy and put it all to that is not happening. Exactly right. So is it actually two and a half to three grams? Because it's two and a half to three grams based on isolated delivery system. So the point I just made the bottom line that we have to do is we have to go two and a half. We have to increase blood or intercellular lucine. So how do you do that? As you're pointing out, most of the research that's been done so far is with isolated proteins, which is the way research always starts. You start out by isolating the factors down to what you know exactly is causing the effect. But now as you're pointing out, as you put it into mixed meals or start using different proteins like casin or you put it into a mixed meal with fiber and fat, that slows down digestion, it slows down absorption and it's going to blunt that increase in blood lucine. So chances are if you're talking about a dinner meal, say you're eating a steak with broccoli and whole-grain fat. I definitely not eating that. Something you know, more of a mixed meal or you're eating plant-based with a lot of fiber in it, how much do you have to eat to get that change in lucine? I would say that in a dinner meal to optimize that you probably need to be in at least the 45-50, maybe 55 grams. So we're talking... You said that dinner, but would you prefer that for a breakfast meal? Again, in breakfast meal, it depends on what your food is. We tend to eat higher quality proteins that are more easily digested. We do a lot of dairy, we do eggs, we do things that are more rapidly digested. So maybe 35 would be fine. I personally go for 40 to 45 at breakfast because I want all the satiety effects. I want the thermogenic effects and I want to be sure I'm maxing the protein effects. We know that the 30-gram number is the absolute minimum using a way type protein. So people need to recognize that's not the absolute maximum number with any kind of diet you want to dream up. For example, if you went to a wheat cereal or bread, for example, you'd have to be well up into the 40 grams to get anywhere's near enough lucine to have an effect. I have a question. We were looking at some literatures. We're building out this course for providers and health coaches and people that trainers that see clients and one of the myths that we had to discuss was the increase in branch-chain amino acids in obesity or type 2 diabetes. Mostly, it seems as if it's more towards type 2 diabetes that individuals with type 2 diabetes have an increase in circulating branch-chain amino acids, increase in free fatty acids and glucose. My question is, in the environment of elevated branch-chain amino acids, I'm assuming that that's still elevated in the fasting or post-absorbative state. Is that true or I mean, potentially so if you were then to add an amel that is purely protein, do we know what kind of impact that would then have on muscle proteins? And this is, again, I don't know, I've never seen a study on that so hopefully you can figure that out. So there's a lot of nuance to branch-chain amino acids during fasting type periods. So if you get into the fasting starvation type literature, as we've talked about before, say, for an overnight fast, the liver has to still be making protein. Where does it get it? It gets the amino acids from muscle. So muscle becomes catabolic and you're breaking it down. Muscle has an unusually high level of branch-chain amino acids. There's more branch-chain amino acids per gram of protein and muscle than there is in liver. And so when you start breaking down muscle protein to feed the liver, branch-chain amino acids actually can increase a little in the blood. Okay, so there's a net release of those. And the liver because it doesn't use as much of them is taking out other amino acids, branch-chain amino acids can actually run a little higher in starvation kinds of cases. So that's kind of a lot of nuance. You started out asking the more pathological question about diabetes. I think that comes back to our overall sense of muscle-centric metabolism, muscle-centric health and that muscle is integrating fuels. It's integrating carbohydrates. It's integrating fatty acids. It's integrating branch-chain amino acids and they all come together at the mitochondria basically at a acetylchole. They all intersect there. And so as you change one or the other of those, you can limit one or the other. And so theoretically if you had a really high carbohydrate diet, you would inhibit the mitochondria from using branch-chain amino acids or fatty acids. And that's exactly what we see in diabetes. High blood sugar, you have increased free fatty acids, increased triglycerides in the blood, and you have increased a branch-chain amino acid. So kind of chicken or the egg is are the branch-chain amino acids causing diabetes or is diabetes causing branch-chain amino acids to be elevated. I certainly think the data strongly says it's the second. And do you think that if so that would be in a post-absorbative state or a fasting state? Would an individual still get the same response than if they were to have a high enough protein meal? You know, because we're talking about two separate things. We're talking about blood levels of branch-chain amino acids, which are necessary to reach a certain level to then stimulate muscle. But perhaps that level of elevated circulating branch-chain amino acids in and of itself would not be enough to stimulate muscle. Am I being clear? So it's almost as if that in the post-absorbative state of someone who has type two diabetes, they are in what it would in my mind would be more of an anabolic state just in general. Sure. You know, so I was indicating that they tend to be up in higher-fasted conditions. But again, what we said is the meal and a ballet-effect in muscles threefold. So what we're talking about is maybe a 50% increase, not a 300% increase. So it nuance, as I said, after a meal, the branch-chain amino acids do need to go up and depending on the size of the meal when they go up, they might stay up for four or five, six hours depending on the size of the meal. So a amino acids in general after a meal will pool in the blood for a long time. That's one of the kind of beauties of them. We talk about glycemic regulations and glucose has to be handled very quickly after a meal because it's pretty toxic to cells. You can have a lot of glucose sitting around or branch-chain where amino acids in general branch-chain amino acids in specific can stay elevated in the blood for five or six hours. The body slowly will metabolize them. And the reason I just bring up that point is because we were looking at some literature that was suggesting that protein restriction in individuals with elevated levels of branch-chain amino acids would be an intervention to look towards, but that doesn't make sense. It doesn't make any sense to me at all. And it's certainly it may or may not have an effect on insulin regulation in the first day or two, but long term we know it's going to be damaging to muscle and metabolic regulation. So one has to be very careful about one day experiments versus long-term outcomes and experiments like that. Yeah, and to be fair, nutritional science is very challenging. I mean, you did a one-year-long study, which that was amazing. And I think that that had 60 participants per arm. Yeah, so we did, you know, one arm was the food guy pyramid, so a high carb low protein diet and the other arm was basically higher protein, low carb, and we basically just switched out about 50 grams of carbs for 50 grams of protein. And but we monitored them with food records for, you know, 120 people for 12 months. No big deal, no big deal. I would definitely love to come back to that study, but the idea is that nutritional research is very challenging. And certainly for long-term outcomes, short-term, do we see short-term outcomes with, you know, changes in protein, you could, but the body is really good at adapting to various ways of eating. You know, you had mentioned this refractory period or the limited duration response of muscle protein synthesis. Can you just highlight this quote, muscle full or a refractory period when muscle protein synthesis appears to be unresponsive to these kind of normal activation signals? Yeah, so, you know, all of, you know, myself and all the other researchers that had been sort of exploring these mechanisms and protein synthesis were using this first meal of the day. But I thought that that the first meal of the day doesn't matter. I'm being in what sense. I'm just being fissured. Yeah, yeah. I never said that. I just recognize that this is definitely very science-heavy you guys. So hang tight, hang tight, because we have big takeaways. The big takeaways are exactly how to distribute protein and does it really matter. And should you front-load dietary protein versus an even distribution or backload and the reason I jumped into this refractory period is because I'm thinking about it in a linear progression is you have your first meal and then there's this discussion of the second meal, which actually may or may not matter. And that's where the refractory period comes into play. Thank you to mudwater for sponsoring this episode of the show. Mudwater is amazing. It's like adult hot chocolate. It has cacao and chai, a little hint of caffeine. So one way to use mudwater is you can use it in the afternoon before you do a workout. Maybe you're going to go rock. Maybe you're going to throw some kettlebells around. Maybe who knows? You're going to hang out with your kids. It has four functional mushrooms. It has a fraction of the caffeine. It feels like natural energy with no jitters. Sign me up. One thing I also love about mudwater is it believes in making the world a better place through supporting psychedelic research and it has been doing this since day one. I love companies with a mission. You can try mudwater now. Forget this, 29 bucks. That is less than $1 a cup. And I cringe to think what you guys are spending on Starbucks. Mudwater is amazing. Go to mudwater. That's mudwtr.com slash doctor lion. That's mudwater.com slash doctor lion and triors for less than $1 a cup. This is second time. It's just going to turn into a question. I have no idea what questions to ask. We can just think about the way in which someone should design a diet. We're hearing 30 grams of protein three times a day and then a paper comes out that discusses. It doesn't really matter. It's just no upper limit. Thinking about the truth, the first meal of the day has some clear benefits. Again, all of the research has ever been done is done at the first meal because it's the most sensitive. And yet that's probably the one that people pay the least attention to. The cereal companies are out there saying, you know, eat cereal and you're not getting any protein at all to speak of. So we know that that first meal is important. The amount of protein, most of the research has been aimed at trying to find the minimum to make it work. And so we've used isolated proteins. We've used way protein, which is 11 to 12 percent loose-scenes. So we can actually get a maximum effect with way protein. It's probably as little as 25 grams in a shake form. How much do you actually need? Like I said, I typically use a mixed shake in the morning and I'm around 40 to 45 grams of protein. I'm using yogurts. I'm using way plus casing, casing being a much slower digesting. So I'm getting kind of long term effects and short term effects. But I have enough short term protein, way protein, that I know I'm getting my loose-scene stimulated right up front. Yeah. And the which makes me think that's second meal. There's a refractory period so you've stimulated muscle protein as a refractory. So you've stimulated skeletal muscle. I don't know. I've been pushing pretty hard these last today. So again, making this whole week great dead now. Making this course, the, you know, the science behind, you know, people definitely want to know what do I need to eat for body composition. And we talk about that a lot. I also think that when you provide people with knowledge, then they can go and make decisions themselves when they run into and are faced with information overload. Yeah. This is why I wanted to bring up the point of this quote, muscle full effect or the refractory period because what about that second meal? You've had a first meal now in which you've optimized for muscle protein synthesis. You've turned on, you know, I say this as if it's on and off. But you've now stimulated these initiation factors. What evidence do we have for a second meal response? So so as we've been saying, most of the research is with this first meal. And so we've all studied kind of how that looked. But one of the things that a few of us have studied is how long does it last? And what we find is that no matter how much protein you gave it the first meal, muscle protein synthesis comes back down to baseline after about two and a half hours. And yet the blood protein amino acids, like we were just saying, are still elevated. We look at those initiation factors, EIF4 and S6, and they're still totally active. So that M-tor system is still totally active. And yet protein synthesis is stopped, or at least has gone down to baseline. Again, that's unusual, isn't it? Well, again, baselines not stopped. We've now what we've done is we've slowed down the myophibular protein part. But all of the other parts are still running. And so it's not turned it off. It's just slowed it back down. We think that's an energy conservation. We actually published a paper that what we can show is muscles depleting its ATP. And we think it's a self-preservation mechanism that is slowing itself down. There are some other things in the literature, though, that show with slower digesting proteins, like acase, this whole pattern shifts. You don't get the quick up with losing. It happens much more slowly. And so it's not a two and a half hour period. It's much longer. And so that's an area that I think research is going to have to go into because how does it all react with a mixed meal? And that then leads us into the second meal. How important is a second meal? I think there's a lot of research about the first meal tremendous amount. There's a fair amount about a dinner meal, a last meal. And there's basically not a single report that I'm aware of about the middle meal. And I frankly look at the middle meal is it's simply part of the protein per day amount? We have two things that we're talking about in adults. Protein per meal, which we know is important at the first meal. We think it's important at the last meal. May not be very important at the middle meal. And then we have protein per day. So that middle meal is just accumulating, if my targets 120 grams, I need to get x amount at the middle meal to add to it. So I personally think that unlike the sort of interpretation of our publication with dog patting, Jones about even, I think a very uneven pattern, 45 at breakfast, 60 at dinner and 20 at lunch is a great pattern. And for dinner, what evidence do we have? Because dinner would be the meal that has the most confounders. You would have to, in the literature, you'd have to really think about what that person has been having before their activity, their movement. It just seems that dinner meal, unless, of course, you were doing some kind of clap study or in a metabolic ward, be really challenging. So what evidence do we have? That that last meal is important. How can we think about that? There's some research just showing that protein going into the night time helps you sort of delay going into that catabolic period. So I like a higher amount. I like slower digesting, you know, more complete meal, fiber, et cetera. But the reality is it hasn't been studied very much. So being prescriptive about a diet, I don't think, I don't think we're at that level. But I think that there's enough data that we know that having a mixed meal with around 60 grams of protein is very effective. There's been comparisons of that versus a spread dig pattern. And I think there's pretty good data that that that last meal is very effective. So I think I think we can rely on that. But again, it hasn't been studied in great detail. Do you think that there's evidence that protein distribution of really impacts, and by the way, I'm laughing because I do know some of these answers. So just go with it here. Do you think that there's a totally setting meal? Yeah, that's the fun of it. Yeah, this is fun. Do you think that there is impact evidence that protein distribution will impact body composition in a meaningful way? I think it is. I think that if I was going to tear the level of thinking, I'd say, total amount of protein in the day is the first focus. Having more protein versus less, we know that's beneficial. The second then becomes quality. Having higher quality protein is important. And I think then down the third level we get into distribution. We know that distributions not very important to children are young adults. You know, 25-year-olds, it really doesn't matter much. We know it's more important to older individuals. And it's more important to individuals under stress. So we've done it in weight loss studies where we've looked at distribution to that first meal during weight loss. And what we can show is the individuals will lose less lean body mass by distributing protein to that first meal. As we talked about earlier, each protein meal has about a two and a half hour window of an antibiotic period. So if all of your proteins in one meal late in the day, that means you're going to spend 22-21 hours catabolic and only two and a half anabolic. So we think by moving it to a first meal of the day, now we're having more anabolic periods per day. And that is a really easy solution for the general population for anyone who is other listening to understand dietary protein, the patterning, the confusion behind it is that front loading your first meal and your last meal, we can at least argue that there's good evidence to support that. And also from... Especially in catabolic conditions, weight loss, bed rest, posturgery, any kind of stress where you body tends to be more catabolic. I think the evidence is pretty good that that's beneficial. And in aging. And aging, which is catabolic at some level. And aging, which can be really beneficial. And that's, you know, I think one of the things people need to recognize is that a lot of the things we've done in weight loss are because it's hard to study aging. We know that aging is a very slow process and we talked earlier about dexas, not necessarily very sensitive. You'd have to control diet for two decades to really prove a meal distribution in aging. So we use weight loss, which is a more catabolic short-term effect to say, well, we can prove it in concept that first meal helps to spare protein. And then by extrapolation, we say, we think that will help in the aging process. But that's harder to prove. And you did a really great well-designed study that included both diet and exercise. There was one group that was, you said quote, low protein, which was actually the RDA. It was point eight grams per kilogram or point three, seven grams per pound, body weight. And I think that they had an average of, do you remember the protein number? I was right around 60 grams in that group. And the carbohydrate, do you remember the carbohydrate number? I think it ended up being just under 140 grams per day. And then the other group had was a double. Oh, I'm sorry. No, the 140s in the second group. So their carbohydrate intake was just about 200. 200. One group had a 200 gram carbohydrate diet with 60 grams per protein. And then what did the other group had? 140 grams of 130 grams of carbohydrate with 120 grams of protein. So we basically substituted out about 50 grams of carbs for 50 grams of protein. And it was isocolor. So the calorie. So totally isocoloric as much as we could do it. And a couple of the first studies we actually fed the meal. So we knew exactly. Yeah, I know. Yeah. And Gabrielle got to do something. I got to pack those meals. Yes, sir. So we had pretty good control of how to do it and how to feed it and how to monitor it. So we were pretty good at it. And what were the results? And also there was an exercise piece. People feel, again, when we talk about aging and body composition, they're a very, it's a very separate conversation than sport performance. Sure. Right. And what I want to be very clear, we at this conversation right now, this is about aging. This is about aging and maintaining lean body mass, which includes bone organ skeletal muscle with a maximum as much as possible loss in body fat. We're not talking about your one rep max or your maximum VO2 output. Any of these other things we are talking about. How can we make improvements to the things that we are doing daily? Thank you to inside tracker for sponsoring this episode of the show. Blood work is key. It is one of the pillars that you guys must be looking at. Typically, you want to look at your blood work quarterly. You want to understand where your baseline is. You want to treat your body like a business. You want to hit quarterly goals and make corrections when necessary. Inside tracker makes this accessible to you. Go to insidetrecker.com slash doctor lion. You'll be able to choose from a multitude of various ways to get your blood work done and packages. You'll get 20% off. And if you are a healthcare professional or a coach, inside tracker has this amazing new platform that is free. It basically allows you to for no cost for professionals looking to take data driven and personalize approaches to their clients. It offers a platform to help you do this. Whether you are a lay person or a healthcare professional inside tracker is an absolute must. I use it personally for myself. Head over to insidetracker.com slash doctor lion and you'll get 20% off. So we had done a lot of research with weight loss during calorie restriction, even starvation. And we knew that if you use starvation, just simply don't eat that the body weight loss will be faster, but it'll be very heavily mean body mass. Seven days of starvation, 50% of your weight loss will be mean body mass. And we know in adults that's not very recoverable. So we wanted to start designing diets that would spare lean body mass. We think that's part of the problem of why is weight loss so temporary. People tend to gain it back, yo-yo dieting. So we thought it was really because of losing too much lean body mass. And so the food guide pyramid was our goal with the higher carbohydrate low protein. We said, okay, this is the standard. This is the dietary guideline that everybody says is going to correct all of health, heart disease, diabetes. So we're going to feed that. And so we fed it to people. And in our first few studies what we found was the longer we fed it, the worse their metabolism got. But in this study, basically weight loss, they lost weight because we were restricting calories. All of the groups had about a 50, about a 500 calorie per day restriction of calories from their baseline. So in this food guide pyramid group, they lost about 14 pounds over a four month period. Which is good. They lost weight. Which is good, you know, exactly what we're looking for. And we looked at the body composition and we saw that about 35% of that weight loss was lean tissue. So 35% that weight loss was. So 65 was fat, which is good. But 35% was lean. So we talk about sarcapina losing muscle over over time. Well, we just made them lose muscle. We just aged them. And so we thought, okay, well, that's not great. We then added exercise on top of this trying blunt that effect. So we made that we had another group. This was what we call a two by two designs. And how old were the participants? They range from, I don't know that off the top. But they range from about 35 to 65. We were older. I would mean. I think the average age was in the mid 40 mid to late 40s, maybe early 50s. So they're a midlife group. But we had a couple women. These were all women in their late 30s. I think maybe a couple two 38 year olds. But anyway, mostly older women midlife. Good correction there. I'm sorry. I don't want, I don't want any hate mail. I don't want any. I get trouble having just had a birthday. I totally appreciate that. Anyway, so we then had a group that we also on the Food Guide pyramid. But we had them doing five days a week of walking. They had supervised 30 minutes of walking per day. And then two days of supervised resistance training. And what we found was they lost a little bit more weight, not much interestingly. It went from like 14 to 15 pounds. So they did four months of exercise and got a one pound effect. Is that why they say that exercise is not a good way to lose weight? I mean, I don't know if I believe that. I mean, it really does. Let me buffer it. Okay, good. You know, what we found then was that their weight loss was a little more fat and a little less lean. So now they only lost 25% of the weight loss was lean. So part of that weight loss is that they actually spared some lean. They get, they didn't gain it, but they didn't lose as much. So that, you know, if they lost the same amount of fat and lean as the other group, they'd lost more weight. So by by sparing protein, you lose less weight, which is more healthy. Okay, so then the other group was our higher protein low carb. And so after the same period of time, what we found in the protein group is their weight loss was 35% mean tissue. So they, I'm sorry, 25%. So they got exactly the same benefit just by having a higher protein diet is the food-guide pyramid group that had four months of exercise. So let's, so we have to pause and say that again, basically you had two groups of individuals. One group who went on a high carbohydrate, a low protein diet, and did four months of exercise. And another group that just increased their protein amount and did no exercise. And they lost equal. They actually lost more weight that high protein. Yeah, high protein. So they lost, they lost somewhere 17 and a half, they 18 pounds. So they lost more total weight. And the composition was as good as the people who did four months of exercise. And then the fourth group was the group that had the high protein and exercise. And now they're composition. Their lean mass loss was only 6%. So we basically now have protected all of their lean tissue. Most people would say that the lean tissue, that's a obligatory that would go with the fat loss is at least 3%. And just for the listener, what he's talking about is lean tissue within the fat, whether it's connective tissue or that's the system. So the minimum that you could lose with the weight loss would have to be at least 3 or 4%. So we've basically now totally spared muscle. And they lost 23 pounds. So they lost almost twice as much total weight as the people who are just doing the food guy pyramid. And they lost 100% from body fat. What would be the takeaway then for someone listening saying, I need to design a diet to lose body fat. So obviously higher protein, low carb, and resistance exercise, exercise in general is the combination that's going to be most beneficial. So that is a lifestyle change of how you approach it. But the higher protein and the exercise protects your lean tissue, particularly your muscle while you're getting rid of the body fat. And we think that's a sustainable weight loss. You've corrected body composition without jeopardizing your metabolic the active tissues. And I also want to highlight the activity that I'm going to call you out here because we're talking exercise. And really it was five days a week, 30 minutes walking, and two days a week of resistance exercise. I would love to hear you tell us what their resistance training program was because the goal is for individuals to understand that everybody makes choices and not everybody makes good choices. And this allows you to make good choices in a way that it's not crazy because when you hear the exercise plan when individuals lost nearly 100% fat was nothing rigorous. Yeah. I mean, we again, we had our our midlife women who aren't well-plated, who aren't in general, gym or arts. They don't love going to the gym and pumping iron. And so when we did find contrary to the person sitting across the table from that. And so we wanted to design a resistance exercise that was based on range of motion and stretch against resistance. So we had a 30 minute supervised session where they did about 12 minutes of yoga supervised. Again, it's more rigid type of resistance. It's not necessarily movement, but it's resistance. It's body weight resistance. And then they did another 25 minutes of non-alist machines, but we didn't require them to put any weight on it. We told them we're interested in range of motion. We want you to do two sets of 12 reps. And basically you can put on whatever weight you want. And so most of them did very light weights and that had the benefit. And it had the benefit in both diets, but it had an enormous synergistic effect in the higher protein diet. Why do you think that was? Do you think they were untrained individuals? Yes, most of these were not exercising people. They were by definition obese. They were above 30 percent, BMI, 30 percent body fat. So they were sedentary obese untrained. And so it definitely had an effect. But and it had a dramatic effect on that weight loss. And did you also look at blood lipids? We always look at blood lipids and blood glucose and blood insulin and all of the studies. Clearly when you're doing reductions of carbohydrates, which you're looking at is more than metabolic syndrome type of thing. So blood pressure, waste or conference, HDLs, triglycerides. We always find that when you go to a lower carbohydrate diet, you dramatically drop triglycerides by at least 20 percent. And in fact, that actually became one of our primary biomarkers for diet compliance. If we found individuals weren't reducing it, we knew they weren't following the diet. Can you give me an example of the gram that they started at and the gram that you reduce them to to see that those changes in triglycerides? So when they first came into the study, their total carbohydrates were probably close to 300 per day. So we reduced everybody's calorie intake down. And so when we were looking at the food guy pyramid group, they were getting just under 200 grams of carbs per day. And then in our group that was getting the reduced carb, they were getting about 135 grams. What we have seen is that to get these triglycerides effects, you need to get below about 140 grams of carbs per day. So 100 grams, 90, 120 grams, you should see that effect. So we see the threshold of about 140. So if people wander above their snacking or whatever, and they wander above 140 grams per day, the triglycerides will come back up. And that's a really good marker. And if someone is listening, obviously check with your doctor, or we use inside tracker, you can look at where it's not that before it was very difficult to get blood work to actually see where you were at. And the way down and I think about as we look at a few things that are very simple. We look at fasting insulin, fasting glucose, triglycerides. And those are really the three that we examine to determine, is this individual healthy, do they have healthy skeletal muscle on the other side to that is that is fasting so it's unchallenged. Sure. There is real benefit to doing an oral glucose tolerance test and actually seeing what your your fed lipids do. And we and I'll just interrupt you there. We did that in all of our study. So we actually did as opposed to an oral glucose tolerance, which is giving you 75 grams of a pure carbohydrate. What we did was give everyone a diet challenge based on their breakfast meal. So we basically looked at the glucose response and the people following the food dip pyramid versus the blood glucose and insulin response and the people following the low carb. So these are realistic responses to the meal. And what we found was in the individuals who we put on the food guy pyramid, the longer they were on that the worse their blood glucose tolerance God. So making them follow that high carb or high diet low protein, which was actually different than their baseline. Their baseline was a little more higher protein and lower carb than what we put them on in terms of a ratio. And so by putting them on the food guy pyramid as the guideline stated it made it worse. I will never remember. I will never forget one of the dietitians that I had in my group at that time. I won't give a last name, but Donna had worked at a local clinic in the weight loss clinic for 10 years before I hired her and she was teaching the food guy pyramid. And so when I got my group together, I went and hired Donna. I went and hired her because I knew she would teach the control correctly. She wasn't biased toward my thinking about protein. And she came into my after the end of the first study, she came into my office crying saying, I can't believe I was teaching people that way and it was making them worse. It's tough. I mean nutrition. Nutrition information is very challenging because of the things that we don't see, whether it's policy or influence from money. There's just a lot that we don't see which makes the dissemination of information. Again, there's just roadblocks. There are roadblocks. And your point earlier is that nutrition research is hard to do. It's hard to control people's diet for long enough to get meaningful outcomes. And it takes a lot of skill to put together those kinds of controlled studies. You can do a one meal test, but the control a diet for a meaningful link the time is really challenging. Thank you to first form for sponsoring this episode of the show. I get so many questions on childhood nutrition. And that's why I wanted to highlight something that we use in our house called Optikits. First form makes a chocolate milkshake that is nutrient dense, meaning it has protein in it. It has vitamins and minerals in it. It tastes great. And you know, the kids will eat what you provide them. Strong kids make strong adults. And we really love our children. We want them to have the best quality of life, the best quality of life comes with the best quality nutrition. First form dot com slash doctor lion. Go to the kids section and you'll pick Optikits. It has protein in it. It has greens and reds. I don't know if your kids are like mine, but every time I try to feed them broccoli, I find it underneath the table stuffed into the corner. First form dot com slash doctor lion. Okay, we're going to play game. Oh, going to this thrown into the bus here. Yeah, don't know lightning. Lightning round. We're all you get to say is yes or no, which is the hardest thing for a scientist to do is to actually say when a doctor you know giving away all your intellectual integrity secrets. Taking oral branch animal assets almost always know essential amino acids clinically useful. You're cheating. No, this is cheating. Oh, waste of money cheating. Facing. No, depends on age. No, I guess this is she's really doing. I know. She knows the answers. You guys I've known Don for over 20 years now. I do know all of these answers, but I have to share his brilliance with you guys. Creteen. All of the ovens is very beneficial. That is not yes or no. I know. I don't take it. So I guess a yes is a vague, you know, if I really believe it, why don't I take it? Right. There you go. P protein. One of the more soluble of the of the so that's yes. Okay, so we will have a yes. You know, the bio digest abilities probably less than 80 percent and the purity is probably less than 70 percent. Animal agriculture causing climate change. Our cows killing the planet. No. You know, we didn't we didn't touch on saturated fat. We'll kind of leave that to the side. People always want to talk about saturated fat, etc. We don't add any extra fat into our diet. I definitely think fat is part of the calorie balance. I use reduced fat. But I'm not fat phobic. I don't worry about saturated fat. If the fat comes in the natural food, I think it's okay. There's a lot of dairy data about that. But adding saturated fat on top of, you know, some synthetic oil, you know, hydrogidating an oil is a really bad choice. How did you know? Now we're going to circle back to your lightning round, which you didn't get. I mean, that was you. Are you failed that you're going to have brassian amino acids? You said, no, maybe maybe no. Why? So people want to say, well, Lucy and a brassian amino acids can trigger. I'm torsional. Let's just take a supplement. Well, as soon as you trigger, I'm torsional. You need all the rest of the amino acids. So why not eat protein? It's a waste of money. The one exception to that is I think there's a possibility that in a condition where proteins restricted, for example, somebody in bed rest or somebody who's not able to eat a lot. And so they maybe their maximum meal was only 15 grams of protein. You can add branch tina amino acids on top of that. And you can trigger them torn. Make it look like it's about 30 grams of protein. Chances are it doesn't run as long chances are you'll run out of the other amino acids. But you can buffer the fact that you can only give 15 or 20 grams. I've actually sometimes tried to use it at lunch where we may have only had 15 grams of protein but add branch tina on top of that. So I think there may be some unique situations, but just adding it in as a supplement after a workout, I think is useless. And I waste of money. I'm going to soften his answer for five things that the places in which we use it in clinical practice are if an individual is looking to reduce their calories and again, you should never reduce your calories from protein. But let's say we can't get them to eat enough and they're having a meal that has 15 grams of protein. We'll use a branch tina amino acid in addition or if someone is having fish, maybe three ounces of fish and or some kind of plant protein will add in a branch tina amino acid. That would be one way in which we would utilize that. And what we've actually seen in research, if you just give looseine without anything else, you'll deplete the blood of all the other amino acids because you're starting protein synthesis. So they're all going to go down and they're going to stop. And what we've also seen is it'll deplete the branch tina, twice as fast because looseine actually stimulates the oxidation of valine and isolucine. So it's all about balance and we definitely side with having whole foods whenever possible. There are some clinical instances where intakes reduce and then you have to do other things. What about essential amino acids? That was a yes, no, yes, no. I mean, clearly if you have enough essential amino acids by definition, the body can make the others. So our protein requirement is for the nine essential and then non-essential nitrogen. I think again, it's better to take in the non-essential amino acids but the body can make it. So again, in reality for most of us, that's just an incredibly expensive way to go as a supplement. But again, in clinical situations, renal failure, there's all kinds of reasons where you could give essential amino acids and minimize the total nitrogen load or maximize your protein synthesis with the minimum amount of calories. So there's a reason to do it, but in general, it's a waste of money for the average person. But again, there could be some use, especially if you can't get to eat or you're having a meal that's low in protein. You said fasting was a no, right? Did you say no, yes, I got confused because it wasn't straight forward answer. Good. I'm glad I confused your own. I have totally confused. There's this idea that fasting is some miracle thing and the reality is, if you're young, your body will tolerate fasting pretty well and you'll recover from it. But what we know is that fasting and older adults probably generate a fairly significant loss of lean body mass and to the extent that it's muscle loss, it chances are not recoverable. If you're going to recover, it's going to take massive volumes of resistance exercise and you can maybe do it, but we think it's a bad idea. So fasting to me is something more than 48 hours. I think for anyone over 40, they should never do that. I think if you're 20 year old and you do it, you're probably fine, but I think having balanced diets is a much better approach. Where do you think the future of protein research is going? It's a great question. I personally think that we need to finally start moving away from talking about protein, which is really just a food delivery system. We don't take protein in the body. Oh my gosh, we don't have to talk about protein anymore. It's food being. I mean, we have to have to do it myself. We have to have those amino acids. We don't talk about a vitamin pill on the food label. We talk about vitamins. Why do we talk about protein on the food label? Why don't we talk about amino acids? I think the future is that we need to recognize lysine and lysine and methionine and threonine as individual nutrients. I think as we move into this discussion, this narrative about plant-based diets, that's going to become more important. Where do we get these essential amino acids? How do we balance them and what's their bioavailability? So I think we're going to have to be much more specific and stop talking about this generic term protein. Well, Dr. Donald Laman, thank you so much for coming on the show. We could talk for hours, but we'll spare everybody and let them digest no pun intended. Mom jokes coming in hot. The information that you provided and just to recap, I'm going to ask you, this is going to be your top three tips to lose weight. Who's weight? Wow. Body fat, top three tips. Calories. There are a lot of ways to lose weight, but they all come down to getting your calories in control. How's the best way to do that? I personally think that reducing carbohydrates and increase protein helps you with satiety, helps you with thermogenesis, helps you protect body composition, and then write it to top of the list as exercise, resistance exercise. Pretty great straightforward advice and obviously again, thank you so much for everything that you've done for me and the world. We love you and thank you again. Great fun to be here with you.

You've probably heard the claim that eating red meat causes cancer. That message went global. Hardly, any understood where it came from, or the science behind the claim. Dr. David Clearfeld spent decades at the USDA. He's not a fringe voice. He helped write the US Dietary Guidelines. This episode may change how you think about red meat, science, and who is shaping your health. Consumption of raw red meat, unprocessed red meat, I don't think has any identifiable cancer risk at all. The food industry pays attention to the guidelines. The public doesn't. On a good day, one out of 20 Americans meets the Dietary Guidelines recommendations. On a bed day, everybody's slumming their nose at them. Are you concerned that a lot of what we've been told about red meat has been built on shaky science, you should be. Keep watching to find out what red meat really means for your health. Dr. David Clearfeld, welcome to the show. Thank you. I cannot tell you how long I have been reading what you have been researching and publishing. You've just been a tremendous force. It is not always easy to be a fantastic scientist and to question and push for transparency. But you have done that. You are up there better than anybody that I think is out there. So just welcome to the show. Thanks. I could roll up my sleeves and show you some of the bruises. But I'm not sure your fans want to see it. Yeah. Well, we are going to talk about the bruises. And to give people context about you and your work, you have been in academics for years. You recently retired. So congratulations. You were an adjunct professor in the Indiana University School of Public Health. You also retired as National Program Leader for Human Nutrition in the US DA Agricultural Research Service. And that was at the end of 2020. Prior to that, you have a long list of accolades. Professor and chairman of the Department of Nutrition and Food Science at Wayne University in Detroit, Michigan for 12 years. And then of course, before that, you were faculty at the Wistard Institute and at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine for 15 years. Yeah. It seems like you just haven't been doing much for all that time. Really extraordinary. But it goes beyond that. You've published more than 200 peer reviewed articles, book chapters. Associate editor of the American Journal of Clinical for Clinical Nutrition for 12 years. And you're currently the Associate Editor of the Journal of Nutrition. Right. Distinguished Fellow. And that is ASN. Again, this goes on and on. But one of the reasons why I really wanted you to come here is you have been very outspoken in terms of your work and your research. You're pushing for transparency and reproducibility. And especially when it comes to nutritional sciences and red meat, also you haven't done a ton of podcasts or speaking publicly. So we're going to share it here. Tell me about a little bit of your journey as to how you just became interested in all of these things regarding nutrition. Well, I have no formal training in nutrition. My undergraduate degree is in agriculture. And as an undergraduate student, I need to tell your short story. I got interested in nutrition and health. And I bought a paperback book in the college bookstore called The Poisons in Your Food. And it's still on my bookshelf at home. But I re-read it about 10 or 15 years ago. And it's garbage. It's really scary, I'm on-guring. But I worked in my last summer in college. I worked in a pathology lab at a hospital in New York City. And I got really interested in pathology. And I applied to graduate programs in pathology and was accepted at the Medical College of Virginia. And ended up getting a master's in PhD in human pathology. As a post-doctoral fellow, I went to work with David Crichevsky, who is a very famous nutritional biochemist. And always described himself as a biochemist, not as a nutritionist. But it was one of the most prominent nutritionists in the world. And wrote the first book on cholesterol. And was probably the funniest guy in the nutrition business. So I actually ended up working with him for 15 years. And Dave was a very honest guy and put his own work in perspective. And he always said, never change what you do based on one study. And he also wasn't very much a fan of crediting the right people, not sticking to the elite group of people who had seen to hold sway in various scientific fields over time. He used to say that people changed their mind after they die. And that's a problem in science. One of the real problems that has bothered me for decades is the concept of allegiance bias. If you tell me the name of an author of a nutrition paper and just read me the title, I can tell you what the conclusions are just from knowing that person's name. Wow. Yes. And when Dave and I used to do animal studies, things didn't always come out crystal clear and reproducible from study to study. But in the human nutrition business, that seems to be the standard for getting people repeatedly showing the same thing over and over. It's just never that clear cut. Was it always that way? Seems, again, I obviously have not been in the field in the way that you have been. It seems as if things have become a bit more heated, a lot more divisive. And there's a landscape that I've never seen before. And it's really scholars disrespecting scholars, outwardly and vocally and really even to the extent of attempting to ruin people's careers because it didn't align with their views. Absolutely. I don't think that's new. I think it was hidden behind the curtain in the past. Again, I had to advantage Dave Krochevsky was 30 years older than me and was quite prominent when I joined his lab in the 1970s. But he had been invited all over the world and he was an iconoclast and would speak out for moderation and variety, no matter who he was talking to. And I think those are two of the recommendations you can still take to the bank today. And when the world was saying low fat, Dave was saying, wait a minute, it's not that simple. And a lot of recommendations are still stuck in the low fat rut decades later, even those sciences progressed way beyond that. And now saturated fat recommendation at 10% or less, which potentially I think weaponizes food. In 2015, this is a very important conversation. 2015, you were part of 22 scientists that got together with the task of evaluating from what I understand. The carcinot, the cancer causing properties of red meat. And there was an official press release that concluded, which I'm going to read. And it was after thoroughly reviewing the scientific literature, a working group of 22 experts from 10 different countries convened by the IARC program classified the consumption of red meat as a probable carcinogenic to humans. Group two, a based on limited evidence that the consumption of red meat causes cancer, in humans, and strong, mechanistic evidence supporting a carcinogenic effect. Okay, we'll just get better. There's one more section here. Processed meat was classified as carcinogenic to humans, group one, based on sufficient evidence in humans that consumption of processed meat causes colorectal cancer. And I have a quote from you that says, this was the most frustrating professional experience of my life. And it still is 10 years later. It hasn't gotten any less annoying to me. Share with me the background of this group. And the IARC, what its role is and really the impact that it's had. So the IARC International Association Research on Cancer is part of the World Health Organization. They're funded primarily by the US and Japan National Cancer Institutes of those two countries with small contributions from others. Their whole purpose in life is to evaluate the potential cancer causing effects of chemicals in the environment. But they've spread out to other things like foods such as coffee, red meat, and working the night shift. There are things like ultraviolet light exposure where we know this is risk factor for skin cancer. There's pretty solid evidence, cigarette smoking. There's no argument that at least for primary smoking there's no argument that it causes lung cancer and probably cancer and other organs. The group working group that I was on was as you said, 22 scientists, they're all self-nominated. We had to apply to be on that. And I had published a number of studies on a couple on meat but several more on the effects of dietary fat in particular on rodent models of breast and colon cancer. And when I was doing those studies, the dominant thinking was that it was all fat causing the increased risk, that it was nothing else. I think that was a gross, simpleification that even I bought into at the time for a variety of reasons. But coming back to the IARC, once we were all accepted, we worked with a group of staff members there in Geneva, sorry in Leone, we were totally Joe is in Geneva. Where they prepared documents for us to work on and edit and evaluate all the literature that they found for us. This was not a systematic review of the literature which even ten years ago was this and that approach in medicine, there was no meta-analysis of the epidemiology and the epidemiology is what ended up determining the decisions that were made. Can you explain a little bit about epidemiology for the listener who was thinking, okay, well that sounds okay. The epidemiology is the scientific term for observational studies. And the problem with observational studies is when you observe people's behavior, it might be a snapshot in time of how someone's diet is that day that they're filling out the questionnaire and then you make believe that the diet has been the same for 20 or 30 years of follow-up. And there are different kinds of questionnaires where you can ask people to estimate how much read meat they eat or how often they eat red meat. You get a different answer when you ask how many times a month did you eat red meat versus how many ounces a month, do you eat? And so combining those kinds of questionnaires, you're asking differently, you're getting different answers, they're not actually justifiably combatable to get the same answer. Low quality, like low quality evidence. Precisely. And in fact, the working group, there were four subcommittees. I was on the Animal Subcommittee and we decided that the Animal Subcommittees did not contribute to making a decision about red meat because some saw an increase, some saw no change, and some saw a decrease. So the net result was zip, nothing happened. So they relied on mechanistic studies and epidemiology studies. But the mechanistic studies were highly problematic. They claimed that this is what linked the behavior of eating to the end result of colon cancer. But the mechanistic studies simply say what's possible. There's none of those mechanisms were shown to occur in people eating meat. Because I'm looking at this IARC monograph hazard classification. This is published on the World Health Organization. And if someone who was not a scientist like yourself would go to this, this has group one and it basically says smoking, radiation, consumption of alcoholic beverages are sufficient evidence for cancer in humans and the red underneath that is emissions from high temperature frying, DDT, the chemical compound and then consumption of red meat. And this is published and then funny enough, even underneath that, the next group is occupational exposure. So engine exhaust and lead. Red meat trumped that. That's really concerning. Of course. I mean, it's a lack of perspective and it's the hubris that some scientists have that their work is the revealed word and anything somebody else finds is just wild speculation. And that's one of the things serving my last 16 years as a government scientist that a really valuable lesson to me. In the federal government was that the risk assessors are kept separate from the risk managers. And here in the IARC we have the risk assessors voting on managing that risk. And so what does that mean exactly? That means that they don't have the objectivity that's required of saying that we look at all the work equally. Rather we're going to look at my work and say that that's more important than anybody else's work. And part of the problem of that group was you had to have relevant research to the question in hand, 11 of the 22 scientists were epidemiologists. So already everybody on the committee is outnumbered by people doing observational studies. So they were aware one would have to recognize the quality of that evidence even if you are a career epidemiologist. Nutritional epidemiologists believe that they have a different standard from everyone else. And that's why nutritional epidemiology is a raw need to change your field of science. It's not going to get the respect that has because it doesn't deserve the should it have respect, but it uses methods that don't deserve respect to come to positive conclusions. You can certainly come to the conclusion that this should be researched more and that maybe there's a risk here. I would have been happy to have voted that there's a possible risk here from consumption and a process meet. Consumption of raw red meat, unprocessed red meat, I don't think has any identifiable cancer risk at all. But they claimed it did in their summary. And it was basically exclusively on epidemiology. And the summary that you cited that was in Lancet on Colony, reported that the epidemiologists looked at 800 studies. Yeah, I see that here. But then they only used 18 studies out of 800. So 780 of them were thrown out because either they didn't show anything or they didn't show the right result or whatever the reason was. In fact, I will tell you that that monograph was supposed to come out within six months of our meeting in France and it took almost three years. And none of us on the working groups saw the final result before was published. Were the 22 of you sitting all in the room talking through these things together? We were in the room in subcommittees for a few days and then we were in the room as a full committee for several partial days. So the epidemiologists sort of worked on their own to come to a conclusion that the rest of us would agree to. Man, it's hot in Texas. I struggled to drink water that is straight. So adding in element has been key for me for many reasons. Number one, I don't get enough electrolytes in my foods. We should salt it more. And when I'm drinking water, I don't seem to recover as well. Element has been great for me and my husband with 1,000 milligrams of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium and 60 milligrams of magnesium. I have less headaches and muscle cramps. It tastes amazing and you can get element free. They're sample pack with any purchase at drinklmnt.com slash doctor lion. You can also try their bold 16 ounce can of sparkling electrolyte drink. And by the way, everything is risk free. If you don't like it, they will give you your money back. No questions, but I will say they have a very high reorder rate and those little packets. Super cute and easy to travel with. The summer is here and I will tell you what. Element, if you are not using element, then you are living under a rock. If summer isn't here, I don't care if it's winter spring, fall, you will love element. And also, everybody is using it. I use it drink element.com that's drinklmnt.com slash doctor lion. You'll get a free sample pack. If you don't like it, you can give it away. The refund your money. You don't know what you're missing. So get after it. It's fascinating that that would be set up that way because from my understanding science and scientists you're supposed to examine evidence, whether you like that answer or not. And it would make sense that there would be a scientific discussion amongst all of you and then be able to present evidence pro and against. But the individuals, again, it says that looked at more than 800 studies and essentially the majority voted that processed meat causes cancer. But the outcome from this IARC has been tremendous and people continue to quote that me whether it is processed or unprocessed causes cancer. And unfortunately your name is also associated with this paper. How would one begin to explain or think about it? Was there a bias going in? Was there an agenda? How did it from your opinion in your perspective? How did it happen to evolve this way? Well among the epidemiologists, many of them were friends. Many of them had served on previous IARC committees. And almost all of them had already reported that either red or processed meat intake was associated with increased risk of colon cancer. And I think they saw this as an opportunity to reinforce the importance of their work. This is a judgment call on my part. There was no obvious discussion that I heard saying we're going to nail red meat. Cows are responsible for everything. But I think was the attitude. I came in more or less neutral. The studies I had done on fat show that increase in fat increased the risk of different kinds of cancer in rats that were given car's chemical car's intelligence. But we had fed meat to rats and didn't increase the risk at all. And in fact the mechanisms which we touched on just momentarily were only shown in rats. A calcium deficient diet and not red meat but blood sausage eating blood is not the same as eating roast beef. Yes, and this is one of the people on the IARC committee published two papers feeding bacon to rats and given a chemical that induces colon cancer in these animals and eating a diet high in bacon actually reduces the precancerous legions. It seemed that the scientists also use animal studies to justify the biological mechanisms linking meat intake with colon cancer. And your response to that is while these studies are being reported and then somehow getting out to the public in robust ways that the actual studies do not feed meat. But this blood sausage to calcium deficient rats which I don't necessarily know the relationship between calcium deficient rats and what the outcome would be. But I am very well aware that readers were not told the actual way that the study was done. Well for me the calcium deficiency I biochemically I don't know what that meant to the rats. But it tells me it probably didn't happen in normal healthy rats if they have to use calcium deficient rats. Oh that's interesting. And you know calcium's a major mineral in a lot of processes. I see. So it was almost set up to fail and whatever or set up for a particular outcome. I think you understand completely. Hmm. Where does that lead us now? So what was the actual scientific basis for that red meat classification? So it was the combination of the mechanism which was not demonstrated to occur in humans. But in cigarettes, in combination with a very small number of papers that evaluated the association of meat with colon cancer. And in most of those papers scientists are basically told by the editors and reviewers of the journals don't use causative language when you're describing a association. This is a basic scientific approach. You can't show cause and effect from statistical associations. It's simply a statistical correlation. You know there's a correlation between eating cheese and the number of divorces in the state of Maine. I read that was a wonderful paper. I think that I became your number one fan after I read that it was the consumption of margarine and the equivalent of how you would get divorced in Maine. It was unbelievable. We should definitely link that. What was the title of that paper I think I have it here? Don't recall it. Okay. A whole area. But you can show statistical associations. You know when these studies are done, not one of these studies was ever designed to look just at fat, just at meat intake on cancer. It was to look at everything in the diet. So we have dozens of foods, scores of nutrients, maybe a hundred disease related endpoints. So you have thousands of thousands of combinations. Literally more than a hundred thousand potential comparisons that are made. You know that the statistical standards, P, L, S, and O, 5 are a 5% chance of it being a real difference. Well, with 120,000 potential comparisons, you have 6,000 potential false positives. More than the total number of papers that were examined in this exercise. Did you have a sense when you were on the International Agency for Research on Cancer? Did you go in there thinking one way or the other? I was skeptical, I would say, of the relationship. I didn't feel that it was as soft as it ended up being. Meaning why? That you really couldn't decide anything on either red or process meat being causally related to any disease endpoint that we examined. What about now? Have you ever seen a weaker? You think it's weaker. I don't think it's gotten better with age. Were you shocked at the outcome of this working group of what would... Shock is one of the words that went through my brain. I'm sure all was in and there. I was really discouraged. I really thought that well-trained scientists would be more discerning in their take on the relationship between the observational studies and the endpoints of importance. When you began to question the group or the outcome of the group, what role do you think their personal bias is played? Were these people that were... I don't know, vegetarian, were there certain... Were there activists? What kind of individual scientists were applying to these committees? Well, a number of the scientists on the committee were vegetarians. In fact, the first night we were together. They had a dinner at a restaurant. And I sat next to someone who was the head of nutrition for the World Health Organization. And I said to her that I thought that people who were vegetarians should make a public disclosure on this committee, if their vegetarians, I felt that that was intellectual conflict of interest. And she laughed and said, well, I'm a vegetarian. So that was the end of our dinner conversation about what we ate. But it told me something... So I paid attention to the meals that the other scientists who were on the committee were eating. And I would say at least half and probably two-thirds of the people on the committee, I didn't count. More than half for sure were vegetarians. It becomes very challenging for the general population and even physicians like myself who no longer do research and are not career scientists. When I see things looking at papers that are quoted, I'm just going to give you an example. So this is arguments that I hear against red meat consumption. This is a large perspective study found that replacing red meat with plant protein was associated with a 10 to 19 percent lower risk of all cause and cardiovascular mortality based on data from over 131,000 participants. And that was a published in 2012. Are you aware of that one? Yes. And there's even more. Maybe perhaps you can comment on that. But I want to read a few more statistics. Because the reason I'm doing this is people like you and with your credentials and your years decades in the field are very different than the young influence or even young scientists because arguably the science done now seems to be a little bit different. It seems as if there's a lot less randomized control trials, a lot less rigor. But these are the statements that headlines that we're seeing. And then here's another one. Colorectal cancer risks increased by 17 percent per 100 gram of red meat consumed daily according to another meta analysis. Do you care to comment on either of those two statements? Because these are quite often quoted. Sure. So the last statement about the 17 percent increase. That comes from the IARC review. And that was the number from the epic study, the European perspective investigation on cancer. Again, 10 years ago, we was standard to do systematic review in a meta analysis that wasn't done by the IARC staff. Within six months of our meeting, another dose response systematic review and meta analysis was published showing that if you're in the highest group of intake of red meat, not not processed meat, but just red meat. It didn't matter if your highest intake was 20 grams a day or 200 grams a day, you had a similar risk. Meaning the people eating the most had the worst outcome for colon cancer. But there's a 10 fold difference there and that doesn't seem to matter. Now with 130,000 or so that's one of those Harvard studies. It seems to always be recycled. And so the people who eating the most red meat compared to the most plant protein, those are very different diets, not just they're not substituting plant protein for beef. They can do a statistical model that switches those. But the people who are worried about their health and worried about following all the recommendations are the people who aren't smoking, who aren't sitting on their couch pumping aluminum every evening. You know, they're exercising, they're not smoking. They weigh less. They're following all the health recommendations. And for me, the aha moment was the publication from the NIH AARP study, which is more than a half million people. There were 70,000 deaths and they linked red meat consumption versus white meat consumption, white meat being poultry and fish. And the risk of every cause of death went up statistically significantly with red meat consumption. So we have heart disease, we have cancer. But we have accidents going up exactly the same amount as cancer. So tell me how eating a roast beef sandwich makes you get into a fatal accident. And there was another cause of all other causes. And there were 10 different causes of infections, of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. And some other diseases that I'm just not recalling from 15 years ago, that was even significantly higher than cancer or accidental deaths. And in the white meat group, all the causes of death were significantly lower except heart disease. It didn't seem like eating chicken decreased your risk of heart disease. But what it tells me is there are other health behaviors that haven't even been thought about that and certainly not measured in these studies. But the epidemiologists say, oh, there are always confounders, but we measured white and ask people how much they exercise. Therefore don't worry about it. And that's simply nonsense. That just poor quality research. And you see papers like that come out and you see them recycled. And you think about the effect that that kind of perspective will have on our youth. Do you have a thought as to how to course correct? And you've also been involved in the US dietary guidelines. I'm curious as to how that came about. Well, I think part of the problem is grading the strength of the evidence and that I would have like to see for the IARC committee did, did created one, two, A, two, B, and three. And three was we can't determine the carcinogenicity. But interestingly, when I was on that working group, there was a fourth category of it's not carcinogenic. And there in the decades that they had been doing these reviews for IARC, there were roughly a thousand reviews and one chemical, one out of a thousand was scored category four, not carcinogenic. And they eliminated that fourth category sometime in the last five years. So what this says is there is a change in philosophy from IARC that's gotten in my estimation worse. If we investigate your guilty, it's whether or not we can prove it. Because you can't now be assessed as not causing cancer. And this is problematic for coffee, which is reassessed just a few years ago. How tell me about that? Is that why you see signs if you're in California, you see signs that coffee has some compound in it that could cause cancer? Right. And you know, I forgot it was in the early 1990s, it was a probable carcinogen. And then in 2018 there was a re-reviewed after lots of criticism that just never let up. And it was deemed a possible carcinogen. And so by California Prop 65, it's known to the state of California to kill you. You know, it's just nonsense. It seems as if it's gotten worse again, not better. What would you, well, how, you know, I think I want to shift a little bit to the US, the dietary guidelines and how you got involved in that. Because I'm assuming from what I know about you is that you've really tried to make improvements and really ask transparent conversations. How did you get involved in the US dietary guidelines and what was your role in the USDA? Okay. So I joined the USDA in 2004 and I was involved with four different guidelines in 5, 10, 15, and 20. Sort of different roles. My job at USDA was the National Programulator for Human Nutrition Research. I oversaw six human nutrition research centers around the country. Roughly 600 scientists, 80 something million a year budget. That's tremendous. We were the tremendous. It was a lot of work, but a really joyful job, that to say, a lot of really creative people who were, for the most part, they're to find the right, since they're the right answers to find the answers, whether they were right or wrong. I really, I really appreciate that statement. And that's part of the problem that a lot of people come in thinking and rightly so you have to hypothesize a particular way something's going to come out. But you have to be prepared to not have it come out the way you plan it to come out. In fact, that's what I learned as a graduate student that a good study always generates additional questions that you need to ask. Thank you to one of my all-time favorite products, my opinion, made by timeline. If all companies operated with such scientific rigor and integrity, the entire supplement landscape would be changed. Why I love and have used mitochondria forever is because I trust their science. I have felt stronger. I have had more endurance since being consistent with mitochondria. mitochondria is a precise dose of the post-phiotic urlithinate. It works by promoting an essential cellular cleanup. It clears out dysfunctional mitochondria. It is the only urlithinate supplement on the market clinically proven in human trials to target the effects of age-related cellular decline. Please sign me up. And from my perspective, it is the ultimate in muscle health and whole body health supplement. The current human data supports its benefit from muscle health, strength, endurance like I mentioned, the stronger you are, the better. I wish that I'd come up with it myself. Timeline is offering 10% off your order. Go to timeline.com slash lion. That's timeline.com slash lion. Get 10% off or use the code lion L-Y-O-N. As a follow-up, and I don't think modern science admits that anymore. We have an answer to this question. No more research is needed. Just listen to me and you'll be fine. So let's come back to the dietary guidelines. A lot of it first, the dietary guidelines are written by a small office in the USDA which I had some connection to but was not part of. And a small office at Health and Human Services, which again I had some connection to but was not part of. Most of the people writing the guidelines are dietitians, not scientists. Very well-intentioned people, not necessarily trained in the details of experimental design, so not necessarily capable of interpreting some of the weaknesses that you need to pay attention to. In the last 20 guidelines that I participated in, I was given a fancy title of co-executive secretary of the dietary guidelines. I actually, there were no other co-executive secretaries, so I don't actually know. Will your counterpart list? Well, I don't know what that meant, but I was in charge of overseeing the peer reviews of the systematic reviews that were first implemented then to the USDA to evaluate a number of research questions. They had 62 questions and only 30 of them were evaluated with a systematic review. And part because it just took so long, there wasn't enough manpower of money. They didn't have chat, GPT at the time. No. There's always this perception outside the government, oh, there was a conspiracy by the food industry telling the USDA to back off and we would hurt the sales of B4 or Vell Vita cheese or something. That's nonsense. Certainly the food industry is very, very interested. More so than the public in the dietary guidelines for Americans. And they are allowed to submit written comments just like anybody in the public is. They're allowed to make oral statements just like anybody in the public is. But nobody from the food industry who can and a number of people contacted me during these processes probably with the hope that I would see their point of view, but nobody ever said to me, I want you to put the word in for whatever food I'm selling. Nobody had the nerve or stupidity to do that. But the public thinks in a lot of nutrition scientists claim that's standard practice. Meaning what exactly I sent you an email that says, I really want you to add, I don't know, almond juice because I think, would that be something, what would be an example of? Well, I don't think you would do it with an email because freedom of information act makes made all of my emails public knowledge. In fact, that happened to me more than once where some activist group asked for seven years worth of emails to and from a dozen or more different groups in the individuals, which amount to tens of thousands of emails that are freedom of information officer, and I had to go through. I do. Which was harassment as far as I'm concerned. They found nothing. Why would they what happened there? So you went to work for the USDA to contribute to the dietary guidelines. You were overseeing 600 scientists and millions and millions and millions of dollars to try to put together a recommendation or a pathway for people. Is that what did I? Most of the work that we did in the Human Nutrition Research Program did not contribute to the dietary guidelines for Americans, but it did contribute to general nutrient requirement research. Which would then hopefully inform the guidelines. Exactly. Yeah. And were you harassed by your findings and were you publishing a hot? What was taking me through a little bit about the history? So you would oversee all these scientists. They would, would they present to you the studies that they were working on or come to you for experimental design? You guys would meet? Sure. All of the above. I mean, I had to approve any research plan for the five year cycle that our research worked on. And if it didn't get my OK, it didn't move forward. And so there's this sort of a check and balance again, scientific creativity versus authenticity. Yeah, that's really challenging. I can only imagine how many studies were you were during that time you there for what 12 years? 16, but it was counting. I mean, was that just 100s, 1000s, how many? Oh, yeah. There were, we grouped scientists together. So we might have 80 to 100 plans for the 600 scientists in a given year. Wow. And you would have that, that I could see being, I don't know if it's a challenging position, but you would have to be able to balance, you know, so I want to talk about plan protein versus read me, which is exactly what you were doing or various other nutrients. And I could see where you'd have to, that would be a lot of scrutiny. Absolutely. And in fact, we had a lot of research looking at the value of adding different plant compounds and different fruits and vegetables to the diet, both in people and in test animal models. Because that's really the only time you can totally control the diet unless you're locking people up. And our nutrition research centers actually had inpatient facilities to do that. We did that at Washio. Yeah, Washio was Penn State, Washio. Yeah. They're, um, Pennyton in Baton Rouge. They're a very limited number of these metabolic wards that can do good quality nutrition studies. But all of the six human nutrition research centers of USDA brand had that capability. Well, we're some of the surprising findings during that 16 years. Wow. Or was there any that really stood out to you? Or that led to a bit of harassment where an activist group wanted to see seven years of emails? Well, the, the, um, harassment was actually because one of my responsibilities was to share a working group of government scientists with industry scientists to create a public private partnership to fund a large long-term human feeding study. And I was assigned by the Undersecretary for Research at USDA to share this committee. So I sent an email around to the scientists that somehow fell into the hands. And in the email basically said, here's an editorial, I believe it was in the British medical journal. That says, here's why nutrition scientists are against public private partnerships that we need to move forward. In a medical journal. And I, so it's public record. I said, just read this, you know, it addresses the task we've been assigned by the Undersecretary. And somehow this fell into the hands of an activist group. And for any reason, they can ask through freedom information for any amount of correspondence. And, you know, if they asked for emails with one person over six months, they're looking for something, but they asked for seven years with dozens of people and organizations. Was there a reason why? Her as well. I felt it was harassment. They were looking for something which they apparently didn't find. Because this was many years ago. They never published anything. So I'm assuming they found nothing. What do you think some of the biggest myths are about nutritional research? Wow. Okay, the biggest myth is what you see in the news media, whether it's traditional news media or online influencers, it's picking up a single association study, an observation of, not cleaning your fingernails leads to 10 points lower IQ. Well, that explains it today. And, you know, everybody starts scrubbing their nails with a brush and chlorox, because that's what the study said. But, you know, it might, it's probably because somebody who walks around with dirty fingernails is maybe working manually and not reading and not learning. You know, there's other things to think about. And, again, if there's one study, that's, that's an interesting, maybe we should test it a second time. And, I would not change my diet based on a single study, even if it's a controlled feeding study, because most controlled feeding studies are what we call efficacy. Under a planned controlled set of conditions, it works. But, under your lifestyle, it may have no connection whatsoever. Under a larger group of 2000 people, maybe we don't see anything, but we can only afford to feed 20 people for two weeks. So, you know, there's this nuance that the public doesn't understand in scientists sort of blindly ignore. What would you tell someone who really wants to learn? And they'll get a study and it is interesting because right now, myself and many others, we educate in short soundbites. And we do our very best. Right. What is a responsible way that you see to be able to educate the public when we recognize that, you know, it's not just one study and it's not, it's not even just two studies. It's really a body of literature. So, I've been doing this for almost 50 years. And I'm a lot less certain about anything in nutrition today. I mean, clearly we know a lot about nutrient requirements. But I'll give you an example. I can tell you what your vitamin C requirement is more or less. But if you're a cigarettes moaker, it's really different than if you're a non-smoker. If you're living in a polluted place, it's more than if you're living out in the woods somewhere. So, I need to know a lot about your personal lifestyle. And that's one of the things where nutrition is going. Towards personalization, we have this food is medicine, great soundbite. But I'm not sure food is medicine. I believe food can stay off the need for medicine. Food can prevent you from requiring medicine. So, in some ways, it's like medicine, but it's not the equivalent of taking a statin drug to lower your cholesterol. You can use diet to drop your serum cholesterol 5% or 10%. But if you have genetically high cholesterol, unfortunately, you can rely on drugs and it's really effective. But to prevent a heart attack, we talk about in medical research, we talk about the number needed to treat. You know, almost everybody should say the vast majority of people's serum cholesterol is lowered by taking statins. But to prevent a heart attack, you probably need to treat 30 to 50 people to prevent one heart attack. You know, with them, we think about the guidelines and the guidelines make really mass generalizations. How do you think about that? How do you think about the dietary guidelines and the recommendations that we're seeing? This is one of the real problems that we have that if guidelines are more personalized, then maybe there's no single set of rules for anybody. And you can sort of get around the recommendations. And how would that be? So for so the way I think about it is they will say again, saturated fat, just because that seems to really derail everything. If the diet is 10% or less should be saturated fat. But, you know, I'm not sure where that science came from, are you? Yes. Where? It came from the air. So when dietary recommendations were first starting, the American Heart Association sort of ruled the world. And I was a member of the Heart Association for decades and finally abandoned them. I refused to give them a dollar anymore. But the American average intake was 40% fat and the agreement in the field was we have to cut fat in half, which would be 20% and the agreement among the experts was nobody will reach 20%. So let's say make the goal 30%. It's half way towards the real goal. And where do they come up with that? And all just for fun? Pretty much. You know, there's there are very few populations on Earth that are eating 20% fat. You know, in Thailand, the fat intake 50 years ago was around 20% fat. But protein was also a little bit lower. They were eating a lot of rice. You know, that's one of the things that white food is bad for you. You know, sugar, A is not a metal, a ballad poison. Rice does not make you fat. You know, a third of the world was slim, living with rice as their basic staple food until their diets sort of crapped out by getting westernized, by doing less physical activity, by moving to big cities. There are lots of changes that the confounders that we talked about earlier, all change at the same time. So you can't pick out one or two things. There's six or 10 things that happen simultaneously. So to come back to the fat levels, the interim target for the heart solutions with 30% and so 10% fat from fats, monos, and polys just pulled out of the air. So our saturated fat intake has been for several years now around 11%. Not anymore than that. It used to be 14% back when we were eating 40% fat. So we've reduced significantly in part because the median history has raised lower fat pigs and trimmed beef more. But in large part because processed food formulas have changed because the food industry pays attention to the guidelines. The public doesn't. You know, on a good day, one out of 20 Americans meets the dietary guideline recommendations. On a bad day, everybody's slumming their nose at them. So, but the food industry, when the guideline said low fat everything made fat free cookies, those are not health foods. You know, just another crappy choice. And it's fine for cookies to be an occasional snack. It's not fine to eat a sleeve of cookies every afternoon with a glass of low fat milk. When the guidelines came out, obviously they've been going on for quite some time, what is the evidence, the quality of evidence that the guidelines contain? Well, it's actually hard to know from the first multiple sets of guidelines, which are small pamphlets. When did they first come out with the 1980s? 1980s. Yeah, I did. There was actually a 1977s of dietary guidelines from the MacGovern Committee, but the official dietary guidelines for Americans began in response to the MacGovern Committee, which was done by Senate staffers. People ask me, how do I have so much energy? Well, I don't, but I strategically caffeinate. I hit coffee hard in the morning. Then I toned it down with mud water in the afternoon. So mud water is amazing. It's got cow, tri, tumouric, and adapted genetic mushrooms. I should have asked how that helps fertility to help me feel focused and balanced, not wired. It's smooth, steady and honestly, it is absolutely easy. Thank God I'm terrible in the kitchen. And delicious, it takes two minutes to add hot water or milk. And then you're ready to get after it. If you know what I mean. But anyway, most people will reach for sugar in the afternoon. I found this to be a better solution. And because they're a sponsor of the show, you can try it out and save big. And when I say big, I'm talking about up to 43% off your entire order. Free shipping, free rechargeable frothor, who doesn't need that, head to mudwater.com and use the code Dr. Lyon. That's MUDWTR.com and use the code Dr. Lyon. One way I use mudwater is in the afternoon when I'm really needing something like, I don't know, chocolate or I can't do pushups. But I can grab mudwater and I feel kind of like it's a little bit of a warm hug. It tastes amazing. And I'm doing something good for myself. You will love it definitely give it a try. So what are you waiting for? Go get your 43% off and drink some mudwater. So scientists gave their expert opinion in like a nine page pamphlet. Nobody knew what the evidence was. It was just a bunch of friends got together in the room and put together what they thought for. And so this is 1980. Do you think people recognize that? No, of course not. So it was, you know, it was, it was, don't eat too much salt, don't eat too much. Sure, it wasn't to fine what too much meant. And I have to say I can't define that for you. Eat more fruits and veggies. Eat less fat. Eat less saturated fat. I don't remember what all the others were. That might have been it. So that's 1980. And let's fast forward to 2020, 40 years later. The guidelines have gone from a nine page pamphlet to 150 page book with lots and lots of science behind it. But the recommendations are exactly the same. The wording has been tweaked. But the government has been locked into the same. Don't eat any fat or you'll get fat. Which we know was wrong. But school lunch prioritizes skim milk and low fat milk. You can't give full fat milk to kids on a school lunch because the guidelines mandate that. The guidelines that came out in 1980 didn't seem to have scientific basis. It seems like the American Heart Association had quite an influence because again, and please correct me where I'm missing the mark here. Started at 40 percent fat. Then went to 30. Then somehow there was a, you know, the ultimate target was 20, but individuals felt like it was not going to get there. But these guidelines have not changed drastically. I mean, I think recently they said high quality protein for younger, for infants or something youthful. I have to look, I have to look because from my perspective and I think from yours they haven't changed. You're right. And there are a couple of problems that initially the guidelines tried to make one diet that all Americans was supposed to eat. That I think is a bankrupt plan to begin with. There are so many other reasons. Hardly anybody eats just for nutrition. You know, you know all the different reasons people eat. And nutrition is far down the list. Taste and cost, convenience, culture are far more important than nutrition. Everybody, when their ass is, oh yeah, I'm in for nutrition. It's good stuff. But then when you ask them, well, what did you choose? You know, doesn't look so nutritious because they don't know how to cook. They don't have time to cook. They can't afford what they really want to buy. There's lots and lots of problems with that. So if the guidelines haven't changed since the E.D.s and it doesn't reflect new scientific research, what would you like to see be re-evaluated? Oh, from the ground up, I'll tell you one thing that I would love to see is have a grade for the strength of evidence. There is a system where the acronym GRAD is a plating medicine. We had Bradley Johnson on the podcast. Sure, one of the people behind that. One of my, another one of my why the accepted in medicine completely disregarded in nutrition. You see that occasionally, but rarely in nutrition and it's sort of poo-pooed in nutrition because nutritional epidemiologists always say, nutrition is so hard. We need different standards. My answer is no, you don't. You need the same standards, other fields of science just don't claim that you have the same quality of evidence. If the guidelines, the way they are, were given a grade of maybe not, meaning a sea or sea minus, I wouldn't be beating them about it. You know, I'm looking at a summary here and I'm going to show this with you. It's so fascinating. 1980 guidelines focus on fat reduction. Exactly what you said. It seemed like there was this saturated fat cholesterol to prevent heart disease. The low fat craze happened 1992 to Roe, what happened 1999 to? Food Guide Permanent. Oh, yes. That seemed to be a disaster. The, the thinking was grains should form a base 611 surveys and fats were placed as the top to be used sparingly. 90s to 2000, fat reconsidered, sugar and carbs came under scrutiny. Screwed me. Then the USDA introduced my Permanent in 2005 from 2010 to now. And then of course 2011, the my, the my plate came out replaced the food guide Permanent with this way of visualizing a balance. The recommendation was, again, this is grouping last, I don't know, 15 years, healthy eating patterns, whatever that is, Mediterranean dash, plant-based emphasis, limiting added sugars and sodium. So this is 10% of daily calories. One thing that is so obviously missing here is where is the conversation of dietary protein? Those numbers have not changed. There actually is a conversation that occurred with the current league being developed guidelines that it will be out sometime in 2025. And I'm not really happy with the approach that was taken by the advisory committee, which are the university folks who are supposedly giving advice that the guidelines will follow. The guidelines don't always follow the advice from that committee. But there was a concept of ounce equivalence for carbohydrates developed. And that made perfect sense to me because you have something like a ready-to-dry cereal that might have 10% water in it. And you're comparing an ounce of brand flakes to an ounce of bread. Well, bread is 65% water. That's not the same as dry cereal. So you have an ounce of equivalent of carbohydrates where you take the ounce of actual carbs in however many ounces of those two foods. That seems reasonable. Yeah, that seems fine. But that was applied to proteins. And now they're saying based on nitrogen content alone. And you know, probably better than I do, that that's not a good marker of your protein status. That is, and because all the dietary RDAs for protein are set in groups of healthy young men consuming high-quality protein, meaning animal proteins, almost exclusively dairy or egg protein, and generally isolated from the other components of those foods. So it's pure protein really easily digested. And then you're saying that a plant protein with the same grams of nitrogen is the equivalent to an isolated animal protein just doesn't pass the the laugh test. But yet here we are. Right. And it hasn't changed, which is really terrifying. If you could make a recommendation, and then were you able to make recommendations when you were working at the USDA by the way, so you were overseeing all these scientists? Would you get this information and then pass it to someone that would then take action on it? How does that flow work? Okay, most of the scientists that I oversaw would publish in peer reviewed scientific journals. So that's how they would disperse their information. The other mechanism was through government reports. And my program analyzed the data on diet from the N-haines annual surveys. Can you share about what that is? Sure, N-haines is another one of those government acronyms that you need a dictionary for. It's the National Nutrition Health and a National Nutrition Health and Examination Survey. And it's a snapshot in time of 5,000 people. And they get to 24-hour dietary recalls. And there are different quality dietary recalls. Not all of them are the same quality. The ones that are used in N-haines are really the best there are. And those are the best or 10-truck. Those are the best that they are, but do you think they're good? They're the best that we have. Actually, the USDA Nutrition Program did a study published in the 1980s that depending on what nutrient you want to estimate, you need between three and 35 24-hour recalls. Three to 35 to make it to really be able to get to good-sum. To know what the actual intake of an individual is. To do a group average, you need three to five 24-hour recalls. Almost nobody does three to five 24-hour recalls. It's one or two. N-haines does two. And in N-haines, they do an in-person interview with food models so the subject can estimate the size of the portions they're eating. When they go home, they have a little book with life-size pictures of those food portions. If there's some university professor who's doing the same thing, they don't have either of those aids. So it's the best for what we have. Right. Do you find that the data that they would get from that would be flawed or is there some level of confidence? Because the N-haines dataset is quoted all the time. I quoted it's the best that we have, you know, for example, if someone says, well, I don't know, 20% of adults, 20% of women at any given age are deficient in protein. I mean, is that number right? Well, it's kind of the best I would have. So N-haines data is used for a particular purpose, which we'll explain in a second, but it's also misused constantly, probably more so than the way it's properly used. N-haines is a snapshot in time of the average intake. It's not, you get a distribution of intake from that, but it tells you relatively limited amounts of information about subpopulations. And so what do you mean by that? That's interesting. You're interested in populations that are increased risk of deficiency, increased risk of certain diseases. So ethnic minorities young women who generally have more iron or calcium deficiency because they're not choosing be for dairy and how could they with the headlines at their own rate? So you're just like, yeah, I mean, that's part of it. I'm not asking somebody why they're avoiding it. If somebody's avoiding food for nutritional purposes, I can generally argue against those choices, but if it's for ethical purposes or religious purposes, I'm not going to argue against that that's a personal decision. If it's for environmental purposes, I don't think the data are solid on life cycle analysis of producing different kinds of food. People driving to the grocery store have a much bigger environmental impact than the growth of anything that's produced for them to eat. And people just don't get it. That is really fascinating. We will touch on that. The Enhane's data, what would be an appropriate use for the Enhane's data? If someone was communicating science or if we're having discussions about this? So lately, over the last decade, it's been noted that more and more young women have lower iron status, not necessarily frankenemia, although Enemia has increased, but lower iron reserves. And that's corresponded to decreased red meat particular and other sources of bio-available iron. That's another distinction between plant protein and animal source protein is bio-availability of the protein that it's just not as available from plant sources as it is from animal sources. And it's particularly true for minerals and vitamins that are considered nutrients of risk. So we have calcium, we have iron, we have zinc, vitamin B12, young women and older people tend to be deficient in all of those, either low marginal status were deficient and all of those nutrients we just mentioned, including protein. One of the myths is that we eat too much protein. And I didn't know where that came from. Young men clearly do eat, that's a group, clearly do eat more protein than their requirement is set at. But their requirement is set at a minimum based on nitrogen balance number. You're right about that. But there's a problem in understanding that, you know, if you're a couch potato, maybe the protein requirement is close to what's really needed. But if you're exercising, you clearly do need more. If you're over the age of 65 or 70, you clearly do need more. If you're growing kid, who should be outplaying every afternoon, you clearly do need more. And you're not going to get it from eating plant substitutes because you have to eat a lot more of that stuff and you're still not getting the nutrient balance that you have from the amino acid profile and the other nutrients in animal source foods. I'm not saying you can't be a healthy vegetarian. You absolutely can be. But you have to be a well-educated vegetarian who plans carefully. You wrote one of my favorite papers of all time and it was, it was a commentary as is beef a healthy food. It was just such a wonderful and maybe the title is not totally right and I'll drop it in here. But it was just so well written in this idea that it's not just about protein. We talk about protein but that's just the start. It is these bio-available sources of iron, zinc, vitamin A, vitamin D that, you know, it's so beyond just the protein aspect. How do you see that informing our decisions? Because you see, headline seemed to contradict themselves. How do you see individuals making good choices in terms of what is necessary? It makes it harder in lots of ways and one of the minerals we haven't mentioned is selenium. Turns out beef is about the source of half the selenium in the United States and US soil is enriched in selenium. So wheat grown in the US is a decent source of selenium, but it's still nowhere near as good as the selenium from beef. But wheat grown in Italy has zero selenium. So if you're buying imported Italian pasta, it might taste good, but you're getting no selenium. Selenium is an important antioxidant. It's involved in a number of enzymatic pathways in the body. There's no USDA table for selenium values. It's sort of an orphan mineral. They're just isn't enough information about it. Nutrition is an endlessly complex science. It's not rocket science. It's tougher than rocket science. You have stuff coming out one end and stuff going forward in the other end and if it doesn't explode, it all works. With nutrition, you're making hundreds of choices a day in your diet and there's hundreds of consequences metabolically going on in your body. So it's short-term, long-term effects of nutrition. It's not overwhelming. You could be paralyzed as a result of all of that. And I don't want people to think that's the way to approach it. Well, I actually really love what you said that white food isn't bad. Rice is not the end of the world sugar. Isn't going to kill you. These things are they are very sensationalized. And even thinking about, I know you had mentioned before. We started recording even the Women's Health Initiative. For those listening, it was a $750 million study. A $750 million study and the biggest chunk of that study was a 20,000 women on a low-fat diet and 30,000 women on their usual diet for nine years. And the outcome, again, is said no difference in risk with colon cancer or following a low fat or a typical higher fat American diet. And why do I bring this up? Because there's a lot of confusion out there online in terms of different groups. You said something when we first started talking that I think was really profound. You show me the name of someone and I'll tell you what their outcome and conclusion is going to be. And that becomes extremely detrimental to the public. And you show me the name of the influence or an irony with the answer is going to be. Which is challenging because I suppose looking at the other side of people could say that about me and they could say that about you and they could say that about Don Laman. But I will also say that there's a collective amount of high quality research that maybe we don't now exactly how much protein I need or you need. We know over time what that would trend towards. And that we know that there's the animal products that they're different than say the plant products. When you were involved in the women's health initiative? Well, I was supposed to be. What happened? I was asked to be a member. Do you like how I led into that? Very sneaky of you. I was asked to be a member of a committee from the National Cancer Institute that reviewed the design of the women's health initiative, nutrition trial. There was also the hormone replacement therapy component of it. But as you mentioned, the biggest part was the nutrition study and was half a billion dollars. I'm so livable. And it was a failure basically for the low-fat intervention. We should talk about pregnancy because it is the most challenging time for the female body. Think about the demands of a growing baby. 95% of women in the perineatal stages have nutrient deficiencies. Most prenatal vitamins include the bare minimum nutrition based on outdated guidance. Stay-all research. Come on. Needed one of our sponsors offers better nutrition products. And there are so many prenatal women's supplements out there. It can be hard to know which one to choose. Needed is recommended and used by more than 4,000 women's health experts from nutritionists, timid wives, to doctors, a region IN, you name it and it was developed which is so interesting from clinical insight from their collective of practitioners over time. Their products offer the forms of nutrients your body can use to do so. It also goes above and beyond which is important with third-party testing. Needed offers wonderful nutrition for women from conception, to pregnancy, to new motherhood and beyond. There is so much on this journey with motherhood that you can control. Let's manage the things that you can which is nutrition. Needed prenatal multi is available in capsule and an easy to take vanilla powder especially if you are nauseous or those that cannot swallow pills. Needed offers premium supplements for every stage from a quality to lactation, anything and everything a woman is going to go through. Needed has you covered. Head over to thisisneeded.com and use the code Dr. Lyon for 20% off your first order. That's this is needed.com and use the code Dr. Lyon for 20% off your first order. Not just colon cancer but no effect on breast cancer, no effect on heart disease. Meaning a low fat diet had no benefit on this. Now the argument is that the women reduce their diets, the fat in their diets in the first couple of years and then they slowly added it back. Whether or not that's true that's not really sure. In fact that's probably speculation. But it's one of the only two intervention studies that I brought up to the IARC panel of a controlled feeding trial and one of the epidemiologists said, but that study wasn't designed primarily to a good red meat. And I said yes that's correct. It was designed as a low fat diet. But meat intake was cut by half. That's important. That's a huge drop. And my response which I didn't think of it immediately at the time we were in this conference was that not one of these epidemiology studies that indicts meat was designed to look at red meat. You're all designed to look at whatever they can find in their diet that statistically significant. That's really challenging. You did introduce the concept of the beef matrix. I have quoted you many times. What is that? Why does it challenge the mainstream view of Saturipa and cholesterol? Well the beef matrix is the physical structure of the food that we call meat. And so it includes muscle, connective tissue, fat, it includes cell membranes. Give you an example from the dairy industry. They have funded a lot of nutrition research for decades. And they've actually in both the US and Europe. And they've actually shown that the fat in dairy is in a membrane structure called the human milk fat globule membrane. And it has a really different effect from eating butter which is just the fat that's dripped out by heating dairy products. In the beef matrix you can extract beef talo or the beef fat and extract that out of meat. But it's not necessarily the same as what you get from eating beef that's whether it's ground up in in a process food or not doesn't make a difference. Whether it's from the beef or pork that's or chicken that's ground up, all of that's the structure and it differs based on each species will have a different molecular composition. That's fascinating. And it includes say, he and I will be different in beef pork and poultry. The amount versus the bioavailability or the all of the structures within that tissue. There's really no hum Iron in poultry to speak of, but in pork will have some and beef will have a lot more. But we talk about Iron, we don't talk about bioavailable Iron. And that's key that maybe you need to eat less beef to get the same Iron value. You're not eating meat just for Iron, but you need less of it than you do eating bonus skinless chicken breast according to the guidelines for Americans. Are you talking a little bit about the other nutrients like creatine, harnessine and searing some of these other bioactive compounds? Sure. In fact, one of the podcasts I listened to on the flight in today was about creatine and there's certainly if you're physically, creatine is not considered essential because the body can make it. But I think there are enough studies to strongly indicate, not just to suggest that if you're physically active if you're an athlete, having more creatine is valuable for you. There's suggestive data that creatine helps cognition. Yeah. And I don't know if that's solid enough to make a recommendation about dietary change or not. A lot of those recommendations for creatine are basically being extrapolated to take grams and grams of this as a supplement. I'm not a big fan of most supplements. I would prefer people to get their nutrition first from foods and only secondarily from supplements. Now, if you're going to be a vegan supplements who now are a new food group for you, you can't live healthy without supplements. Yes, it would be very challenging. And I really like how you talk about, you're talking about the nutrients, not just the protein, not just the micronutrients, but other but more about these bioactive compounds. And to be fair, there's bioactive compounds in say a meat food group and other bioactive compounds in a plant food group. Sure. Also probably not interchangeable. A great. And that becomes important in a context of overall diet. One of the things that you have mentioned is that the guidelines really are based on weak evidence and that that can cause harm. Where do you think that we've gone wrong in US dietary policy? By not admitting that I'm right and everybody else is wrong. It's Dom Lamin here. No, I think we say we're over and over that nutrition is different. It's tough and it is absolutely. But don't say we have different standards of science because of that. We have to be willing to pull up our pants and say we're waiting through some muck here and that we can't be certain about this, but this is our best guess based on science today. I would love the discussion paper of every published research study to begin with based on what we know today. The public thinks that every study that's publicized is the final word, whether it's about olive oil or roast beef or whatever. This is what I've got to do to change my diet to be healthier. I can guarantee you that nobody has the final word on any food. Probably because it's just evolving. Sure. That the right with that be a reason as to why there's always this evolution. It's both that it's evolving, but we're also looking for new end points to measure. People are interested in any more in measuring serum cholesterol the way they were with diet studies. Because we have drugs to control serum lipids now. So we're trying to control other things and we're making believe that we're controlling aging. I think we can actually extend health span. I'm not sure we can expand. Lifespan. Lifespan. If I'm a sickly 95 year old, I'm ready to say goodbye. If I'm a healthy 95 year old, maybe I want to hang on a couple more years. These are problems and of course there's no guarantee in my shape you're going to be in. You could get into an accident. Absolutely. Or you could eat margarine. If only if we're eating too much roast beef. Why are randomized control trials so difficult to do? And why do you think that we're doing or are we doing less of them? Absolutely we're doing less. And we're doing only short-term trials. We're not going to do long-term trials that give the answers you and I would like to see. For a couple of reasons, it's too expensive. It takes too long. Nobody wants to wait 20 years for the answer. And what if you're wrong? I did two years of research at Washington. Do you know Sam Klein? Yeah sure. So I was in Sam Klein's lab and he is so loveable for sure. And we're doing working on one study. I think I came in in year two, did another two years. And I don't think the data never got published. I cannot imagine. And it was also in the Metabolic Board. I cannot imagine doing a 20-year study. And then, oh you know what? I don't know. I don't know if you were in a published study. So if you're going to design our C.T. a randomized control trial with something good. What do you compare it against? The something bad? Well, if that's unhealthy, that's unethical to compare with something bad. So you got something good against something that's not so good. So now you've got a small difference. And you want this to be the only difference that you're going to randomly assign people to. Are they going to listen to you for the next 20 years and make that one change? I kind of doubt it. Especially if it gets a lot of publicity like a lot of the dietary studies have gotten where people see in the literature or in the news media that olive oil is good for you. Well, I'm dumping my soybean oil. I'm going to only use olive oil from now on. Even though they're in the soybean oil group, yours's measurement is no longer valid. Yeah. What do you think we could do going forward? What is the biggest change that we could make to improve nutrition research or even our understanding? I think we need better metabolic markers and the sciences evolving in that area. You know, we're looking at what are called small metabolites in the blood. The problem is that they're more qualitative than quantitative. So if you eat a pound of salmon, I can point to 12 different things in your blood that changed. But if you eat four ounces of salmon, nothing happens. When you say qualitative versus quantitative, what do you mean when it comes to these compounds? You need a ginormous jolt to your system to show a difference. You're not seeing a dose response. Or do we have to get better more sensitive testing? That would help, but I'm not sure already the test that measure these small metabolites, mass spectrometry really, really sensitive. 75 years ago, when I arc was started, you can measure parts per thousand. Now you can measure parts per trillion. That isn't a perfect thing. They didn't even think about the tiny, tiny amounts of stuff we're exposed to. Back when the law was set in the 1950s that anything that causes cancer in an animal, or human, has to be banned from the food supply. So another thing that wasn't taught when I was in school was the intestinal microbiome. They were a bacteria living inside all of us. The same number of cells in our intestine that are in our entire body. They're cranking out all kinds of chemicals that actually get absorbed and participate in normal metabolism and have marked health effects. When I was a student, the colon was supposed to absorb water and electrolytes and nothing else. Right. Oh, I'm excited that you're mentioning this. And so what we do to measure that, now is, well, here poop in this cup and we'll measure the bacteria that are in your intestine. Well, if you're pooping it out, maybe you're large intestine is six feet long. Your small intestine is 20 feet long. There's a lot going on in your e-leam bacteria-least speaking. That we never measure. We're not even doing the model T version of the microbiome at this point. We're also analyzing who's there? So I actually was in the human gut microbiome project. You were. I know. So another thing you were doing? I did a food for you to question there on myself and it missed four percent. You're probably going to cop the? No. I just had to send them a little poop sample and didn't need to poop in the cup. But that's that's fascinating. So they measured my poop. They told me who lives there and I have no idea what that means. They were 80 or 90 bacterial species but I don't know what metabolicly they're doing and there are about 1200 bacterial species that live inside human beings. So my hundred might be different from your hundred or we might overlap by 20 or 30 or by 70 but with that number and the numbers of bugs with the exillians of bugs we have. Just imagine the differences just in who's there and what they could potentially do. That is an excellent point and frankly that from my opinion again I don't have evidence to support that this but I think that that's what makes the human body so adaptable to different dietary choices. I don't know if you've seen some of the there was early work looking at the extraction of a largely plant-based ice some of these bugs generating essential amino acids. Yeah I think you're absolutely right that this is again a problem that the field has that nobody's willing to admit. It's very complicated with that. We don't have we don't have an answer for this you know I think I said to you earlier that I'm a lot less certain about any nutritional endpoint than I was when I was doing this for five or ten or 15 years. Was there a moment that changed it for you? There certainly was a moment in my decision to no longer accept observational studies as being really important. Tell me. Well this was the 2009 the NIH A-H-A-A-R-P study, American Associate for Retired Persons, more than a half a million people, more than 70,000 deaths recorded. And the population was divided into men and women into red meat eaters and white meat eaters by into five different levels of intake. So there were tables and tables that you had to wait through and I basically summarized these in a couple of publications and put it into a graph that made it easy to interpret it. So it's not exactly matching the average in the tables but it's very close. And the red meat eaters all had significantly increased. Deaths from heart disease, total mortality, deaths from cancer, deaths from accidents and deaths from all other causes. The white meat eaters had significantly reduced deaths from everything on that list except heart disease. So again it's the confounders. We need a lot better measures of the confounders and the willingness for nutrition researchers to admit that we have to measure these things and quantify them. And that takes a lot of questionnaires that takes a lot of staff support and makes the data more difficult to interpret because it's now complicated by all these factors. And everybody agrees that we have to measure sex and age. Those are sort of the basic things in epidemiology and we've gotten to the point where we all measure body mass index and try to adjust for that. But if we're adjusting for body mass index, how does that play into exercise? How does that play into cigarette smoking? They're all related to body mass index positively or negatively. So if these confounders are correlated, then how do you treat those statistically? It's a really complex problem. And in the area of food intake, red meat in particular, we dichotomize the intake into stepwise patterns of intake. And so this NIH ARP study had five levels of intake. But meat is not a stepwise intake. You don't say, okay, today I'm having 50 grams tomorrow I'll have 20 grams. The next day I can have 70 grams. That's not the way it works. And so that's a meaningless distinction and would only be meaningful if there was truly a biologically meaningful endpoint that differentiated 50 for 100 grams of meat intake. I see. So the example to that would be that we could, this is probably not a meaningful end point. But the example to that would be the, I don't know, anabolic response shows that, you know, from 50 to 100 or something like that. And then that would translate to making this up, you know, one pound of muscle or something. Absolutely. Is that how you would think about it? Yeah, that's right. But none of the short-term markets translate for chronic disease risk. I mean, this is really in my estimation, the Achilles heel of nutrition research that we don't have intermediate biomarkers for anything in cancer. The only thing that the FDA accepts is colon polyps as an indicator for risk of colon cancer. That really complicates everything. Yes. Do you, I mean, what would a meaningful end point be? It wouldn't even be HSCRP in inflammatory market because it's not a, you know, it's a marker. Right. Exactly. It's not specific. It's inflammation is a risk factor that CRP is elevated in people who are obese. But it's in increased in people who have infections. You know, that's the thing that in obesity CRP might go up 50%. You know, if you have cancer, it might go up 75% 100%. You know, if you have an fluency, it's going up like 400fold. Would you say body fat, percentage or muscle would be some kind of meaningful end point? It's tricky because how are we define an endpoint? I mean, obviously death is an endpoint. But how, how do we differ a lot of I'm not sure. There are a lot of biotech companies that are looking for circulating plasma markers for cancer end points in particular. You know, they they're trying to come up with a blood test that will diagnose 10 or 90 different kinds of cancer in advance of getting advanced cancer. Yeah, we actually do in our clinic we do. It's called the Grail Tastor the Gallery. And that looks at 60 plus DNA methylation markers. It's it's very fascinating. I have a final question for you. I certainly could sit and talk with you for a very long time. And we're going to link some of your work and your papers and I really strut are you on your own acts, right? No, I'm not. I left when a certain business man bought it. So you won't be able to find Dr. Clairfeld. Are you on any social media? No, I'm the world's biggest introverts. I did your own great for being. Really? I think you're doing great for an introvert. Well, thank you. The agency that I was part of actually was a strong believer in the personality indexes. And so I actually scored the highest on the introvert scale of anybody in the history of ever. In that agency. And so I always knew I was an introvert. So now I'm just to find and sing Lemialon. Okay, fair enough. But you have again hundreds of publications that I'm going to link a few of my favorite. This final question is really just curiosity. You have had a decade long career, 50, 50 some years in science and government. What has been the impact for you again about going against the grain? So to speak. Well, it hasn't been good for my career. I'll tell you that. I mean, I've had a wonderful career. I've been acknowledged by a number of organizations with various awards. I've had grants from NIH from the American Cancer Society. But I've got on review panels. I'm not bragging about all that stuff. Let me brag about you. You again, you are, which is I would argue that we only select the finest scientists and the people that I think really contribute because the world needs to hear you. Well, thank you. And yeah, so you don't have to to brag or say any of those things are true. But I believe among the movers and shakers in the nutrition field, I'm not taking seriously. I'm one of those contrary naysayers. And in fact, the fellow that I was in my postdoctoral mentor fit the same old. And he was really prominent in the nutrition business. But also didn't always get invited back. You know, I remember being invited to the American Heart Association to speak and they paid my way in the mid 1980s. And I said, well, dietary cholesterol is not really important for changing your serum cholesterol. And if looks good kill, I would have been dead on the spot. And I was never invited back. I have to tell you something you might not like this because you might have to change your introverted nature. But I believe quite the contrary. I would say among your peers you are very well respected and have done a tremendous amount of work. So again, that might not be good news to you because you might be getting calls for interviews and things of that nature. But really you have been very courageous and tremendous in the work that you've done and I am extraordinarily grateful and so grateful that you agreed to come on the show and really really well done. Oh, thank you very much. If today's conversation gave you a new perspective on food, nutrition science or how we shape public health policy, consider sharing it with someone who values evidence over headlines. And if you are hungry, keep learning alongside us, be sure to follow the show.

One of our biggest myths is that when we're had hits the pillow, our brain just kind of checks out for the night. If you're falling asleep right away, you're probably starved for sleep. Do you have tips or tricks? I mean, I want to share mine, but I think we'll solve everybody's sleep problems. Number one, sleep is just the ultimate accelerator of good health. The quality and quantity of our sleep is one of the strongest predictors of our longevity. You have talked a lot in the past about cognitive health, Alzheimer's, mortality. Are there sleep biomarkers? The truth is, sleep is not going to be perfect every night, but the key is getting back on track towards those four components. Sleep is a product of two processes. The first is called the homeostatic sleep drive. For the risks of circadian decincerny, the difficulties for our bodies to really repair and get good sleep. Shiftwork has been named of a propulcarsenogen. Do you have a position on sleep medications? The research that pits those two treatments had to had pharmacological intervention and behavior change, those two patients sufferers of insomnia and we compare them over time. The behavioral treatment wins out. Why should we sleep? Well, sleep is one of the most important parts of a typical 24-hour day, but unfortunately so many of us, whether we choose on our own volition to curtail sleep, whether it's watching Netflix, staying up for another hour to do another report or something a professional obligation, a personal obligation, or out of necessity if you're working multiple jobs your time to sleep is going to be crunch. But sleep is one of the most vitally important parts of our typical 24-hour day. Over the course of our sleep at night, our blood pressure drops to a slowest point in the 24-hour day is just one example and not natural dipping of blood pressure is vitally important for us to wake up and maintain a healthy blood pressure. Our emotional regulation gets out of sync. Our ability to maintain a healthy appetite is thrown off when we're not getting enough sleep. But when we can reverse that, when we can put sleep at the forefront and higher on our to-do-list, higher on our priority list, so many positive things fall in line. Our motions are our relationships, our productivity, so often I laugh people say, you know, what's the best productivity hack in the afternoon when I'm sleepy? I'm like, just take a nap. It's so interesting that we push back so hard against the idea of a good night's rest. But couple that with a fact that in at least the United States, we really don't have proper education about sleep. We're really not informed about evidence-based principles when it comes to sleep. For instance, I don't know if your mother ever told you that's growing up, we love your mother. But my mom would always say if you're struggling to sleep at night, stay in bed. You'll get some sleep, stay in bed. But wrong. If you're experiencing insomnia, we want you out of bed. We want you to reset to go do something relaxing and build up what we call sleep pressure and get back into bed when you're ready and give it a shot again. It should take you about 15 minutes to fall asleep and much longer than that. We want to break the cycle. We want to get you out and then try again when you're ready. We do hear a lot about sleep now, probably more than we ever have. How long of you been in sleep science? I admittedly was interested in other areas of medicine earlier on in my career exercise physiology, nutrition, nutritional sciences, or rather broadly really interested in health behaviors and how to promote health behaviors in a Western society where we are taught to treat diseases. That really was a big driver of my going to graduate school. I just became amazed by the research in sleep. I took a class by Dr. James Moss. We tragically just lost him. He was older and has had an amazing career but he was larger than life at Cornell where I went to undergrad and he was known as the sleep professor and he coined the term power naps in the 1980s in response to the power breakfast and power lunches. He said take a power nap in the afternoon to boost your productivity and he was just an incredible guy. He taught psycho-01 and promoted awareness about sleep in the context of this course. Definitely when I was in my fellowship training and when I was in my residency training we don't talk about sleep. You're tired, too bad you're in a work of the night shift. Sorry for you. I was there. I did it for five years. No it's your turn. There seems to have been a turning point in our understanding about sleep, brain function, sleep, metabolism that at least for the general population as well as medical providers. There's been a turning point and I'm curious if you've seen that from before to now and if you see us still moving forward. Sleep medicine is a really exciting field. It seems as though we're advancing our understanding of what happens in the body and in the brain almost every week. There are fascinating exciting new discoveries and it's a really exciting field to be. It hasn't always been as hot admittedly as it is now. I think only recently if we really collectively woken up to the importance of sleep. And sleep is also a relatively new field compared to other areas of medicine. Some of our seminal discoveries were in the late 70s. 40, 45 years ago we didn't know what contributed to our circadian rhythms. We didn't know the importance of blue spectrum light as the strongest input to our circadian rhythms. We thought it was behavioral patterns and that helped us align our sleep and wake cycles in a typical 24-hour day. A lot of our discoveries have only recently taken place and it seems as though we're uncovering new and fascinating insights. Virtually every week almost our new exciting findings coming out about the connection between sleep and any number of areas of our waking lives. Curious as to how much we actually should sleep because there seems to be a wide range. I also have heard that there is a genetic mutation that some people need lessly have heard this and they of course added so fun because it always seems to be someone who's not, it's not you personally or you know someone you know often it's this person who's a friend of a friend and they did you know that they can sleep for four or five hours but I really are community, the military community. Oh yes, the operators. They seem to function. I know it's not great but they it's almost as if there is a natural pattern maybe four to five hours to sleep. There are so many aspects of active duty that makes sleep difficult you know of course you're sleeping in an uncertain environment with threats around you and those are two of the biggest culprits of sleep difficulties. When you're in an environment or you're kind of your nervous, you're on edge if you think about maybe before a big deadline for any of us you get stressed and worried there are so many profound and very real barriers to sleep in the military population. If you think about active duty and all the number of stressors that are so real and so profound they of course take an enormous toll on sleep and then sometimes there are patrols that you have to go on in the middle of the night and so in many ways you might be on kind of a shiftwork like schedule which can dramatically disrupt your circadian rhythm because sleep at the end of the day is all about feeling at peace, about feeling you know at peace with your surroundings safe and comfortable and when those pieces aren't there it's very difficult to calm your mind and be able to drift off into sleep. If you were to convince me that I need to sleep, what is the average American sleep? Adults need somewhere between seven and nine hours for optimal health alertness while being and not you know well being today tomorrow and into the future. The quality and quantity of our sleep is one of the strongest predictors of our longevity. Not only how long we're going to live but the quality of those years and that's sweet spot for sleep for adults is somewhere between seven and nine hours and now it's arranged because you might have it's in large part genetically determined. If you've had two parents that are shorter sleepers and I say shorter meaning about seven hours, you might be lucky and be fine on seven hours of sleep but there are many people who have a little bit of a longer sleep need physiological hard-wired sleep need and need to meet that night and a night out and if that's nine hours and again if you had two parents who are longer sleepers you might be on that longer end of the spectrum. Now we recommend a range and finding where you are in that range is vitally important and if you're listening you might be far from that range and so think about where you are right now if you're really getting five or six hours of sleep. We don't want to move in sweeping changes towards a new sleep duration because our sleep is all about routine. Sleep is a product of two processes. The first is called the homeostatic sleep drive. Now if you imagine having a backpack on and you wake up in the morning and each additional hour I put another brick in that backpack such that by the end of the day you are dragging. That's the idea of homeostatic sleep pressure. It's the feeling of sleepiness but that's not all and anyone who's traveled internationally to a new time zone you could have been traveling for 12, 14, 24 hours be physically exhausted but not be able to sleep and that's because the second opposing or synergistic process is the circadian rhythm. Now humans have evolved over hundreds of thousands of years of life on Earth to an approximately 24 hour day. Other planets have different durations. But on Earth we have evolved to operating around on a 24 hour cycle. Now it serves us from an evolutionary standpoint to match our surroundings. Have periods of time where we are off our cells are repairing, our bodies are pairing and regenerating itself over the course of our sleep at night and then when we're awake and our ancestors were looking for food or defending the village from predators. So it serves us to not simply kind of operate in a linear fashion or performance increasing with each additional hour awake but instead there's a real rhythm to our lives and we refer to this as our circadian rhythm because virtually every cell in the body operates in this circadian fashion. Circadian is Latin for about a day referring to processes that have been flow around an approximate 24 hour day. Our sleep is one such circadian rhythm and the hormones underlying our fundamental ability to be awake or be asleep also oscillate around that 24 hour cycle and the best thing for that cycle is routine. So falling asleep at the same time eating your meals at the same time, exercising around the same time every day and then having a time where you enter a cold dark room ideally and you fall asleep and the hormone melatonin plays a large role in that and that hormone melatonin is secreted in the brain when we approach our habitual bedtime, the sun sets in our environment and we slip into our bedroom and we fall asleep and we wake up and the melatonin stops in the morning and then we're able to go about our day but those two processes interact and result in our fundamental ability to sleep. Wait a $3,000 wait is that number right? I spent more money on skincare. My pores should be taxed deductible maybe even have their own trust fund and thank goodness that I found one skin because one skin it doesn't just make empty promises it's research driven minimalistic and tested for beauty skin health and longevity. One skin is the first topical skincare backed by peptide science that targets skin aging at the molecular level. I slather this on all day. They have a peptide that is designed to reduce the accumulation of dead cells or zombie cells that drive inflammation tissue breakdown as we age. Now this isn't about cosmetic quick fixes. It's about changing the biology of your skin strengthening the barrier improving firmness, hydration elasticity with clinically tested ingredients. So if you are focused on aging well from the inside out it's time also to think about your skin it should get the same level of care. Go to 1skin.co for 15% off use the co-doctor lion it is amazing and it will not break the bank. We are very much either in alignment or out of alignment with that circadian rhythm. When we think about rhythm in my mind it sounds very delicate. Is this circadian rhythm disruption delicate or does it take a lot for us to be able to get off track from a rhythm standpoint then affecting sleep? It really is a sensitive system and if we for instance one of the most common mistakes a lot of people make is sleeping in on the weekends and I think we are kind of enamored with this as a society actually the idea of sleeping in or the British you know all lion. I think this you know it's interesting almost every society has a term for this and it's always casting a very positive light. So what that does unfortunately from a circadian rhythm standpoint is delaying your rising time by more than an hour will start to give your circadian system information that you have hopped in a airplane and you flown to a new timezone and that your so your body is then going to be working actively against you the next night because it thinks that you're shifting to a later timezone. Your regular bedtime is going to roll around and that makes sense. And you're going to stay awake and you're going to watch that movie because you have this person. So many people in our society fall victim of this because they you're going to think sleeping in as a good thing you know I'm going to do that I'm going to catch up on law sleep and up until a point if you maybe want to add 30 or 45 minutes to your wake up time that's fine but really much longer than that does put you in the kind of in the risk area for what we refer to as social jet lag where we self impose jet lag like symptoms because we've in essence given our body or physiological cues that we're trying to adjust and we're kind of experiencing then jet lag symptoms often for social reasons because we often are staying up late to go out to a movie to you know it's been time with our loved ones which are all wonderful things but then resulting we'll wake up later in the next day and then maybe suffer from some insomnia symptoms the next night. What about this idea that I'll take my husband as an example he's a third year year old you resident. Wasn't I call last night but he finished at one o'clock all the surgeries got pushed later in the day he was exhausted but he still had to get up at five thirty this morning he'll go he'll do that now for the next five days. At some point as we just think about our lives is there a way to repay that sleep debt and if so how does someone do not? Medical residents are some of the most sleep deprived in our society but they are being trained to go out into the medical field and save our lives. In the case of your husband or surgeons are you know do life-saving treatments but so often our medical professionals are trained these environments that are fraught with sleep deprivation and if you're a general health care provider and you've come of age in the system you know you're probably struggling with sleep yourself if you were on a series of rotating night shifts and that is a huge risk factor for insomnia. In many cases we find patients who are struggling with sleep difficulties they go speak to their doctor and their doctors are prescribing sleep medications because they might be on them themselves or they're struggling and there is a time and place for sleep medication but the front line for sleep difficulties is according to the American Academy of Sleep Medicine behavior change. So for example he wants to sleep he wants to sleep in after that after having four or five hours of sleep a night would he then be able to recoup that? Your husband is doing something that is really challenging. It sounds like it's rotating shift work which is the case for many medical residents and it's part of the fabric of our medical education that but my team is published research and then New England Medical Journal to show that those types of schedules and sleep disruptions for medical residents are a significant predictor of medical errors and so we really have to ask ourselves how can we set our young people up or the people who are getting their training especially in the medical field to force success not only for their health and they're well-being but the health of their patients also and so what he's doing right now is rotating shift work which is the most difficult type of shift work because your circadian rhythm can't align itself with any pattern of normalcy and a typical week so in the case of your husband it is going to be making up for loss sleep whenever and wherever he can. Yes please fully endorse this sleeping in and also making up for loss sleep with naps. They're shorter naps if he's you know he got a little bit of sleep the night before he's not you know too much in the dangerous zone of you know really falling asleep being just absolutely exhausted and if he has time for a longer nap then a 90 minute nap is wonderful in the afternoon say on a weekend if he's off to to make up for loss sleep. It's interesting in the way that on one hand you want a consistent sleep wake cycle is what I'm hearing you say and that is almost separate if you cannot have that. If you are someone who does not have a consistent sleep wake cycle you want to sleep that would be an indication too sleep in or an indication too sleep when you can totally and we work with a lot of shift worker populations whether it's truck drivers or medical professionals and in those situations the best recommendation is to try to find to look at periods where you're maybe on a rotating shift schedule is a shorter term situation and moving into at least patterns of shifts that are predictable. That is the best case scenario because our society is really powered by individuals on shift schedules outside the traditional nine to five it's how we have 24 seven access to food or customer service hotlines or medical help and attention and so we owe our shift workers a debt of gratitude in our society but they're sleep-really suffers and unfortunately we have determined that for the risks of circadian decincerity the difficulties for our bodies to really repair and get good sleep shift work has been named a probable carcinogen so moving off these schedules is quickly as possible and into a schedule at least of consistent shifts or ideally shifts that emulate the pattern of light and darkness around us where possible. I would love to hear what happens to the brain when we sleep. One of our biggest myths is that when we're had hits the pillow our brain just kind of checks out for the night and our body and we're in this monolithic state of sleep wrong there's so much rich and diverse activity in the body and the brain and it changes over the course of our sleep at night sleep is characterized by patterns of electro physiological activity and each of those are nuanced across sleep stages we distinguish over the course of a typical episode of sleep at night between rapid eye movement sleep and non-rhabit eye movement sleep. Rapid eye movement sleep is where as the name suggests our eyes are darting back and forth back and forth and there's a tremendous amount of activity in the brain as much if not more so than when we're awake it's fascinating we glow and we call it paradoxically because there's so much activity happening in the brain and very little activity happening in the body or essentially in mobile during rapid eye movement sleep. Other health behaviors you have to get on a treadmill you have to buy healthy food but sleep can be free and start tonight. There are sleep disorders there are more than 80 differentially diagnosable sleep disorders that are limiting many millions of Americans from getting good quality sleep but once we can remove barriers occupational barriers personal barriers cultivate healthy sleep habits we're able to make significant gains not only in sleep but in daytime success which is what we're all about if we were to welcome you into our laboratory in Boston we would hook you up with electrodes and the gold standard of sleep measurement is what we call poly some nography so we would be able to measure your brain waves your respiratory effort and a number of other things bodily movements etc and what we would see is your brain starts to slowly enter some of the lighter stages of sleep you're drifting off into sleep is the depends of the electrode start to slow and the amplitude of your brain wave starts to increase the amplitudes being the space between a peak and a trough of a brain wave start to lengthen indicating that you're starting to slow down the brain activity and then the frequency slows and then in stage one sleep is kind of a way station between the awake and the asleep state and then as you slowly drift into stage two sleep and then stage three is the deepest sleep of the night I think it's what we think of stereotypically when we think of sleep very long spaces between the peak and trough of a brain wave so very slow very high amplitude brain waves sh sh sh sh sh sh really looking and sounding like your asleep now during stage three deep sleep is where we get a lot of the benefits from the standpoint of muscular regeneration then something fascinating happens after about 20 minutes and a healthy sleeper I will start to see signs of rapid eye movements sleep as the names suggest your eyes are darting back and forth under your eyelids and that movement in your eyes is indicating a rich amount of activity in your brain your brain during rapid eye movement sleep is as active if not more so than the waking brain which is fascinating and then we cycle in and out of those different stages several times over the course of the night with two kind of high level differences and the first half of the night and a healthy sleeper we'll see that period of time rich and deep sleep and then the second half of the night we see rich and rapid eye movement sleep so when people come to us and say oh you know I'm getting three or four hours of sleep at night or five and I you know I feel okay but you know I think I'm doing all right and you might feel okay but you're virtually rubbing yourself of your potential because rapid eye movements sleep is where we get so many benefits cognitively from our sleep memory consolidation etc and that period is predominating right before we wake up if we're getting seven to nine hours they REM sleep is the consolidation of memory these software updates however you want to call it software hardware updates of the brain do they happen in other stages is it as I've indicated as it sounds well if you think about it that's kind of a difficult study to do to really isolate each unique stage but we do see the more rapid eye movements sleep you get the more likely you are to achieve insights if I teach you something before you fall asleep and then quiz you on at the next day the more rapid eye movement sleep you get the stronger those connections and the better your performance the next day on cognitive tests the gold standard of measurement of sleep is polysumnography but I do think that there's an important qualitative piece to sleep that sometimes we forget and now the development of sleep trackers gives us such an amazing insight into the quantitative component of our sleep how long did you sleep how long did it take you to fall asleep did you wake up did you spend much time in deep sleep or rapid eye movement sleep this is amazing information that a typical consumer didn't have access to you know five you know ten years ago but I think that the quantitative piece is ideally coupled with a qualitative evaluation of our sleep quite simply asking yourself how do I feel in the morning tired and we just do a little restores and then if that's the answer you know truly you know we need to add a little bit more time and I hope that you call me after and you're like Rebecca we did it I got more sleep I feel great how much sleep do children need so our sleep duration need does Evan flow across the lifespan very little babies need virtually to be sleeping almost all day long as you remember and then as children age they need a little bit less and up until the kind of school age period or time of a child's life they need somewhere between six and twelve hours of sleep but there are a lot of individual differences some kids will do well on that lower end of the spectrum and other kids will do well on the higher end and this is where I love to think about and of one experiments what works for you for your kid after a night of eight hours of sleep do you find that they are bright eye to the shithead as the saying goes when they wake up or do you find that they're dragging and maybe in the car in the afternoon do they fall asleep those would be signs that they're just not getting quite enough and then maybe start that next night and try to start the bedtime process a little bit earlier and the bedtime routine a little bit earlier do you think there is a time that is universally good for kids and what do I mean by this meaning we talked a little bit about this circadian rhythm just this 24 hour cycle here in Texas the sun goes down let's say six o'clock let's say the sun goes down in Boston or New York or just made this up at eight o'clock does the location dictate the time we should begin to think about putting our children to sleep because listen mind didn't come with a manual I'll be so pretty easy I wasn't so much easy but perhaps if at six p.m. when the sun is going down even though it's not convenient maybe that's the time that we begin to wind them down you know what I'm saying in terms of like what if we're kind of doing it wrong it's not our children they can't regulate they are my kid she'll want to stay up and read princess books and literally one thought like one eye is falling asleep you know well I love that I love it sounds like a great bedtime routine but young kids are very susceptible to light is one thing to keep in mind so make sure and this does not have to be expensive for everyone listening you can get great black outchades at target for very little but do make sure your children have sleep proofed environment and an environment you just showed me your daughter's bedroom it's so amazing and so cozy and so fabulous you want children just like all of us to walk in and feel suits have elements that comfort them their favorite stuff either favorite lovey and the book that helps them also feel you know at peace and safe and that's going to change as they grow of course but I think this is where kind of back to the end of one experiment thinking about workshopping your kid's sleep until you find the sweet spot and whether that's a 6 p.m. fall asleep time out or if that's a 9 p.m. fall asleep time and one of the key things is your children are young but what might be happening is all of us have in large part genetically predetermined preferences for chronotypes now this is a term that refers to each of our personal preference for being alert or asleep within a 24 hour day what is your I am a very severe morning type how about you say I was at the gym I love it so that is a kind of part of this equation also and your children those types might be presenting themselves what are the other types there is a morning person we generally model it on a spectrum from what we call morningness to eveningness and the biggest question the best question for figuring out where you are within that spectrum is when do you do your best work and if you would probably tell me first thing in the morning right would you say or say how would you like that question that in a month I can tell you that okay because I don't sleep well I have the two little kids you know whether my husband is on call or not but I'm hoping one amazing finish this episode I can call you and I'm going to implement same sleep, wake cycle, black out shades I'm not exactly sure what I'm doing with my kids but then I'm going to call you and tell you I can't wait me and let's text along the way into you get there because all of this is really all about workshopping and finding the sweet spot for you for your kids for your partner and factoring and also your professional obligations your personal obligations and maybe also unwinding you know yourself is a mom because we do stuff for everyone around us you know all day long is moms the fascinating thing that you said is there is a genetic predetermination for a mount and chronotype how much movement can we make when people have disregulated sleep from a nutritional science standpoint again we see people all time in our clinic that have abnormal lipids abnormal blood pressure glucose partially because they're either doing shift work or it's so interesting how this virus and blood work yes oh what's that oh that's my heart how many of you miss that over caffeinated feeling of your heart pounding out of your chest or you maybe you're on another caffeine detox maybe you've just feeling really tired I'm so grateful to mud water one of the sponsors of the show and I have two little kids therefore I don't have a perfectly structured morning routine sometimes I need something that supports focus clarity and energy without wrecking my nervous system that's where mud water comes in it's not coffee it is something different and it makes me feel right throughout the day I use it in the afternoon so I get good sleep mud water is made from functional mushrooms no not that kind a dab to genic and organic ingredients like cow and tumouric no sugar no artificial junk just clean focus energy it gives me that mental lift without the crash I love that it supports my mood and immunity and focus but what I really appreciate is that I'm not is that my pulse at 200 almost everyone has experienced too much caffeine go to mudwater.com if only you are interested in cutting back your caffeine and want something that works and use the code doctor line to get up to you guess it 43% off your starter kit mudwater.com code doctor line you'll feel the difference when do we consider jet lag is it a two hour time difference three hours would there be a time that we say okay this is jet lag when you're traveling one of the big questions how long is the trip going to be if you're going to lendon for a 24 hour trip and coming back I don't know that you have to adjust I'd say just rip off the band day do your best okay but if it's a longer period of time and you want to really align then the best thing to do is in the week before you travel and it's really more than three maybe three time zones away but look New York tug to California can be difficult to get it and if you have a big important meeting I'd say I'd say consider these protocols and the way you do that is in the week leading up to your trip you think about where you're traveling and you start to move your fall asleep and wake up times in the direction of that new time zone just 15 minutes so if you're going to lendon push your bedtime you know just 15 minutes later the first night in the week before and then another 15 and then another 15 so look at you just a year to California you are flying back you're going to go there you're going to be there for a week would you move up bed time from 8 to 815 or you move at the opposite 745 well when you're moving to the you know backward to California New York to California you're going to try to push your schedules to be a little bit later so I'd wear sunglasses in the morning if you live in New York setting you're going for a big work trip to California and the week beforehand you're trying to move small increments 15 minutes in the direction of your new time zone and that's sleep times and wake times but it's also meals so maybe try to push your dinner to be a little bit later if you're taking a red eye for instance from New York to London they're going to be serving you red eye I try to avoid them but there are situations where every time I pass out how about you red eye I think of you I'm just like oh I know this isn't good if you have the luxury or the ability to to choose flying during the day is ideal and then getting to your new destination and when you're there do you know again live eat and sleep on your new destination time zone and realize that sleep is not going to be perfect I don't have a cure for jet lag I wouldn't be a professor if I had a cure for jet lag but so you might experience some sleep difficulties so when you're on your new destination you land and maybe you experience some in in Somnia you wake up at two three o'clock in the morning the protocol is the same with we experience that in the US in our home time zone take an ins drive try not to beat yourself up it's so easy to look at the alarm clock and just like no I'm up but try to have I think self-talk is actually really important here you know no big deal I'm up but it's okay of course I'm up it makes sense do something that will hopefully make you sleepy reading a book, a gentle yoga poses the best use case for melatonin is travel and combating jet lag so we do recommend melatonin for that specific use case and taking it as you prepare for your trip could be a good idea to facilitate the transition of melatonin in the direction of your new time zone and when you land at your new destination do keep a couple things in mind as it comes to melatonin number one if you can find it pharmaceutical grade melatonin is critical there've been research studies that decompose melatonin tablets that you can find that are not regulated in the neutralsutical category in drug stores and they found what's stated on the level varies up to 300% than what's actually in the supplement so keep in mind the purity varies widely so pharmaceutical grade will allow you to be confident that what you're getting is pure and it is not more the better so look for something awesome 500 micrograms you're doing a stock balance color which is a connolly something so 500 micrograms or one to two milligrams but not much more and lastly taken before bedtime in advance it's not right before bedtime but it's kind of one sun is setting in your new environment is when you should be taking melatonin a couple hours before you want to be falling asleep I didn't realize it was a few hours before what you're saying is you don't take melatonin right before you okay I'm a popping melatonin and go to sleep you want to plan in advance and facilitate that internal secretion of melatonin and adjustment to your new time zone I am only aware of one thing that suppresses melatonin and that would be light is there something else does cortisol suppress melatonin are there other do we know the two things that have the biggest impact on our circadian rhythm are number one blue light blue daylight spectrum light and that is the strongest what we call lifegiver giver or zeitgamer to our circadian system so light comes in through the eyeballs and it travels along the optic chiasm to a tiny region of the brain called the superchiasmatic nucleus and that's the circadian rhythm home in the brain and then that's kind of fires the secretion of melatonin if the eyes detect absence of blue daylight spectrum light but if bedtime approaches and you open up a computer screen that has full brightness you're going to be giving yourself a physiological cue to become alert and awake because the eyeballs will receive blue daylight spectrum light from that screen and think it's time to become alert and awake and so we're virtually shooting ourselves in the foot when we use blue light emitting devices before bedtime there's a free software called flux f dot l ux and it's free widely available I'm not affiliated with them but I personally use the technology you're doing amazing and what that will do is it will take away the blue from a computer screen so if you must be working before bedtime do consider flux and what's nice is you can set it up so that it just goes on automatically and as the sun sets in your time on your laptop or your tablet then the screen will become warmer so blue daylight spectrum light is the strongest input to our circadian system and exposure to blue light at inappropriate times will disrupt the flow of melatonin the second is meal timing a meal consumed to light will disrupt the circadian system and could make it difficult to fall asleep that night and experience consolidated for a story to sleep now we make a lot of sense and we do see a lot of disregulated eating in general I think not only do we have a ton of external light exposure I don't know is fluorescent also blue I mean there's light pollution everywhere everywhere and it takes a lot of effort and there I think there's also a lot of confusion because there are a lot of devices that say there are circadian lights or there are you know sleep promoting lights which you know also are quite bright and then maybe someone's using that before bedtime so the best thing for your bedroom is to go to a department store or a drug store and buy a sleep friendly light bulb and put that into your light light almost a red light stand yes it's a red spectrum red colors are measured in temperature so it's a warm light it's reds it's maybe oranges those are kind of sleep inducing colors and use that in your bedroom if you're reading before bedtime and then if when you wake up in the morning do you need one of these circadian lights I don't know but I think that you know generally is if you have one in love it amazing but getting outside into the natural blue daylight spectrum light kind of as soon as possible is great for helping our helping a line our internal circadian rhythms I do know with the kids every day I don't know if you think about do you do that too with your kids right now I can yeah okay all right guys let's go I'll just go in the amount of the house and sometimes the best light we do we know the impact of exercise and the types of exercise on sleep quality this is a great question for so long in sleep we would discourage exercise at night now I think the research is still emerging but what we've found is that generally if you're getting exercise that's the most important predictor of good sleep quality we we really care less when you get it there have been a couple studies one in vigorous activity for instance doing a very vigorous you know high intensity workout before bedtime is ill advised that does you know have some negative impact on sleep but by and large just making time for exercise and really not worried about when you do it as long as you get it in and this question is related to our circadian rhythm preference our chronotype because if you're a true morning person one of the other questions I'd like to ask it's a great predictor of where you are on the spectrum from morningness to eveningness is when you do your best work and when you want to work out a true morning person will say oh you know the morning or an evening person will say I love to get a workout enough to work I don't think I've had a handful of times have you ever worked out after work oh my god I it's very hard I need a lot of motivation or you know it's not gonna happen I'm exhausted I'd rather get a bit for to train than I would rather train at 5pm I also think you know or poor evening people in our society I feel like I want to advocate for even true evening types because there's so many things in society that privilege a morning person even you know our figures of speech that early bird gets the worm and there's so many people the true evening types the idea of a 9 a.m. wake up is very stressful and then think about a commute to get to a 9 to 5 office job for a young professional who's a true evening type it's really hard I dream of a workplace where the quality of our work will be the biggest predictor of schedules you know if you're doing enough I don't really care where you are or you know when you're doing it as long as you're able to get the sleep that you need and that's the the biggest most important question employer should be asking how can we set our employees up for success think there's such a focus on you know being at the office but you know the hours aren't ideal for many many millions of Americans do you think that the environment matters in the way that if we are exposed all the time to blue light under fluorescent light do we wear we use flux in the evening do we wear red light glasses blue light blocking glasses should we be spending four hours or more of our time outside to to combat this light this is a great question I think sometimes we can get to in our head about things and I think the bottom line is more fresh air the better and natural fresh air what comes with that often during the daytime at least is exposure to blue daylight spectrum light getting more fresh air more sunlight exposure over the course of the day the better so think about ways to build that into your daily routine so you can kind of it to behavioral economics can you know fall into place and you can just reap the benefits if that means you know if you're like look I work in an office building I don't have a lot of opportunity to get outside one simple way to get a little bit more fresh air is to if you're live in a city walk one extra subway stop or park your car far away from the entrance and walk for five minutes take a call that you can off video and go outside so I'm really the more the better and in the morning is terrific but sunlight explosion the afternoon is also great so many people are reaching for a coffee or you know a sugary sweetened beverage in the afternoon and I get it we all experience a little bit of dip and alertness but if we combated that with either a power nap if you're really tired or simply going outside and walking around the block and getting exposure to sunlight can have the energizing benefits of caffeine without the cheddar's or the adverse implications for your sleep that night hydration isn't just about drinking coxero or other sugar free swing beverages like breadball now I'm saying this for a friend or it's not even about drinking more water it's about keeping the right balance of electrolytes and fluids during life's most demanding season like I don't know parenting maybe pregnancy or postpartum your body is going through massive changes blood volume increases hormones shift breastfeeding demands you know all those things all of these life transitions you probably need more and better hydration and you need electrolytes like sodium magnesium and potassium element is formulated to replenish what you actually lose without sugar fillers and junk that you don't need it's a clean effective way to stay hydrated and for men again it's not just about hydration it's also about performance recovery mental clarity and yes even energy whether you're hitting the gym chasing kids or grinding through your workday maybe even your teeth dehydration can quietly sabotage your focus and endurance element helps you stay sharp strong and ready we use element because it works taste amazing and it's no nonsense just science back hydration that actually makes a difference and right now element is offering a free sample pack with any purchase that's eight flavors to try on the house go to drink lmnt.com slash doctor lion to claim yours that's drink lmnt.com slash doctor lion stay hydrated stay strong and as goggins would say stay hard the power nap is interesting does it have to be 20 minutes if you're tired enough could you fall asleep for 10 mm what's so interesting about naps is maybe even less is is is is beneficial and in a little bit of a different way research from MIT just revealed that brief naps i'm talking seconds moments of sleep over the course of the day allow you a tiny bit of what we call hypnagogia sleep it's that way station from sleep to wake fullness or the other way it's that way station between wakefulness and sleep and we're finding the research is showing that moments seconds in hypnagogia sleep is associated with bursts and creativity and the ability to come up with solutions to complex problems and what i love about that research is it really lowers the stakes so many people say oh I can't nap I've seen the research I wish I could but I can't and what that says is don't worry if you can get a couple minutes you are in great shape to you know crush the rest of your day and it doesn't matter it doesn't matter when you do it the ideal time for a nap is in the dip in our circadian rhythm in the afternoon which we all experience whether you're a true evening person or a true morning person we all simply experience a dip in our alertness in the afternoon why because we've been up for you know so many hours so far in the day we've consumed a lot of information there's a small drop in our core body temperature in the afternoon so it's kind of the perfect storm for a nap and that's also a really good litmus test for whether you're getting enough sleep how do you feel in the afternoon are you exhausted are you like listen I need something to get me through that's a really good brahmeter for whether you're getting enough sleep at night 20 minutes is considered a power nap so moments are haven't been shown to be beneficial and then what we call a power nap what is it just going under the bed can you imagine all right guys just give me a second and my husband do I he could fall asleep right here for two minutes I love it I love it but he he needs a lot more sleep he will get it once he's done with his residency yes he's doing such an amazing job and remember these periods of life are fortunately fortunately short-lived for many of us the reality is most of us are not getting enough sleep and I don't want anyone to feel bad is there listening to this going oh I wish I get more sleep is there a way to recover and I don't just mean in the short term the rain function the executive function you know from years of lack of sleep of doing all of the things I'm not from being in high school all of the research is showing that sleep the quantity and quality of our sleep at night is a significant predictor of our health are well-being today tomorrow and well into the future but importantly sleep is not going to be perfect every night and that's because sleep is part of the fabric of the human condition and stress is all around us I think now more than ever and if you've been experiencing stress you're you could have done everything else right but you go into your bedroom and you slip into in between the sheets and you toss and turn and it could be because of something a co-worker said or maybe stress that you weren't managing over the course of the day or some negative experiences you approach bedtime you know scaring that flicks show the list goes on but yeah those definitely don't watch this you know sometimes there are things that are out of our control do you have tips or tricks I mean I want to share mine because I have a handful that I think will solve everybody's sleep problems it doesn't include alcohol number one sheets I know that sounds ridiculous but the sheets have to be cool and they have to be really silky again maybe it's a personal preference it just makes if you are physically so comfortable that's incredible I couldn't agree more and you want your bedroom to be the place that you look forward to I can tell that you love your sheets and what a beautiful hack like that's one thing that's easy to change sometimes it's hard for all of us to go out and get a new mattress but by the way we should be sleeping on a mattress for maybe seven maybe eight maybe nine years but not much longer than that but read it some research recently and we found that one in three Americans have had their mattress for far too long but a mattress is expensive and I think some of the other elements of your bedroom environment your pillows your sheets you can upgrade and they don't have to be expensive but I do encourage go to whatever store find sheets that you love just like you love yours and you want to look at your bed and want so badly to get a look forward to sleep does it matter the kind of mattress doesn't matter if it's firm or not firm is there any data that would support people sleep better with x or at a 5% in-cline on a pillow we are actually doing some of these studies right now to look at the best sleep surfaces and the components of an ideal mattress springs you know what is the top or those types of questions that stay tuned but in line there is a lot of individual preference however if you're talking about a really plush surface versus a you know a really firm surface there is a lot of individual difference and some people you know really look forward to a plush you know would love a plush experience meaning something very soft others much prefer a firm surface and I do think the your sleep position matters so if you're a side sleeper imagine your body on its side on the mattress do you want a side sleeper I am a stomach sleeper you amazing you're part of the the minority there aren't a lot of stomach sleepers you know how that is possible now I think it's quite I think it's fascinating that we all have these preferences that we just moved into I'm a side sleeper and specifically I kind of curl into a the fetal position covered by pillows my husband gives me such a hard time for he's a bit of wine and I have like 16 on my side we they're more about the kisser than what position is this that is it's so funny there's actually a scientific research on this one of my favorite studies looked at different sleeper positions and had all these cute names for all the different types and that is called the starfish pose I kids are 100% starfish no no my husband doesn't move he's a boxley bar okay interesting you both you have two starfish that's so interesting and this research was it was interesting they delivered the big five personality assessment and then asked questions about your sleeper position they found that extra vines were associated the starfish pose was you're more likely to be an extra word if you slept as a starfish so there you go you have two extra birds maybe on your hand and then what about the rest the I have to go back to the paper for all the other I think you're more introverted if you're if you sleep like I do actually which is which is true I think I'm an extraverted introverted side but um the fetal position you're a little bit more introverted no I'm spaced down nobody touched me I'm just in my silky she's I love I'm not sure in I'm not sure in I'm not sure I love I love I love all my wax earplugs when she needs I love that so much because that is your routine and what you've actually done is you've classically conditioned yourself to put in your earplugs put on your eye mask slip into your sheets a swim your position and go to sleep and these little things makes such a difference and what I also love about that routine is you can take it with you on the road I do I told you there we go it's days packed it's beautiful and then you can have some protection because you never can guarantee a quiet bedroom when you're traveling the light environments so many even clean nice hotels often have that sliver of light what about their quality we do see a strong association between the quality of our environment and our sleep so if there's poor air quality if it's stuffy if there are allergens we do see that that does interrupt our sleep so buying an air purifier that can promote good air air flow and air quality can be useful do you usually use air filter I do like a not the part of my sleep routine I also do earplugs in my mask every night I've brands that I love and I know that I can there might go to things and I take those with me when I travel I also do like a little bit of background noise and so that is one nice thing that an air purifier provides is a little bit of background noise to attenuate any interruptions you know a siren even a town over you can sometimes hear you know in the country or if you're in an urban environment there are definitely going to be noises is there any data that would support an enhances sleep or does something to the brain while the brain is going through its cognitive processes or contamination research to show that pink noise which are generally kind of natural sounds can be associated with memory consolidation. What's the difference between pink and white noise? Basically a different frequency of sound white noise tends to be a little bit more of a static or mechanic noise where pink noise is typically a natural sound it doesn't make sense because white noise is a little jarring yes so one of the biggest differences is that pink noise has more power at lower frequencies it's typically natural sounds rain or a babbling brok and research has shown associations between the use of pink noise and memory consolidation believe it or not. You have talked a lot in the past about cognitive health Alzheimer's sleep mortality are there sleep biomarkers that we would be able to look for? Sleep is a really rich process and I think we often kind of hyper focus on duration getting enough duration is a really important part of the equation for the vast majority of adults that's between seven and nine hours and finding where you are on that spectrum and ideally meeting it is many nights of the week as possible realizing not every night is going to be perfect but doing your best. Now in addition to getting enough sleep is consistently that is another vitally important thumbprint of what constitutes good sleep health consistently meaning falling asleep at the same time and waking up at the same time as many nights of the week as possible and keeping those times as close together as possible varying by maybe 15 minutes here 30 minutes there an hour but really not no longer than that. Now in addition I want you to wake up and I want you to feel good from sleep I want you to tell me that you feel restorative. Now in addition to duration to the consistency of our sleep to being satisfied with our sleep consolidated sleep is also vitally important sleeping as much as possible in one consolidated period of sleep that's not interrupted by multiple prolonged awakenings waking up from time to time is not a problem as long as you keep the lights low it's typically to use the bathroom and come back to bed as soon as you can. Those are the four markers of what we call a good night's sleep and doing your best to meet those is many nights of the week as possible but I think one of the things that we do is we kind of will hyper focus on duration and we'll talk about all of the the dangerous and scary things that happen if you don't meet those things but the truth is sleep is not going to be perfect every night but the key is getting back on track is quickly as possible towards those four components. Now those are kind of the manifestations of a good night's sleep but the interesting thing about sleep is health behavior is it's also intimately related to a constellation of other things. I mean I like to say that good sleep really starts when you wake up and getting plenty of blue light natural sunlight exposure over the course of the day the timing of your meals this is your work the composition of your meals managing your stress over the course of the day I think one of the most powerful tools there's really not widely understood is meditation and mindfulness and those tools allow you to find peace in a moment. Do you meditate before sleep? I do. I have to very regimented. What's your pre-sleep routine? I do. Well after the kids are asleep I do the whole wash my face I use this essential oil yes I do. I like that. Sometimes I use the wax your plugs sometimes I don't I only see where my husband is home does he store is that way? Yeah we love him. No he actually is so bad man. Really? Yes. Okay yes. Oh that's a whole other. It is a whole I mean he has I know it's next like 18 inches but I see pop we have yes he does. I mean like I'm from you which way it's very romantic. Oh yeah like the sleep that's like that's what I'm asking. But I love that that's right. Yeah the other aspect is I'll put on a meditation before you're going to sleep. I love that 15 20 minutes. The same one do you know I'll switch it up or that or some kind of noise not white noise but some kind of. What's so beautiful about that is that it's your routine and you've classically conditioned yourself to wash your face to start your meditation to put on your eye mask and then your brain starts to understand that what follows is sleep and I think sometimes we're I can look we have busy days now more than ever filled with information and all of this stuff and that our day comes to a screeching halt at night and I think that whole bedtime procrastination trend emerged because especially younger generations who are being told to do things all day long and then they finally have some agency at night and they kind of push back on the idea of needing to sleep or needing to keep a bedtime but a good night's rest is the strongest predictor of so many aspects of our waking success. Better productivity, better mental health, better mood, better exercise when you exercise you're going to get more out of your sleep if you're well rested. So many positive things when you can put sleep first but our days are busy and then they come to a screeching halt and I think that the time between you send the last email and for us as bombs putting our kids to bed it's so easy to think you know I'd love to have a watch a show or you know but then unfortunately what can happen is a lot of times that the next show will start and suddenly there's not a lot of awareness about your bedtime for many people and watchers for that reason it's so dangerous it's a risky game right because then you want to know what happens next if it's a show I'm at no I love that and finding ways to relax and kind of fuel your soul and prepare you for sleep so that you can get the the rest that your body needs. If an individual is sleeping is there a way to see if there's an improvement in brain function with that beyond the EEG again that's probably outside of what would happen at sleep but assuming that you can see the health of the brain while it's sleeping is that this is a good Now of course we need to be measuring brain activity to really know without a shadow of a doubt where you are in terms of light sleep, sleep, sleep, drop and I move, sleep. Now as it relates to brain health and function and structure what I think the response I'd make is kind of twofold first if you take someone who has maybe what we call yo-yo sleep schedules which are you know keeping one bedtime one night you know falling asleep at 10 p.m. one night two a.m. the next night waking up at 10 a.m. one morning you know six a.m. the next morning so all over the map which is quite common so an irregular sleep schedule or maybe not getting enough sleep so if you take someone who is maintaining a schedule like that can sleep and wake time all over the map, sleep duration all over the map and you move them into a regimented sleep schedule during sleep what's going to change is the structure is going to improve so that we're going to see a healthy cycling in and out of all the stages at the times that we would expect to see those stages again deep sleep predominating in the first half of the night and wrap and I move mentally up in the second half of the night so the structure of your brain activity over the course of the night will become more regulated and you'll go and get more out of your sleep also if you move someone from even someone getting enough sleep but keeping that what we call yo-yo sleep schedule falling asleep at different times all over the week waking up at different times all over the week we take someone like that who's getting enough sleep but we look at the structure of their sleep it's going to be all over the map and if we move that person even to a slightly shorter sleep schedule but a consistent one so many things improve and their brains start to understand oh this is what I'm going to fall asleep and then it can align itself within that period in a much more efficient way so that sleeper is going to move even if they're getting a little less sleep into a schedule that's more consistent and more regulated and wake up and probably have more energy than the person who is maybe even getting more sleep but sleeping all over the map is there any data and this might be very hard to study but the that glimphatic system cleanage the cellular turnover do we know if it's more effective that mirrors that regular consistently what we do know is in lab studies and these have been done in rodents because we can inject the brains of rodents on the doctor's mind so not quite know but what those and what's so interesting is these findings were developed by neuroscientists who wasn't necessarily a sleep scientist but had this amazing finding and in rodents they found that the brains of of these rodents in their studies that were sleep deprived compared to well rested there was an accelerated clearance of toxic particles which are observed of course in greater deposition in humans with Alzheimer's disease and related dementia as compared to healthy controls so there's this increased clearance of these neural toxins in the rodents that were allowed to sleep to the tune of 60 percent greater clearance in the well rested rodents is compared to the sleep deprived isn't that fascinating and mechanistically what's happening there is there's this fluid I like to think of it as like drain out it's washing through the networks of our brain and the glial cells expand when we're sleeping allowing for accelerated clearance of those toxic particles and that accelerated removal then results in better brain health over time and we've looked at this in humans and we found that in cohorts of older adults we've published several papers on this where individuals enter the cohort at age 65 and we monitor them over time and those individuals that are maintaining poor sleep schedules they're struggling to get good sleep maintaining in consistency schedules there at a market increase risk for dementia as compared to the individuals we're getting consistent and regular healthy sleep I'd like to acknowledge one of the sponsors and that's our place I'd also like to acknowledge my mom jokes that are coming in hot about my old pan it was so toxic even my veggies wanted to detox after dinner but it's about seriously non-stick cookware is still used very convenient but it comes at a cost non-stick contains harmful chemicals like Teflon and other PFAS which can reach into your food in our home we use our place which is toxin 3 high performance cookware and appliances designed for safer simpler use the hidden dangers of traditional non-stick cookware is loaded with forever chemicals dump them it is not worth it if you want to start somewhere start with the four piece cookware set it is your best way to overhaul that kitchen stop cooking with toxic cookware stop spending time with toxic people upgrade your place today visit from rplace dot com slash doctor lion and use the code doctor lion for 10% off site why that's 10% off site wide with a hundred day risk free trial free shipping returns you will experience a game changing cookware do you have a position on sleep medications things like ambian lunasta i understand it certain people translate on i know that people need them but as a sleep scientist do you have concerns about their utility this is a great question and there are many millions of americans were using sleep medications and there is a time and a place for medication and for some patients it is a lifeline if someone is really struggling with sleep and has been for many years so the first answer is talk to your health care provider and create a plan that works for you some of the research shows in the longer term it is advantageous to move onto a behavioral change regime but what is interesting in individuals who have the option and think they might be open to behavioral intervention or medication the research that pits those two treatments had to had pharmacological intervention and behavior change specifically cognitive behavioral change for better sleep we refer to this as cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia or cbti when we take that treatment and we compare it to pharmacological intervention those two patients suffers of insomnia and we compare them over time the behavioral treatment wins out in the short and especially in the longer term the unfortunate thing is we have a death of sleep providers that can provide this treatment so that's one of the interesting and exciting applications of artificial intelligence for the future to think about providing some of these behavioral treatments I was going to ask you what is your very involved in sleep sleep nationally sleep globally where do you think that the future is going in terms of tracking improving outcomes testing what is on the forefront of sleep I am really excited about the intersection of some of the new technologies we're seeing and sleep and specifically in my work which is behavioral interventions I one of my areas of expertise is designing interventions to nudge and navigate patients and populations towards better sleep and I am so excited at the idea of developing an avatar that could deliver tailored personalized recommendations it could help you you know make sense and act on your information from your wearable device we know how exciting to take you know this the problem which is a death of sleep providers and think about sleep interventions at scale I also think the trend towards sleep tracking is incredibly exciting these devices are increasingly relied upon by many millions of Americans we published data in 2019 to show that one and three Americans were tracking their sleep with some sort of wearable technology and I think that that number has only increased since that time and so ensuring that these devices are increasingly accurate increasingly small increasingly scalable and soon I hope also able to detect signs and signals for sleep disorders that people might not even be aware they have and might be limiting their sleep quality what would be one of those disorders there are more than 80 differentially diagnosable sleep disorders but a couple of the big ones are in Somnia number one it impacts anywhere between 30 and 40 percent of the population depending on how we're measuring it and studying it and in what population but it's a condition that is depilitating for many it is characterized by a chronic experience of difficulty falling asleep so taking longer than 30 45 minutes night in and night out difficulty maintaining sleep so maybe being able to fall asleep but then waking up and fighting struggling to get back to sleep waking up too early in the morning and not being able to fall back asleep and those are typically also accompanied with feelings of exhaustion during the day individuals who suffer from insomnia will tell us that they are absolutely exhausted and the frontline treatment for sleep for insomnia is cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia when available or a pharmacological intervention and then kind of titrating to get onto a behavioral regime often with insomnia we're trying to do away with maladaptive cognitions about sleep someone within insomnia will walk into their bedroom and their cortisol will spike which we know interrupts irritability to relax and prepare for sleep the second most concerning sleep disorder is obstructive sleep apnea and that is you know as a condition marked by often loud snoring loud raucous snoring but also interruptions or pauses and breath somewhere is scary yes yes is a spouse and so if those symptoms sound familiar to anyone listening there are treatments it's imminently treatable which is the good news and there are a range of options but do find a sleep professional to coach you on the available options for your personal needs and treatment is a significant predictor of better quality of life better sleep of course better heart health often in patients with untreated sleep apnea blood pressure can become uncontrolled many issues start to snowball when you're not getting proper treatment for obstructive sleep apnea that's absolutely true blood pressure human globin hematocrit people they just don't feel well low testosterone you know the good news is there are a lot of you know very easy to deliver questionnaires that are very sensitive for your risk for these things so you don't often even have to go into a sleep lab just to get a sense of if you're at risk for some for some of these conditions the aporus sleepiness scale the insomnia severity index for any providers or clinicians listening the Berlin questionnaire the stop bang questionnaire or all widely used validated questionnaires that can give you a difference to see if your primary care provider could give you a really good sense of whether a patient you're seeing as at risk for any of these disorders I want to close out this podcast with some common sleep myths what is your top three myths that you hear number one is this belief that there's some people out there somewhere somehow that do well on less than seven hours and there might be they're very poorly studied if they are out there people who truly truly need less than seven hours and they have a kind of appropriate health profile but we do find there's several notable figures Thomas Edison was born in there been others in across across history that people who brag about not cutting enough sleep but Thomas Edison yes he probably slept around four hours at night but he had a cut in his office and he was known for taking protracted naps so it is not in fact true that he was only sleeping for four hours a day he simply wore that on his shoulder as a valour of honors somehow despite all of the health concerns but was in fact likely sleeping closer to sign so really duration we can't there's no cure there's no silver bullet we do need to spend the time sleeping but the secret is if you can combine a healthy duration of sleep with consistent sleep you start to maybe need a little bit less sleep overall because your sleep will become so consolidated and so efficient within the time that we're provided the idea of bedtime routines and the time before sleep we don't often factor that in but it is a vitally important part of a sleep routine we're really not made to fall asleep immediately quickly right away but we need to set ourselves up for success and just knowing that can be helpful and then creating a relaxing bedtime ritual whether that's doing a couple breathing exercises reading a couple pages in a book one simple thing that I love to talk about is just one good thing from your day think sometimes at night time all the bad stuff can snowball but if you close your eyes and breathe and focus on one person that touched you in some way you know touched your heart was kind to you was thoughtful one nice thing that you did can also sometimes make us feel good ourselves that can just put you in the right headspace to drift off to sleep and then number two I'd say is this myth that falling asleep quickly is a sign of good sleep so often people say oh you know I'm such a bad sleeper it takes me 15 20 minutes I'm like you know it takes a healthy sleeper 15 to 20 minutes to fall asleep but I think that that some people think of that is you know what's wrong with me so falling asleep quickly just as if you were underfed and you were presented with a buffet and you helped yourself to a ton you know a ton of food right away and you're you're starved for food so similarly if you're falling asleep right away you're probably starved for sleep and the third myth is snoozing so many people at dinner parties or you know wherever we'll open their phone and show me a dozen snooze alarms and they're like look at me I get all this extra sleep and that is another myth that hitting the snooze alarm will give you more sleep what the vast majority of us are doing if we're using this snooze alarm is you're looking at your schedule so you have to get up at 7 o'clock for work and that's a non-agosable to commute to get ready to all do you all of your things so what people are typically doing is setting their first alarm for 630 and then for 640 and then 640 and I'm like guys let's just set it for 7 and find the latest possible time set your alarm and then it's gonna be tough you've got to get your butt out of bed but just commit say you know I'm gonna maximize my sleep and maybe put my phone on the other side of the room so I'm not tired of this mess again it's genius we're all inspired to sleep more and you know what you don't make it some people and that means so much to me it's just important you're really on this mission to improve cognition through sleep and just better life and if we can get ahead of it then we can get ahead of it for our children absolutely set them up for a more resilient life if we can do that it's the biggest gift as parents yeah I think I'm a good sleep think about it when they are disregulated it's oftentimes when they're tired 100% doctor Rebecca Robbins you're just a joy and like why it's so fun to be able to sit down with my friends and people that I just respect and admire the work that they're doing the world so to this I would say good day but I'm gonna say good night and can we add sweet rums

For every 10 people who lose weight, only one will keep it off for good. How you would think about fellows. Because that's what everybody wants. You don't have to count your calories, but it's really good idea to understand that calories matter. Most people don't fail because they're lazy or lack willpower. They fail because they're following the wrong strategy. So what's the right strategy? Listen, we need training three days a week out of bare minimum. The number one most important thing get your energy intake correct. If you want to lose fat, you have to consume less energy than you expect. Dining is tough. A condition in which your body is not getting sufficient calories to maintain its weight almost always cruise some fatigue. And we call that diet fatigue in the industry. By mastering these strategies or habits, you can lose weight and keep it off, no gimmicks, no fed diets, just science backed proven methods. So we took care of most of the theory behind how people can lose weight. But there's a missing piece. The world is really confused about fat loss, about muscle. Where can we start with fat loss? People that are loudly proclaiming things that are one of two categories. While exaggerations or things that are just categorically untrue. Give me an example. Yes, yes. Categorically untrue. Calorie balance isn't death. Calories don't matter. Wild exaggeration. The low carb lifestyle is great for everyone. And you hear that enough from those people. And they're iconic plastic enough that come up on your social media feed. They write bestselling books and all this other stuff. And all of a sudden, you know, your idea of the thing, like I've had people tell me, like, well, so like diet soda's like bad for you. And I'm like, no, it's just near consensus that it's totally fine. It's essentially almost inert. And then like, well, I heard, like, well, you're hearing lies and half truths and misunderstandings from lots of people and social media that just say a lot of stuff. But I wouldn't really only point the nasty blame finger at the producers of this kind of knowledge. I think most of it comes down to a consumption problem. A lot of people are not really interested in what maybe they consider dry and boring ideas. They're interested in sexy ideas. They're interested in quick fixes. Kind of a serendipitous fix where you like, this is really complex puzzle. And you click one piece and it goes, it's all in place versus like having to do this and that. You know what this reminds me of? This reminds me of success. And the things in common between fitness success and business success are actually quite massive on a principal level. They both have that little sting at the end of like, I gotta do all this fucking principal work for years to fuck that. Give me one hack. Just one thing is so I can get successful. So I can lose fat and here's the thing. I absolutely did deep level and never blame people for looking for shortcuts because as we develop as a society, we come up with shortcuts to things. If you told someone 150 years ago, yeah, that's fair. They're like, hey, how do I get to 90 miles away? You get in a car and just do this and it goes. And if we say this in about three or four years, you're gonna do like, you just actually get in a car and just do this and it just goes. I'm not getting in. What the hell is a car? What the hell is a car? You're like, right, this thing that drives us like, it's like having 150 horses but all in one chariot and then the horses are invisible, they can like, you're out of your mind. And then you're like, yeah, it's all shortcuts in the future. You wanna go get food, you don't farm, you know anything. You just show up to the grocery store. You just kind of weird swiping some kind of weird little card and you just take whatever you want. You leave. They're gonna be like, this is nonsense. So if people didn't want shortcuts, if they didn't want massive efficiency improvements in orders of magnitude, they would have never invented amazing things. Like if we were all hard work, brother, someone's trying to invent like the industrial revolution, like the farming equipment, you're like, man, this guy's just a book and post, he's just trying to get out of work, like dude, you're insane person. So it's a great to look for shortcuts. It's awesome. But you gotta be able to tell what shortcuts are cutting your right into bullshit that doesn't work and which ones are actually effective. And there are some effective shortcuts, hacks. But in the diet realm so far, they're few and far between. And you can exploit them really well if you're good at the rest of the thing. Give me the hierarchy. And I'm gonna give you what I would consider probably the hierarchy and you tell me where I'm right, where I'm wrong. Oh, you're wrong, cause you're not me. I'm the only one that knows the hierarchy. It's called the Doctor My hierarchy. I'll take it. Of things, the Doctor My canows, cause he's in bad, special and important. Oh, I'm on a podcast. You are, but you are special and important. So my mom said, calories in calories out, well, I guess the first thing you would have to consider is what are your goals? Are you looking to lose fat, muscle or maintained? Then the next thing would be calculate that number and you determine what that number would be. Calorie number? Yes, you determine what that calorie number would be. And then you would set your dietary protein intake to, for me, I would set it at one gram per pound, ideal body weight or one gram per pound. And then depending on my activity, I could choose carbohydrates or fats. You well underweight, girl. I don't even do the podcast. You can't go out. I was about, huh? I mean, yeah, and that was Dr. Mike. Thank you so much. See you later. No, right on. Right on. Tell me where, how you would think about that was, cause that's what everybody wants. So it turns out you don't have to count your calories. You don't have to count your calories. But it's really good idea to understand that calories matter. Imagine you're in a shooter video game and you have a certain number of bullets in your gun. You got to reload. It doesn't matter if you count the bullets one by one, but you have to understand the concept that you can run out of bullets. There's such a thing as too much shooting at an empty screen and then the bad guy comes in. Oh, that hurts. And he eats you. So you don't have to count calorie by calories. Many ways of doing things. But calories as a physics concept is not so up for dispute. No, it can be up for dispute. If you want to just prove calorie balance, you do a lot of real deep physics equations and deep experiments and bomb calorie emitters and you submit to various journals and five or ten years later, they're like, it's fucking Einstein, here revolutionary. But good news, we don't have to do that because it's pretty well-sense. And all calorie balance says is, if you want to become larger, you have to eat more than you're used to or spend a little bit less energy. You're just spending things I can get into considerably, but the short, long, short of it is energy expenditure is not a big factor in most people being overweight. I know that sounds crazy, but it's just like an ambiguously true. What is a big factor? Is people eat to God damn much? I know that's crazy. We are in Houston, Texas, we're everyone so fucking lean. These are just shredded. These are all skinny people and you're eating people. No. Oh, I was like, I thought I'd say that. Everything was bigger in life. I mean, no. No, it's impressive here. Texas is great. Everything is bigger. Yeah, literally. Everyone. And it looks like people having a lot of fun with their food. I will say that. But the biggest thing about calorie balance is, if your calorie level is here and your body weight is here, probably the big part of your journey to getting your body weight down is going to be to take your calories and put them down for some level. Would that be a controversial statement that people are eating too much? I don't know where. Well, I mean, I think the only reason I say that is because you hear a lot of people say that individuals are under eating. Yeah, I do hear that. So there's a nuanced caveat of way that can be true. And there's a way that many people need it. This is categorically false. So the nuanced way, if we're really going to steal man that is, we could a lot of people who get tired of being overweight, which is a lot of people decide, you know what, I'm not going to eat a whole lot. I'm going to lose weight. And they take their calorie level and they bring it down to a level that's unsustainable. Like 800 calories. Sure. Energy grounds, hunger grounds, mental clarity grounds, getting fired for more because you can't make sense of things grounds. Sleep goes to hell, that whole thing. And it is true that in that acute time frame that lasts days for most people, weeks were some months for a very few. They are actually under eating. So the statement is true in that sense. But because they under eat way too much, they go back around and go, fuck this. Gas me up. They go to Taco Bell, late at night. You know, hot starts. And it doesn't stop because your boys and Taco Bell parking lot all day. I just walk in, they already know me. You have a card. They have my, oh yeah. They could fly a card. The free has a stress. They have your order ready. I'm so in line with the Taco Bell corporation that they actually just eat for free. They just want to see how ridiculously overfat I can get at this point. It's like a science thing. And they probably support your YouTube. Oh, they love us. Yeah. Taco Bell, please don't cancel us. But at some point, those people go back into like, because if you drag your body weight down rapidly and unsustainable manner, especially if you lose skeletal muscle, the profound hunger that results is not something most people can relate to in their daily lives. It's a kind of hunger that if you're watching a TV show where a family is discussing some controversial topic. And you love the show when you're going to go, what's the juice? You stop paying attention to what they're saying and you're looking at the dinner rolls. They haven't touched it. You're explaining to somebody, fucking eat those. Oh my God, I'm not well. I'm that hungry. And for most people, they get that hungry. They just, they go, this is a real trip, Unreal and Fortune trip. They go, this thing I just did, this crazy locality diet. This is what I understand fat loss dieting to be. And it's clearly just not doesn't work for me. I'm going to go back to doing what I usually do. And I'm just going to be fat, because it's either suffering or being fat. And being fat is a lot easier in almost all cases than suffering, starving for the rest of your life. So they just go back and they look back on their diet experience and someone tells them, like, you weren't eating enough and you're like, oh, oh, they make sort of sense. So in a local scale, it can be true. In a global scale, if you give me someone over the course of one year and they've gained 15 pounds, maybe they're married. Maybe the first year, the marriage was just fun, but then after he just keeps fucking that work, he's not path-trimmed, self-deficant. The guys are slow, but you just hate and hate me. The thing that makes your hate go away is the cookies. You just keep eating cookies. And you gain 15 pounds over the course of a year. And you tell me, I was under eating false. You were over eating. It would be really dope if we figured out a way how to underfeed people and still allow them to maintain or gain weight, because we've been sending that information to the war torn regions of the world, where they would do famine control, it would be wonderful. But it's never been seen. Violates, several laws of thermodynamics. It's just a work. So on the grand scale of someone's like, you have just gained 40 pounds, you know, and I've had this literal conversation with like, I think I just not, I don't eat enough, and I'm just like, well, I'll call it my food. Like, that's not it. And I think that that's a really important point because oftentimes you do hear, especially women say, well, I'm just not eating enough, and I have to increase my calories, and I'm underfeeding, and the reality is you might go through periods of starvation, and then there's a rebound hunger that seems to send people into a salesman. I wanted to take a moment to let you know about something new we've created. It's called Forever Strong Insider, and it's the premium subscription to the Dr. Gabriel lion show. As a forever strong insider every week, you'll get ad free episodes, written summaries with key takeaways to help you retain the most important insights from the show, a community Q&A segment where you can submit your own questions for upcoming guests. We're going to call this the Strong Seed, and behind the scenes content, a closer look at how I prepare, train, travel, and navigate daily life. Go to foreverstrong.supercast.com. Let's keep getting stronger together. If someone were to say, okay, calories in calories out, we've identified that calories in is pretty streamlined, right? How many calories are you getting in weather? The metabolizable. Okay, metabolizable. If you have more fiber, that's going to lower your metabolizable energy. There's that kind of theory. That's the crux of it. Your metabolizable energy in and then the summation of the calories you've expanded on a daily basis. Now, we look at the carbonslamolobesity. This has a lot of variations. I feel like the goalposts have moved on this a lot, but I'm going to give you my closest interpretation of what I think has been popularized. Calories in calories out kind of states that you overeat and become obese in response to the overeating, because you're consuming more calories in you expend. The carbonslamolobes says, it's not so much that when you eat a high refined carbohydrate, you inhibit lipolysis. It's the breakdown of fat. Right. You increase insulin. You inhibit lipolysis. That traps fat and out of post. Since fat is now inaccessible or stored energy is inaccessible to the rest of the body, you overeat response. The crux is you don't become fat because you overeat. You become fat from eating too much, refined carbohydrate and you overeat in response and then become fat. I think there's a few kind of really basic reasons that that is not viable. The first thing I will say is, for a high-pothesis to be robust, it needs to show up across a broad category, various populations, one of the things that I had said to people who were promoting the carbonslamolobesity, because they seem to keep changing it and keep like, well, this study didn't quite do this, and so it's not, and I said, well, if your hypothesis requires these extremely tight constraints to actually be true, it's not a very robust hypothesis. Or, could it be that it is efficacious for a very particular type of age population? I don't know, pretend female type. I would say the first thing to look at is there was a metanalysis of studies looking at various levels of carbohydrate intake in the diet, but they controlled protein and calories. There's about 20 controlled feeding studies. This is important because the inclusion criteria for this metanalysis was the, and I had to be metabolic ward or the food had to be provided to participants. So adherence was high, because when you provide food to participants, you can get adherence above 90%. When you do free living and just tell them to do whatever, that's when you get like 50, 60% of here. Or, yeah, is there eaten under the counter? Right. So, the food is provided to participants, protein and calories were equated, which is important. Obviously, we've got to equate calories. There's a lot of studies out there where they're like, well, this showed more fat loss than this, but then you see, well, they didn't control calories. Okay, might say something for a satiety, but you don't really know if it like mechanistically what it's showing. So, the equated calories equated protein, important for what we talked about, because originally, some of the lower carb research, like out of volic and finise lab, was showing increased fat loss and better muscle retention, but they weren't equating protein and the studies. I didn't know that. Listen, we need strength training, right? And I think we need, you know, right around three days a week at a bare minimum, right? That'd be enough to change to lose body fat. And I think it would be. And I think that, depending on your lifestyle, I'm not telling you for the other four days to go sit in the desk and not move or not be active, but if you got in and you did three days of resistance training and the other four days, you were active with steps and you were trying to get outside and you're hydrating and you're focusing on sleep and you're focusing on something that we love called protein, right? I heard of it. Never heard of it. And trying to, the food I consume, I want it to be powerful, right? Like I'm not going to just eat like a chicken breast in some white rice, maybe it's not school or what you do. It's not school way of doing things like, yes, we're going to have broccoli with it or we're going to mix like you're the way you eat or when you look in your fridge, very interesting and I love it, but it's very organized. It's very organized, but like you had your grass fed steak, you had, you know, some shrimp, you had some chicken, you had your potatoes, you had your rice, you had your vegetables and you had other things up top, your crowd, maybe your kimchi. You noticed that we were looking at my mouth. Yeah, so like for fermented foods and you know, there was never you were never sure of being able to consume something that was powerful. So I think there's a way to eat that's delicious. I think it does take a little discipline and a little planning like if you're going to wake up the next day and say, oh god, I slept in. My meals are ready and when am I going to try it? I never sleep in, right? Because I have. I wish we could live a little children who woke up and we were like, where's Uncle Donnie? I missed that. I missed that. But yeah, I think to answer your question, I think if you got in started with you know, three, 20 to 30 minute sessions and the other day, it's not that long. It's not not long. It's not long. Within the other days, be active like like walk, take the stairs instead of the elevator, move like maybe after your meals go for a 10 minute walk, doing these things that are really going to help you accumulate your steps and you know, I think good things will happen and when good things start happening, then those magic words come in. It's like, all right, I'm seeing progress. What's next? So many people don't want to keep up with you know, with that discipline because they're not seeing progress. So when you're doing something every day and there's nothing in return, it's really difficult to want to continue to do it. So that's my thing. If we could show them a little bit of progress, we're going to get them coming back a lot more. And progress begins, you know, there's the physical progress, but also being able to set a standard for yourself. You set a standard. You execute on that standard. If you were to say, if you're out there listening and you've never picked up a weight, which I know some people are in that spot or maybe they've always been doing cardio because again, cardio is easy, jump on a piece of cardio equipment, but strength training is a non-negotiable for reducing body fat and changing body composition. Don has trained every type of person under the sun from famous people to athletes to tier one operators who we share together. If someone starts at 20 to 30 minutes of resistance training, the readies a week, how should they think about it? Should be a Monday, Wednesday, Friday? What kind of it should be? How should they space it and would these be full body exercises? I like full bodies because now we're repeating what some frequency and I think someone who's getting started, the big complaint is I don't want to feel too sore, right? I like the sort of- Is that the big, I got to get really sore doing this? And I'm like, but so if you're turning around and you're training frequently, meaning like a Monday, Wednesday, Friday or Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, you're allowing yourself a rest day, you know, in between, mentally, we might develop some motivation, which becomes a problem. When most people start training, they get so excited and they get overzealous and they jump in there and the next thing you know, they're there for an hour and a half and then they're sore the next day and then they come back in and they do it again and then three, four days in, they're like, I'm shot and I can't keep up with this and I'm like, I don't have that type of time and that motivation starts diminishing. So I want them to go in, I want them to hit it, I want them to leave there wanting more. Like, leave there not being completely spent. And is that why you say start with 20 to 30 minutes because of 30 minutes, you could probably keep going. I can create any program for anybody. Like, if someone comes to me and they're like, I for some reason at 20 minutes, I lose motivation, I'll design for them, the 18 minute workout. It's just, and I can design it in a way where we're going to check a lot of boxes. We're going to train the entire body. You're going to work, you know, you're going to work all five components of fitness, you know, of strength, mobility, cardiovascular endurance, muscular endurance, body composition. So, you know, all those five components, we're going to check those boxes with if we are, you know, training in a smart way and we're training in a very efficient way. But if you're coming in there and frivolously pulling stuff out of the air, you're going to have a big problem. And there's not going to be any balance to your programming and you're going to over train certain areas of the body or some people like using the term over training, but you're going to overload certain areas of the body. And that could result in some issues in the future. I'm a fan of mobility. I am, I will. It feels great. Just, I call practice. So, what I'll do is I will personally screen someone. I'll run them through some type of a functional movement screening or if there is red flags. I've got a team of medicals I work with where they can come and do an SFM-A or take them through their process. So, once we understand how that person's moving, then I could design my practice or call what you want. Warm up movement prep, pre-hat, whatever you want to call. I don't care. But like, then we could design that very simple approach based off of what it is that person needs. So, if they're lacking an external rotation in the shoulder, he might work on that or thoracic extension or thoracic rotation. So, it's very purposeful. I'm not going to take a woman who can twist her spine like gumpy and start working on open books. It's a useless movement for her. She doesn't need it. She might need to hang from a pull-up arm, work on grip strength. I'm just making this up. Right? But I think coming in and taking anywhere from three to five movements and just rolling through it to where your heart rate gets picked up. But we are practicing things that we want to get better at that I think becomes very, very important. And then, you know, it's how are we structuring the workout based off of their goals? If you're like me, you love a good meat stick and are always on the go. But still committed to putting high quality fuel into your body. Then you want to check out Paleo Valley, one of the sponsors of the show. There are 100 grass fed and finished beef sticks, our clean nutrient dense and free from all the garbage found in most convenient snack. And by the way, this is Buffalo chicken, no preservatives, no added sugar, no artificial anything. They are naturally fermented, which means they support your gut to deliver more. I will be able to nutrients and of course have a long shelf life without the use of harmful additives, which is amazing. Paleo Valley sources from regenerative farms here in the U.S., the kind of farms that treat animals humanely and prioritize soil health. It's like going to the farmers market, getting a good quality snack, and it's still a good right to your drawer. Go to PaleoValley.com slash Dr. Lyon to get 15% off. That's PaleoValley.com slash Dr. Lyon. Supplements. Yes, I'm so glad you brought that up. Yeah, there are some supplements you may be interested in taking during weight loss journey as a little bit of an insurance policy. Magnesian, zinc, vitamin D, a multivitamin multimintero, maybe a greens powder, maybe not, maybe a fruits powder, maybe not, maybe some healthy fat supplements, maybe not. And those just make sure everything squared away and work and find it. It probably is anyway for eating mostly healthy diet, but these are things that are like super, super-mine that you can do. It's a very least a multivitamin multiminer all every day. Probably a good thing. As far as supplements that really have a wall up the fact after that they don't exist. Stimulants are okay, but Stimulants are kind, like a yo-himbe fedra. If I had a damn girl we're back in the 90s. Is that even a little bit more? I think so. I don't know. Yeah. And guys we're not saying to take it. I am purely picking Dr. Mike's brain. So before you get excited, please go to the fender. Oh, you did see Stimulants. I mean, okay, I should probably drink the coffee. Yeah. Right. Stimulants I would say is kind of like a really pretty gnarly sword, like a powerful sword, but there's no handle. You just grab the sword and bleed right into it. And some people have really calistans. They do just find some people out. That doesn't work in the background. Tell you what kind of what Stimulant type of thing are you talking about? Yeah, yeah. So some people Stimulants make their brain go really well and they're productive and aware and all the field grade. Some people just get a lot of anxiety from them. Like way more than the anything else. And then like this, I can't live like this. Some people fall asleep fine. I can I could do because do a natural experiment. You give my wife an espresso. It's 8 p.m. You wait until 845. She'll pass out of the couch. See, my husband, too. Actually, you give him a espresso at 8. And by 8. Oh, five, that guy is done. So if you give me an espresso at 8 at 4 in the morning, I would be like connecting the dots and conspiracy theories, checking into a psychiatric world. Well, not that part. But yes. But you talked about caffeine. Either other ones. I mean, yes, let's say over the counter. Stimulants. The beans, the main driver of all of them. And other Stimulants are interesting. They have some interesting fat loss and health benefits. But the teeny tiny. And actually caffeine is quite teeny tiny. So if you can use caffeine to give you a bit more energy, if it doesn't interfere with your sleep much. And if you can do it to have that, it's got a pretty interesting decent hunger suppressor for fat. What about nicotine? Nicotine is in the same of that same situation. nicotine has some health downsides that caffeine does not. So it's just not my first go to. Nicotine has substantial addiction potential. So it's not something you use on a diet and then quit because you're like, I haven't plucked a more nicotine right now. Just go straight to SIGI not even the filter ones I'm talking about. 1950s. Like your fridge probably has in there right now. Yeah, definitely. It's just full of cigarettes. And shrunken head. Yes. If you open I do never know what's going on. People have died from smoking cigarettes. It's a lesson. But nicotine, because you hear out with the fasting community, the missing nicotine pouches. Yeah, it works great for fasting. But nicotine is a pretty hard drug. So drug drug, a capital detox. So if you want to get addicted to nicotine, dope. Nicotine also doesn't have like great of profiles on your blood pressure from what I understand. Heart and amics aren't great. Caffeine is a little bit of that, but substantially more muted from from my understanding. Not an expert area of mine. So you were a big one at my becapping. Yeah, for most people I've started caffeine and work you at the cocaine as that happens. He's still guy. He's just joking. Yes, don't don't go take in cocaine and less than in the 80s and how it a good time. So basically, stimulants are on paper sometimes really cool. And for many people, they're a great kind of adjunct to this process of dining that works pretty well. They have the downsides interfere with their sleep. When you're not on them, you get headaches and literally like physiological drug with drog. If you're not on enough of them and you're phase after you're done dining, you're really hungry and drives you insane. If you wake up in the evening or in the middle of the night or in the morning, two are likely to take stimulants yet and you're hungry. There's no way out for you because the fuck, you're anti-hunger thing is also a weakfulness thing. So as the stimulants are also in study after study, caffeine doesn't by itself have a very good raw thermogenic effect. And so if you can control your appetite for me, that's okay, but also your body gets used to it real fast and so like coffee worked great week one and week eight, you need like eight monsters and five coffee isn't it? It barely does anything. It's all side effects at that point. This is understandable. So as far as supplements that work well, I would say caffeine's a cool thing to use, stimulants are cool in context, but they're not this panacea that everyone should have. Now this might be the time to talk about modern and arctic drugs. Yeah, so what is that? Yeah, so an arctic is mean something that reduces your drive to eat food drive and so an arctic drugs are drugs that reduce appetite. And so there are a couple of classes. There are two classes right now of an arctic drugs that work really well. It's the, so technically the third generation, GLP one, Agonists, like Ozenpeck, okay, some arctic of time. And then there's the fourth generation, GLP, GIP combined Agonists and that's a zepound, turns up a tide. They work amazingly well. They're the first kinds of drugs really of their kind and mass market. They get at the problem of hunger from a pretty root perspective compared to caffeine for example. So there's suite of side effects is much more minimal. Their suite of side effects that improve health is substantial. They're net health and prouver. If you just give them to the random person, they'll just get healthy over time. It's fascinating if you're fast into it. That's fascinating to pick deal. Because usually you get drugs like that. But it's killing you. Like nope, this is a lot of that I mean. Oh yeah, well the stimulant based drugs have suffered from a lot of the same problems. Here's another really trippy thing. There are now at least a few studies that are multiple years long that show people do not get used to GLP ones. However much hunger, it made you lose. And at first several weeks, this is exactly how much hunger it's going to make you lose in week number 92, which is unreal. And how fast? And they, you know, they work pretty fast. People will say, oh, will it take? I don't know. What is it? 46 or 48 weeks to reach. Peekers, there's multiple inflection points that an individual could be get to lose weight. But I mean, we see it in practice. By, you know, four weeks into, I mean, they're losing weight. Whether it's 24 weeks in, they've lost a substantial amount of weight. I think it's very individual. Whether it's Thursday and percent or 22 percent. So I can speak to that with Sunday too. Most people will feel an anoractic effect within several hours of administration of the drug. Much of its subcutaneous once weekly. So within several hours, you look, you may have an idea that you're going to eat a lot of food. You put the typical amount of food on your plate halfway through. You're like, fuck my doing. I don't want the song. Yeah, I'm happy. And so it's kind of hits right away more or less. And then these drugs have very long half life that are measured in a week or longer. And so you take it once a week, which means if you run the math, a lot of, for example, some agulotide reaches its peak at any given small, like any given dose you start. Let's say, 0.5 milligrams per week. It reaches its peak affecting your blood five weeks later. Even if you don't add anything, it's just like once a week it take 0.5 milligrams and the dose in your blood goes up, up, up, up. So one of the big take home points from this is if you have an amount of some agulotide you're taking and you just start to take it in. And you're like, how do I feel out of the hunger effects? Do I live a bit of a busy just stay out of for a few weeks? After a few weeks, you're going to be like, holy. Yep, they got it. It did not my dose because that would have caught up to you big time. And then it takes weeks for it to go back down. Be sick and nauseous throwing up. You could be the side effects definitely if you increase the dose too fast or not. And a lot of times like people will get on social media and blame the drug. Like what did work for me and Amy throw up? Like how much did you take that age? She's, I don't know, like the whole thing. Oh my god. This is unreal powerful drug. So for most people, they're not going to need that much. And then it's really kind of a turned dial for hunger. The more drug you take, the lesser hunger is. And then you just like lose as much weight as not you want. But pretty close. More or less. I mean, as long as you can tolerate the side effects and big time, if you're diet and lifestyle, a comportwell with the drug. One of the things about these drugs is if you give yourself high palatable foods that are also high in fat, then you're able to like outrun the drug at the mouth and brain and eyes level, cookies. And then your stomach's like two middle fingers and up a goes or you feel really sick or you're all sorts of both holes. That's a situation. And so it's really a big mistake to do that. So the best diet you can have for these drugs is a healthy diet, relatively low in fat, but low in calories and high in healthy food so that you never have to run into this problem of tolerating the drug poorly. We have a friend that has been taking these drugs and she's a completely transformed her body. And she had lovingly called the macaroni and cheese and she's a few weeks into the drug. She was like a family gathering in the ricomb mac and cheese and she took the right kind of portion too, a little bit of it and she was like, no bathroom. The body's like helped too much fat. And so if you manage your diet properly and you take these drugs, the primary way in which they work is they use their anaerocctics, they reduce food drive. And they do all kinds of really awesome things for your health, including mental side effects. They actually make you less prone to every kind of addictive the immune types that are so hard. You see that all the time in practice. Individuals that are interested in alcohol seem to be no longer interested in alcohol. It's a fascinating thing. Yeah. And so these drugs are not mandatory. You can lose tons of weight and get super healthy without them. But I would say that in the modern context with the evidence that we have, they're definitely like a tool on the in the toolbox and if you've really been struggling without them, I would say going to talk to your primary health care provider about them as a real society. Absolutely agree. You know those people that can fall asleep anywhere. That person that gets on the airplane and before they even take off, they're asleep. I'm not one of those people. I need all this sleep help. I can get and one of the sponsors of our show, AG1, has done it again. They have created AGZ. And this is a nightly drink that helps you wind down. It's melatonin free with clinically studied herbs and adoptions and minerals. AGZ is one of the few sleep supplements that contain both magteen, which is magnesium, l3 and saffron. Two high quality ingredients at amounts supported by research. That's amazing. It has 250 milligrams of highly bio-available magnesium and every serving, which is providing over half your daily value. AGZ is NSF certified the gold standard in independent quality and safety certification. It is 3x melatonin, gluten, dairy, added sugar, artificial sweeteners. If you're ready to turn down the stress and turn up the relaxation, then head to drinkag1.com slash lion to get your free brothor with your first purchase of AGZ. Which supplements have the best evidence? Give me your top. 3. I also have a few statements that I need to yes or no answer, which can be very difficult for you. I've got a box of me in. I'm being listened. Okay, so my mouth rush more of supplements is not going to like thrill anybody because it's going to be stuff that everybody's aware of. Number one is creatin model hydrate. I use. Give me the dose. 5 grams per day. Do you know that 12 for brain health? There's a lot of time. So there was, so for muscle 5 grams per day, we're saturate. There was a recent study that showed an acute 30 gram dose actually improved cognitive function. This guy, I can never pull. Can you imagine? I would say that can you imagine are you doing with you? We know like just you know I'm so excited to. I can't believe you. I'm very excited to chat with your current beautiful lady, but I would just not want to argue with you. It would just be like, well, that time in 2003 at 517 and 30 seconds PMO you're right. Okay. So this is I already know this. Wait, I'm going to call you out. No, we know this is about lane. He is a freak when it comes to sign to the literature or numbers. An ally ridiculous. If I'm like lane. So I would love for you to come to Houston on September 22nd We're planning on having dinner with everybody this day in one year and out the other. Okay. What about that event? This guy, you give him a date or something else. Anything with numbers outside of academic education or money? Forget it. Did anyone know that about you? Probably not. My girl. I've heard of her nose. Yes. I think it actually gave her like a hard time for a while because she was kind of like like I would struggle with dates, times recalling certain things in conversation. Yes. It should be like called. This is called man friendly. Yeah, man. Yes, man. So I don't want to deteriorate. Yes, we have to close this out because people do not know this about you. No, and I never I guess you realized that I just thought study wise that that's how people work. And lane, last year we were all in the event and he goes, yeah, I've never met anybody who just like the pain of my sweet dream that I was getting. It's a pain of my existence. So yeah, I don't know why I got that way. I just had a photographic memory when it came to studies and you know, it just kind of worked out. Creatine. So five grams. Five grams. 30 grams. For muscle. 30 grams of cutely for the handouts work. Yeah, so I don't actually know that. I forget you got one. Now the question I would have is, okay, would you get the same benefits if you just like took that five gram maintenance dose and over time you would get there? Perhaps the 30 gram dose is just a saturating effect early on. It makes sense. Who knows? Hopefully that cognitive research is going to expand more. But I honestly have a really people like, well, do I need creatine? No, you don't need it. But I have a hard time making the argument against taking it. And do you know that you know how much creatine you would get in a cooked state? Yes, you would. One pound, a pound. A pound, you get about half a gram of biobal creatine. I mean, so that would be what? Two enough pounds of weight. You would have to eat five. To top off. Yeah. Yeah. Thanks. Yeah. It's a little bit more that I think I worked out the math. Yes. Everybody wants to know. There's a claim from the carnivore community that all you need to do is eat red meat and I'm like, well, you need to eat about seven and a half pounds of red meat. Well, does make cooking much easier and menu choices? What is your next, what is your next supplement? Let me finish with creatine. So if I'm trying to be on track, you don't need to load. If you have gastrointestinal side effects from it split into two, two and a half gram doses, that will help with the gastrointestinal discomfort. Also, any form of creatine other than monohydrate in my opinion is a waste of money. All the studies looking at different forms of creatine, creatine monohydrate performs just as well or better. And it's the cheapest version. So get that. If you want to go a little bit more boozy, get the micronized version, get more soluble and exes up better. Next one, caffeine. The original, new tropic. The original cognitive enhancer. I'll take it. Very consistently show caffeine will it actually increases BMR slightly. May improve fat loss just a little bit. Cognitive, like task recall stuff, people are better at performance, people get a little bit better at how much what's the kind of dose. So if you want like strength and power stuff, you got to get like three to six milligrams per kilogram. So pretty high dose. If you're looking at like anti fatigue cognitive stuff, probably around like 100 to 200 milligrams of caffeine. So basically it's how crazy do you want to feel? Yeah. So for me as a super ADHD person, I'm kind of a caffeine junkie. I mean, I all have about 500 milligrams of caffeine before I train. But I'm also like, you know, if your ADHD stimulus don't affect you the same way, I just that doesn't make me like, it just makes me very focused. So I like caffeine. Obviously, there's the, you know, the impact on sleep. Again, no solutions, only trade-offs. If you are someone who trains later in the day, the half life of caffeine is six hours, you're probably like, let's say you're going to train like five PM. You're probably better off having your caffeine dose like maybe like three hours earlier. And that way, you know, after six hours at least half of its out of your system. And some people are fast metabolizers and some people are slow. There's some genetic variants. I think it's COMT is just a snip. But again, as one snip. So some people, you know, caffeine affects them. Other people, they're able to metabolize it very fast. Yeah, to get, look, again, when we do studies report averages, if you know that you're somebody gets really jittery with caffeine intake, you know, taking the amount of caffeine that you feel like you can tolerate. And then way protein. So way protein just. Why way is the process something else? Well, one, it's, it tastes good. Even like unflavored way actually has like a little bit of sweetness to it. It's easy to flavor. It mixes up well. The consistency's good. It's not super expensive. And it's very high in losing. So loose. So loose. So loose. In is the amino acid responsible for triggering muscle protein synthesis. Now, I would consider way protein of the popular proteins out there, the highest quality protein. Very bio-veilable. Great pdcos. Pdcos is an amino acid score corrected for digestibility that kind of assesses like does it supply all the essential amino acids and way does. And it's very high in the branch chains, very high in losing. What about the alpha lactobium and lacto-feron? Are those immunoglobulins? I mean, I know that they're highly available and present in the concentrate. The whole way. What about the way isolate? Does that also have alpha lactobium and lacto-feron, which are, again, immunoglobulins that are good for gastrointestinal health and immunity? So, potentially good for immunity and gastrointestinal. Yes, what I'll tell people is weight constant trade has those and it's less expensive. Usually a little bit higher in carbohydrate, higher in lactose, higher in fat, is a weight constant trade. But you're getting some of those other things that we're talking about that are maybe beneficial for like gut health immunity, those sorts of things. Weight isolate, less of those, but also virtually devoid of lactose, very low in carbohydrate, very low in fat. So, it really just depends. A lot of people have difficulty tolerating a straight way constant trade. Oh yeah. A lot of the, most, a lot of people can tolerate like a blend. So, like kind of an isolate constant trade blend. And do you like that over a rice peep one for exactly those reasons? I mean, I am biased. I do like way isolate over that because rice peep one, I mean, yeah, there are probably other bioactive compounds that we just don't know, but I think way, we have a pretty good understanding of what's in it. I like way isolate and that's what my company outwork nutrition sells as a protein because I wanted something that most people could take in. So, way isolate, it's very low carb, very low fat, it still tastes good. I want to know because you haven't sent me any, I mean, but he's the cover and show there. Oh, you got to do it. I didn't get show. I'm going to see. I'm going to see you show or see. So, I like a way isolate just because I know most people are going to be able to tolerate. There are some people who do have are really sensitive to the lactobunins in a way that still don't tolerate a way isolate. Very small percentage of population. For them, you can do a way hydrolyzate. Now, they're increasing in levels of cost. Like, concentrate is the cheapest way isolate little more expensive. Way hydrolyzate is more expensive. Hydrolyzate is enzymaticly digested. So, those polypeptide chains get chopped up with enzymes. So, that will almost, I can't imagine somebody not being able to tolerate a way hydrolyzate. The downside is more expensive and it doesn't taste as good. But, if you want a good, high quality way and you're somebody who you know you get a lot of gastrointestinal discomfort with way isolate or a way concentrate, way hydrolyzate would be an option. Oh, sorry. It's time to report an ad to the show. Thank you to one of the sponsors of the show. Timeline and listen. My kids still sleep with me. And after 470 nighttime snack requests, bathroom breaks, my husband snoring, myself. They're like a yojin. We're tapped out. Enter might appear. Timeline nutrition is one of the most thoroughly researched products. I've come across an over a decade. Look, to carry it in my purse, they have peer reviewed published science. And this is where it is really interesting. So, for those of you who are following the Muscle Center at Lifestyle, when you increase bio energetics, you improve muscle function and how. In adults, 40 plus, Timeline has been shown to increase muscle strength and endurance and no change in activity. So, whether you've been active, resistance training your whole life or you're just getting started or you're not getting a lot of sleep and you've got a million requests. Your muscles and your mitochondria need help. And they have just launched their low sugar vegan non-GMO gluten-free gummies, which by the way, I am eating by the handfuls which I shouldn't, by the taste delicious. Timeline is offering our community 20% off your first order. Go to Timeline Nutrition.com slash doctor-line and use the code, doctor-line, to get 20% off. I recommend trying their starter pack with all three different formats. And of course, their gummies, which are incredible. Can someone just lose body fat? Or do you think there must be some lean mass loss? Is there a way to do it? Under some conditions, you can actually gain lean mass while you lose fat, but the condition has to be your pretty new to training or you're not new to training, but you're new to significant quantities of metabolic steroids. There are a few other conditions, but generally speaking, when already lean people lose weight, they use some combination of fat and muscle. When people who aren't exercised, they haven't really trained and they haven't lifted weights much and their diet is just whatever they feel like. When they start getting a healthy diet, higher in protein, and they start lifting weights, which we covered on your on the last appearance here on the show, then they can actually gain muscle and lose fat at the same time for months and months and months and months. If not here, but for people that are already pretty lean, or people who are already lifting weights, yeah, there's going to be some combination of muscle and fat. How would you define pretty lean? Let's say someone was a overweight female who is now a tractor calories for two weeks. She has determined what her maintenance calorie is. Let's say it's 1800, and she decides to decrease her calories by 350, 500, so she's eating. What is that? 1300 calories? Okay. Do you account for activity or that's the number? The activity question is a little bit of a different question. Well, then I shouldn't go there yet. We can definitely handle it. Okay. Whenever you like, so how do we determine who's fat or not fat, who's lean? I'd say the easiest test in the real world is like someone's wearing clothes, and you just come up to someone else, you're like, she's fat or not. It's really straightforward. If you at least look like an up and down shape, you're good. If there's stuff coming off the sides in the front and the back and the whole thing, you're fat. Now it's ruthlessly unscientific. Quite discurdiest to say to someone, you would never tell someone something like that. But it's one of those things you look at documentaries in the 1950s. How many people were fat? None. How do you know? I mean, they're just closed, right? I would say. But yeah. That's what I mean by generally lean. No one would look at you and be like, that's definitely a fat person. So if we like take a little walk and offense, use some Texas, the fatometer is going to be at the grocery store. Like fat, fat, fat, fat, fat, fat. I mean, you sure? You don't think that six-nerve pound ladies mostly lean body mass? No, yes, I would not say that. So people who are of generally like close enough within 15 pounds of their insurance table adjusted body weight, you can consider them fairly lean and without some rigorous weight training and very perfectionist diet, they're going to typically experience significant amount of muscle loss. People who are significantly more overfat may lose less muscle, but also a lot of that is because they start being more physically active as they lose the weight. So that's a big deal as well. If both groups of people start weight training when they start losing weight, then they just build muscle loose fat at the same time and that's a really, really big deal. As a matter of fact, on that note of weight loss, if you don't lift weights and you start losing weight, you do lose significant amount of muscle. And it doesn't actually matter where your protein is. We think, I mean, yes, protein has a protein sparing effect, but without activity. Without stuff, without muscular specific training to get more jacked, it's actually protein doesn't have a terribly protein sparing effect. That's right. But you can't eat 300 grams of protein up to like getting jacked if you don't lift weights. It actually just gets burned and you're screwed in all that whole thing. So you're totally correct about that. So the lifting weights thing does matter, but a little while back, one of the new interactive drugs, so as I'm thick, got a little bit of hot water because people were like, oh, like it's causing people lots of muscle mass loss. It was true, but it is no more muscle mass loss than you would expect with people who lost like 55 an a year. That's just going to be a lot of muscle loss. It's not especially a thing that GLP ones even do. And there's actually a new review that came out that was like, it was exactly what it would expect if you just lost a lot of weight. I think as those people never lost that much muscle, because they never lost that much weight. Because the, and I've got all great sorts of great things to say about the interactive drugs whenever they do they do have a big role to play in all. So I want to finish covering the macronutrients, how you would dose dietary protein, how you would think about dosing carbohydrates and how you would dose fat. And if there is a particular distribution that you would use, I am coming to you, Dr. Mike, and I want to lose weight. Somewhere. In any case, let's pretend you're just enormous. Like, not just overweight, but like offensively enormous. Are you pretending? Right now. Oh, yeah. Why was looking at crystal? Stop checking out my weight. I mean, she's the best. By the way, um, she's going to be another podcast guest here. Thank you, Andrew Coates. I will now put two and two together. Yes. So there are two ways to go about it for macron. One way is to use the expanded fitness approach, which includes macros that are not ultra specific, because the people who are using this, they want to diet, that they can easily do. It does not require a huge departure from normal lead to habits. For those people, I would say, take your body weight and pounds and multiply it by like 0.6, 60%. So if you weigh 200 pounds, anything at close to add or over 120 grams of protein per day is more than enough to provide a great amount of protein for almost every need that you know. So it's a set of that again. So it's 60% of your body weight. So instead of a grand propound, it's a perfect 6 grams of propound for someone who's wanting to lose weight. Correct. And that is more than a protein to meet all of your needs. If you begin to resist train, it's more than a protein for most people's goals. It'll largely prevent muscle mass loss. Actually, it gets some accretion going, so that's really good stuff. And is that roughly 1.6 grams per kitchie? Is that how they're like? I don't know. Okay, okay, okay. Out of America, Dave. We are. Okay. I thought it was a little bit of Texas, so I don't know. You never know. That belongs to America. No method Texas, so 0.6. 60% of your body weight. Yeah, and pounds, which is not a lot. And so, but that is the scientifically honest answer. To how much protein we probably really need need for the capital N, especially people that aren't like trying to optimize hardcore. That's an important point. Yeah. It's not necessarily fully trying to optimize. You just want to dip your toe in and get some great results. That's totally cool because a lot of people get that grand propound thing, which is what I use. It's the number I'm going to say next. That's the optimization number. So if you wait 200 pounds, it's roughly 200 grams of protein a day. But even if they're trying to lose, if they're trying to lose weight from 200, you would still say meet the 200 or would you say meet their goal body weight? There's a few ways to go about that. One is a protein has a decent anti-hunger effect. And so, if you actually eat 200, even though you don't need it, it can be pretty decent. The goal body weight is totally fine. You can scale it to lean body mass, which also works just fine. Yeah. You need to get your body hot measure to know. Yeah. So you're saying that there are multiple ways to do something right. For sure. But any answer between taking your body weight and multiplying it by a close to half point six, all the way up to a grand propound per day, is a lot of really good answers in there. And it's nothing is if someone was sitting next to me on that airplane. First of all, it would be highly inconvenient because my arm... I mean, you just... If you go bad for that person, you're just kind of on their sea. You know, I try to get the sea going and I put my hands in it. I really try to stay on a piece of the way. I did not pay for that side of the sea. But if they told me, listen, you know, like a weight of your pounds, and I'm really trying to get fit, I have like 160 grams of protein a day. Is that like too little? Absolutely not. You're doing great. Now, if you want to step on stage, Mr. Olympia, you might have a different goal. You want to optimize super physique. You're already lean and jacked. You might need more protein. If you're a significantly older, et cetera, et cetera, you might need more. But for most people, especially like our hypothetical female audience for this podcast, 0.6, all the way to a grandest total fine. So that's for protein. Do you care the kind of protein? If you go to get your protein in a really wacky way, yes, if you eat mostly lean meats, animal products, and lean vegan products that are complete protein sources are complementary, no big deal. But if you're counting mostly protein from bread and just peas by themselves, you're going to run into some problems. Yeah. So protein qualities, I think, that's actually an all-eater part of the discussion. Oh, like we have two comes from, yeah, so macros first. Yeah. But that was a great question. For carbs and fats, there's a very distinct story for athletic performance, an optimization of hypertrophy and all the stuff. And that story is kind of like meet your needs for fats. And then the rest should probably come more from carbohydrates than fats. What does the needs for fat? So for males, probably on females as well, you just generally have two class of need. One is the essential fatty acids of which you need like a total of two grams per day. That's what you need to like stay alive and well. And then there is a need that comes from hormone optimization testosterone, et cetera. And then number significantly higher. That number is measured more in the 20 to 30 to 40 percent of your calories per day. Many people can do a broad range of that. Some people really prefer one of the other. Another consideration for how many fats you eat is, this is kind of the main point of the carburetor's fats. As if you're just trying to loosen God damn weight and get a little leaner and get a little healthier. Maybe a lot leaner and healthier. How much carbohydrate versus fat you have as long as you're meeting that technically speaking, two grams of EPA and DHA fats per day. The rest is down to very, very nuanced specifics and it just doesn't matter that much. So if someone says, you know, I have 20 grams total of fat per day, but I do have a essential fat supplement. I feel great, best time of my life, all of veggies and rice, I can eat. I love it. I'm losing weight. You won't hear me say it. Damn thing. But if someone says, look, I'm trying to low low fat high carb. Mr. Twinkie, that's what I call him. It's a reference to my genitals, by the way. Oh, I have no idea. Yeah, it doesn't work anymore. I do have like totally lost interest to live. I'm depressed all the time. I go, okay, you're eating too few fats, you're testosterone, then the gutter, you need the more fats. But a big one is preference and what works in your daily diet. So if you're the kind of person that likes salmon and steak, whole eggs, which are great healthy foods, you should probably the little bit fewer carbohydrates and more fats, same calories, protein is already squared away. But more fats fewer cart. If you're the kind of protein, the kind of protein, the kind of person that is super cool with higher carb, you're not really into fats, nothing in your diet, really. You don't crave fats. You can dunk the fats pretty low and keep that carbs much higher. But for carbs, the low end is considered something like, oh, I don't know, 10 to 30 grams of carbs per day, predominantly from green vegetables because they have a lot of fiber and nutrients in there. That's low. It wouldn't recommend that as a first principle thing, but there are a lot of keto people in carnivore people eating that and at least in the medium term, they get lean, the very healthy, they love their lifestyle and all it's about. So there's a big broad range of carbs and fats, as long as the calories are held constant, you got your protein squared away, plus or minus carbs and fats is mostly a try it. See how you feel that. Some people fats give them a lot of fullness through the day. Are you a higher fat or higher carb person? I haven't eaten to preference in a generation. Interesting. What is your just out of curiosity? I'm currently on about 25 grams of fat per day. Okay, so you're a lower fat person. I mean, I'm not because I hate it, but I have to do it for bodybuilder, but I'm not the demographic for this talk. Holy shit. But it's interesting, you're right, you might not be the demographic for this talk, but I'm telling you that I've been doing this for a long time and the knowledge that your demographic has for body composition. Is second on that? Yeah, no, like the body bovers kind of figure out how this all works. Hydration isn't just about drinking co-zero or other sugar-free swing beverages like Red Bull now. I'm saying this for a friend. Or it's not even about drinking more water. It's about keeping the right balance of electrolytes and fluids. During life's most demanding season, like I don't know, parenting, maybe pregnancy or postpartum, your body is going through massive changes, blood value increases, hormones shift, breastfeeding demands, you know, all those things. All of these life transitions, you probably need more and better hydration and you need electrolytes. Like sodium, magnesium and potassium. Elements has formulated to replenish what you actually lose without sugar, fillers and junk that you don't need. It's a clean, effective way to stay hydrated. And for men, again, it's not just about hydration. It's also about performance, recovery, mental clarity, and yes, even energy. Whether you're hitting the gym, chasing kids, or grinding through your workday, maybe even your teeth, dehydration can quietly sabotage your focus and endurance. Elements helps you stay sharp, strong, and ready. We use element because it works. Taste amazing, and it's no nonsense, just science, dehydration that actually makes a difference. And right now, element is offering a free sample pack with any purchase that's eight flavors to try on the house. Go to drink lmnt.com slash Dr. Lyon to claim yours. That's drink lmnt.com slash Dr. Lyon. Stay hydrated, stay strong, and as Goggins would say, stay hard. In terms of weight loss, there are two things that are required for re-comping body. And I'm not talking about additional antibiotic agents, and I'm not talking about additional GLP1 or GIP medications. It is resistance training, and this is the work that Dawn did some of the early studies again, thinking ahead, resistance training, and maintaining and or increasing dietary protein from the RDF pointy grams per kg to 1.6 grams per kg. So doubling the RDF. That seems to be within the literature just the way to make it happen. If I were to ask you, how do you suggest someone think about structuring a diet who is a postman of causal woman? She is, I don't know, 55, hitting the gym. We should, I want to make sure we talk about exercise. What is her exercise plan look like? And how is she designing a diet? Again, I do think that you should talk about carbon, because there is a way to make it extremely easy. So what are the macronutrients and how would you think about it? And then what are the practical things? Should they use something like aluminum? Should they use? I just want to throw that in there. Should they use? I don't know, XY and Z. How do you think about it? So first off, there are many paths to Rome. There's obviously people who have and always tell people, if you need to debunk any of this, you just look around people, like for example, well you can't lose weight if you're eating refined carbohydrates or high carb diet. Okay, what about Professor Mark Howe who lost 27 pounds doing a Twinky diet? Like he was eating 800 calories a day, but he mostly ate stuff from 7-11 and protein powder. Like that's what he ate. So again, we just have so many examples of different people's, you know, on the plant-based side, you'll have people say, well, you know, if you're eating a lot of fat, it gets stored as fat, you can't lose fat. Well, how many examples of low carb diets do we have? Like it works. And then it passed around. What works is finding something that you can adhere to. Now, when it comes to the actual nuts and bolts of structure, you're diet, the number one most important thing is to get your energy intake correct. Meaning, if you want to lose fat, you have to consume less energy than you expend. Now, let me just do a couple of quick caveats in that, because I know there are people who say, well, I know I was in a calorie deficit, I didn't lose weight. No, if you, if you ate, so everything we eat is a carbon backbone structure, right? You ate those carbons, they have to go somewhere. And if you got, if you gained body fat, your body did not create carbons out of nowhere. They came from somewhere, okay? So, I'm, we're very well accounting for those. So, we have to get the energy intake right. Now, what is that? Now, there are variances and whatnot, but essentially, like you're trying to find somebody's daily energy expenditure. This is, you brought up carbon. This is kind of what the app does when it's originally like asking you questions and whatnot. And it's usually an equation out there to kind of determine your BMR and then we're using a questionnaire to determine your physical and then it's kind of taking the stab at it. You know, now you may get it wrong and maybe wrong, right? Like you might overestimate underestimate for, I would say 60 to 70 percent of people, it's going to be pretty accurate. That's how, you know, bell curves work, right? But then you adjust based on how you respond, okay? Let me back up. Is that, yeah, we want nuts and bolts. I want to know how many are how are we doing? Yeah. Are we thinking about protein and a percentage? I mean, this is exactly how the app works on the back end and the algorithm. And the reason I'm bringing up carbon is number one, I think it's amazing. And I may or may not have just recently accepted a position as director of women's health, very excited about that. Shout to Mike, he's in Hawaii right now. But also, how do we make things easy for people? And also, but before we talk about carbon, I need you to tell how many grams of how are we thinking about protein is a percentage? Which no, we are probably thinking about it in terms of grams. I know where you come from. I know this school with that. Are we thinking about a baseline number? So if the current RD is 130 grams of carbohydrates, does everybody get that off about or do they have to earn that increase in carbon? You know, I think about Shane, my husband, who's running Chicago marathon. Right. If we, you know, we have to come for that. And then the fat, where do you, how are someone listening at home who doesn't have carbon yet? Mm-hmm. What are they going to do? So again, depending on your goal, if your goal is fat loss, yeah, we're just called fat loss. Fat loss, while muscle, muscle maintenance. So you get your, you get your, let's just say you get your calories right. Okay. So you have to get the right amount of energy to lose fat. I mean, your deficit. The next step when I construct a diet, and this is how the app works as well in the back end is okay. We have the amount of calories that we think is going to be reasonable for somebody to lose fat. Then we set, what is the deficit do you think? Um, is it a 10% deficit? How do you begin to think about it? It just depends on like again, it just depends on how quickly somebody wants to try and lose weight or fat. This is somewhat of an experiment when it's interesting because you are an evidence based scientists and even in evidence based practices, we still have to adjust and kind of go with, I mean, there is individuality. No matter how you look at it and the randomized controls are, you know, broadly speaking, hopefully through populations. Yeah. I think people, um, again, I think everybody should have to think of basic statistics scores because I think people have a hard time understanding like the concept of variance and whatnot. So if we have calories set, the next thing we're going to set is protein because it's the most important macro nutrient for the reason we talked about thermo-confective foods, the tidy body composition. And so I said that as a gram per kilo or gram per pound of lean mass. See, you and I are different here. Yeah. I don't know my lean mass. Well, so again, this is Matt producer. What's your lean mass? Why are you trying to get here something on your man bag? So the reason I say lean mass is because if you have somebody who's very obese, it's really going to overestimate protein if you're giving it based on their actual body mass. But again, a lot of people don't know their lean mass like you said, which is why, and in carbon when they're signing up, there's questions, if you don't have an actual body fat measurement, then there's some questions about waste or comforts and whatnot. We make an estimation of what your body fat is and from your body fat, your total weight, we can determine your approximate lean mass. People get so hung up on this, it's not a big deal if we're slightly off, right? So we're saying, you're like ideal body weight. I deal body weight, somebody could do as well. So we're looking at around two grams per kilo of lean mass up to three grams per kilo of lean mass is what the app will end up recommending. And that's typically why I recommend it as well. Now, it's three grams per kilo lean mass might sound like a lot, but when you consider if you're not doing total body mass, it winds up around probably 2.2 to 2.4 grams per kilogram of total body mass for somebody with an average body fat, you know, on average. So that's on the upper end, but again, I like protein, but again, in the app, you can adjust within a certain range if you want to. So once you've got calorie set, once you've got protein set, again, I like around two grams per kilogram of lean mass. Of lean mass, which is interesting, I'm trying to think about what that would be. So if someone was 52 kilograms and that's their total body weight, you think, is there someone's named Gabrielle Lyon? No, I'm smaller than that. Yeah, kind of, but I think I'm actually smaller than 52 kilograms. You know, how much have I'm 100 in? I don't know, maybe buck 10 if I'm lucky. How many grams are protein with that bay? Right around 100 to 110. Okay, so probably eat that. 110. And you're pretty darn lean. My guess is your body fat is somewhere around 12, 13% body fat. I'm not that high, but 10%. Let's get it. You know, you're looking at about 100 pounds of lean mass. That's about 45 kilos. You double that. 99. About 100 grams of protein, right? So our app would put you anywhere from like 100 to 100 for the grams of protein, depending on your personal preference, right? And so once you've got the protein number set, we have to deduct those calories out of your total calorie goal, and then you have carbs and fat left. And so what I did is a coach and what the app does is kind of say, what do you what kind of dietary preference do you have? Do you prefer a little more fat? Do you prefer a little more carb? Do you like a balanced diet or you plant based or you ketogenic, and you can pick any of those things, and it will put you and will, you know, distribute the carbohydrates and fats appropriate. Is there a minimum amount of carbohydrates that you seem to like for an athletic person? I mean, it depends on the athletic event. If we're talking about somebody doing like actual anaerobic stuff, for a lift or let's say for someone who is lifting, doing resistance training for hypertrophy three days a week, but they're just doing it to maintain skeletal muscle mass. What are you thinking? Do you care? I'll give you the straight down the line scientific answer, and I'll give you the job to try and opinion your guys. I like it. I guess yes, yes. So the straight down the line scientific answer, is it doesn't seem to matter that much. Crabahedry to fat. There are some individual studies that showed less lean mass a cruel on a ketogenic diet versus a non-ketogenic diet equated in protein, but there was also a recent meta-analysis showing that there really wasn't a difference between high carb, low carb, with protein equated. I think if you inject me with true serum, I think a little bit of carbohydrates is probably better just because even though carbohydrates and insulin is not antibiotic and the physiological range, it is anti-cathabolic. It doesn't have it protein degradation, and there was actually a study from Tippedin showing that post-exercise when they gave carbohydrates with protein or a vitamin with amino acids, that the net protein balance was more positive when they gave it with carbohydrates. You can still make body composition improvements by just being consistent, and again, you can change it for if someone is moderately trained or more advanced, you would increase the either volume or intensity, which would you think is more important for body composition changes? Specifically, fat loss. Yeah, you know what? I would have to look at training age first. So if someone is new to training, if I'm coming in with an intensity approach, in my opinion, most people are not going to be able to stabilize and maintain. I mean, if I had my wish out of it, I mean, I would balance out between some volume work and dropping down volume and raising intensity. I think it is, it's been my approach, my entire career. I will set my training up in the different blocks, blocks of like two months, right? Where is that how anyone should do it? No, no, this is just how I do it. So I'll set up like January and February will be the same program, but I'll have progressions every two weeks and the exercises will change in February. And then March will come. Yeah, yeah, I mean, listen, I've got to pay a tag like, during, I'm a hack hockey player. You know, it'll be, be, be, be, be, be, be, be, but if you're playing three, four days a week, you know, you want to be careful about how you load the spine. You want to be careful about specific movements that you're doing. Like, your body is, could potentially, you know, could take a toll on your, on your body. So I think exercise selection is important. And I think is intensity is important when you're playing that much. And then when you scale off, I think it's a time that puts you foot on the gas in certain areas and maybe start focusing on a little more strength and power and you get a little bit more aggressive with certain things. But all throughout the year for me, it's like those workouts start with that practice portion. And that's what allows me to feel very, um, lost. I like that term. I don't like it. It's just, it's a fun term to use. And it's not, it's not a scientific term. It must be very clear. But it just feel more, feel more, feel more floss and feel more loose and feel more recovered. The pull for the beginner, what are the best pull movements that, again, you know, you and I talk, we're really training for longevity, even, and everybody should, whether they're a military operator or an actor, it's your body's your tool. Resilience, yeah. Exactly. What are some of the key pulling exercises that you like? Yeah, I'll break it down from like a vertical pull or horizontal pull. So it's no different than the pressing, right? Vertical pull can be your pull-up chin-up neutral grip pull-up lap pull down, right? Like that's your vertical pulling, right? You're pulling high down. And your horizontal pull could be like, you're what I'm dumbbell row. Your chest support your face pull, right? Some with equipment, some with dumbbell, some with machines. It's, you know, if you have access to that equipment, I'm all for you, you know, have fun with your training also. Like if you're getting in and you're training at home all the time and you're bored, and you're just like, oh, you know, don't get me all wrote me the Stumbelt Road to Stumbelt Program and I'm just getting bored of it. Like go to a gym, get some variability, like have fun with your training, like going there and, you know, don't make it miserable. Like I want you to enjoy it. I have a question that I don't know the answer to and you might not know the answer to this. Probably not. But this is so fun having you on the podcast. Where did these exercises come from? I mean, who invented, I mean, just think about it. We create these programs and then we continue them a squat make sense because that's something that my kid could do. But where do we, where did one determine that a poll is important? I mean, a poll up would make sense. But some of these exercises have you ever thought about who developed them or what? Yeah. I mean, and I think we have a few names for a few of the movements out there, right? But I mean, people are inventing crap today. They're just like throwing a name on it and you say to yourself, well, obviously through social media and through the reach that we have, I think these things are so much more visible and fitness now is so much more accepted than it was, you know, even back in the 60s and 70s. Like that was fit that people who were fit, Jacqueline, I'll never forget it. I was, I trained with him once. Yeah. So he was, he came into Goldschirm. I want to say it was either as 90th birthday or Goldschirm's like, hundredth or 90th anniversary and they had Jacqueline kind of walking into the gym and he looked at me. I was in a sleeve of shirt and he's like, let's get me on camera with that kid. So I ended up working out with him and, you know, he was 90 years old. He was in Klein Press in 55 Pound dumbbells and I got to sit with him and hear a story a bit and when he passed, I was invited by his wife. A lane, her name is Elaine Lollane, right? And down we went to the Tribeca, one of the Tribeca theaters and I sat through this documentary. I got to be honest, I was Tariah, I'd most of the time because this guy, people who was like, you know, back in the days, I got out, I'd been mixing all these fruits and vegetables in this blender and blending them together. People are like, this guy's crazy and he's, you know, pulling a bar, she's swimming and he's pulling this humongous barge and he's doing all these feats and he is really one of the people that kind of set the standard and I think kind of, yeah, in a way normalized, like what it is, we all go to now moving weights and moving and I think it's such a beautiful thing but when you turn around, you look at these exercises, some of these exercises have been around for centuries, I mean, thousands of years, like there have been people doing some of these movements and, you know, once in a while you'll be able to find a picture of a physique from a hundred years ago and you're like, oh my god, like he's obviously nanny, like he looks amazing, like, but it's cool to see that, it's cool for me to see it, but nowadays like, yeah, like you look at the RGL, like it's a hinge, people have been hinging forever and suddenly someone's like, oh we're going to call this the Romanian deadlift or, you know, it's like, we're movements that again, have been around for a really long time. The pull-up, like, oh wow, that's a real scientific game, like someone's hanging from a bar, like pull yourself up, like we're calling that the pull-up, like it's probably how it literally happened and then we just hung with these things and now you see all these sports scientists now researching and trying to find out other ways to do things more efficiently, but I also, it's interesting about a lot of this research is we've all seen research that have been published and, you know, you've seen it then contradicted, you know, decades later and, yes, there's certain research papers that we'll, you even explain. Yeah, that you'll look at and you're like, oh, this is solid, but you know, I also look at specific experts in our field that have been doing this stuff for 20, 25, 30, 35 years and there's some of the best research experts without having things published. Exactly, who you're referencing. Yeah, so it's amazing. For me, that's, for me, that's impressive, like, just because a paper might come out and, it might say, well, there's no evidence that mobility is helpful. Well, this guy's been doing it for 30 years and this guy now is 70 years old and he moves beautifully. My evidence is going to push myself in that direction or sometimes it takes time for evidence to catch up with, but we know or hypothesis. The, we talked about squat, push, pull, core exercises. Yes. Tell me how important those are for beginner and what we should be doing. Because I remember I went on a good morning, America and I called you on my dad. They want me to do exercise. I'm like, do you remember this? Yes. And I was like, here's what I'm thinking for the core exercises. I went, blah, blah, sit up and you're like, oh, no. We're not doing it. Sit up. So explain to us good core exercises and why. Yeah, I mean, I want to be clear the situps been around for a long time and there are plenty of people that can do situps and never have back issues. I'm just, when I, but maybe it's not the bad. I mean, yeah. So the reason why I don't program, it is because, you know, statistically, a lot of people have sore backs and a lot of people are sitting in this position. They're in this chyphotic position all day and just adding, I think that flexion, you know, under strain can be, can be detrimental, right? So I'm a huge fan of one arm carries or some type of arm. As a core exercise. Yeah, like, because always core exercise, we think that we're going to be laying on our back to doing situps or, you know, mat over there doing flutter kicks right now. Some of the strongest people I've worked with, they have, you know, we have assigned, you know, carry variations into their training diet. And they've had an incredible level of success with it. I mean, they're so much benefit. There's so much bang for their buck out of that movement. And you know what, like, well, I've seen as a rehab tool. I've seen Dr. Charlie Wyne Graff, you know, post surgery, bring someone in and it's a very whether it's shoulder surgery or whatever it might be, you know, starting them with a weight download is going to be a lot safer than getting them up in this position here. So, you know, I've seen this uses a rehab tool from medical professionals. Very successful. I've seen it used. And a core stability, your number one exercise is a, is it, would it be called an offset carries? It's just a one arm. Yeah, I mean, I mean, some form of a carry pending on, you know, what they're capable of doing, but I love one arm carries. Planks are, I think, I think, I think a great introductory movement. I think, teaching someone to get into a plank position and create tension, these tension techniques, getting into position and say, listen, we're not going to hang out in this extended position. Squeeze your glutes, squeeze your legs, squeeze your legs, you want to teach them something yesterday about a plank. It was, it's not about the length of time that you can hold a plank as an individual could like. It's tension, yeah. But you said that it was about creating tension and being able to hold the quality of the plank under tension. Right. And that I thought was a really good learning tip. I think it's a great way to kind of supercharge your plank a bit, right? Where most people, I could hold a plank for eight minutes. I great. Like, there's trust me, there's plenty of strength carry over from that. But when I see most people holding those positions, they're in a bad position. And they might be loading themselves in a way that I don't think is, I believe in my opinion isn't the safest thing for them. So, I think teaching them how to do a hard-style tension technique plank for 10 to 20 seconds, where I'm literally like telling them, envision a tornado is blowing over you right now, as you're in this plank position. What are you going to do? How are you going to stabilize? So, like, well, I'm going to try and rip the floor apart to stabilize them. Exactly. Are your glutes going to be tight? They're like, yeah, you should chin position going to be packed. Yeah. It's like I'm moving around them trying to like palpate their body, trying to move them a little bit. They're just literally shaking within 10 to 20 seconds. I submit, they're really an isometric hold. Exactly. And how many reps would they or how many, yeah, would it be considered a rep? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I would put them maybe under time. Like, so I would start someone off, like, hey, listen, let's see if you can hold that position, because I put people in the positions and they're like, I can't hold a plank. And I'm like, okay, we're going to work up to that. And then there's other things, like, yeah, they can't hold a plank, which I've seen. We can hold a like dumbbell with two hands. How late are we talking? As late as we have to go to where we're adding external resistance to the equipment. We want people to want them to get under load. Yes. We want them to get under load. And I think that that's probably one of the biggest misconceptions for people is they'll say, well, you know, I can't lift that. That's too heavy. It might be a 10 or 15 pound weight, but that's a problem in my opinion. But I think it's just a thought process because you could go lift your child or a suitcase. And it's going to be a good groceries. That's right. It's going to be much heavier. Back of groceries. How about this? I'm traveling this afternoon. We got a suitcase that we're carrying. That suitcase is going to weigh a lot more than two pounds. Like, you better make sure you're able to carry this stuff. I'll quote recently. I was listening to a physical therapist talk about the one arm carry and how he likes loading it so heavy that he's like, if you can do a shrug with it, like it's too light type of thing. Right. So I thought that was a really good indicator, but I also understand, I am not taking a newbie into the gym on day one when they're feeling vulnerable or they don't have that foundation. And I'm turning like, hey, Mr. Smith, like you haven't trained in 40 years or ever. Like, let's go for a grab that 24 kilogram kettlebell and go for a walk. Don't worry if it's heavy. Like, God forbid something happens. Like, we have to develop that confidence, whether she can do it or not. We have to develop that confidence. I want them to turn to me. And I want people to feel empowered when they come in to exercise. And when they go and they play with their kids, I want them to feel empowered. We saw a woman that you know the day in her 60s. She was killing in the gym. Hilling it. Hilling it. And you know what? Most 20, 25 year old guys. She's stronger than me. She's my size. She's stronger than me. Sled pulling, sled pushing, sweating out of breath. Walks by me gives me like a fist on my go, oh my God. Who is this superwoman over here? She runs ultra. Yeah, it's a press. And now we've just, and she moves well. There's not too many people who run to ultra, is where I'm like, wow, they move really well. Oh, she's really, really well. Yeah. It's interesting. I was on a podcast and I said, okay, well, how long does it take to see these results? It's going to be 24 weeks. And yeah, it could be it all depends on the question. Is it it? Yes. It's like saying, you know, how long is it going to take me to get to Cleveland, Ohio if I drive from Detroit? We can answer that. But the question of how long am I going to really think? Is my car really going pretty fast? Like, oh, I don't know, like within 30 seconds if you're getting out of your driveway. Bathroom stops. Right. 100%. And so when people say like how long until I see these results, it's like, well, like every week, you're going to be losing a pound on a half for as many weeks as you keep praying until you need a psychological break. That could be 12 weeks easy. It's like just keep doing it. And what I would say psychologically, a really good advice, I think is, don't worry about that end goal too much, the process. Your healthy foods get your 10,000 steps. Take your Zapbound. Just let it cook. It'll do its thing. Don't you worry. And if it's not, you adjust your food. You go to the doctor. They adjust your medication dosage and the psychoropeats itself. I have another quick public service announcement because it doesn't get sad enough. I don't think. A lot of people have all sorts of interesting ideas and opinions about it. I'm bad going to let whole craze. And most people, many people come from some place of either kind of a reflexive anti drug ideology, which is nonsense to begin with. You can steal man it, but it's really tough. And other people come from kind of an iconoclasm, like, well, I'm not into these drugs. There's a problem. And it's mostly just people's feelings. It's not really based on ideas, but it's true that some of these drugs can be improved upon. But it's not a hypothetical. Because I can tell you two true things. One is there are already drugs in late-stage clinical trials that blows and pick out a fucking water. If you're at home, Google Retouch Retide, Retouch True Tide, all-one work. Triple Agonist hits the GLP, that way GIP and Glucagon. And I don't know how the fuck they did it, but the Glucagon pathway non-stimulant increases your resting metabolic rate. You just burn more calories. It doesn't wig you out. No psychotropic effects. You just burn more calories and you're less hungry. And whatever the fuck GIP does, I don't even know. Triple Agonist. Retouch Retide is going to be on the market probably in a year. And a Zempek is going to be like super discount cheap drug. Because it's saying shit. If you look at the studies on how much weight people are losing, it was like, was that because the big deal? Triple Agonist is a bigger deal. Retouch Retide is that same step. And it needs your pharmaceutical companies around the world. Though, so Retouch Retide would be generation five in this drug scale. They're working on six isn't early testing. Seven isn't development. I have to ask your question. I don't want to go down a conspiracy rabbit hole by. I love those. Okay. Now we have a highly palatable process food, massive food industry. I love that industry by the way. Yes. I will sit here and defend it. Okay. Now we have a drug that is severely limiting people's challenges with obesity. I mean, people are losing weight, food addiction from some of these highly palatable foods are going away. Do you think that some of the influx of anti-obesity narrative drugs? Do you think that potentially that is influenced at all by the food industry? Or where do you think the division is going to be if at all? That's a great question. So you have the situation where the food industry is just trying to get you to spend as much money as possible. They're not such big fans of you dying because then you don't spend money anymore. They're also not big fans of you getting out of shape because then you don't like your life and you blame them and that sucks. It does not like a Hershey CEO that when they see morbidly obese people barely getting out of a car, the perfect, they don't like that at all. What ideally like to see people eat Hershey's candy bars in a state of coloric balance and enjoying their lives? That's how they were meant to be eaten. That's how they are eaten in the 50s and 60s, etc. So the vast majority of the food industry wants you to have the tasty food you want and have a great time and not die. The problem is they have no idea how to do those last two things because most people are like buttered popcorn, I'll take 50, they blow up, the food industry is like, sure how we could help these people, but we don't even know how the food executive has no idea how to lose weight and that's not as job. His job is just get people to buy tasty food and it's not a job he chose to be like this is what we're going to make Americans do. There is no conspiracy. The reason the food industry exists and it's massive and makes all these foods that kill you is because you want it motherfucking out of you, but the royal you get me to get a stop people from pulling up to Taco Bell every fucking hour of the day. I'll start to believe there's a food conspiracy if they're still pulling up. Talk to those people. Bill, who where did you see this? Where is the advertising? They're like, I just fucking like Taco Bell, get out of my face. Wait, wait don't don't don't get out. I'll just awkward be to crunch. Now go people want the stuff. So that's the food industry. Then you have the anorectic drug industry, very nascent, very just getting born. That's going to come back apart of that, the excess part. There are two ways for the food industry to respond to this primarily. One is to change their advertising. Go hey, you're on these drugs. Amazing. You do you, but you can still have a slickers bar every on again and they're completely correct. Healthy balance. I love dope. Because I don't know about you, but I'm interested in living in a society where the government's like no more, no more baby with bars or whatever. No more fucking kit cats. They're illegal because people are too fat. What the fuck? I moved from the Soviet Union to get the fuck away from that kind of stuff. So that would be great. Another other idea they could have, there will be a combination of these ideas employed in that several years, is they're going to try to run the drugs. It's competition. They're going to try to make their food even tasteier. So that you used to be something you could resist on some amount of some aglytid. And then you need or try to try to resist that amount. And that competition is going to heat up very likely over the course of the late 2020s and 2030s. I think it's entirely reasonable to expect. This will either age very well or very poorly. That in the mid 2030s at some point, most of us maybe all will have at home universal robots cooking all of our meals for us. And they'll be able to source recipes from all over the internet, make it a taste issue you've ever seen in your life. So if you want to get fat, the 2030s will be dope time to get fat. But the degree of drug advancement at that point will also be really narrowing. So what we're leading to is a world. And this has been increasingly true for the world, the development world for as long as we can measure. You can get more of anything you want. In the United States, which is one of the freest countries in the world, most developed capitalists, one of the most developed capitalist countries. People observe time and time again. If you want to get fat and lazy, that's placed in the world to do it. You want to lean and fit and shred it, that's placed in the world to do it. Options. You can take the anorector drugs. And here's a really cool idea to try as a crazy I know. When you go to the grocery store to fucking buy the junk food, the food corporation is not lining you. It's not like broccoli is really chocolate on the inside. They buck with you. It's really broccoli. I can't tell you that. And it's listening. The food industry does not care what they sell you. Fundamentally as long as you buy it. So if a lot of people like do that want healthy shit, oh my god, they healthy shit right away. McDonald's had a thing where they tried like some salads and shit for a while, a couple of different sandwiches. They were healthier and it turns out there just wasn't enough market demands. They pulled them off. That's the McDonald's problem. That's an awesome problem. And so there's going to be taste your own taste your junk food. Guaranteed. You don't even need an anorector's battle for that. People just want to taste your junk food. And there's going to be an anorectic situation. In the end, the anorectics will win because at some point, if you just successfully show up to the doctor's office once a month, any gives you whatever 2032, you know, eighth-gen drug. You will not look at food and be able to put it in your mouth past a certain point. Fascinating. It's fascinating. We're going. And if anyone wants to understand how that feels in an intuitive love, they've never taken the drugs. Take all of the malaise away and it's a little tough from a foodborne illness. Stomach flu. And just remember how hungry you weren't. Like you sit with someone who's stomach flu and they're like, hey, juicy cheeseburger. Let's say I can't think about it. You can get that not hungry on two and a half migs of those empath. For six weeks straight. Someone talks about food york. Don't don't don't don't don't go. I'm going to throw up. There's so much upside on that. And if the drugs are slowly reducing side effects, increasing primary effects, they're going to win against the food industry. But those people who don't take the drugs and just, well, say it exactly as I mean it, randomly buy food at the grocery store, they're going to get real fat. Because the food's just fucking delicious and getting cheaper all the time, it's getting great. At some point, an individual has to say, I want something out of my body to go a certain way. If you just show up to the store and eat, buckle, but many of those people aren't even compliant with medications. You're practicing doctor. You know how it is. You're like, take a shot. Everyone can they show up. You got great patients. I don't know that's a typical, most of the folks that are severely obese. They're not your most compliant patients. They forget to take all kinds of drugs. They fundamentally just like maybe give a little bit less of a shit than most other people, which first of all is kind of dope because you're like, fuck it, yellow, talk about, it's great. I watch fat people eat food and all my dude, they're really getting out of that, something I don't. I let's just amazing. But the other hand, it's going to lead to some side effects you're going to have deal with sooner or later. So the whole conspiracy thing, there is no conspiracy. You can try to find one of the great new types of patients. I really like this answer. Yeah, but it's more of like, I think the world's a little bit more libertarian than people like to think, which is a great because we have so much freedom. But it's also kind of meant because like, yeah, freedom means you can make terrible fucking choices. And there's no one considering to make you do it, you're the one that pulled up and talked about the 230 of them morning. So what you're saying is you can tank your health or you can actually be an incredible health is truly a choice. And we have education and resources like your are peace trying than you're in short. App, which you should probably sign me up for free because I'd like to try it. Oh, free. Well, I mean, how can I? Yeah, I don't become a truly an airbag in the way. I know. But what you're saying is powerful is that actually there are choices. And we here have the opportunity to leverage those whatever those choices are in an extreme way. 100%. What do you do? Yeah. I wanted to make sure we hit up your the muscle factor. That's what my next question was because I still cannot get over the fact that you are dieting and talking to me. So we took care of most of the theory behind how people can lose weight. But there's a missing piece. Weight loss is cool and it's a really healthy and almost all cases. But we can do better. We can do that loss. Weight loss with conservation of muscle or an increase in muscle at the same time is a big deal. Because not only do you get even healthier but you take on a shape that I'll just say it because as so much beating around the bush in the ship, but it's not 2019 anymore, it just makes you look hotter to most people. That shape shape. You know, I want to look like Jalo in the show them some dying of antiraxia that's not what I had in my like, you know, shit, Jalo's got curves. Which you think curves made of either fat or muscle. And if you get lean enough and have enough muscle, everyone's got awesome looking curves. Now you may not be into muscular people. I find them rotoscopy completely honest just kidding. But is that a joke? Is that a canton? I can't tell. I can't tell. Yeah. Yeah. I can't even tell if it's a joke coming out. I have to like here to be like, I guess I was joking. And then I don't remember. So basically gaining muscle or keeping your muscle while you lose fat has a completely transformative effect on your health in the best possible way. Like, if you just lose 50 pounds and the doctor gets the blood worked on, they're going to be like, a lot of stuff is going good. We're a little bit worried about your muscle mass level. Little suck of peony here and bubble apply bone mass. But if you do the kind of thing we're talking about where you spare muscle, your doctor's going to be like, I don't know what to fuck you're doing. But I got I want some of it. Do you have like a website or what is who's your coach? So it's all great stuff. And it makes you physically stronger. So when you lose weight, a lot of times when people are pretty overweight. I'm currently technically on paper quite overweight. It's just a lot of bite of the carrier around. It's annoying. It's just, ugh, just sit there. You gotta like get up to go to the fridge like a lean on stuff. If you lose just lose weight, you feel better and healthier and cleaner. You don't feel that you can still kind of feel a little bit frail. If you lose weight while keeping your muscle and increasing it, you just get more or less superpowers. People talk about how they felt when they're in their 20s. Generally, I have almost no idea what they're talking about because I crush my 20 year old self, like with one hand like matrix style canteries. Because I mean you crush yourself. I can crush my 20 year old self because that he's fucking a little bit compared to what I am now. Mostly because my skeletal muscle mass is much higher. But if it was comparable and my fat was lower, maybe you see like that fucking like shining golden 55 year old man at the gym who still has hair somehow and like a fucker how. And he's got that like Florida Texas sort of tan. This is gorgeous. And he still has like a trim waistline and he's like pretty lean. You could talk to him. He's like, hey, like 55 huh, you must be feeling it. He's like, I feel this. I'm in the time of my life. My dad is just a person that's genetically pretty good shaping. He's very physically active and eats really healthy. He's like damn near 70 years old. He's like, things are great. That's how you're going to feel if you lose weight without losing muscle and gaining it. You're just going to look how this fucking shit. I can do things if you lose a lot of weight and you lose a lot of muscle, you might be feeling a little bit frail a little bit tired walking up the stairs as tough picking up groceries and stuff. How do we lose fat without losing muscle? One of the things that protein intake, but 0.6 to a gram per pound makes very little difference from those people in there. The biggest thing is resistance training. And if you want to know about that tune into our last episode, yeah, yeah. But resistance training training with weights. Two to four times a week is enough for most people. Whole body, etc., recover that in the other podcast. It is a huge stimulus to your body. That when you have a caloric deficit, your body points metaphorically at various things. It goes organs, brain, and we still need you don't siphon off any of the resources. Body fat, what do you up to? I'm busy. I've got meetings. Fuck you start losing your self. Perhaps throw us parts of itself off. But it goes muscle. What do you up to? And if you're not training muscles like meetings all day, shut up. Give up some of your muscles start losing it because we need you. But if you resistance training, that still happens. But then the muscle when you're in your off hours, we're covering from training goes, hey, I'm going to take some of this amino acids and carbs and fats from the blood. And I'm going to put them back in me and grow and guess where all those nutrients don't go. You're fat. So you're fat's doubly starving. Not always a start of the deficit. But the fats like finally food comes into the blood. The fats like, oh, come to me. It is a note, muscle takes it and then a guess small and small and small and smaller. And so that effective resistance training is mass and is transformative because a great example of that effect recently was Dana White UFC. Yeah. I made a video about not a big fan of the gentleman he worked with. I said all sorts of mean things about that in that video. But he's he's fan of Dana White. He's fan of what he's doing. A big fan of what he did, which is he lost something like I think 35 pounds ish of weight. But he must have gained 10 or 15 pounds of muscle at the same time. So the metabolic effect is something you would see in someone who's lost maybe 60 pounds of fat. But the muscle came up. He looks amazing. His blood work is amazing. That's the ticket. And he trained with weights multiple times a week with Milo Sarchev who's one of the best ever do it. I mean, we can't all be trellian airs like Dana and get the best guy ever to do it to be our personal trainer. But everyone go to the gym more or less. Well, almost everyone planet fitness is like $10 a month, which is if you can't afford that, I don't believe you. I'll say that. Everyone has access to it. And the resistance training is that big of a deal. But one thing that really starts to be important with resistance training is important in its own right is what's the like the periodization of? Because people say, okay, I've got all the tools to do fat loss. The big thing is dieting is tough. A condition in which your body is not getting sufficient calories to maintain his weight almost always accrues some fatigue. And we call that diet fatigue in the industry. Diet fatigue expresses itself in a couple of different ways. One is your energy levels decline. Your sleep quality declines. Your brain power doesn't do anything good and you're like, sounds like you're in a parent. I'll get me started. I'm like, what did my wife did most of the dog raising at her house? So I wouldn't point you just talking to a friend in the phone. She's again, a single dog, my mom would be chombering her. But she's like, you don't do anything. I'm like, okay, what? You were correct. So dogs hard enough. Kids are totally different levels. Yes, and you have meant mine. So yes, they're adorable. By the way, they could just be terrible monsters. And you're like, why did I have them? Something you're not in there. They're so cute. They're see. Yeah, they can even tell us a real emotion. They're wonderful. They're complicated. Yeah, yeah, I forgot. One to psyches. You know who that is? He was a comedian. He wrote for like all the big guys like Chris Rock and stuff. She had a stand-up once where she was like, yeah, people with kids, man, anytime you're like, yeah, like, do you like your kids? It was it worth it? And they're like, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's worth it. Do you mean that? So in any case, diet fatigue, the biggest problem you're running to with it outside of all the other problems are at least to which you're kind of an early is increased food focus. Now, food focus has hunger within it, but it has all kinds of other stuff. Like that story I told earlier, where you're watching a favorite show and you're just looking at the dinner rolls in the glass of milk. Why isn't anyone going to? Hello, it's just props. Are those cold? Was it a shop number five? No, yeah, that's really hungry. And there's a thing where you've just eaten, you're no longer hungry, but you're still food focused. If you do the diet too long, you're diet fatigue is too crazy. So at RP, we've probably diet-coached several hundred thousand real humans at this point. Tens of thousands of them with an intimate personal coaching relationship, because we have a team of psychotic PhD coaches that are like, they look like we made up their certifications, but they're real. I'm not good enough to work on that team, so I don't bother. And we have app suite that helps the templates and apps, tons of people. And what we've found is, somewhere between eight weeks of consistent caloric deficit, fat loss dieting, and 12 weeks is where most people shine. Eight weeks is like enough to really make a visual difference. If you do a diet for four weeks, the scales now may be five pounds, but you order Chinese and then it's up a pound because of the salt. You don't even know what's going on. You can't really tell the one lady from your work said you look better, but she always says nice things to her, and she just seems she's a liar. And so, and so, it's not, you're not going to get motivated by the process, and you might quit and be like, I don't know, what is it? There's an amazing one of my friends had his mom and a sticker on the fridge, a fridge magnet, and it's like 1950s, women and she's doing this. And it said, I dieted for one month and lost 30 days. So, like, that's how it can feel if you don't go long enough, you don't have any show for it. But after about eight weeks, most people with a good deficit, they're going to feel different. They're going to look different. People are going to say stuff. They're going to fit definitely go, this is great. But their diet fatigue is crazy at in most cases. After about 12 weeks, not all, but many people, they're getting amazing results, but this should have started to wear on them. It wears on them in a bunch of different ways. It's an entire book written about this. But one of them is, your type of social interaction that you can have is limited. It has to be limited. Someone, maybe you and your husband go to the movies. Maybe it's a thing you've been doing for a long time. It's just a tradition. You're on diet for nine weeks. You go to the movie still. You smell that goddamn popcorn everywhere. And your husband's like, those zombies are scary. Like, what? What? Can I answer fucking popcorn? It's off. And so, if you're hard as nails, you can just eat that shit. I'm not literally just kind of. Whatever. Just yeah. No worries. You just get it done. But it's strange. You want to strange you want to strange you want to strange you. And here's a really cool revelation. If you go back up to roughly your maintenance calories, you still exercise. You're still trained with weight. You still eat mostly healthy. But a bit of junk. You can lose a bunch of weight. Go to maintenance. Chill for we would recommend roughly at least two thirds of a time you're dieting. So if you've been dieting. And you can come from any kind of literature or just experience. Plenty of literature, but lots of experience. And you end up having a summer you diet for 12 weeks. It's probably good for at least eight weeks for you to be at least at maintenance. Maybe even a little tiny surplus if you want to go a little more in Jack, but at least maintenance. That brings you back to normal. It gives you breathing room. And then you can hit it again if you want to lose more weight. One of the biggest problems in weight loss is people whatever number they are. Let's say you weigh 231 pounds. And you're like, I want to win 70. You're like, great, you get your zapp bound, you get your diet, and you just go. It doesn't work like that because you're going to accumulate so much diafitique that by the time you get below 190, you're going to be like, I'm going to eat my own eyeballs today. And if you have to take enough an electric drug for that to go away, you still, they don't take away all the food focus. You still look at cheeseburgers on TV. And this is a convincing something. And you are missing something because you go to the family reunion. Everyone's eating amazing hot dogs. You're not eating them. You got your own bullshit. That's not a way to live life. That's a way to accomplish a task. It's not a way to live. So understanding it's a multi-phase process that is times of destitution, times of deficit, and then times of getting back to normal, that is a big deal. And that 8 to 12 week period coupled with another 8 to 12 weeks of chilling, you get your little ratchet stuff like effect. That works wonders. And empowered by anerrectics and really good diet advice, people can get a couple of ratchets down that thing nowadays, completely transformed their bodies. It's going to take a couple of years. But again, to paraphrase one of my friends brought our chavez, it's baffling that people think that something that took them years to do, like gain 80 pounds, they're just going to get it off in weeks. But yeah, it should be like five weeks as you're be good. No, no, it's going to take years. Luckily, not 15 years, but it might take two or three and you got to hang in there and you got to give yourself breaks. So I talked to a successful people. You're right now. Your notes are squirming. I'll say you just happen to like the CEO of Apple, just happen to fly next to you and a plane. He's like, am I private playing broke down? So could you scoot over it? All right. And he's like just sharing ideas about how to be successful. At some point, you're like, okay, so work straight up, 12 hours a day, no breaks, right? No vacations, no weekends. He'd be like, no, no, you need a lot of that because you need the creative process that doesn't happen unless you do the shit, just the same thing is true with dieting. You got to guard for a little while until your diaphragm is like, bro, this is tough. You go to maintenance and you repeat that process.

Welcome to the Dr. Gabriel Lancho. In today's episode, I sit down with nutritional physiologist Dr. Jess Guend. She has an amazing pedigree of experience. She currently works in the military and she teaches us all about muscle physiology. She talks about the practical application of dietary patterns, including protein, how it impacts sleep, performance, all things related to health and wellness. What makes her research so interesting is that it is translatable to humans. She looks at real humans. She helps with intervention studies and this episode will be very interesting because it's laid out clearly actionable steps for you to do to take current research into your real life. As always, we provide this information free and we also have a newsletter that is free and full of information to be a value to you. Go to Dr. Gabriel Lancho.com, sign up, no cost, no spam, but great value. Dr. Jess Guend, welcome to the podcast. I am really excited to have this conversation. You are a whiz on all things, protein, essential amino acids. And I first heard about you through our mutual friend, Dr. Nick Beringer, Ranger, dietitian. Welcome to the show. Thank you. I'm so excited to be here. I love talking about all things protein. It's really been a huge part of my life for the past decades, so it's a pleasure to be here. Thank you. Yes, certainly. And I would love for you to catch us up to speed. I know that you have worked very closely with some of my name. Dr. Heather Lydie, she is truly extraordinary. Her work, the contribution of her work really is, I mean, it's multi-factorial, but really this idea of protein, protein first, protein effect on the brain. But before we talk about all that, just catch us up to speed a little bit about where you've come from and what you're doing. Absolutely. So I'll just start from the beginning and the origin story really does start with Heather. But a few years before that, I really found this interest in nutrition and exercise science. I was a former athlete at the University of Missouri and at that time, I was really just interested in how do I improve my performance. So naturally, coursework aligned with that quite well. So fast forward through undergrad and I reached that time where you're transitioning out of your undergrad studies and trying to really pursue a next step. And there became an opportunity to become a lab technician at the University of Missouri in their nutrition and exercise physiology department. There was a really unique opportunity because that department pairs both nutrition and physical activity. They really understand at that time that they were the key in queen kind of this health perspective. And happened to be that Heather had an opening as a lab technician. So I really got my start in this research space from the ground up, learning how to build participant folders and paperwork, etc. And that love for research kind of grew over that next 10 months where she allowed me to get really involved in her day-to-day full-feed intervention studies. At that time, we were working a lot with middle-aged women looking at appetite control and satiety. So eating behaviors for those of you unfamiliar, that's hunger, fullness, feelings of food reward, how full review and when do you stop eating and meal? And so her work really has focused on across the breadth of her career using dietary protein in helpful interventions to improve appetite control and weight management. From there, I fell in love with the research process and decided I wanted to pursue a PhD in nutritional sciences and had the extraordinary opportunity to stay on it in her laboratory. And we really just over the next four years continue to focus on those full-feed interventions using high quality proteins and really trying to better understand how consuming high-quality protein across the day in across different meals may impact an individual's appetite response. It include questions of subjective nature where we ask an individual what's your immediate feeling of response or immediate feeling of hunger or fullness. But we also looked at the plug work looking at circulating markers of hunger and fullness through hormones that are derived from the gut and feedback into the brain. We also did some functional brain imaging at that time kind of trying to pair this subjective measure of how does someone feel, how is their body responding, and then what does that look like in the brain's response? And so we use pictures for example of animals and foods. Both are really rewarding and pleasurable, but when in individuals in a functional MRI scan, and you show them a picture of food, there is an area of their brain that is associated with hunger and fullness, food reward, that lights up or doesn't light up. And so we're testing whether the manipulation of protein impacted that food reward region of the brain. So that was really the basis of the first two projects of my doctoral training and then the third, I was really interested in this concept of marrying dietary interventions and how they impact sleep. And so my third project we did look at whether consuming breakfast, particular one-rich, and protein, had any relationship to sleep quality. And during that time it was a doctoral study, we were bringing it on to the lab, it was a new technique for us, but it was really rewarding opportunities, so we started working with cross-translational teams, including sleep physiologists, to better understand this Google picture of nutrition, impacting sleep, and overall the behavior and lifestyle of an individual. So after that, so that was, we ended at Purdue University, I had a great offer to you. You went with Heather, Heather wasn't she was an Arkansas right? Heather, University of Missouri, and then I did skip over the transition to Purdue University at that time, and the fun that we had with standing up a new lab, that was in the midst of my four years with her, but nevertheless, it was an exceptional experience to move with her and have that opportunity to stay on. And where are you now? So now, I am at the U.S. Army Research Institute of Environmental Medicine. We are located just west of Boston in Massachusetts, and I've come here by way of both stock opportunity, post-artural training, under the mentorship of Dr. Stephane Pasiakos. So I'm 20. By the way, amazing, and just took a position at the NIH as the head of is it dietary supplements? Yes. What is the official title? Yes. He is the director of the office in the office of dietary supplements. And just for the listener, the reason I wanted just on is because her pedigree is fantastic. And there are a lot of nuances in the domain of nutrition specifically in protein, because protein acts as a signaling molecule. And again, I say the word protein as if it's one thing. It is this multitude of amino acids. This episode is brought to you by Timeline Nutrition. Uh, might appear the product that I wish I had developed, but didn't. So I've teamed up with Timeline Nutrition to bring you one of my ultimate favorite products. And that's might appear. Might appear is a science backed uralithin A. uralithin A sounds like a species of something or other. What it is, it's a post-biotic and 30 to 40 percent of humans cannot make it. Why is it important? It's important because it's one of the first gut muscle access connection. Might appear helps the muscle and all mitochondria when you take it. You can take it in pill form, you can take it in. Powder form, I recommend trying the starter kit. They have ginger and berry. I put some in my yogurt. It's amazing. Here's what it does for you. It will improve your potentially your energy, your strength, your endurance. Again, might appear helps with mitochondria. And so name might appear. It helps with the regeneration and cleaning out old mitochondria. And if you remember anything about, I don't know, fifth grade science, mitochondria. They are the powerhouse of the cell. So you have to have good mitochondria to have good energy. And one of the hallmarks of aging is a decline in this mitochondria. So if it sounds like you need more energy, more strength, more endurance and something that tastes great, might appear as a way to go. Go to timelinenutrition.com slash doctor lion. That's timelinenutrition.com slash doctor lion. And you'll get 10 percent off your first order. I recommend either the starter pack or the pills. Try it. I know that you're going to feel great back to the episode. What I really want to get into just is we talk about an in the space protein is often thought about muscle. This distribution question is really, are we going to change body composition? How is it stimulating muscle protein synthesis? But your work really highlights the other aspects of protein ingestion. And what I found so fascinating about some of the work that you were involved in is the dosing response to hunger. Let's put skeletal muscle aside. The dosing response to hunger to be able to leverage a certain dosing of protein to mitigate hunger and allow individuals to ultimately follow a nutrition plan with the outcomes of a better body composition. So I would love to hear a little bit about the work that you are doing, have done where we can think about some of the limitations of the current dietary guidelines specifically around protein quality and go from there. Absolutely. We can talk about the dietary guidelines for America and for those of you that don't know, this is a framework for policymakers, nutrition professionals, as well as health professionals. And they're really intended to make practical recommendations for nutritionally adequate diet. And as you said, Gabrielle, essential amino acids and dietary protein quality is something we're very interested in in in our laboratory as well as my mentors laboratories. And what you can really discovering the dietary guidelines, if you dig in when you're focused on protein, is a lack of addressing dietary protein quality. And you might ask for the listeners what is protein quality. Well, when we consider protein quality, this is the amino acid composition, specifically the content of essential amino acids. And I know your listeners if they've been following for some time now, they're aware that essential amino acids are the amino acids or the building blocks of protein that the body cannot make, which means we have to get those essential amino acids from dietary sources. And now we're starting to build this story line of, okay, it's needed in the diet. It's required. It means it's really a key component of achieving an adequate diet. Or if you're more in the realm of pursuing optimized diets, you really need essential amino acids at a higher level to achieve a more optimal diet. And so we dug in and found that the dietary guidelines aren't really addressing per se this protein quality perspective. And this could be for a lot of reasons. This could be because we have had limited ability to measure essential amino acids in food sources for everyday consumers. For example, if you look at the food label, we don't have a great way of demonstrating right now the amount of protein from a quality perspective on the food level. Sure. Clareify that for the listener because what they're thinking is they're thinking, what do you mean? I see protein on the back of a label. And it says, for example, if you see a protein shake, you will see 15 grams of protein on that. And what I'm hearing you say that, yes, it is saying that it has that protein in, but it does not speak to the quality. Right. So the quality really again is the content of amino acids, the profile of the amino acids in the bioavailability. What that label is telling you is the nitrogen content. So that protein gram amount doesn't speak to the essential amino acid content and it doesn't speak to the source. And so it was really a good starting point for trying to achieve quantity and intake, but it really doesn't give the consumer a transparent view of the quality of the protein. It's very misleading, essentially. We have some growth that we can make. We have some growth. We said that very diplomatly. I would agree. So in the dietary guidelines, they have pursued one way to provide recommendations for protein intake. And this has come about as an ounce of equivalence. And for example, an ounce of equivalence in the dietary guidelines for nuts is half an ounce. As the name would imply, the equivalent of that in lean geef is an ounce. However, the problem when you start to look at the amount of protein that ounce of equivalence provides, it's only around 4 grams of protein in the nut amount. And 9 grams of protein in a lean cooked beef portion. When you break it down even further into that essential amino acid content, it's only about 1 gram of essential amino acids in the 1.5 ounce of nuts. Whereas in the equivalent to the dietary guidelines equivalent to lean beef, it's about 3.5 grams of essential amino acids. So now as the listeners are hearing, okay, so there's a proposed ounce of equivalence. But what does that mean from a protein perspective? And that's really where in this review, we were trying to go with this commentary of bring to light a discussion of, certainly there was a reason for identifying and ounce of equivalence at one time. And we have an evolution of nutrition throughout the dietary guidelines over the years. And it started to purpose at one time, but moving forward, how does this messaging for ounce of equivalence affect an individual's protein intake? And so we then pivoted a little bit to first fill the case for physiological outcomes. And what I mean by physiological outcomes in particular, whole-body protein turnover. And at the time, Dr. Park out of Dr. Robert Wolf's lab at the University of Arkansas's from medical sciences had just published a paper looking at this very thing of ounce equivalence in the dietary guidelines in which they compared a half an ounce of nuts to one ounce of cooked lean beef. They went through every single comparison that are presented in the dietary guidelines and they did a whole-body protein turnover assessment. And sure many of your listeners have heard already how they do this, that you stabilize it to a traceers in which they model how amino acids are moving through the body. And what they showed is that as one might predict based on the quality and quantity of protein within the ounce of equivalence, the animal protein sources, which typically score much higher for higher protein quality scores produced a greater whole-body protein balance. And so now we're starting to go the case that these ounce equivalence don't present physiological equivalence. So maybe we go back to the drawing board and start to consider a ways forward. But before I do that to mention one way forward that our group came up with, I'm going to switch a little bit again that work with Dr. Nancy Rodriguez. She had a great graduate student that was pursuing understanding of how the mom-to-horre healthy US eating pattern presented in the dietary guidelines starts to get model out. She was also interested in vegetarian patterns as well as vegan patterns. And what she did was model each of these presented patterns from the dietary guidelines and took a look at their overall protein quantities in the central amino acid quantities. And what she looked at that, she started to see that, okay, if an individual who's trying to or a health professional who's trying to work with an individual and design a meal pattern, truly follows the dietary guidelines pattern to present it and incorporates the ounce of equivalence models. Then you do result with an in a non-equivalence outcome. So the vegan versus the omnivore pattern and you're probably predicting a theme here or seeing it come here did not include the same amount of protein and it did not include the same amount of total essential amino acids. And so through that modeling that paper came out and it was a nice job of really highlighting in application if we take a theoretical pattern, we put it into action. These are the actual protein intakes and essential amino acid intakes that these individuals are consuming. One important note, she did do her modeling based off of a middle-aged woman at 51 years old who was sedentary and that's important to note because now we're starting to consider aging the individuals moving into a later age. Their caloric intake is starting to become lower, the core needs are lower and so for that modeling there is a cap on the total core intake and one of the other take home messages is that the individual had to consume more total energy in order to meet those protein intake requirements. So I'll just take a pause there and know that was a lot and any more of that even what to unpack with you. Well I think you said a few things that are very important actually everything that you said was very important. And the idea is that the US dietary guidelines for Americans was created to function as again guidelines for healthcare professionals, for individuals also trying to be able to implement what we would consider a diet that was sufficient to meet baseline needs. Again these are ways in which we can design a diet to overcome a deficiency. Not discussing any kind of optimization. There is not a differentiation for an aging population which we know you had mentioned muscle protein turnover. The whole body muscle protein turnover you guys can listen to one of the episodes that actually I had Dr Bob Wolff on from Arkansas he discussed these stable isotope tracers as well as Don Laman. It's just a way of being able to see the movement again of these amino acids in the body. But what becomes really important is that right now the dietary guidelines and the recommended dietary allowance which is pointy grams per kg of protein does not differentiate the quality of protein. And I think one of the reasons why I really want to just to come on here is number one she's a neutral party. Just cares about the science and is not incombered by the information on the internet, from influencers she is purely a scientist. Just as that fair to say. That's definitely a question. In fact I don't even know if Jess has an Instagram account but nonetheless her science is phenomenal. And when we think about what we're looking for for health it becomes really important to recognize where the deficits are with the information that we're giving and also a pathway forward. Right now we are hearing about plant-based patterns and it's really important to note that could you overcome the amino acid deficiencies that would be put into place with the minimum requirements at pointy grams per kg. Yes, what Jess is saying to state it very simply is that it requires more calories and also typically more carbohydrates that ride along with these whole foods. And one thing I don't even add to that is it takes more understanding from a nutrition education perspective where really oftentimes a nutritional professional has to be involved to design these diets so that an individual if they're consuming a lower quality protein, this is more likely a plant-based protein, they need to be consuming complementary and essential amino acids to achieve as you said those basic requirements. And so that's another key point that Dr. Rodriguez brought out in her paper as well that he's diets they put together and rival to achieve the modeling with were done by registered dietitians. With intimate knowledge of protein quality. So to your point absolutely it's it's total core intake has to be higher carbohydrate intake is higher and nutrition education has to be higher. This episode is brought to you by Maui Nui Venison. Maui Nui Venison is one of the best finest tasting red meats on the planet. Maui Nui Venison is a mission-based food company. We love it. My kids love it especially their little jerkeys. By the way not only do they use them as swords but as snacks and listen that is a hard sell. Getting your kids to eat healthy Maui Nui Venison does an amazing job. It is high in protein and low in fat which again depending on your macros is amazing and high in B vitamins, iron all of the micronutrients, vitamins and minerals that we need. Not only that you don't have to go anywhere it will come straight to your door that's right. Go to Maui Nui Venison.com for your first order you will get 20% off amazing who doesn't like to save money and the product is extraordinary. Go to Maui Nui Venison.com slash lion roar. Now that kind L.Y.O.N. and try it you will love it back to the episode. And we're discussing protein but as you mentioned before there are other nutrients that ride along and you just mentioned it in passing but there are other nutrients again it's designing a diet full diet which goes above and beyond protein for optimal health and preventing deficiencies. The conversation while we discuss it as protein because protein is easy it's a macronutrient that we eat. We don't typically think about B12 is a zinc selenium and serine, creatine a lot of these other low molecular weight molecules that ride along with these higher quality proteins. I would love for you if you have a translatable way in which an individual is designing or deciding to reduce their animal-based products would a use of an essential amino acid mix be helpful. Do you think that there is a place for branch-chain amino acids and if so how would you put that into a nutrition plan? Right so all preface as well I'm not a registered diet vision so certainly this is just my scientific opinion based on the current literature as well just thinking about the practical application of an individual trying to build a sustainable meal pattern. With that I definitely think Whole Foods approach. I've heard that on your podcast before. Whole Foods definitely have a lot of benefits from their matrix and what I mean by matrix is exactly just described. All of those micro-nutrients and vitamins that come along because certainly protein is not the only macronutrients so not the it doesn't cover the micro-nutrients and vitamins as well. So for individuals who have the energy allowance and their diet pursuing a Whole Foods approach would be most ideal. But as you mentioned in some cases individuals can't consume enough protein to maintain from a plant-based source to maintain that energy balance or that weight maintenance status. And so in that case for an individual and we bring this point out as well in this paper as well Dr. Rodriguez does using an isolated plant-based protein powder could be one option. Free form essential amino acids could be another option. These we'd like to talk about as tools in the toolbox and I'm not going to pivot too much to our service members right now but there are times in the military setting where you can't eat a whole food because of logistics. And so same thing for an individual who's jumping in the car they're trying to get their kids to work or kids to school on time maybe in that case in a central amino acid powder that they can consume on but go helps them get to that more optimal intake. So to to to have a short answer yes I think they have a place in the dietary pattern. And a level deeper is do you envision integrating the essential amino acid density guidance into the existing dietary recommendations? Right so I didn't explain as central amino acid density score earlier but for the listeners in short really this was a concept to consider the grams of essential amino acids in ratio to the total cohort intake of that meal or of that food. And by doing this you could arrive at a perspective of a greater essential amino acid content per calorie. And so then for certain foods you could have a score and for example a score of above 2.2 for an entire meal would score very high meaning that the essential amino acid ratio to calories is very close to even right or what's the max score. So we did not propose a max score I think that's where this concept was in its infancy certainly we're just trying to expand an explore of potential options and we don't want to call out a concern without trying to provide one solution as we move forward. That's very helpful and you do feel that there is certainly a place for this essential amino acid density conversation because again in less it's challenging it's challenging this idea and then the next question above and beyond I know this isn't a list of our questions but I'll just mention it that there are essential amino acids and then there are limiting essential amino acids like lucine, lysine and methionine which the lucine limitations if an individual doesn't have enough lucine the outcome is relatively clear. Lucine is a trigger for skeletal muscle. It does other things in the body but it's primary role or one of its primary roles is again stimulating skeletal muscle. Methionine has its own role and lysine which has a longer pool I don't want to say half life but it seems like the protein turnover or the pools of lysine seem to last a bit longer would there be any issue having a lower amount of lysine I think that that particular outcome and certain amino acid essential amino acid outcomes maybe become tricky for us to identify in an aging population and it's probably a deficiency or suboptional intake over time again this is just my theory that I'm mentioning but one of the questions that I do have for you is I would love because I know that we're going to talk about muscle I would love for you to explain the significance of protein quality on maintaining the health of skeletal muscle and just supporting overall tissues. Absolutely so this is brought us to my postdoctoral work which again was in Dr. Seth and Pesia Coz Laboratory and we have the great opportunity to continue collaborating with Dr. Arne Farando and Dr. Robert Wolf and David Church down at the University of Arkansas for medical sciences so this project and this concept of essential amino acid effects on muscle really came from as you mentioned this concept of maintaining muscle and certainly you've had other scientists on the podcast discussing stress and catapult crisis during aging for our service members and our population of focus we're focused on the catapult stress of energy deficits and these energy deficits occur because there's an increase in physical activity for our service member and oftentimes an inability to match that exercise with food intake and the reason why I'm going into the weeds a little bit with kind of setting the stage here is that when an individual is in an energy deficit the body starts to break down muscle and breakdown and the body starts to break down muscle which then causes an increase in essential amino acids as well as other amino acids in circulation so that they can be used for protein synthesis at other organs and in other tissues. It also made that the body's breaking down muscle in order to provide amino acids that get converted and oxidized for energy and so as you mentioned essential amino acids are very important for maintaining muscle health and even more and important during energy deficits and this is because of that increase in muscle breakdown and oxidation of amino acids for energy and so really we're interested in understanding if current sports nutrition recommendations for recovery from exercise and think about this so service member is going out and they're performing their duties they are running a mission and they're exercising heavily and during that time they also need to recover and so from a protein or an essential amino acid perspective feeding them essential amino acids was one potential way to provide an optimal recovery nutrition intervention but the starting point was do current sports nutrition recommendations apply in those extreme stress scenarios as we brought that back to the laboratory and tested a dose response if you will was really a high dose versus a load of so so perhaps not a true dose response but the standard or the lower dose was the current sports nutrition recommendations of point one gram per kg of body weight of essential amino acids compared to a higher amount which was point three grams per kg of body weight of essential amino acids and what we demonstrated in this study is that following a controlled laboratory exercise and following five days of energy deficit at around 30 percent individuals who consumed the higher dose because this was the within subjects comparison and for the listeners that means the volunteers went through both the high dose and the standard dose for the high dose whole body protein net balance which we didn't define that yet today but whole body net protein balance is the combination of synthesis and breakdown so if you subtract whole body synthesis excuse me if you subtract whole body protein breakdown from whole body protein synthesis you get net balance and so this is really a marker of body protein status and so individuals who consumed the high dose during that trial had a higher whole body protein balance than during the standard dose one interesting thing you did say essential amino acids protect of effects from muscle and certainly we were hypothesizing that the higher essential amino acid dose would provide a protective effect and so for those who might be familiar with this paper we did not show us statistical significance such that there was no difference between the standard and high essential amino acid dose at the muscle level there could be a variety of reasons for this so that standard dose when you calculated that point one grams per kg per body weight for actual gram amount it came out to around eight grams of essential amino acids and when we look at the rest of the body of literature there's a sweet spot for maximizing muscle proteins synthesis around eight to eleven grams so it could be in this study that while there was a greater benefit at the whole body protein level of the higher essential amino acid dose at the muscle level we had likely maximized our response and this makes sense from a ideological perspective at the end of the day as I mentioned during a stress state the muscle acts as a source of amino acids for the rest of the body this is an evolutionary protective effect the body knows that immune function trumps muscle growth the body knows that protein synthesis in the gut is more important than muscle protein synthesis during a very stressful state and so my colleagues and I certainly alluded to this in our discussions and our papers that this whole body metabolic triage effect does seem to make sense you know the body's going to prioritize higher order proteins synthetic processes processes over the muscle I this study was really well done and and for you guys listening I'll link it it's the effects of high versus standard essential amino acid intakes on whole body protein turnover and mixed muscle protein synthesis during energy deficit arrandomized crossover study well done have you thought about how that can translate to the population as a whole how that actually translates to the service members and by the way the participants were there were 90 males mean age of 23 years old and they were involved in this randomized double-blinded crossover study as just said this was they underwent two so they went to five day energy deficit period separated by 14 days they looked at muscle protein synthesis and whole body protein turnover measured at rest and after there's also resistance training here which I really thought was well done thank you and for those of the listeners that are unfamiliar this was a unilateral leg model so there's a resting leg that remained rested for the whole day and then we had the individual perform leg extension and leg press with one active leg and that allows me to compare the rested to the active leg within the same day really really well done I want to thank one of the sponsors of the show and that is mud water did your mom ever tell you not to drink dirty water well she may have been wrong because mud water is amazing and actually it's not dirty water but it is brown and let me tell you about this it is try tasting a little bit of caffeine has mushrooms in it it's what we would think of as a functional type of drink and I got to tell you it really helps me when I want a little bit of caffeine and not a lot of the jitters this is amazing and what I do is I put a little bit of hydration packs so I use element hydration chocolate mix it a little together and well a lot together I froth it together which by the way you can get your own frother they will send you one and twenty dollars off when you order yours mud water has a little bit of chai cardamom might even have a little cacao type flavor which it does and if you are looking for what we would consider a adult hot chocolate this is the way to go and it does a lot of good for your body without a lot of the jitters go to mudwater.com slash doctor lion that's mudwater.com slash doctor lion for twenty dollars off and a free frother. When and I'm curious it has anything changed in terms of and you may or may not be able to save us but the offering of essential amino acids as part of a protective measure in an energy deficit or in a high training demand this could probably be translated also over to Doug Patton Jones's work which he talks a lot about cannibalic crises and the protection of skeletal muscle as an amino acid reservoir. Have a nice journey of the recommendations if if you can say so or if you can't. Sure that's a great question so the first is two parts so I'll take the one with the the perspective on constantly pursuing the evidence basis for updating our rations and what I mean by rations for those of you are familiar our service members consume ration platforms so these are packaged foods that they carry on their person into the field environment so into the woods of the mountains out into the deserts so they carry all of these rations on their person their highly shelf stable there's a lot of food technology and very intentional design into the packaging of these items so that they can be dropped from airplanes so that it can be shelf stable for a certain amount of time so that they're readily available. So when you're considering what is going into the rations certainly the nutrition component and formulation is very important but also for listeners that are unaware the logistics of maintaining a viable food source as an ready to eat on the go entity is extremely important for service members and so to your point the concept of moving this laboratory study as well as the series of studies that followed it over into changing recommendations or changing those food platforms is an ongoing project and we have a direct partner at the Nadec Soldier Systems Center in their compact feeding division and their job is really to take the science based evidence that the US Army Research Institute of Environmental Medicine, my institute specifically the military nutrition division what we establish as scientific evidence for evolving rations and improving requirements it's translated directly to that. Yes it's fascinating I actually looked at some of the the ration rationing information during a world war one in World War II have you ever looked at that have you ever looked at how high their protein intake was I believe that they were rationed at least one pound of red meat do you remember that? It is honestly very fascinating of how rations evolved how our institute evolved how our soldier system center evolved it's amazing how they pursue food technology in that era is really interesting. I feel very happy that I'm not alone in finding it incredibly interesting if you guys really want it to nerd out with me please message me I will send you some of these World War II rationing pamphlet have you ever seen the old pamphlets? I mean they I will send them to you they are extraordinary basically they had put guidelines recommendations of what it would look because at the end of the day they needed strong people they needed strong capable soldiers strong capable workers they were very heavy on they recognized this very early on that high quality animal based proteins would support the needs of a body it talked about minimizing process and this was in the some of the ration pamphlets that I was looking at they were I want to believe that they were in the 40s it was amazing to see and that they said if you really wanted to do a poor job for Uncle Sam you would move to process food white flower and a lower protein diet you'll have to send me that updated or that pamphlet specifically because I hadn't seen that one I saw to really cool I'm sure they have it across the street they were really neat yeah display of all of the rations and how far they've come it's really remarkable it is and if any listeners out there if you really like me sending me a present I would love to get my hands on one of those older old I don't even want to say propaganda but it was this past out material I would love a copy for any of those history buffs I will return back to our questions these are highly I just want to set the stage for the listener these are highly curated questions and we have agreed to follow a flow and a program so that I have the capacity to bring you Dr. Jessica in I'm moving on to my next question what challenges do you foresee and implementing essential amino acid density recommendations in practice especially for individuals following a plant based diet right so the first half of that really and again I have a great focus on bias to my focus but it's it is narrow it is on amino acid metabolism and the protein space but branching out to greater nutrition the way for us to move forward with a change in macronutrient or protein intake recommendation is also coinciding with an improvement in nutrition education and for an individual to understand how to make the best protein choices I think we need improved nutrition education overall and certainly I don't want to sit here and call out a problem without a potential solution but it will take a large team of professionals and we have the opportunity in the US in many of the STEM based college courses to take a nutrition class but I don't remember taking a nutrition class in high school and I most certainly don't remember nutrition being discussed in elementary school so I think pairing up the physiologists pairing up with public health experts with nutrition education experts with behavioral change experts is really the way that this has to go and that's very complex it's not as simple as just providing a protein recommendation I'm really glad to hear you say that because that is one of the things that we're really facing right now we are an over fed nation we can all agree I would say perhaps not the special operations community but I would say the military at large just in general people in our community and our culture are over fed and how can we reconstruct nutritional plan to allow for not just adequate performance but optimization of performance whether it is military whether it is that you are a mom anybody and what we have to fight through from my perspective is the information overload that we're hearing and the oversimplification it's important to make baseline recommendations that we can agree upon that we know they can support health like protein that potentially modifying carbohydrate intake if someone is metabolically unhealthy obviously managing calories these things play a role yet there's a simplification that has to happen but then there is a substantial increase in education that we must gain because of all the influx of information and new foods that become important and this really brings me to my next question is the discussion of the metabolic differences between animal based and plant based protein equivalence as highlighted in your research absolutely so this brings us back to the discussion of the dietary guidelines and how to equivalence and so again this is a concept of protein quality so an animal based source is going to provide a higher amount of essential amino acid content compared to your typical plant based amount of protein and I want to be clear that certainly you can pursue a plant based or plant forward diet that provides an adequate amount of protein and adequate amount of essential amino acids in our paper we modeled this and individuals were getting above the RDA for essential amino acids but again to your point the RDA is really a starting point for baseline health and to pursue something more optimal it's going to take a concerted effort if it's going to be plant based solely plant based and one question perhaps after you as well as the concept of how do we name plant based diets plant plants plants consists of our diets consists of a large amount of plant foods to begin with and so individuals who are plant forward could still achieve a plant based diet while incorporating animal proteins if that makes sense you have a large majority of your total dietary intake coming from plants and with that you can still consume foods that have a high nutrient density meaning all of those additional important vitamins and minerals are still coming along with a plant a plant forward diet including animal based proteins so to simply answer your question the difference in animal based proteins and plant based proteins really comes down to their central amino acid content and their total protein content again that's going to require more nuanced intention for an individual to consume a complete amino acid profile they're going to have to pair foods like the commonly referred to combination of beans and rice so those two plant sources of protein are limited when they're not combined and sure you can combine them but then they're still an energy component of the combination of beans and rice whereas you could probably achieve or you can achieve the same amount of protein and same amount of central amino acid content with an animal source amount of protein that's well said I want to add to that if I may the metabolic differences one of the things that we see about dietary protein is that it increases the thermica effect of food so the thermica effect of feeding this is the amount of energy that it requires and I'm going to say this loosely for the body to quote utilize the protein for example if you were to eat a hundred grams of pure protein which we typically eat mixed meals but a hundred I'm sorry a hundred calories of pure protein the percent utilization could be 20 percent if not even higher which means the net energy intake that you see from that would be eating calories now I bring this up because I don't think in the literature that one you will see there is a variation in the literature that the thermica effect of food of protein could be 15 percent sometimes is as high as 25 percent I have seen potentially if my memory serves me even higher than that although I'll be at not typical and the variation I believe and also my long time mentor Dr. Donald Laman believes that it is because of the skeletal muscle effect the triggering of muscle protein synthesis being a highly dynamic and energy consuming process if one removes the high quality protein again these are just laying out a hypothetical and another way of thinking about this difference between animal based proteins and plant based proteins if you then begin to ingest lower quality proteins that are limiting in the essential amino acids then you will begin to see a decrease in the thermica effect of food and at the end of the day one thing that we can all agree upon is that body composition matters and how do we create a nutrition plan that improves satiety while controlling for calories I just want to put that at your feed no need to comment unless you want to but I think that that potentially is another way to think about the metabolic differences of animal versus plant based foods above and beyond the protein quality yeah absolutely awesome good boss this is what I do in my spare time aside from trying to pick us dirty clothes and food on the floor I'm thinking about the differences of amino acids but hopefully if you're listening to this podcast you are also potentially doing the same this episode is brought to you by inside tracker you've heard me talk about inside tracker many times why is inside tracker important well you have to know what's going on in your body otherwise you are just kind of out there with blindfolds on and nobody wants that inside tracker is an amazing blood work bio marker full platform it includes technology it includes wearables it includes blood work to show you exactly what your biomarkers are things like insulin and glucose and thyroid and hormones all of the stuff that you should care about and inside tracker makes it available for you inside tracker has been very generous and is giving 20% off to all of my listeners the entire store you can go ahead and pick whatever program that you want some of them include fitness tracking data others biomarkers many different biomarkers I use inside tracker myself you can too go to inside tracker.com slash doctor lion for 20% off that's inside tracker dot com slash doctor lion for 20% off now back to the episode in your opinion what are some of the most pressing research gaps or unanswered questions in the field of protein quality and essential amino acid density that weren't further investigation I love this question because this calls me on the rug for future research questions right gotta keep thinking forward so definitely the consideration of how essential amino acid density or protein quality plays out in mixed meals and so one piece of the literature that some of your listeners may or may not be aware of is that a majority of the protein work has been done primarily because of the methodologies involved on single isolated protein sources and what I mean by that is isolated protein sources such as protein powers or a single glass of milk or a single fillet of salmon for example and only recently has the field shifted to also be considering mixed or whole food meals and what I mean by whole food mixed meals is there's a protein component so a for example of piece of steak but then there's also potatoes there's also a vegetable and that's really how people eat so at the end of the day we should be pursuing science that captures the way that individuals are eating and I wouldn't be very clear this is not to discount the decades of work that have been done in a protein field because very much so that was necessary to lay our foundational understanding and knowledge if you don't isolate proteins at the very beginning to best understand the mechanisms of action then we don't have a strong understanding of how protein affects physiology such as to be very clear the foundational work that has been done to date with isolated proteins is really a strong storyline and it's the information we need to move forward but again pressing research gaps really include how does a person eats across the day over time over months and this leads into my next research gap is the implementation of longer term functional outcomes and as as I mentioned with isolated proteins a much of our work is also in the acute setting and what I mean by acute is a four hour feeding response for a 24 hour response or even a 48 hour response but again a lot of the functional outcomes are really going to take longer term studies to assess so looking at weeks to months and for some potential quality of life interest areas following nutrition interventions that's going to take years and so I definitely think with the protein quality and EA attempts to be space certainly trying to apply these concepts working with nutrition providers to see if they're even practical certainly in the lab we can consider potential solutions with these have to go out to the testing space and be applied with individuals and see if they're actually practical for them yeah it's going to be fascinating Don Laman and colleagues are working on an essential amino acid score have you heard of that I have her nine I have her Don talk about this and it's an exciting new development absolutely this idea of because you guys listening what I want to do is I want to provide information for you that allows you to open your mind to the nuances of the discussion as well as actionable takeaways so so far we've really discussed this protein whole food amounts alongside the essential amino acids and I'm just curious have you found or have you looked into the literature about any of the outcomes of limiting essential amino acids like methionine or lysine or lucine have you come across any of that in your research and you don't need a study for it just again any knowledge that that you happen to have and would like to share with us to be honest beyond the standard understanding that at a certain point all amino acids are needed by the body I'm less familiar with the limited amino acid literature just to be honest certainly more familiar with the importance of essential amino acid being able to rescue negative detriments so you mentioned Dr. Duk had in Jones's work and they use Lucy to pursue rescuing the after-fea occurring following bed rest in hospitalization also our collaborators at the University of Arkansas from medical sciences Dr. Franco and Dr. Robert Wolff have also used essential amino acid intakes post surgery so I think I'm more familiar with the literature using essential amino acids at an additive approach to rescue these negative effects of catabolic stress status and have you thought about dosing your some of your earlier work again you did it with the e-grams of essential amino acids with your work with the military individuals have you thought about it beyond that for I mean it probably translates maybe a little bit higher again for the aging individual because of the muscle proteins synthetic response or even the slower protein turnover right so certainly we haven't done that work in in my laboratory or with my collaborators first hand but when you do look at the literature you're right there is seen there does seem to be a dose increase or an increased requirement as we age for total protein intake as well as amino acids astrogel amino acids and this could be in in you know the literature just as well as I do in the longevity space this could be to reduce this could be due to a reduced ability to digest and absorb protein as a whole food in the gut this could be due to reduced muscle sensitivity or what we sometimes term as animal resistance and we're still teasing out the actual mechanism or reason why individuals become animal and are all fully resistant as they age and the term animal resistance is also more nuanced right so animal persistence and the young individual who's going under energy deficit is very different than animal persistence in the aging individual so to your point about dosing and aging I think the literature has really done a nice job of arriving at a consensus that protein does become increasingly important as we age and that it is to support overall mean mass but that there are considerations for total quantity as well as the types of protein consumed so not to get up too far off on a tangent but going back to the eating behavior perspective with protein as well these individuals are often consuming fewer calories and unfortunately they're also less active and so now we're kind of battling a reduced total amount of protein intake coupled with a lower sensitivity of the muscle because they're not as physically active so in light of all that consuming essential amino acids in a powdered form maybe it's your way for them to get those overall protein needs this episode is brought to you by first form first form makes incredible protein powers that's probably one of my most common questions that I get asked what kind of protein do you use and first form makes great flavors they also have a natural way which is amazing we make putting out of it we also make somewhat of like a ice cream type shake and if you are looking for protein powder on the go then look no further first form makes a great one you can check out their protein powders which by the way also mixes amazing nobody likes that chalky tasting protein powder or you're like drinking it kind of choking not sure if you should spit it out or maybe it doesn't taste good and there's an aftertaste it's a whole situation first form has fixed that you can try yours go to first form that's one ST PH O R M dot com and use the code doctor lion that's first form dot com slash doctor lion I really like that you brought up gut help it's something that I do all the time in my clinic we have a full clinic it's actually part of it is online and we address a ton of gut health and one of the challenges is that when individuals have impaired gut integrity whether they have quote leaky gut I use that term loosely or they have impaired stomach acid which typically can happen with aging one in individual has impaired gut integrity it does affect their absorption there are ability to absorb these nutrients and the amino acids are not out of the out of the woods as they say right this also will happen to proteins and I'm really glad that you had brought that up I would love to pivot a little bit if you would indulge me in some of the work with Heather Lydie because of the satiation factor there's a ton of discussion about glp when agonist and with that discussion there's a lot of talk about protein and satiation if you would share with us some of the the data that has come out of her lab perhaps a one of which you've worked on I would love to bring that to the listeners yes absolutely so for the reviewers we do look in the laboratory at eating behaviors focusing on hunger and fullness and satiety and food reward and dietary protein has really emerged over the last 20 to 30 years as a primary driver of satiety in that way protein increases fullness and reduces hunger and so we can leverage and this is primarily work from my advisor Dr. Heather Lydie we can leverage dietary protein intake to increase in individuals feelings of fullness and to increase satiety and what this does is this helps lay a foundation for reducing overall intake or overeating and so for one example increasing dietary protein intake in the diet increases fullness and it can also lead to reductions in intakes of high-car high-fat foods so it's two-pronged approach you're reducing overall intake because your feelings of fullness are higher in your feelings of hunger are lower but then also this food choice piece comes into play when you're extremely hungry maybe even hungry it's easy to reach out for those high foods reward foods right so foods that are highly palatable and what I mean by that high-salt high sugar really really rewarding to consume and I know many of us can totally relate to that how a bag of potato chips when you're really hungry just hits the spot and so yeah in her laboratory she's been very interested in using dietary protein particularly at the breakfast meal because it's an easy target it's typical of a US adults and children as well to consume less protein at the breakfast meal than at the lunch in the dinner meal and so she's targeted breakfast to include higher protein breakfast so this is on the order of 20 to 40 grams depending on how we define higher but really just can we move some of the protein back to a breakfast meal and how does that impact hunger and fullness and overall we generally see that an increase is appetite control I wanted to point out to the listener you said between 20 and 40 and it was done with high quality proteins one of her papers looked at it was roughly I think it was 30 grams of protein for breakfast and the reason I'm pointing this out because the dose that we would think to stimulate skeletal muscle also is the same dose that it appears to have an improvement in satiation and gut peptides for individuals listening and thinking about how they would design their diet that the conversation is not solely just about muscle but really how do we leverage protein that number one yes can target muscle but number two in inappropriate dose also has influence on hunger and satiety and then of course this thermo-infective food and that's where I think that the dosing comes into play because again we can all agree that it's a 24 hour period that matters but there are certain things and strategies that an individual can use if you struggle with an overzealous appetite if you struggle with constantly craving carbohydrates if you are in a highly catabolic state or sedentary there are strategies while subtle can be very impactful was there anything that surprised you that you found unexpected during your research on essential amino acids or protein as a whole all right so I'm going to pivot back to the appetite perspective and it is one of the major hurdles I think we see with three pharmaceutical amino acids missed their taste so this is just one surprising piece of how a higher dose of essential amino acids are very stringent, very bitter and so considering the food technology piece of taking these higher doses of essential amino acids next to to the next level out of the laboratory into the practical applications space and it was that just the overall taste of essential amino acids and how some people seem to not really mind how they taste and they see our little bit of the end and can consume it but then the other side of it you know in our partners we talk a lot you know how do we get this to taste good because certainly we can do all the science we want on the lab and in particular for our service members if it goes out into that ration platform and it doesn't taste good they're not caring and they're not interested in eating it so that part I think was the most surprising of getting into this space as a young scientist and seeing wow it was essential amino acids really do have a strong taste yeah they're pretty bad looking ahead what are your hopes your aspirations for the future of nutrition science and again these dietary guidelines that we all seem to keep coming back to especially concerning the role of protein in supporting overall health and well-being absolutely I think I'll bring us back to the concept of it is a well-intentioned framework right so our policy makers are nutrition professionals and health professionals certainly are trying to achieve health and wellness for their patients for their clients so for the future I think how can we continue to translate the science and and do the science that needs to be done in order to make changes right so so coming together and this is just what my opinion on the younger side of my research career of you know how do I achieve the best rigor of science and of course pursue exploration and discovery but then also keep in mind what's practical for someone to use and how does the work that I do how can it be best positioned to be used by a policy maker is it conclusive enough for population based recommendation I think that's the other thing is you know certainly we want to make changes to the dietary guidelines for America but they are population based recommendations and what does that mean population based recommendations I would love for you to share that that piece of information because that is also a clarifying concept absolutely so from my interpretation and certainly chime in with your thoughts on this but population based is truly that it is to meet requirements they they do make requirements for age but largely it's the individual kind of in some ways left out of the equation it's a very encompassing total population based recommendation it's an important point because we look at it as if it was designed it's difficult because to say it's designed for an individual it really is a guideline which is essentially a suggestion but it is a guideline put into place so that we meet our minimum recommendations and it is designed at a population level it is not purely just science there is policy that comes in because we have to do our best to make a responsible recommendations that end up being not just for us but there is a global influence and it's understanding that and then adding to it so right and maybe I'll post this question maybe it's not a total revision of the dietary guidelines maybe those continue to evolve as our population needs evolve but then maybe there's more emphasis again on nutrition education and spaces where the individual touch points occur so more nutrition education for medical providers more nutrition education for individuals who are caretakers and of course that's asking a lot but it can be done it is asking a lot but it can be done and it's our responsibility it's something that a hundred percent of people do is that they eat and I want to highlight something else as you're speaking these things are not controversial would you agree that this is not a controversial topic it really comes down to numbers high quality proteins essential amino acid dozing I think that there's a lot of sensationalization that happens and it really distracts it doesn't distract the scientists because you guys are in there doing your work but it becomes exceedingly confusing to the rest of the population and for the listener you guys have to understand this is not a highly emotional or charge topic it really is based on biological numbers so thank you for just exhibiting that I would love for you to mention we talked all about nutrition but I would love for you to mention the consortium and which you're at because they don't just do nutrition absolutely so the US Army Research Institute of Environmental Medicine is really focused on conducting biomedical research that helps support in sustained service member wellness as well as performance so I'll just highlight the three divisions we have the military nutrition division and as you can understand they we exist to provide and understand unique nutritional requirements for service members from a nutrition perspective so we're responsible for providing the evidence basis to develop and improve and evolve ration platforms over time so that information gets transitioned to our combat feeding division over at the Nadex Soldier Systems Center and really that helps continue to support their exceptional work in the food technology and food science realm the other entity that the nutrition division is responsible for is providing the oversight and guidance of army regulations specifically our main regulation for the GASH 25 as well as the military dietary reference and takes and for the listeners those are the overarching guidelines that indicate requirements for what a soldier should be provided especially during those ration platform feeding scenarios as well as in the cafeteria style or in army terms the defact style nutrition and dining halls so those are our two primary kind of regulatory outputs and then we also look towards how do we enhance performance and support service member to be more optimal and by way of changing recommendations of course that's one avenue but also again pursuing optimized food food technologies and food formulas and formulations i mentioned there's three divisions at the US Army Research Institute of Environmental Medicine so I don't want to leave the other two out there's the military performance division they are highly focused on preventing musculoskeletal injury so they are pursuing research focus on maintaining bone health reducing stress fractures also optimizing psychological performance and really even things simple as biomechanics how do we pursue the best type of biomechanics when a soldier is training and so the performance division really is a great umbrella of all of performance based work that serves to member my face and then additionally we have a thermal mountain medicine division and so they as this it implies focus on work that is done at high altitude there also interest in heat as well as cold how do we keep a service member operating their best in all of those extreme arduous environments and so their research really focuses on overcoming those unique thermal and mountain challenges i think that that is extraordinary you guys are extraordinary the work that you're doing is making a difference in a contribution doctor jask when thank you so much for your time i know how busy you are it is truly an honor and a privilege to be able to have conversation with you absolutely thank you doctor Leon it's a pleasure of mine as well to share all the great work that my team is really invested in so thank you

Welcome to the Dr. Gabriel Line Show. In this episode, I sit down with Dr. Arena Mallock. She's a urologist, a Euro-genital reconstructive surgeon, say that three times fast, sexual medicine expert. If you are someone who has sex wants to have more sex better sex, or perhaps doesn't have sex, this episode is for you. We talk all about orgasms, we talk about a rousal desire, you name it, we've got you covered. As always, this content is free. Please take a moment to share, subscribe, leave us a rating, a review, we'll be so grateful. If you want to learn more about health wellness, skeletal muscle, all things that will make your life better, head on over to my website, doctor, gabrealline.com, sign up for my free newsletter, and you will get amazing information delivered to your inbox weekly. Now, let's jump into the show. Dr. Arena Mallock, I'm really excited to have you on and we're just talking offline for a number of reasons. Number one, you are a female talking about sexual health. And I think right now the scope is there's a lot of discussion on TRT for men. And when we talk about sexual health, everybody talks about erections, but from the female perspective, I would say it is really under represented, not even spoken about, maybe people are embarrassed. Yeah, I mean, there's a lack of knowledge, right? Like I don't think there are videos I've made on the basics of female anatomy, and I can't tell you how well they've done, because people don't know the basics of female anatomy, that the clitoris is the organ for pleasure, that is the homolog of the penis, meaning that how you stimulate the penis to get an erection and to get orgasm is the same way you're going to stimulate the clitoris to get an orgasm from a female. And it's like things that are just so simple, that are dot-tot, not educated about, and then people don't know their bodies, or how to pleasure themselves or their partners, and it can be really traumatic. It can be a situation where you feel like you're broken because things are not working the way they should, or that you think they should. And what's fascinating is it's a whole medical field. And I was reviewing before you came on the podcast, and I will say that my husband was so excited that you're coming on the podcast because you are a superstar. You did public, so you are trained yourologist, you went to NYU Medical School, I think you did a residency at University of Chicago, which is one of the best in the country, if not the world. Then you did a fellowship at UT Southwestern right nearby, right nearby right down the street in pelvic and reconstruction, reconstructive surgery, and you're also trained in sexual medicine. Yeah, and it's an honor, it's an honor to be able to have gotten through the training, have wonderful mentors, and then have great friends who've also taught me a lot of colleagues. You know, I think you keep learning, and that's really the most exciting part about being in this privileged position to take care of patients. And I'm sure you feel the same angle. I do. My first question to you is why sexual medicine and why, so there's sexual medicine, and then for the listener, pelvic reconstruction is a very specialized field. Why those two? Yeah, so when I was in residence, they really liked all of yourology, but I realized that as a female, yourologist is only 10 to 11 percent of us in the country that are practicing your alleges who are female, so a really small number. And I knew I was going to see female patients, right? Whether I wanted to specialize in men's health or not, I was going to see female patients, and I wanted to, and I really enjoyed reconstructive surgery, and wanted to be able to give them a really good quality surgical experience and medical experience. And so I did a fellowship in female pelvic medicine reconstructive surgery where I learned all about the bladder, and continents, prolapse for women, and all those sorts of things that occur when you have reconstructive issues that could be like fistulas or diverticulum or other sort of anatomic abnormality. And then as I was in practice, I started seeing a lot of sexual medicine. And we learned enough sexual medicine and residency, but mostly it's focused on men, right? It's a lot of like, how do you get erections to come back? But we don't talk a lot about orgasm. We don't talk a lot of a ejaculation. We don't talk a lot about desire. And that's changing. We're definitely seeing more of it in our curriculum now. But I realized that people really had questions and had a lot of self-consciousness around these issues. And even for them to come to the doctor with such a big step and to talk about it, which is why I started my channel, right? I wanted to be able to educate people, so they felt empowered. Like they were at least able to get some knowledge sitting at home in their bedroom on their couch without having to go to the doctor. And maybe that education would let them feel empowered that they could actually take that step to get help and learn what's normal in their bodies. And what's so interesting is you are a practicing physician, but also an educator. And it sounds like you became an educator because of need. There was a need and a lot of, you know, you had mentioned before, where do we get our sex education? Yeah, and I think I'll share a story. So when I was a resident, I remember, you know, you would learn the surgical techniques, you would not have talked to patients, but you only had so much time with patients, right? And so I remember doing the surgery on a patient. She had bladder cancer. And we did a reconstructive surgery where we made what's called an Indiana pouch. So it's like you reconstruct the the bowel from bladder. And there's a little stoma, or opening on the abdomen that you have to catheterize. And so you had to now empty your bladder through that little hole on your belly with the catheter or tube. And this woman was so sweet, she did great after surgery, but she kept getting read-minute to the hospital and getting her to the ICU. And then we sort of figured out later on that she just didn't know that she had to catheterize herself through her stoma. So I realized at that moment that was at that pivotal moment where I was like, you know what, we can do the perfect surgery. We can do the best job we can. We can give the patient the right medications, but if they don't understand, either the side effect, this is the quailet, how their quality of life is going to change, then we've failed. And so that's sort of where I realized that education was such an important part of it. You know, it's such a huge part and you just don't have the time to spend the time you want with patients one-on-one. And you know, people forget things. Like they don't have it, they can't then revisit that discussion you had because it's over. And so it allows, you know, educating online allows you to have things for people to refer to. How long have you been doing that? Educating online. It's been about five years now. Okay. Yeah. Do you remember the first video you put out? Because like, oh my gosh, I don't know if anyone's going to watch this. And I don't even know if I should put that out there. Yes. I very much remember. And it's funny. You know, now you look at people who have these wonderful production guys. I started with a window. Right. I had my light was a window. I used my cell phone camera. I had horrible audio. And it's still up. You can look it up. But it's like, you know, I'm really sorry. I'm just talking to the camera. And you know, you learn. You sort of figure out what people want to know and what they want to learn about. And that's sort of how I got into talking more about sexual health. I initially started talking about a lot of health. But as I realized, people really wanted to learn about sexual health. That was really important to them. And so I started really making more content for them. But yeah, you sort of, you're like, is this, is this okay? What am I calling something? Am I going to am I going to mess up? And any of you sort of get over that, be it quickly? And by the way, we do mess up. You're a human. All the time. And science is always changing. But that's all part of it. Do you remember your first video? I don't. But I do remember my first moment of actually having to post something. My armpits were sweating. I was just like, what am I doing? This is going to be the worst idea I've ever had. And then I did it anyway. And I realized that I had made a lot of worst decisions than talking about protein or muscle or something else. So I was looking at some of the data. And if these numbers are correct, 40 to 50% of adults women across the lifespan have some kind of sexual dysfunction. That is correct. Now, that's a lot. But that doesn't mean that everyone's bothered by it. So when you look at the data about 40, the most common sexual dysfunction for women is low libido or lack of sexual desire. So 40% of women will report low libido, but only 12% will be bothered by it. And that's still a large number. Not to minimize that at all. But it is very, very common. And unfortunately, until the field of female sexual medicine, which unfortunately is actually pretty young, like when you think about it, when did it start? I don't know. I don't know the exact date. But it wasn't popularized. There was only a few people doing female sexual medicine. There still only a few. Like I went to this year to the International Society for the Study of Women's Sexual Health Meeting. And it's a small meeting. And where's what? Five people there? No, the hundreds. But it's small. It's small compared to other meetings, right? Compared to other society meetings, you're going to see a lot more people. And so I'm glad it's growing. It's definitely growing. And there's definitely a lot more interest in studying women. But there's been this disparity where we've been studying men and erections in sexual function for much longer and more intensively and with more scientific rigor than we have for females. And I think that's really part of the reason why it's such a young field. And that makes a lot of sense. And you know, you had mentioned that the equivalent for a male for a female would be the clitoris. And there's a lot of talk about erectile dysfunction. What would be the equivalent for a woman? So in terms of erectile dysfunction for men, the equivalent would be lack of a rousal for women. So what happens in the man and the female is when you have a rousal, your blood flow increases to the genitals. So for men, their their penaltissue muscles relax, blood flows in and it becomes erect. And that erection then is sustained because the firmness of the erection is preventing blood flow from leaving the penis. The same thing happens to the clitoris. You get increased blood flow to the clitoris. It expands and gets firm and erect just like a male penis does. And so that is sort of the equivalent. Now, I think that lack of arousal and women is pretty understudied. And the reason being is we talk about it in terms of lubrication. And that's one sign of arousal for women absolutely having adequate lubrication. But it's not the only sign, right? It's the sensation of feeling arousal. And any woman you talk to can tell you what that feels like. You feel sort of that tension in the pelvic region. You might feel your nipples become erect. There's sort of a whole cascade of sensations that you're going to have. And so it is lubrication alone, truly an indicator of arousal probably not. And lubrication can vary from person to person, whether it's genetic, whether it's due to hormonal changes. So if you've just had a baby for example, your estrogen is going to be lower. You're going to have less lubrication. Same thing when you're going through men and paws, your estrogen drops and your lubrication lowers. But it doesn't mean that just because you're not well lubricated, you're not feeling desired necessarily, which is very often correlated. So more lubrication, men or women will often correlate that with more desire. And that's not always true. Thank you to bond charge for sponsoring this episode of the show. We live in a crazy environment. And I'm sure that you feel it, whether you're tired or you've got skin problems. I know that it happens to all of us. And that's one reason why I love bond charge. bond charge is a company. It's more of a holistic company that has anything and everything to meet your needs for your environment. For example, I love bond charges red light therapy. You may have seen me use it in my IG stories, but they make an incredible device. I use the red light max device. It's a massive panel. I also use the mini and I've tried a lot of different devices. I sit in front of this and I'm telling you, I feel warm. It gives me red and near infrared light, which typically is in the early mornings at sunrise and or at sunset. Many of us are not outside during that time. It does a number of things for us, like helps with our circadian alignment. helps with our skin. Helps me with sore muscles and a whole host of other things. So if you are someone who feels like you suffer from low energy, maybe you're not recovering. I strongly recommend you add light to your health plan. And bond charge does a fantastic job at this. You can get yours at bondcharge.com slash doctor lion. That's bondcharge.com slash doctor lion. And you will get 15% off. I have a whole host of podcast episodes coming all about the science of light. This episode is brought to you by Timeline Nutrition. Uh, might appear the product that I wish I had developed, but didn't. So I've teamed up with Timeline Nutrition to bring you one of my ultimate favorite products. And that's my dopure. My dopure is a science backed uralithin A. uralithin A sounds like a species of something or other. What it is is a post biotic and 30 to 40% of humans cannot make it. Why is it important? It's important because it's one of the first gut muscle access connection. Might appear helps the muscle and all mitochondria when you take it. You can take it in pill form. You can take it in powder form. I recommend trying the starter kit. They have ginger and berry. I put some in my yogurt. It's amazing. Here's what it does for you. It will improve your potentially your energy, your strength, your endurance. Again, might appear helps with mitochondria. And so name might appear. It helps with the regeneration and cleaning out old mitochondria. And if you remember anything about, I don't know, fifth grade science, mitochondria. They are the power house of the cell. So you have to have good mitochondria to have good energy. And one of the hallmarks of aging is a decline in this mitochondria. So if it sounds like you need more energy, more strength, more endurance and something that tastes great, might appear as a way to go. Go to timelinenutrition.com slash doctor lion. That's timelinenutrition.com slash doctor lion. And you'll get 10% off your first order. I recommend either the starter pack or the pills. Try it. I know that you're going to feel great back to the episode. So there's the arousal piece which sounds like it's more of a physiological response. And then there's the desire piece which sounds like it's more of a cognitive or top-down brain function approach. Would that be fair to say? Absolutely. So desire is exactly what you think it is wanting to have sex. And that is definitely correlated with the brain. And so when we think about medications that we use for low desire, those are all working on brain receptors. They're working on our brains, not on our genitals. Whereas if you're focusing on arousal specifically like for example men who have erectile dysfunction, they're taking medications that increase blood flow to the genitals. They're not doing anything to the brain. That's interesting. And the medication is for men. I'm assuming you're talking about to Dallafill. What about the medications for women? So for low desire? So for low desire, you know low desire is really complex. And I don't want to just jump to medications. Because I think there's really multi-factorial issues that cause low desire. And so yes, we have medications. We'll talk about those. But I think when you're thinking about low desire first, is like what does that mean? Right? What does low desire mean? Are you bothered by the fact that you have low desire? Has it changed? Has it always been stable? And you're like, I just don't feel like that's normal? Like is it just, you know, are you comparing yourself to what you think normal should be? And then, you know, what exactly, you know, desires different. So when we see TV or movies, we see you see your partner, you get turned on, you want to rip off their clothes and have sex. Right? You have desire, then you have arousal. But sometimes it's the opposite. Right? It's what we call responsive desire. So you see your partner, you become intimate with them, you become close, you touch, you're like, not necessarily wanting sex, but you want closeness. And then you're receptive, you're like, oh, I finally feel, I feel that desire. Now, yeah, I'm having sex. I'm really enjoying it. But it wasn't there in the beginning. And that's normal. That's completely normal. And especially in long-term relationships, that's completely normal. So I think a lot of times we think, oh my god, I don't have that desire I used to. But you know, you've been with the partner for a long time, things change in your life, you've got kids, you've got age and parents who've got other, you know, your busier at work, whatever it is, those things will detract from your ability to have desire. That's fascinating in the way that it is. That's very complex. Especially as you transition through life. Have you found things, I guess, from a more, I don't want to say holistic perspective. That's not the right word, but a more integrative perspective that can help women increase their desire because is that as a practicing physician, is that one of the first things that you hear? Yeah. I do they say I have low libido or do they say I just I'm not desire. I just don't want to have sex. Yeah, I just don't want to have sex. And usually it's my partner wants it and I don't. Or sometimes it's like, you know, I used to be really into sex. And now I'm not and I'm wondering what happened. And I missed that, you know. And so what things I tell people's easy stuff is like, first of all, look at your life. Where are your stressors? Right? Because when you think about sex, men look at sex as a stress relief. Right? They're like, oh, I'm going to have sex. I'm going to feel better afterwards. Women are like, this is something I got to do that's going to be like a task. Right? It's another task to do. It's like a chore. And not all women think this, but like you know, that is sort of the way that we women and men perceive sex differently. And so you want to think about how can you reduce stress so you can actually enjoy sex. Like sex is supposed to be fun. It's supposed to be play. It's not supposed to be this like stressful event. Like, oh my god, I got to do this again. Like, it should be something we look forward to. And it's funny because we're talking about it. Um, hey, guys, we're giving you insight for the men for the male listeners. We are giving you insight into the female psyche. Yeah. As, you know, and I'm just curious from your perspective when you started thinking about this and talking about this for you like, whoa, I, this is kind of uncomfortable. Yeah, you know, I think as a neurologist, you know, you pick your field because you're comfortable with it. You know, like I talk a lot about penises and all kinds of things. This is all very true. Yeah. So I think it's different. Like when I talk to people, I think they're more uncomfortable than me. You know, I guess not so much. And it's funny because you know, I, I'm South Asian. We don't talk about sex a lot. It's sort of very taboo. And now I talk about sex very openly. Are your parents like, oh, yeah, she's, she's talking about that thing again. Well, you know, they're very proud of me, which is, which is surprising because, you know, I talk about sex, but they're very proud of me. But then when people come up to them and tell them, oh, I love your daughter. I watch her all the time. They're like, I don't want to know. Like, I don't really want to know. Yeah. And I love it. But yeah, no, I think, um, so back to your question about like, what can you do holistically? So I think one is reduced stress. And so whether that means offloading some of your responsibilities, hiring out or having your partner take up more responsibilities, um, whatever it is that can be helpful. And some of that relies on, you know, figuring out ways to have boundaries, all those sorts of things. And then, you know, sleep is really important. So we know that sleep quality and duration are correlated with our hormones, right? So when you have more, uh, more than seven hours of high quality sleep, you're going to have higher levels of testosterone. testosterone is the hormone of desire, right? So when women have testosterone, the same as men do, but women have actually more testosterone their bodies in estrogen. And so it's really important for both men and women to get good quality sleep. And I think we pride ourselves on like, I'll sleep when I'm dead. And no, like, we need to sleep, right? Um, and so it's kind of a luxury, but it shouldn't be, but again, I mean, we're the only species that actually purposely delay sleep, like, no other animals or anything, go to sleep, right? Like, where the only one's like, oh, I got to stay up and scroll my phone or like get one more thing done or whatever it is, right? Um, and so that's one. Another one is exercise, which you talk about a lot. But we know that exercise increases desire in the long term and in the short term. So if you work out, you're getting increased blood pressure, increased heart rate and your body's getting primed for a rousal. So you're going to have more arousal when you're ready to have in a course with your partner because you've worked out. And so those things are really, really useful in terms of integrating things that you can do every single day. Now diet is for all people important for every aspect of your body and you're an expert on that, but diet is super important. And then the other thing is mindfulness. So there's been actually a lot of high quality data. You can look up Lori Brotto's work on mindfulness and they've looked at women like thousands of women and said, you know, if we implement a mindfulness practice over eight weeks, you find that they improve desire significantly. And the interesting part about it is you've read a lot of studies. You'll know this that a year later, if they contact these women who work part of the study, a year later, without any prompts, they're still doing mindfulness practice because it improves their lives in so many, immutable ways that they've continued it without any input from the study or anything like that. So it's really valuable and something that you can incorporate pretty easily. It takes time, it takes effort, takes dedication, but again, you're investing in yourself. If you want a better sex life, if you want to have that desire, if you want to be able to be in the moment with your partner and enjoy sex, which is going to obviously increase desire when you're having more fun during sex, you're going to want it more. Then you know, you've got to do things to make that happen. What I'm hearing from you say is that sleep is really important. Exercises also really important and mindfulness. Those are very easy things. I was looking at some of the data for nutrition, no surprise. And what I found was it seems like Iron Plays a role, I don't know if you've seen any of the data talking about anemia and potential change in sexual function. Have you seen any of that? I mean, that makes sense. If you're anemic because you're iron deficient, then you're not going to have the energy and you're not going to have the energy for section, not going to have desire for it. Yeah, so I'll just put that out there and we'll link one of the studies that it's available on PubMed. And again, I just thought that that was so interesting. What do you then counsel people? So they've done all of these things. They've said they've come to you and they've said I have low desire or low libido. Would you say, first of all, is there an age range that this seems to happen typically? Yeah, it's more common in women as they're like in like a longer term relationships and sort of in the midlife, right? Because they've got a lot of responsibilities around that time. They've got aging parents. They've got young kids. And so that tends to be the time when the stress level is the highest. And then around menopause, right? Because you have this dramatic change in hormones. And you know, testosterone, as I mentioned, is the hormone for desire, but that decreases resteadily over your lifetime. And so that's also coming down along with estrogen, which will cause a lot of changes in the the quality of your tissues. Yeah, vaginally, which can cause discomfort and pain. And you know, lack of feeling like just not yourself, right? And so I think all those things together play a big role in sexual desire. And this might not be an evidence-based question, but I'm curious as to what your opinion is. When individuals go through menopause, it's different for an aging male. An aging male, their testosterone might not decrease. Maybe their sex hormone binding globular and increases, but testosterone levels can remain stable. For women, there is a clear delineation when a woman has achieved menopause. So yes, there's a decrease in estrogen, decrease in testosterone, decrease in predestinal, and all of these things happen over time. Do you think that there's a biological driver for example, should women then not have sex? So I'm trying to frame this in the right way. So we know that these hormones decrease. There's changes in tissue that happen. Probably not preventable, right? Is there things that we could do or is this going to be inevitable? An inevitable process that happens? And is that kind of the human species saying, okay, well, no more sex? Yeah, so I think, well, first off, can it be preventable? I'm not sure that you can't prevent the change in hormones, but you can prevent the loss of tissue quality by doing a variety of things. So that can, which one increased blood flow to the genitals, right? So the same thing that we talked about exercise and sleep and diet quality, those things will improve blood flow overall. So we know, for example, in men, right? They reduced blood flow to the genitals because of comorbid conditions, like high blood pressure, diabetes, high cholesterol, and all those things. Same thing for women. Although it hasn't been said as rigorously, it's probably exactly the same, right? We're homologs. Our genitals are identical if you look at them, you cut them on an anatomic section. They look the same. And so, you know, preventing those conditions is going to keep good blood flow to the genitals. And we know that at night, women and men are having two messants or women are having erections and women's clearances are getting hard, right? And so that's a sign of good blood flow to the area. And so probably, if you keep yourself healthy, in terms of avoiding those comorbid conditions, you're probably going to have better quality tissues because you're going to get better blood flow. In terms of, like, can you, should you not have sex? No. I mean, I think just like we maintain our bodies in other ways to live a long healthy life, you can maintain your vulvar tissues to have a high quality, good functioning tissue, and continue to have sex in pleasure. Now, does it have an evolutionary purpose? Probably not. Right? You're not having, you're not a children. But that doesn't mean you shouldn't enjoy pleasure because orgasms have really benefits, right? They decrease, they decrease, mood poor mood symptoms. They decrease your blood pressure. They improve your focus. They might help you sleep. Like, there's a lot of benefits to having orgasms and they're natural. Like, you don't need to take a pill. Just go have an orgasm. Where's Rina? She's busy right now. She's improving her mood. Yes. That is fascinating. And I think that from a male perspective, we hear a lot about erectile dysfunction as the first barometer for cardiovascular disease. 40, 40% of men age 40 or so will have some kind of erectile dysfunction. And again, it goes up by decade for women and the clitoris could one say that if you are unable, and I don't know if women know when their clitoris gets erect. But if could that potentially be an early sign of heart disease? Yeah, it could be. But I think it's more about, you know, I don't think we wake up, like, men do with erections. I think sometimes you feel sort of congestion or like a feeling, a tingling, a fullness, a feeling in the pelvic region. And you sort of know your your clitoris is getting erect. And you can, it's sort of the same feeling you're in your house, right? And so, but it's harder, I think, because women don't like wake up and notice an erection. And so they can't sort of monitor if this is changing over time necessarily. But they may notice that they're having, you know, more like difficulty getting arouser than that feeling, that sensation of blood rushing in or that feeling of fullness or tingling or whatever, you know, everyone has their own identifying feeling. But that changes or becomes muted, maybe that's a sign, right? And we don't, we don't have that data, I think yet. But ultimately, I think that, yeah, things are changing in your sex life. You should see it, doctor, even if it's just to get your heart checked. And it would be fair to say, again, you said it's homologous. So the male counterpart from all of these things, whether it's a penaltissue and the clitoris and these feelings of desire arousal are all intertwined. But from a medical perspective, would you say that it is under discussed as an indicator of other potentially comorbid conditions? Absolutely, 100%. I mean, I think, you know, cardiologists know this, urologists know this, some primary care doctors know this. But honestly, they're not, I mean, unless you're specifically saying, hey, go, like, I will actually screen all my patients, right, for cholesterol, diabetes, when they come in with sexual dysfunction, because it's so intertwined, right? And I'll say, you know, go get an EKG from your doctor. Like, these are simple things you can do, maybe, to stress tests. But like, these are things you should do, and this is an indicator in a sign for it. But I don't think everyone is necessarily making that connection. They're sort of like, oh, you have a problem. Let's fix that one problem. They're not thinking about the big picture. And part of that is the way our medical system is run. You know, that you don't have enough time to address every issue that a patient comes in with. And I think one question that would be a normal question that potentially is listeners are thinking about this. Do we know what normal is for, for example, how often should a woman be aroused? How often should she be able to achieve orgasm? Do we have a framework for thinking about what we be considered healthy versus not healthy or a spectrum? Yeah. So there's no specific, like, how often should you have sex? But there is, you know, how often are people we can extrapolate from male data, men are having three to five nocturnal erections at night, right? And so women should be having three to five literal two-messons episodes at night. So we don't have yet the technology to monitor that. But, you know, I know there are some companies working on some at home devices that will be able to do that. So that's sort of interesting. And then in terms of, like, how often should people always want to know? Like, how often should you be having sex? So there's no perfect barometer of that, right? It is as much as you and your partner decide as good for you. But if you want to know the average, the average American probably has sex, who's in a partner relationship once a week. So 52 times a year. If you're, it doesn't sound like very many. Yeah, I mean, I think it's just a average. But when you're, when you're 20, that's about 80 times a year. So maybe twice a week or once a week. And then when you're in your 60s, it's 20 times a year. So maybe twice a month. So it changes over lifetime. And again, there's no right or wrong amount. It's really about you and your partner and wanting, because people's desires different. Right? Some people want sex every day. Some people want every other day. Some people want it once a week. And there's no right or wrong. As long as you and your partner are happy about it, that's some matters. And I think you're probably saves a lot of marriages when you address both parties. You got to talk about it, right? No one taught us how to talk about sex. No one told us like, how do you have a conversation with your partner about, like, what's, well, what's going well? What's not what you want to try? How often should you have sex? And then it leads to this like passive aggressive sort of communication or frustration. And that's never a good thing, right? And I think that we would save a ton of marriages if people just taught other people how to talk about sex. We're doing a great job. So there you go. We talked about the natural ways in which we could approach decreases higher low libido moving from the natural ways of lifestyle. What would be the next step? So a patient comes to you and is like, hey, I have low libido. I am sleeping. It hours and I, I'm exercising. And I'm meditating. Yeah. Okay. So then first of all, I want to make sure that they are not having any other issues. Like it's not painful during sex. We would address that, right? They're not having any other concerns. And on their exam is everything normal, right? So are they having changes of low estrogen that may need to be addressed? Because again, if sometimes you perceive that you're not a rye, because your lubrication is less, there's a big brain connection, right? We've our whole life's been used to like having a certain feeling of arousal and say now the lubrication is not there. You might think you're just, it's not the desire is less because you're you're having less arousal, right? And so addressing those issues. So if you're having symptoms of low estrogen on your volvart issues, using hormones like vaginal estrogen are very, very safe and very, very effective. And it's, you know, there's been a lot of misinformation about estrogen, hormone therapy, but vaginal estrogen is so safe that we're now recommending it for once you've been clear of cancer and you've breast cancer that it's safe to give people. And and it's the amount of estrogen that goes in your bloodstream is so minimal. It's like a drop in the bucket, right? It's nowhere near your premenopausal levels. And so it's so safe. And so using vaginal estrogen either cream, a ring or a suppository can be transformative for people. And I tell, yeah, I tell people you're going to use it from now till the death to you part. Like you never stop, just like you put your face cream on every day. You're going to put your vaginal cream in every day or suppository twice a week, whatever it is. And you're going to use it. And it's going to be it's going to help your tissue stay healthy and vibrant. And all kidding side, I've been reading some recent data that estrogen cream for the volvart issue might also be good for the face. Yes, there is some data. Yeah. And just putting that out there. If anyone's interested in new face cream, probably you should get two different tubes. But for the physicians listening, obviously we're not giving medical advice. But what would you say that the starting dose of estrogen or ester dial cream would be? So one gram, once a day for two weeks, and then twice a week till death to you part. You know, you'd mentioned that testosterone is the hormone of desire. Yeah. Are you compounding or are you seeing individuals, the literature, other of your colleagues, using both estrogen and testosterone cream? Absolutely. So I use it all the time for what we call vestibula dine. So we sometimes see that women during menopause or if they've taken birth control pills or that can change your hormones, that will affect the area called the vestibula, which is the outer opening of the vagina. And that can become sensitive. And so that can cause pain, discomfort with sex. And so when you apply estrogen and testosterone compounded cream to that area twice a day, you can then restore the normal hormonal milieu. And that can make your tissues feel more comfortable unless it's discomfort. And I think that vaginally too, like we, you can use prostrol, which is has similar endogenic and estrogen that affects vaginally. And we see that you can use that for a general urinary syndrome of menopause or pain with sex. And we see that that also works very, very well for these changes in the tissues. So I think ultimately yes, there's absolutely value for that. And then testosterone alone, you can use compounded or you can use the milk, one tenth of the male dose of like androgyl or the gel formulation of testosterone. And you can apply that transdermally for symptoms of low libido off label on your skin or on the vulva. So you can usually put it on your lower on your calf or the back of your inner thigh. And you apply it there and you rub it in. And that is sufficient for getting changing the systemic amount of testosterone, which can, as I mentioned, decreases the over lifetime. And so you can check testosterone levels. And they should be about one tenth of the male, male amount of testosterone. So you just want to check and see if they're low and you can always supplement them and see how the patient does. And there's other benefits outside of libido. Absolutely. Because we believe in testosterone place in my clinic, the benefits are tremendous. Absolutely. Increased skeletal muscle mass. And we're not talking about high doses. We're talking about doses all within range. Yeah. We're just trying to make you normal. We're not trying to make you super physiologic. And I think that's really the key. And there's data on, you know, a whole host of things. Yeah, muscle mass, as you mentioned, brain fog. There's, there's a lot of benefits to testosterone. There's data. And the issue is that, you know, it's very challenging to get these things approved through the FDA and and there have been challenges, particularly with, I mean, some of these medications we're going to talk about for low libido. Getting even them approved. There was like this huge, it was very challenging. And they had to put a lot more money into these medications to get them approved for women than they did for example, so Dana Filler to Dallasville for men. And so there's these challenges. But ultimately, it's very safe when used appropriately when monitored and assessing, making sure your levels don't go too high. That's really all we need to do. You know, you mentioned levels going too high. Do you think, and again, this is just a personal perspective? Do you think that the ranges are appropriate in lab values? So, yeah, I mean, I tend to go by symptoms. And like as long as they're not having adverse side effects, like hair growth, acne, those sorts of things are bothersome to them. And like facial hair, not hair growth on their head. Unfortunately, we all want that. To testosterone placement is not going to make that happen. In fact, it might do the opposite. Well, actually interesting. You bring that up. So I just looked into this. And in fact, testosterone with hair loss is really only explaining the genetic risk right now. So it's not if you're, if your family has a good head of hair and they didn't lose their hair, taking testosterone is probably not going to cause hair loss for you. So that's it. That's yeah, some good news. Very good news for for many people. Thank you to Shopify for sponsoring this episode of the show. Now wait, before you fast forward through this ad, think about it. If you are a small business owner or even a large business owner or someone who wants to make their dreams a reality by selling something to the world, Shopify is your place. It is an online e-commerce site that allows the interface between the owner or the individual who is creating a product and the consumer a seamless transaction, a what we call a point of sale. Why is this important? Because number one, many of us have things that we want to get out to the world. And frankly, we don't know where to start. It seems very overwhelming. Shopify is an amazing way to get your product out to the world. And by the way, if you're a consumer, a guarantee you've been using Shopify. I know one of my best friends has an amazing company called Paper and Planko. I go to that website. I pick a notebook. I'm obsessed with notebooks. I put it into my cart. I check out. And by the way, it's easy, great customer service. And in part, that is due to the ease of Shopify. Shopify, quite frankly, is taking over the e-commerce site and space for both business owners and consumers. You can try your own Shopify account for $8. Go to Shopify.com slash doctor lion. That's right. Shopify.com slash doctor lion and start your trial for $8. Thank you to Apollo Nuro for sponsoring this episode of the show. I have been using the Apollo wearable for quite some time. You might see me and my stories where a tiny little square device, sometimes I wear it on my wrist, sometimes I wear it on my ankle. And here's why I love the Apollo. Number one, it is a tiny little device that sends small vibrations throughout my body. So I put it on my wrist. It almost is like a tiny little tapping and you can adjust the intensity and duration. There are multiple different programs and here's why I think just you try it. It helps regulate your nervous system. There is a lot coming at us, whether it's our phones or demands and the Apollo wearable allows me to almost, I don't know, reset my nervous system. I think that there's a lot of great science behind it. It is a safe, effective non-stimulant, non-medication way to manage your nervous system. It helps with my heart rate variability. It can help me with sleep. It helps people with anxiety. It was created by a psychiatrist with whom I trust Dave would love to have you on the show. It's really amazing. And if you are going to add one thing to your regimen that is non-supplement, I highly recommend that it's this. Go to ApolloNero.com. That's ApolloNero.com. Use the code Dr. Lyon for 15% off. That's Dr. Lyon for 15% off. Now back to the show. So you feel that potentially you go on symptoms, I do as well. I'm not sure how, I think for men, the establishing range of testosterone. They seem to continue to lower what would be considered low testosterone. They don't move the high level of testosterone, whether it's 900 or depending on what lab that you look at. But for women, because I do feel that we're really behind the April in terms of, I think that the evidence would support that. Just studying women. I always wonder, are those ranges for women appropriate? I will tell you a micro-nick. Women seem to feel better on the higher end of free testosterone. And let's see. With free testosterone is we're not, I mean, that's not even in the data. Right? People are saying, like, oh, just use total testosterone, but free testosterone is really what's available to your body. So I think there's a lot, we don't know what the receptors look like. We can't study the receptors. We can't study how sensitive they are to the testosterone we're giving and everyone's a little bit different. That's why I think you and I both look at symptoms. Because as long as you're monitoring symptoms, making sure they're not having adverse effects, checking, you know, their other lab values to make sure there's no adverse effects. You know, that is what safe monitoring is, but ultimately, they're trying to improve your quality life. Absolutely. And I think that the other biomarkers that you're mentioning are hemoglobin hematocrit that you would see with a higher dose of testosterone. Typically, the dose is for women. We don't. I mean, I'm not really seeing any kind of thing. I think with the gel, especially if that's what you're using, you're not going to see much of that versus an injection. I think that that's a really good point depending on how you utilize the cream, whether it's injection or gel, but whether it's sub-q or I am also changes the risk, the potential risk. When it comes to thinking about estrogens, and you'd mention that estrogen is really important for the vaginal tissue. What if a woman overall is young and healthy? What would your step be? Would estrogen be safer? Would testosterone be safer? How do you kind of a risk stratify? What the next step would be whether you're choosing a medication that's not hormonal like adi versus hormonal replacement? Yeah, so I think it depends individually, right? Do they have other symptoms of low estrogen and low testosterone? What are their lab values? What are their tissues look like? Did they just have a baby? Are they lactating? Do they have other systemic diseases that might lower their hormones? Then you can actually check hormones. Whereas, I think less often we're checking in menopause because it's sort of no what's happening, right? But I think in the perimenopausal space, checking laps can be helpful. Then I think in terms of other options, then there are non hormonal options like you can use moisturizers. I think they're just like a bandage. They're good. No, well so there's more stress than there's lubricants. So there's vaginal moisturizers. There's great. There's vaginal moisturizers you can buy over the counter. They're usually made with hyoronic acid. They come as either a cream or a depository and some of these them daily, sometimes every three days. They just moisturize your skin, right? Use hyoronic acid products and your skin. You're doing the same thing vaginally. So they're a bandage. They're going to make things feel better in the interim, but they're not going to like change the tissues, right? So those are available. You can use lubricants during sex. I encourage everyone to use lubricants. I think they make sex more fun. There's multiple different kinds of lubricants. You can get water-based lubricants, silicone-based oil-based water-based or the cheapest and usually you can find ones that are very good for sensitive skin or sensitive tissues. And so those are great, but they do evaporate. So like you need to reapply. So people don't realize that. They use the lubricant and then dries up and they're like, oh, this is hard. Yeah. So there's that. They're silicone-based, which lasts a little bit longer. They're more slippery and they do like, you know, they can stain your sheets a little bit, but you just want to be careful not to use them on silicone-based sex toys. And then oil-based lubricants also last longer. You don't want to use them with a condom because they can degrade condoms, but they also can stain your sheets a little bit with the last longer. And so they come in the coconut oil varieties and other oil-based lubricants. But there's so many different kinds. And I think just finding what works for you is really useful. Are you worried about any of the preservatives or any of the ingredients? So sometimes it's on that tissue that... Yeah, I think glycerin for some people can put you at higher risk for yeast, recurrent yeast infections. So if you find yourself someone who gets yeast infections often avoid that preservative and then generally just try to get ones that have the least amount of ingredients, right? And those are going to be the best options. Rina has a lubricant coming out. Although you should. It would make a lot of sense. Those are the lubricants. You'd mention something I do want to also talk about medications and and those other options, but you mentioned something interesting and I don't want it. I don't want to gloss over it. You'd mention pregnancy and then lactation. And I'm assuming the reason that you mentioned that is because during lactation, pro-lactin is high. Does that affect a woman's ability to get excited or desire why would lactation or potentially pro-lactin affect sex? Yeah, so the high pro-lactin is then decreasing restor dial, right? It's decreasing or estrogen. And so you're having the same sort of symptoms as you would during menopause. You're getting less lubrication. You're getting thinner tissues vaguely, more friable tissues. What we call Volvo vaginal actually, that can happen during lactation. And so the vaginal estrogen or even moisturizers or lubricants can be helpful during that time. That is very good to know. Let's talk about some of the medications and then there's the medications and then I do also have another question about intranasal oxytocin. I don't know if that is utilized for desire or arousal. It's mostly for orgasmic difficulties, right? So you can use if you're having trouble with orgasms, these are sort of things that you can try intranasal oxytocin can be helpful. There's sort of a whole host of things you can try that are all off-label, but ultimately I think first off is when you're talking about orgasm is like, well, is this heavy lost orgasm or have you never had one? And then sort of identifying that you women know, I mean, how many women have never had an orgasm? About 12 percent. 12 percent of the women? Yes, a lot of women. So they've never had an orgasm. And is that because they're not getting adequate stimulation of the clitoris? Is that because they're not getting enough for play? We know that it takes women about 25 minutes for full arousal and to make sex comfortable, right? Because the vagina widens and lengthens during sex, almost double in-sign. Really? I do not know that either. Yes, it almost doubles in size. The cervix moves up and out of the way for some people's cervical, if you're hitting the cervix with the penis, it can be uncomfortable. Some people find it pleasurable, but there is a sort of variation there. And so ultimately, like if you're not letting your body become fully ready, then it's going to be less likely that you're going to have an orgasm or if you're not having stimulation for long enough. So it takes women when they look at data about 12 to 14 minutes to orgasm versus men ejected within five to six minutes. And so if you're not prioritizing female stimulation, they're not going to orgasm. Wow. That definitely seems to be a time difference. Yeah, absolutely. I've been in it's to 14 to 25. Really, really important conversation. Medication. So you've tried everything, people are doing all this stuff. Talk to me about the medications used for yeah. So we talked about off-label testosterone. There are two medications that FDA proved for female, it's pre-approved for pre-menopausal loaders. They're not that it's not going to work in post-menopausal one. It's just that's what they studied in the studies. And so one is called Fulbancerein or ade is the brand name, which you mentioned, that is a pill you take every single night. And it is going to increase desire after about eight to 12 weeks. It takes time. It takes time. So you have to sort of commit to taking it. I tell people three months. Commit to taking it for three months. You take it once a day at night. Why? Night. It makes it sleepy. So it helps you sleep for some people. And so you take it once a night. You want to avoid having more than two drinks of alcohol before taking it, at least within an hour. If you take more than that, skip it that night. And so you take that. And about 60% of women will see an improvement in desire. And it's not going to be like a sudden like, oh my god, this dramatic change is more like, oh, I'm doing the dishes. I know I suddenly feel like I want to have sex or like, or my partner is doing the dishes. Yes. Or I want to have sex or watching something that never used to make me aroused. And I finally feel like, oh, I feel that little tingle, that little excitement. Right. And so that's sort of what you're going to feel with that medication. But I think people tolerate it quite well. And it is somewhat costly sometimes because of insurance. But not too cost-prohibited, I think. And then both of the medications have really great websites where you can get a telemedicine provider and they can help you get the medication. So that's one. The other one is a Vylicy or Brimalanatine. That's a injection injection. Correct. Yeah. Yeah. Injection. It's like a happy pen. So you give it to yourself 45 minutes before you want to have sex. And it causes a significant increase in desire. Both of these medications work on the brain. So they work centrally. They're not working on the genitals. They're working on the brain. The flibancerin is the mixed-sare-tonergic agnist antagonist. And basically what it does is when you think about the brain, right? There's some signals that are pro-sexual and some signals that are inhibitory. So dopamine is positive for sex and serotonin is negative for sex. So we're reducing serotonin increasing dopamine. And so with the Brimalanatine, it's working on the Melanocortin receptors and the brain which then by pathways increased dopamine. And so that is a more of all of a sudden increase in desire. Take a 45 minutes before you want to want it can last for 24 to 48 hours. So I tell people when you take it, like make sure you have a weekend, play with, right? And then there is a high rate of nausea with it. So I often prescribe so front at the same time. Bings. Worse thing going to be as horny and nauseous. Yeah. So it's like, sounds like something pregnant. Yeah. Terrible. So, but it, you know, it works again, probably 60% in people, but when it works, people are happy. Like it works well. Does the nausea go away? Yeah. So usually the, if you, if you have nausea the first time, you're still going to have it, but it'll be a little better. And then if you don't have it, you probably won't get a subsequent injections. And you'd mentioned medications on the flip sides. So things that would potentially decrease individuals desired half sex or orgasm would sounds like would be an SSRI, yes, so anything that's going to increase their tonal endings and increase opioids. Those are negative for certain, you know, anti-sexual or, you know, they inhibit those pathways. And so anything that does that, so increasing serotonous SSRI, anti-xiety meds, oral contraceptives, which we can talk about, can we love to that's my list? So that those can all decrease desire. And oral contraceptives decrease desire, particularly when low estrogen doses of oral contraceptives, we find that they decrease desire because they decrease our amount of free testosterone. Because when oral contraceptives, one of the side effects that increases sex hormone binding, gliblin, which then sort of binds up more of that testosterone, so you have less for your testosterone available. And the issue with oral contraceptives is when you take it, not everyone has this, right? It's when it clarifies there's a lot of people who take oral contraceptives have no problem with desire, so don't want everyone to freak out. No, no, no, no, there's no freeing out. And listen, there's a lot of nuance that goes on with these conversations and just thinking about it. Yeah. We don't have 10 hours to do it. Well, we might. I'm sure we'll do more. Yeah. But for the listener, we're talking in broad generalizations, but trying to give perspective. Exactly. Yeah, so I would say that, but it is serious. So actually to study on orgasmic difficulty in women, we analyzed reddit threads. And one of the big themes that came up was that women did have these issues with oral contraceptives, and they were dismissed by their doctors. So I think it's really important to bring up, but I just don't want to make people really fearful of oral contraceptives because they're a great way to prevent pregnancy, right? And they're effective. But if you ask me, I'd prefer you do some sort of long acting formulations for form for contraception because that's not going to have those side effects of what would be an example. Look at ID, an ID, yeah, or an implant if you want. So I think in terms of that, so then people who do then get off the oral contraceptives, sometimes they're sex homin binding, leveling doesn't go back to normal. And it's the state that way for some time. So that's sort of the bigger issue with that. And we can work around that. It's just that if you're on these medications and you're feeling low desire, this might be the reason. And talking to your doctor and getting off those medications or picking an alternative is very reasonable. And something that's dose dependent for like SSRI. So you can decrease the dose. Often times we'll use bueproprian, which as an alternative to SSRI is for anxiety or depression. And if you can get good clinical success with those medications, then you can get off the SSRIs. And then talk to your primary care doctor about that. But ultimately, you know, that's important. And it's a big cause of low desire. You mentioned the oral contraceptives because they lower testosterone. Is that, is that right? What about medications that individuals use for skin like Spirona lactone to affect testosterone circulating testosterone? Well, that also impact desire. Yeah, it can. It can. Absolutely. So, you know, basically when you could see your doctor, you want to say like, hey, are any of these medications maybe affecting my desire? Like, is that a reason? And, you know, thankfully, we are in the age of Google. So you can Google your medications. I mean, there's, you know, there's benefits and there's negatives, right? We're obviously online because people can search and find quality information. And so, yeah, you can easily find like the potential adverse effects of medication. That is, you know, on reputable websites. And so that's a reasonable thing you can do yourself if you're struggling. I think that that makes a lot of sense. It, you know, I think recently there's been a lot of, not pushback, but a reevaluation of oral contraceptives as, is that the best use. Yes, it prevents pregnancy, but it just seems to have potentially, it has a potential to have longer term side effects that yeah, I think it's hard because that's for some people. All they may have access to, like, they go to plant parenthood, they hide it from their parents. It's all they have access to. And having it on plant pregnancy is not desirable either. Right. And so, and, you know, there's, it's a lot of controversy. There's many people who don't believe this is an issue, but, you know, like I said, people do have normal sex drives on oral contraceptives. So, it's like, how do you find the person? And I think that's where the study should be. Like, how do you find the person that might be more sensitive to an oral contraceptive? Because that's where the question we need to be asking. That's a, a wonderful point. Who knows? I mean, maybe it would be a genetic test. We're probably not even close to, to where anywhere near there. But, you know, I mean, just figuring out, like, maybe, do you do hormone levels before you put them on oral contraceptives? Like, maybe, like, they have some sign, but I don't know, right? I have no idea, but we, we have so many people, like, I wonder if you could do retrospective review of, like, a large database and find some signal, right, that may be correlated. Yeah, it would certainly be interesting and make a ton of sense. The medications like, adding would an individual be able to utilize it if they were on an SSRI. So there's, so there's some issues. You also mentioned in pasting alcohol. I'm curious also about cannabis. Do these substances affect sexual desire? Yes, actual function. So in low amounts, right, alcohol is a set of it, right? So if you're taking alcohol and you're having a lot of it, it's going to be a set of it. It's not going to make you, it's not going to make you wake enough, right, to have sex or have desire. So yes, alcohol can decrease desire. Some people, obviously, we'll say, like, no, I have a drink and I feel more uninhibited and the same thing with cannabis. I feel more uninhibited so I can have more desire. And yes, in small doses, that's probably the case. Now, when you increase the dose of marijuana or cannabis or alcohol, you're going to start seeing negative effects on your libido. And so ultimately, any of those substances and other drugs, right, can affect your other recreational drugs, let me specify, can decrease your libido. And so like, yes, sometimes we'll see young people who are using chronic cannabis. And they're like, yeah, my libido's not there. And it's because, you know, over time, it's giving you more of a depressing effect. And then that's making it less likely for your brain. Your brain pathways are wired either for, you know, for normal risk type of your changing your brain response to things that would normally give you desire. What about, um, over time, do we know that those pathways can be reversed? Unlike, say, for example, sex hormone binding globulin, when you come off of this, it may go back to normal. It may not. What about, you know, we are seeing an increase in use in cannabis across the board. Can those individuals that have been using, revert back to a more stable desire? Yeah, I think you can. And there's a lot of neuroplasticity, right? So I think that you can, but it's going to, you know, maybe take a little bit of sort of like bridging with maybe some pharmacologic substances, some of the medications we tried, maybe mindfulness, maybe other things, you're going to have to work at it a little bit to get back to the way you were. But that doesn't mean you're hopeless. Do we know, is there a dose of alcohol or a dose of cannabis that would affect the body? And by the way, does it affect testosterone levels? Yeah. So in terms of a dose, I don't have a specific dose for you. I mean, we know like chronic alcohol, you don't want to have more than seven drinks a week for alcohol, come on, things. Yes, the math. I mean, there is really no amount that's safe now, we know, but, uh, but for, you know, cardiovascular prevention, but ultimately, um, yeah, I think no, we don't know the exact dose specifically that you, you know, this, this amount is going to cause you to have low to be known as the amount is not. And the same thing with testosterone, like you use any sort of chronic substance, it will reduce your testosterone levels. And particularly, I also want to call it smoking. So smoking is, um, is really bad for our genitals, right? Particularly, I can give you the definition, the, what we see in men is that over time, their tissues become less elastic. So they're going to feel like their penis is shorter because it's not stretching as much when they get erections. And so probably the same thing is happening with our clitoral tissue with our evolved our tissues, the quality of our tissues in general, when you're smoking. So if you want to have a great sex life, quit smoking. Did you guys hear that? And also, I could say that if you want to maintain the size of your penis, you would also stop smoking as that for it is a good work. Yeah, there was something I'm trying to frame this in a way that is deeply professional, which you are much more skilled at because let's face it on the daily, I don't talk about genitalia often. At least I mean public. And you know, I always feel like if, like seriously, if maintaining your penal length is not enough of a, of a, of a strong like suggestion for you to quit smoking, like I'm not sure anything is, right? Because that's something that people deeply care about. And it's smoking not nicotine use because there is also a huge uptick in nicotine, right, Matthew? Just talking about thin over here. That doesn't have an impact. It truly is the, it's the chemicals in the smoke itself that are constantly. I don't mean nicotine has been studied, but my hypothesis would be that it would be just from the actual chemicals in smoking or cigars or, you know, from the smoke itself. Let's talk about protein, specifically first forms natural way protein, formula one. People ask me all the time, what kind of protein powder I use, what kind of protein powder I recommend. Formula one makes many different kinds of protein powders, different flavors. A natural one, you pick it, it mixes amazing. It makes it extremely easy to get your protein in. And really, there, it's a way protein isolate. So you're getting the majority of your calories from protein in the shake. Taste great, super easy to travel with, great breakfast, dinner, maybe even lunch. Whatever you need, it's got you covered and it has all the amino acids necessary. We'll help improve body composition, muscle mass, all the things that protein does. And by the way, when do you need protein? Well, you need it every day. And that's why I love first forms protein powder, the formula one, go to firstform.com slash doctor lion. That's first form dot com slash doctor lion. Have you done your blood work? If you haven't, I've a solution for you. And that is one of the sponsors of the show inside tracker. Why is blood work so important? Well, you know, I use inside tracker. My friends use inside tracker. Also, my parents use inside tracker. Inside tracker makes getting blood work very easy and user friendly. They have an amazing interface. You can check it out on your phone. You can check it out on the desktop, which, you know, hopefully you're using a small one. Inside tracker allows you to look at really important biomarkers, like hormones, iron, thyroid, insulin. The list goes on, apob, it never stops. And by the way, if you are a professional and you have clients inside tracker also has a pro platform, amazing. I really feel that inside tracker has revolutionized health care and listen, blood work can be expensive, but it doesn't have to be. Inside tracker is offering my listeners 10% off, 10% off, anything on the store in the store, anything as it relates to subscriptions, 10% off, go to inside tracker.com, like inside tracking your body, use the code, doctor, lion, and do not wait if you are due for your blood work, give this a shot. It's extremely valuable back to the show. Is there anything else that you want to mention about female dysfunction? Because I do want to chat about men's sexual health in part because we've discussed a lot about women's, but is there anything that you want to mention? Yeah, I think one is I would empower all the women listening to take a mirror and look at their vulva, right? No, they're anatomy. One because you should know what you look like down there. And two, like what if you have an issue down the road, you want to be able to compare it to something. Right? So that's one because people will have skin conditions, right? They'll develop like like in sclerosis. And they won't know. They'll just pick it ages and hurts. And what is like in sclerosis? It's a dermatologic condition. It's usually autoimmune and it changes basically causes the white plaque, plaque like changes in your tissues and it causes, it can even at very severe extremes cause the vaginal opening to close up or get very small. And so essentially, you know, you may not know, you might just like it ages down there hurts. I know you might think having an infection, you might think you have something else going on. You might be going to doctors all the times. I have a UTI. I'm sure I have a UTI. And if they don't see it, they don't know. They don't examine you. I mean, nowadays sometimes when I go in the doctor, not even getting an exam, right? So it's horrible, right? Like how really? Yes. I can't tell you the number of times. I've had women come to me and they'd be like, oh, nobody ever looked. Nobody ever examined me. I haven't had it because they're older, right? They don't even pops me or's anymore. No one's even looked at their Volvo, right? So that's one thing. And two is look at the clitoris and look at the clitoril hood because sometimes women can develop like spagmons underneath the hood. And that is just dead skin oils. And if you have sons or you have had any experience with un-circum-sized men, you sometimes they will develop spagmons, right? Because there's dead skin cells or oils that build up and they usually see that. They clean it off. Women, if we don't look, it could build up and it can cause pain. It can cause difficulty having an orgasm. And it's as simple as just like gently pull it back and see if you can, if you see anything just clean it up, right? And I think that can save a lot of people, people who come to me and are having this look, no one ever told me. No one ever talked about it. We don't know that you should do it like all the time, but like why would you not? Right? Like it's a simple thing to do like in the bathtub or whatever, just gently pull it back and make sure there's nothing building up there. What about cancers? How common are there's a lot of discussion about Pina, Cancer, bladder cancer? What about cancer of the female genitalia? Yeah, I don't know the Sussex because that usually goes to gynecology more than me. But certainly, there are valve-ar cancers. And genital cancers are generally delay and diagnosis because people are either ashamed to scared or they don't see it, right? Like for Pina, Cancer, we know that men show up very delayed because they're scared, right? They're scared and Pina, Cancer is very aggressive. It's very uncommon. So that's great news. But when it does happen, it's often very delayed and because it's so aggressive, it means that you may have to have a very serious intervention. So I just encourage you, if you think something's wrong, please don't delay. And it's scary, right? Thinking you might have a cancer or something horrible, like it inhibits people from going. I know doctors who've waited to want to take care of things and had issues, right? And so you're not alone. This is a normal physiologic. They're normal behavioral thing that people do, but you know, you got to push yourself a little bit. And that is good advice. You shouldn't delay any kind of screening at this point. Absolutely. You know, I was going to switch to men, but I recognize that there's so much on women that we haven't covered, like orgasm, like G-spot, is penetration necessary for an orgasm. All of these things that actually, we should probably take a moment to chat about. Let's talk about it. And then you can come back on and talk about guys. Sure. So with orgasm, let's talk about orgasm. We know that 85 percent of women need some sort of clearer stimulation to have an orgasm. So whether it's by itself or with penetration at the same time, they're usually incorporating some clearer stimulation. Now, there are women who can have vaginal vaginal stimulation. I don't like to call them vaginal orgasms and orgasms and orgasms and it's just from stimulating a different part of the body. And so vaginal orgasms are typically from stimulating what you call the G-spot. It's actually zone. It's called the G-zone. And what is the tissue different? So it's zone. The zone. So in the, basically, two to three centimeters of the upper vagina, right? Of the anterior vagina. So when you are looking at the valve on the urethrasalantop and then the top of the vagina there, two to three centimeters in is where the G-zone is. And that's basically where a few things are. So one is the skin's glands. And these are these glands that are between the urethra and the vagina that have a lot of nerve endings. And they're similar to the male prostate. So you may have heard some men orgasm through prostate massage, not everybody, right? You don't hear about men like meeting prostate massage to orgasm. It's sort of an option, right? Similarly vaginal stimulation. I talk about that. I mean, they don't, but like there are some people who are into that. Right? And so there's a reason for it. There's nerve endings there that can be pleasurable. And then there's also your clitoral body. So what you see of the clitoris is just the head, right? Think about the peanut glands. All you're seeing is the glands, the clitoris. There's a full body that goes deep into the pelvis. And then there's the little legs that go around the vaginal canal. And so that as it gets more to mess in during a, during a rousal and during foreplay, that also is pushing against that area of the vagina. And so when you stimulate that area through either penetration or manually, some women will achieve orgasm that way. And then other ways that women often achieve orgasms through cervical stimulation. So instead of some people find it painful, but some people find it quite pleasurable and they can orgasm through stimulation of the cervix. And so these actually when you look at the anatomy, they all have nerve different nerves, right? That go to this final core and the brain. And so the orgasm quality may be a little different because your brain's getting stimulation from a different nerve. So some people will say like this, the, the, the cervical stimulation gives me like this cosmic feeling, right of of orgasm. And it's a little different. And the G-spot stimulation G zone stimulation is a different type of orgasm. But also maybe they're all orgasms. orgasms being like a build-up of tension in a release, right? And powerful release. And that's very pleasurable. And so ultimately, you know, you, you can, you should experiment with yourself. Figure out what you like. So you can train your partner on what you like. And, and I think the one, the one way we know that sort of there is this discrepancy in terms of women getting adequate stimulation is when you think about first time encounters for sex. Women and men 95% of the time men orgasm, 45% of the time women orgasm. But 90% of first time encounter. Yeah. A man orgasm is 95% of the time. A woman orgasm is 45% of the time. Okay, so then you might say, well, maybe it's just the woman, right? But you look at lesbian first time encounters. And it's 95%. Yeah. So really, it's just understanding probably in part anatomy. Exactly. And communicating, right? And there's another thing, right? We don't feel comfortable communicating during sex, right? So like, you know, move your head this way and move your hand this way or I don't, this is not feeling as good or whatever it is, right? And, and you don't need to be negative, but certainly guiding your partner, giving them instruction whether it's verbal or non-verbal, can be positive, but we don't know how to talk about it. And like, first time encounters, generally speaking, you know, people are nervous that they're usually, you know, they're usually more inhibited. And so they're not going to communicate as well. And that's why actually as women age, one, they've had more experience. And they feel more confident. They also know what they like. And they tend to have better sex. And could an individual who hasn't orgasmed and then they're experimenting with these different, what's just called nerve endings or spots or zones. Once an individual orgasms, do they become better at orgasming? Yeah, I mean, I think you know how to, you know how to stimulate yourself, right? You know how what stimulation needs to happen. And then, you know, also experimenting with different types of stimulation. So whether it's manual or using a vibrator, using temperature, these are also different parts of spinal cord, right? So, you know, kind of playing around with that and figuring out what you need in order to achieve climax. And if you need a vibrator, that's okay. Like you don't need to feel bad about it. Like that's totally reasonable. You're having an orgasm. That's the point. You're enjoying pleasure, right? And so I think that's really what we need to focus on. I'm going to ask a question because I don't know if I have an alternative answer to this question. If someone is thinking, okay, well, where can I learn about that? Where would we send them? Yes, so there's a couple really good online sort of courses. One is called OMG Yes, and one is called beducated. I'm not like paid by either of them. But they, I'm just thrilled that you actually have an answer for this because I'm like, is she going to say that website that I think that we all are thinking about? No, no, no, that's going to say it. I saw your search history math, you know, I'm kidding. Mostly. Anyway. Yeah, so I mean, there are these sort of, and these are like, one of these is actually like created by doctors and like created by, you know, with input from doctors. So these are really great guides and sort of educating yourself on how, what are different ways? You can stimulate yourself if you don't know how. And you know, I don't think I think you're alluding to pornography. And I don't think that is, that is a great educational tool, right? Because that is a production that is entertainment and that is not real life. And unfortunately, a lot of people are learning about sex through pornography, which is not a good thing, right? Because then they go into their encounter and like, why did my body not do that? Why did I not respond like that? Or why did, you know, why did it not last as long? Or why did I not square? Or why did I not? That's a really great perspective. And so, and then they come to like, I see young men, mostly young men who come in and like, I have ED. And it's because they're like so stress and anxious about performance or they're like, it didn't go the way I thought it would that they're now having issues. Because you're brain is super powerful. It's the most important organ for sex. And so ultimately, I don't recommend pornography as an educational tool. I think it's fine for adults to use and use for pleasure and for enjoyment and knowing that it is a fake experience, right? And these people are professional actors and actresses who've chosen to be porn actresses. So they're very good at what they do. And so you don't have to aspire to that to have pleasure or enjoyment. And it doesn't mean that you're having bad sex. I think that's important because that's where I'm assuming everybody goes to get whatever information or visuals or you name it. But now what I'm hearing you say is that you've recognized or the medical community or people recognize that there needs to be a different place to educate. Yeah. And that's pretty amazing. I mean, I think there needs to be more places to educate. And I'm hopeful that, you know, when I'm working on it, hopefully making a sex ed course that's more comprehensive. Kind of all. Because I think that that's really needed. I mean, young people have so much more access to these things than they did when we were younger, right? And that's a problem. Because that's if it's so accessible, first of all, your brain's not fully developed. You don't know what exactly you're seeing. And you can't differentiate real life from fake life necessarily all the time. And then, you know, that's what they're learning. So in fact, I interviewed Debbie Herbeneck, who is a researcher in Indiana. And she does love this research. And she found that choking has become like vanilla sex now. Really? Yeah. Yeah. You and I are way too old for that. But it's because they're seeing a lot of it, right? And like even in mainstream music, you're hearing about choking and it being like a normal thing. And it's actually some people find it pleasurable, but not all, right? And they're not having great communication around it. So it could be dangerous. Let's talk about some embarrassing, potentially embarrassing things for people that would make them feel uncomfortable having sex. Like discharge, like smell, maybe even at STD. What are some of the things that inhibit people from enjoying sex or things that they would potentially be embarrassed to talk to their A partner or be their doctor? Yes. So for women, the number one insecurity is smell, which is what we'll talk about. The second insecurity is body image. So breast size, butt size. And then followed by my experience enough. And and then what about the noises that I'm making, right? So these are all insecurities that people have. And I think the older thing is a real problem because we have a natural normal scent that we should have. And you should know your normal natural scent, that's what you always had, right? If it changes, so you're going to college or your primary care doctor and say, hey, I'm noticing a change, you may have an infection. But the issue is that in society, we've now been told that our scent should be something different, right? It should smell like flowers or key lime pie or peaches or whatever, right? And like people are docing and doing all these things that actually disrupt the vaginal microbiome and are probably causing more harm than good. Like we have a certain scent that's a creeps certain pharaoh mones that is supposed to be pleasant for our partner, right? And so I think this is all really a media thing. Like we felt like there's something like women need to be clean. We don't talk about periods. We don't talk about men's. We don't talk about smells. We don't talk about discharges, but women make discharge every single day and that's normal. Like a teaspoon of discharge up to a tablespoon, you know, in a full day, that's normal. That's normal physiology. And that's okay. Like you shouldn't be ashamed of it. And you know, we're going to make noises during sex. Like sex is like, it's a funny, fun place to be. But things are going to happen. That's normal. Like laugh it off. It's play. Like it's okay. And then you know, in terms of like body and stuff, that takes some time. But I think ultimately, like just realizing like sex doesn't need to be so serious. You know, sex is supposed to be fun. And you're supposed to be having fun doing it. And your partner should be having fun doing it. And if you're not, then that's not the right person for you. Yeah. Then you might need to go back to the matchmaker or find a different way forward. Yeah. Different way forward. What is coming up in the field? Where do you think that we are going? You know, we've covered a lot in this interview. We've talked about low libido, hyposexual, desire disorder, many different things or gazzum, what to do, what your partner should do, things like dishes. Where is a field going? Yeah. I think there's a lot of areas of interest right now. I think one is certainly looking at the the general public pain disorders. If we haven't talked much about, but certainly we're finding more and more links with spinal pathology, like having tarlov cysts or annular tears being correlated with some people who have this chronic pelvic pain or orgasmic difficulty. Wow. And there's very few people that sort of are working on this, but I think that it's pretty fascinating and really interesting. So Irwin Goldstein is sort of the pioneer in this area. And there's very few surgeons who will operate on these things. But ultimately, I think that's an area that's really interesting. And I think that's hopefully going to change a lot of lives once we've got some strong data on that. And when you did, when you mentioned public pain, you're not talking about necessarily pain on sex. Well, it can, so public pain can present in a whole bunch of different ways. We call them dysthesias, right? So it can be pain during sex. It can be just chronic pain. It can be, it can present as like difficulty with orgasm. And these are sort of like, again, they usually are presenting with other symptoms. Like, because they're spinal, so you may have urinary symptoms at the same time. So you'll sort of find and people maybe won't put those together, but you'll be like, oh, they've got sort of a whole bunch of different symptoms that may be they're coming from the spine, right? Rather than being a local, like neurology or something like that. And so I think that's an interesting area where we've not done enough research. And pain in general needs a lot more research. And I think, you know, those people are suffering and they really need good help. What's next for you? What's next for me? You know, for now, I think I just want to keep educating and, like I said, doing the sex, I'd courses something on my bucket list because I think it's so important. But yeah, I mean, I see patients in South Florida and I South, I say it again. I see patients in Southern California and I have a telemedicine practice as well in multiple states, New York New Jersey, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Virginia. And so seeing patients there, I work at the Veterans Hospital, which I love and we talked about before. And I do my YouTube and podcast, which is still ongoing. Dr. Rina Malick, I'm really, really happy that I have a chance to sit down with you. You're extraordinary. Thank you. Thank you so much for coming on the show. You're welcome.

So what would be the mechanism behind Vitamin D and sound exposure helping with color active cancer? Great question. What do you do? You got some quotes for us? I'll talk again. Okay, yeah, I'll just read the quotes really quick. So here's a quote from study. There's like PMI-Ds. We can link in the show notes of people interested. So it says studies in the past decade indicate that insufficient sound exposure may be responsible for 340,000 deaths in the US. And 480,000 deaths in Europe per year. And an increased incidence of breast cancer, colorectal cancer, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, metabolic syndrome, multiple sclerosis. Alzheimer's disease, autism, asthma, type 1 diabetes, and myopia. I actually thought all those things were due to red meat. Oh, I know, right? That's what you would be glad to think in this culture, right? We also have another quote here, frequent regular sun exposure acts to cause cancers that I have a 0.3% death rate with 2,000 US fatalities per year. This is the SEC and the BCC skin cancers I mentioned. And acts to prevent cancers that have death rates from 20 to 65% with 138,000 US fatalities per year. That's the breast colon and blood cancers primarily. And my understanding is the reason that you're pointing this out is because we've been told a lot to say out of the sun. We do spend a ton of time indoors. I'm curious as to what the numbers are. And potentially that is doing us a tremendous amount of harm. And so then we are told to go outside, put sunscreen in and I can appreciate what you're saying from that perspective that we are not getting enough sunlight. But it's more complicated than that, isn't it? Well, so I would really, as it relates to mechanisms of cancer and sun exposure, I'd like to unpack another part of the story. Maybe briefly to wrap up the vitamin D side of the story. When UVB light hits your skin, it's not only that pre-vitamin D that's made. There's also over a dozen other vitamin D molecules that are made in response to UVB light. So if you're supplementing with vitamin D, you're missing out. You're getting a very narrow spectrum result. But if someone couldn't get outside, let's say they are institutionalized. Or in the hospital, they have to eliminate exposure to sunlight. What could someone do? We'd have to change your light bulbs. What would be an opportunity for change? So I mean, I think this is one reason why this story has not really been popularized because there's a lot of implications as to actually how we're living our lives. How people are being led to think in a certain type of way. And actually an inability to critically think due to a lack of sunlight, which we will talk about very soon. But if you can't get access to sunlight, there are light devices that you can use indoors. So for example, red and infrared light devices, that can re-engineer that red and infrared that long wavelength light back into your indoor life, which is largely not present due to modern light sources. There's also UVB lights available. So Spurty is a brand that makes UVB panels. They also make UVA panels. And we use that actually for skin for eczema, syrisis, it's use for eczema. And then the red light we use bond charge, I'll put a link there for you guys. Yep, yep. So red panels can be great if you're not accessing outdoor light. And you want to re-engineer some of that light back into your indoor life style. You can absolutely do that. The UVB panels are great. I would just recommend that people try to time the use of them at the right time, like, to make it so that it's kind of concordant with when you would have those exposures outside. So if you're going to be having UVB and UVA light, that should probably more around, like solar noon time, like middle of the day, because those receptors, especially like the neuropson, is going to be telling your body, like this is the signal coming in. That means it's mid day. But before you move on from that, you'd mention that there are skin receptors. Does someone need to sit in front of the light naked? Do they have to not work glasses? What, what, what, what should they be doing in for how long? Okay. So really important. By the way, Dr. Alexis said our house, we walked down where, why are you naked in front of the right panel now? That did not actually happen, but it was close. I know right. I mean, I'm trying to wear crop top outside of most of crop tops. Short producers, you guys are in trouble. Right. So for how long and in what kind of capacity? Yes. So there's another really important part of the story that we'd mention. That's also related to UVB light. And that is a molecule that's a pro hormone called pro opium, Melanicortin or Pomsy. So Pomsy is produced in the skin and in the brain in response to UVB light. And Pomsy is cleaved into 10 distinct hormonal products. Three of those are alpha-baden gamma MSH or Melanicite stimulating hormone. So if you're not getting alpha-baden gamma MSH, stimulate it in your skin and in your brain, you're not going to effectively tan in response to UVB light. You're going to burn. So this becomes very clear that if you're wearing contacts, sunglasses or prescription glasses outside, and you're blocking the ability of UVB light to get into your eyes. That doesn't mean stare at the sun. It just means getting ambient light into your eyes. You're not going to effectively stimulate your melanicites to make melanin, which is tanning. Same with your skin. If you're blocking that UVB light with sunscreen, you're not going to be able to generate that melanin. And Melanin is really interesting, actually, because Melanin is to mammals as chlorophyll as to plants, which is something a lot of people don't know, but chlorophyll light comes in. Interacts with chlorophyll can split water molecules into molecular hydrogen, molecular oxygen, and two free electrons. Melanin actually does the same thing. And the papers that show this are quite old. This has been known for quite some time. And so when we're developing melanin in our skin and interacting with sunlight, we're actually able to cultivate more free energy. So it's a way of actually eating by just being outside. It's a way of cultivating and releasing liberating electrons into our system. Same with grounding. What do you mean eating? Do you mean we're just leveraging ATP utilization? ATP utilization is happening because we're not actually eating food per se. Well, I'm glad you're asked because I think it's really important to think about a light diet. And a food diet as being, guys, heard it here first, this is very fringe-esque. Matt, my producer is laughing, but you have to understand before ideas come into the mainstream, they typically come from very intelligent people that are thinking about things that are very well steeped in the literature. So this is what my listeners are experiencing from you. So it's amazing. It will make perfect sense in just about one minute as I said. No, 10 years, you guys will get this in 10 years is along with myself. When you eat food, you're not, you're mitochondria don't see carbohydrates fats and proteins. Mine do. They see electrons. No, no, mine definitely are like this with steak. I know, right? Scram beef steak, salmon, good stuff. But so when you're extracting, when you're breaking down a simulating nutrients, the whole purpose of eating is to extract electrons from macronutrients so that those electrons can enter into the electron transport chain and support ATP production in mitochondria. So anywhere that you get electrons is food technically. So you can get free electrons from eating. So by extracting those electrons from food, that's powering your mitochondria, ATP production. You can also get free electrons from grounding. So getting your bare feet on the earth gives you free electrons from the earth. There's plenty of research to show this. Also to show that grounding reduces inflammatory response and inflammation within the body, which is related to mitochondrial function. We also get free electrons from having sun interacting with melons. So they're all different ways of getting access to electrons. You're mitochondria to access with electrons. They're all equally important and they're all equally accessed within the ancestral environment too. We would always encounter all of those things. We weren't wearing rubber sole shoes outside. We were in contact with the earth. We were getting sun on our skin. If we weren't getting high quality sun on our skin, we were getting cold because that's just how nature works. If you don't have high quality sun in your rounds, you're going to get cold in the winter.

actually unfortunately based on the most recent research that was published in the American Journal of Cardiology only 6.8% of Americans are metabolic healthy, but the UNC research that was done in 2018, which showed that 12% are metabolic healthy was based on those five biomarkers. And so basically over the past five years we've seen a decline from 12% to 6.8%. But regardless, people should know and should prioritize knowing whether they are in that 12% above almost anything else. Because if you are metabolic healthy, your chances of dying from almost any of the major causes of mortality in the United States prematurely plummet. Dr. Casey Means, thank you so much for coming on the show. Former surgeon, physician, and truly a trailblazer. Dr. Lian, I am so thrilled to be here with you in person. This is great. We're going to have an amazing conversation. You've been doing a lot of work on overall metabolic health. And before I say that, let's take us back and recognize the fact that you are a trained surgeon, actually an anti and from Stanford, no doubt or surprise, a fine institution, but for some reason, switched gears and now focused on metabolic health. Yeah. Yeah. For me, I was in my fifth year of surgical training as a head and neck surgeon. And I was in this world and looked around me and kind of had this wake-up call where I'm like, Americans, every single year are getting sicker. We are getting sicker, we're getting heavier, we're getting more depressed, we're getting more infertile as a population every single year, despite more health care dollars being spent every year for truly and dollars now. And doctors like working their butts off. I mean, everyone on health care system, everyone's wanting around, kind of like a chicken with their head cut off in the hospitals and yet patients are getting worse. And so as I was finishing my residency and looking down the barrel of like a four year career in health care, I had to stop and say like, what is going on? Like the more we spend the sicker we're getting, the more research we're doing, the sicker we're getting, the more medicine becomes hyper specialized, the sicker we're getting. So what is going on here? And what's going on is that we're pointing the arrow at the wrong issue. We're focusing on whack-a-mull symptom management, and we're not focusing on the root cause of why people are sick, which is fundamentally metabolic dysfunction. It's a problem inside the cells. Then unfortunately, no medication or surgery can get to, right? This is how we interact with our cells with our diet and our lifestyle. And this was, I mean, this like rips me out of a slumber. You know, I'm like 32 years old. I have been training, you know, Stanford, Stanford, OHSU in the operating room, killing myself to become a surgeon. And I looked around and I thought, you know, I'm a doctor, and I went into medicine to help people thrive and to create health. And right now, I am just managing disease. And then what happened, unfortunately, soon after this revelation, is that it showed up in my family with my mother. And my mother, unfortunately, is kind of an archetypal situation for what I think so many Americans are going through on the chronic disease, you know, pill farm sort of treadmill, which is that, you know, she, as she was getting into her 50s and 60s, she had the high blood pressure crop up the gave her anase inhibitor. She took her pills. Her blood sugar going, started going up. They gave her the metformin. She took her pills. Her cholesterol started going up. They gave her the stat and she took her pills. And then she's 72 years old. And she's taking a hike with my dad near their home in Northern California. And she had a pain in her stomach. And she goes to her primary care doctor. And they say, oh, this is unusual for you. Let's go to CT scan. She gets this CT scan. The next day, she gets a text message that says, stage four, widely metastatic pancreatic cancer. And 13 days later, she was dead. And we were, yeah, I, first of all, I did not know that. Yeah. You have you. That is major. Yeah. And a massive wake-up call. Huge wake-up call because, you know, she was the classic American patient who's living her life trying, but these diseases and these symptoms are cropping up throughout her 40s, 50s, and 60s. And like a diligent patient, she's going to every specialist. She was being seen at the Mayo Clinic. She was being seen at Stanford and Palo Alto Medical Foundation, best doctors in the world, right? Best institutions in the world. And with doing everything they said, she was trying to eat healthy. She was taking all her pills. She was following up and yet her cells never healed because that is not. Because that is not the priority in our American health care system. We're not focused on true physiologic intercellular healing. We're focused on disease management. So, unfortunately, you know, it was, it was wild when her oncologists after the diagnosis and then rapid decline towards death, they looked at us and sincerely the oncologist said to my family, like, I'm so sorry. This is so unlucky. And I knew enough to know, was this really unlucky or was this totally predictable? If we are looking in the conventional Western paradigm of siloed medicine, you know, 42 medical subspecialties, there's the liver doctor for the fatty liver disease. There's the cardiologist for the heart disease. There's the endocrinologist for the diabetes. There's the neurologist for the early brain fog and early dementia. In that system, of course, her high cholesterol, high blood pressure, her high blood sugar and her cancer. We're totally random things. But through a root cause, physiologic lens, we're really looking at the connections between diseases. It was totally predictable. And what I wish, and this is why I wrote the book, this is why I'm on this life mission, is that if earlier in this treadmill of chronic disease management, someone could say to the patient, this is how you're suffering as connected and this is what you can do. You have to heal your mitochondria and it's not that hard. The system wants to make you think it's complicated. It's not. And if you can do that, you know, if she could have done that, if she had been told that, if I had known earlier, I think she'd still be alive today. So that's what drives me. That is very meaningful. And I think that the viewers and listeners can really relate to being on purpose and creating a mission that can help change the trajectory for everybody. And I just pulled up so this is pancreatic.org. I'll link to it here and this is a site or an organization all about pancreatic cancer, this network. Risk factors associated with pancreatic cancer. Yes, family history, but also diabetes, obesity, diet, alcohol, chemical exposures. Things we can control. Things that we actually can control. And um, you're on an amazing mission. And your mission is to share about metabolic health from a root cause approach, symptomology, symptoms of unhealthy lifestyle. How do we address it early on? Where do you stand with this idea of this whole optimization culture? Tell me about your core pillars of health. Yeah, yeah, you know, something that I've been sensing over the last few years is that patients and people are sort of fatigued with like so much of this focus on like micro optimization and like the very rigid morning routines. And you have to check off all these protocols. And it's like more for us to do. And I think that one of the things that really concerns me about our current landscape of health care is that it's really missing the joy, like the joy and the sort of the sort of understanding of this miraculous nature of our bodies and the miraculous nature of being alive at this moment in eternity and having our health journey really be focused on like in honoring of this like cosmic, incredible opportunity to be here and to be conscious and to really have all of our health. Our health drive come from that. Like we live in a very desperatialized, desaintifies Western culture and there's such a focus. There's almost like this cult of like there needs to be rigidness and protocols and evidence space and all of this. And what it does is it gets us all I think feeling a lot of pressure and feeling like almost very confused because the research says so many different things. Everyone's fighting on social media and it's like the 80% of Americans are confused about nutrition even though if you look at PubMed at the number of nutrition studies that have happened over the 50 years it's like an exponential increase. So the more nutrition research we're doing the more confused people are and I think at the root of it we have been asked by the system that profits off our illness to be totally divorced from our common sense and from our intuition about what's right for our own bodies and to be more in like a flow with our health and it's so funny because like we're the only species in the world with experts and we're also the only species in the world with a chronic disease epidemic and it'll be city epidemic and I think that there is a point of all the research and the experts but there's also a part of the conversation that needs to come back to like truly trusting ourselves and our body awareness and the cues and the signals that are coming from our body constantly like symptoms are a signal symptoms are a gift and we're basically told to ignore them think about what happens when you have a symptom like a headache or an achy knee you squash it you have to it's intolerable we have to take the ad bill you know we have to take the anti an acid for the reflex we are not even curious about what's going on with our bodies and the system really benefits off that if we can make people petrified of symptoms really putting all of their empowerment in the hands of experts then you divorce people from their common sense and we start losing the sense of connection to our own health journey and I think that's really the missing piece of the conversation and I think the beauty of the time we have right like the beauty of being alive right now is that we actually have the opportunity to live the happiest and healthiest lives in human history we have the opportunity but we're not and I think that the way that we can get there and the reason that's now and has really never been before is because we have two things we have both the awareness that you know symptoms are a gift symptoms are science from ourselves that their their needs are not getting met and we can actually really reframe and learn to understand the signals from our body and how to interpret them and I think functional medicine is really doing a great job of helping people understand that but secondly in the past three years for the first time in human history we can get more information about our bodies ourselves no doctor needed than ever before in human history we have direct consumer lab testing companies like function health like levels like next health like inside tracker that literally you can get your own biomarkers with detailed interpretations we have a biowarables revolution where you can literally see internal biomarkers in real time and response to what you're doing and like deeply understand your metabolic health like your blood sugar and we have access to wearable data like the or ring and the fit bit in the loop that can tell us are sort of more superficial biomarkers like heart rate 24 hours a day so we both have the ability to have the body awareness and the technology that can tell us more than we ever knew about our bodies and if we can learn how to really take ownership of our health in that way find more joy in the health care journey and really find empowerment and a sense of trust in ourselves I think we could rapidly wrap up the heel that's fascinating and what I'm hearing you say is the convergence of both yes the convergence of what our innate feeling is perhaps our intuition on the right nutrition plan or the right training and or just these symptoms that are showing us something combined with heart data meaning biomarkers meaning heart rate variability things that we actually can look at is that accurate exactly what I'm saying and what where I think we're falling short with the conversation is just totally absconding our responsibility totally putting our faith completely outside of us in sort of this expert class that are worrying even amongst themselves and in doing so we are very vulnerable so I think it's a lot about understanding our incredible powers individuals to understand our own bodies and our system has systematically asked people to not trust themselves like you think about some of the language and the culture right now it's trust the science and we should in many ways trust the science but we should also trust ourselves and we now have tools to understand how to trust ourselves more and as we've been told to trust the science in this very like in a way that's almost like very I think infantilizing to individuals like do not literally don't be Dr. Google don't you know you need to trust the science what has happened we're getting sicker every year so I think that these sort of this sort of blanket sense of of following protocols from other people and ignoring what our body is telling us it's not really working for us and I think there's a level of getting back in touch with our own bodies both through intuition and body awareness but also hard science and wearables and data that together can really just help us feel super confident in our health journeys like I know for a fact my diet is right for me because I feel effing incredible and my biomarkers are totally optimal and I want everyone to have that sense of confidence the average person does not really know if they're healthy and they're confused and that doesn't need to be a case I absolutely agree with you everybody is gonna want to thank you to timeline nutrition for sponsoring this episode of the show as you know muscle health is everything you cannot age well if your muscles are not healthy why do we care about muscles well from a number of reasons and within muscle is mitochondria and that's exactly where mitopure fits in mitopure is the first clinically proven tested uralithin A this is a post biotic that between 30 to 40% of the population makes that means the majority of you my friends do not make uralithin A in your gut here's why it matters uralithin A is a compound that helps mitochondria and in fact there's evidence in humans that it improves strength and endurance especially as we age mitopure is incredible it comes in many different forms I personally use the capsules my husband uses the powder there's a ginger powder these products I wish that I had developed them myself head over to timelinenutrition.com slash doctor lion for 10% off that's a timeline nutrition dot com slash doctor lion. Everybody is gonna want to know what is your diet what is it yeah I mean for me and I talk about it's in the book I really focus on cellular biology when I think about diet and the diet that I've presented in good energy it's very first principles it's not dogmatic it's about what molecular components do we know support the cell and doing its best work because of a cell is functioning properly like we don't we don't have symptoms so I think one framing when I talk about diet that people need to realize is that all symptoms and all disease are necessarily the results of cellular dysfunction there's no symptom or disease that arises in a vacuum there is cellular dysfunction happening if you have a symptom or disease and one of the key ways that we help ourselves function properly is the 70 metric tons of molecular information that we put in our mouths at our lifetime right that both builds our body literally builds the structure of the cells and also tells the cells what to do change our epigenetics our cell signaling our genetic expression so really thinking about food as molecular information and when I was really looking at like what are the components that cells can benefit from in their journey to function properly there are five things that I think are important one is I'll start with the one that is so relevant to you which is healthy protein like protein is incredible signal like we have well run through them all first and then we talk about the all this the five things that I think are really important for healthy cellular function that we should include in every meal is healthy protein antioxidants omega three fatty acids a probiotic source and a fiber source and so for different reasons each of those can signal to ourselves good function the help me you talk about this better than the one literally on the face of the planet but healthy protein is like a signaling molecule we have literally nutrient sensing cells in our gut that cv amino acids and it changes the expression of what they do I think it's so funny the whole like glp1 agonist conversation and like everyone you know we're having this fever pitch about these medications that are exogenous glp1 analogs when in reality when a nutrient sensing cell the gut the l cell is stimulated by specific amino acids valene as one of the ones but others glutamine arginine others when it actually senses those amino acids it produces glp1 in much higher concentration so certainly there's a utility for these drugs in certain patient populations but everyone in America given the obesity epidemic should know how to stimulate their own satiety hormones with specific food nutrients so protein for so many reasons obviously it's also a signal to ourselves for antabolic processes for building and maintaining muscle mass so many other purposes but then we look at antioxidants you know one of the biggest root causes of the diseases in the symptoms that we have today is excess oxidative stress it's this like fire storm happening inside ourselves that we have the power through three ways to actually improve with our diet we can eat antioxidants we can reduce our consumption of pro-oxidant foods and we can also express antioxidant genes in ourselves through other foods so that's a key one fiber of course is going to feed our microbiome which is the gunna then produce short chain fatty acid which have a whole range of positive metabolic benefits our probiotic sources similar to the fiber are going to support our microbiome and help us create the diversity and abundance of helpful bacteria in our gut that is so relevant to all aspects of mental and physical health and the omega-3 fatty acids are so critical because if we're eating good omega-3 sources first of all we're going to be eating some really beautiful whole foods like fish and seeds and nuts that have these compounds but they are so important as a signaling molecule in our inflammatory cascade and just like oxidative stress chronic inflammation is one of the key root causes of our chronic disease epidemic and the symptoms we're facing and omega-3 is which incorporated into the cell membrane literally form a substrate for anti-inflammatory immune chemicals that can you know be very important in resolving inflammatory processing the body so all that is to say when we focus on getting those five components in most all of our meals and the way we do that is by having a short list in our head of our favorite sources of each of those things of the protein omega-3's antioxidants fiber and probiotic sources have your little mental list of your favorite things in each of those categories stock your kitchen with them and then it's very mix and match just like grab your hemp seeds grab your you know sardines grab your beef whatever it is and make a meal that has those um and eating becomes much much simpler um so anyways that's really how I try and focus my eating is is component based more than dog my based and those components could go from they could work for keto they could work for vegan they could work for paleo they could work for like ancestral diets maybe not carnivore just because I do talk about fiber but one fascinating thing about fiber and carnivore and I actually make this caveat in the book is that one of the short chain fatty acids that your body makes when you eat fiber is buterate and we also make buterate on a very low carb diet in a different way by actually producing it through fat oxidation and so even though carnivores aren't eating fiber they're still making a very similar molecule to what the microbiome makes and are kind of getting it in a different way and so that's the one I would say exception but um long story short that's yeah I focus on getting those five components and eliminating all refined grains refined sugars and refined seed oils and that's how I focus on my diet it's interesting because it shows how adaptable the body is you had mentioned carnivore and yes the carnivore diet is low in fiber but the body can adapt and make buterate the the body is amazing and I would argue that it can adapt to various types of diet you talk about protein you talk about antioxidants omega probiotic and fiber what are your favorite and I want to go through each of these because I'm curious is to know what your favorite is all what is your what's your favorite protein I'll run through them super fast and basically if you go to my kitchen and I've posted videos of my kitchen this is essentially what is my kitchen based on what I'm about to say it's my favorite sources of each of these things so for protein I have a freezer full of ground game meats which I get from both hunters and also from force of nature other really wonderful original company so for protein it's ground elk ground bison ground venison ground grass vet beef ground regenerative pork I also have all have pasture rage chicken breast chicken thighs turkey things like that so basically lots of really sustainably sourced meats I also do happen to love beans and legumes for protein and they don't affect me at all in a negative way I know this for a fact because my HSCRP is less than point three So for people who say that they're inflammatory check your biomarkers but beans and legumes and meat and then I like eggs but eggs also aren't the best protein source like I you know six grams per egg so I'd have to I usually supplement a little when my protein each day with about three eggs but mostly it's the meat that I get the protein from really regeneratively sourced what about the antioxidants antioxidants it's just a kitchen full of farmers market fruits and vegetables as colorful and rich colors as possible so I just try and get as many I basically shop for my fruits and vegetables based on color not based on type because I can cook with any vegetables and you know low glycemic fruits so purple's reds yellows greens etc lots of colorful fruits and vegetables but the main antioxidant the highest antioxidant sources are actually spices T Coco and so using a lot of Coco in my cooking like a hundred percent organic Coco tons of spices and then T's as a drink like green tea those are some of the highest antioxidant sources and in some nuts and seeds have antioxidants the highest antioxidant net of all of them is pecans actually so by by like a large margin so I eat a lot of pecans for probiotic sources I love sourcrout I have like five different types in my fridge from the farmers market organic beat and cabbage sourcrout carrots sourcrout things like that I love kavas which is a low sugar kombucha alternative instead of using sugar and tea to make a drink a fermented drink it actually just uses beats and water and that's it so the fermented drink is basically from fermenting the carbohydrates with beats um I love kimchi and I love unsweetened full fat grass-fed yogurt and so those are my my my probiotic sources for fiber it's basil seeds hemp seeds chia seeds flax seeds beans legumes raspberries which is the highest fiber fruit and avocados which are very oddly super high fiber so those are my main fiber juice is on what do you look at the break down 13 grams of fiber but chia seeds and basil seeds are great because they have like five grams of fiber per table spoon in their easy to sprinkle on salads and then for omega threes it's a pantry full of canned wild cop fish that I put on top of lots of different things so I have wild cop salmon wild cop macarol wild cop sardines from wild planet I love those those will have like 2,000 milligrams of omega threes per package and then in terms of plant based omega threes I love hemp seeds flax seeds basil seeds and chia seeds and um and then certainly wild cop or um regeneratively raised beef has a decent amount of omega threes so um so that's kind of the spectrum of pretty much what I eat and it seems pretty easy yeah it's pick and choose you include one of those servings in each of your meals and when you were coming up with this were you thinking about the distribution of how many times so much of the eat or and I know that this is you and of one but again you have outlining these protocols in your book do you have thoughts on the amount of time and individual should eat and how much they should consume at one time I get that much about that yeah certainly I think there's a couple ways that I think about that one is that we obviously want to give our body time in a state where it's not eating because that is good that's good for our biology it gives ourselves time to relax in a sense and keeps our insulin low so so because of that I mean I'm certainly a believer in thoughtfully chosen intermittent fasting and trying to limit our eating window to as short as we can in a way that doesn't stress our body excessively so for me that's usually about eight hours a day you know probably from 11 to 7 is my eating window and for me that allows me to have you know 16 hours a day when I'm not eating when my insulin's low when my body can really start to move through my glucose and start fat burning and I know that I get into fat burning because I'm testing my ketones and I know we're going to talk about all yeah I want to hear what the top biomarkers are yes and how you think about that yes yes so intermittent fasting for sure I think the average American now has 11 eating events per day that's a lot and where did you get that him is that from any state yeah there's there's I talk about the pay I'm not sure where that exact sources but it's it's wild how much we're eating and when we're eating what we can see on continuous glucose monitors is that often when we're eating or spiking our blood sugar which means we're spiking our insulin and so if you think about the amount of insulin your body is exposed to over the course of the day where you're eating all the time it's a lot so when I'm eating and choosing my eating times I'm thinking about you know I want to have a discrete eating period where maybe my insulin and glucose go up a little bit and then I want to give it a break and then I'll do it again so so that so so certainly finding ways to limit your eating window to give your body of a break and an opportunity to become more metaflocked, ballically flexible I think the research supports that immensely there's some controversy about this when it comes especially to women's health and hormones because it's thought that this hormetic stress or this extra strain on the body of fasting can be problematic for the delicate cycle of women's hormones and I think that's another example of where you really need to tune into your body and how you're how you're feeling and based on how metabolically flexible you are you may be able to tolerate more fasting than another person and that can change dynamically over time. I think it's a really a point this idea of fasting and I think that we should also question is it really fasting or is that how humans are designed to eat? We weren't designed to eat three square meals a day. We from my perspective we were designed to go through periods of feeding and to go through periods of fasting. I from the data that I've looked at fastings benefits really are again this compressed feeding window definitely helps for gastrointestinal also helps with individuals that are struggling with again snacking those kinds of things it really does allow for that allow for helping an individual gain control. It's an interesting point that I think that we should chat about this whole idea of women's health. Women's health, women's hormones sometimes they say fasting is in good for them sometimes fasting is it's a little bit all over the place. Here's where I would say fasting is not good for women. I read it because I've seen this in clinical practice many times over. If a woman is trying to get pregnant this is the time I don't recommend that she fast. Do I think that a restricted feeding window of 8 to 9 hours is particularly stressful on the body I don't because we probably were supposed to be eating within that time frame. Thank you to Paleo Valley for sponsoring this episode of the show Paleo Valley beef are some of my most favorite go to high protein snacks. They are 100% grass fed and grass finished. They are sourced from small domestic farms they use organic spices they come in different flavors whether it's original or teriyaki or summer sausage or even garlic summer sausage. They are fermented which is probably one of my favorite points about this product which creates this naturally occurring probiotic and of course they taste amazing. Paleo Valley is offering my listeners 15% off. You can use the code Dr. Lion or go to paleovalley.com slash Dr. Lion. These paleo valley beef sticks are amazing for on the go people and patients ask me all the time how can they plan for travel and just being out and about this is a great way to do it. Grab your 15% off paleovalley.com slash Dr. Lion. Another time where I don't recommend fasting is if an individual is older and trying to maintain skeletal muscle mass fasting is not the strategy. I'm curious your thoughts on this. With PCOS, polysitic ovarian syndrome being the leading cause of infertility in the US which is fundamentally disorder of insulin resistance. Would you say that there's probably this interesting balance that needs to happen between implementing fasting in the preparatory phase for pregnancy to get insulin levels under control. But in the actual time we're trying to signal to our body we're making new life and we need to basically we have all the resources we need that's a time to stop fasting. Yes. Because we do have to regain insulin sensitivity. The best way to do that is through affecting skeletal muscle. Yes. Through training, through exercising and you can use a CGM to see and validate for yourself that when you're getting up and when you're moving you're able to lower your blood sugar. Again, when you exercise you no longer require insulin to move blood glucose out of the bloodstream into the tissue, very, very fascinating. PCOS, the Linchpin and skeletal muscle. Regardless of where the defect is, whether it's an insulin receptor defect or skeletal muscle defect, the treatment, the most effective way is addressing the health of skeletal muscle. Mm-hmm. Yeah, I mean, I think this needs to be so much more of a conversation, which is that like the pregnancy optimization plan that we should really be talking about is optimizing, optimizing insulin sensitivity in the most evidence-based ways, which of course is going to be in precinct skeletal muscle. And I would say doing everything we can to support mitochondrial health so that we free up the mitochondria to do its best work, which then of course is going to decrease the insular lipids and increase insulin signaling. And that, you know, that's where we start to get into like dietary strategies and things like that, like really just helping the mitochondria do its best work. So it's like skeletal muscle and the dietary lifestyle strategies to support the mitochondria. Absolutely. And the majority of the mitochondria in the body is in skeletal muscle, right? Yeah. And that is one of the reasons why I love your talk, that you're talking about metabolic health because metabolic health there's many levers that we can pull. And also use it's something interesting about this idea of first principles. What are the first principles? What are the basic things that we need to do so that we can improve these biomarkers? What are your top biomarkers? And also, did you uncover particular things while you were researching writing this book that illuminated things for you that you hadn't thought of before? Well, in terms of biomarkers, the great news is that pretty much everyone can understand a basic picture of their metabolic health with like five simple biomarkers that are pretty much free to us with our annual filetami growth. Lay it on me. This is the biomarkers of metabolic syndrome. This is triglycerides, fasting glucose, HDL cholesterol, blood pressure, and waste or come friends. These are five biomarkers that can tell us whether we are in the 12% of Americans who are considered metabolic health. So in research out of 12% of Americans are considered metabolically healthy. Actually, unfortunately, based on the most recent research that was published in the American Journal of Cardiology, only 6.8% of Americans are metabolic healthy, but the UNC research that was done in 2018, which showed that 12% are metabolic healthy was based on those five biomarkers. And so basically over the past five years, we've seen a decline from 12% to 6.8%. But regardless, people should know and should prioritize knowing whether they are in that 12% above almost anything else. Because if you are metabolic healthy, your chances of dying from almost any of the major causes of mortality in the United States prematurely plummet. So those five biomarkers, like I said, are triglyceride HDL, fasting glucose, waste or come friends, and blood pressure. And to be considered by this criteria to be normal, it's triglycerides under 115, fasting glucose under 100, HDL cholesterol above 40 in men and 50 in women, waste or come friends, less than 35 inches in women and less than 40 inches in men and blood pressure, less than 120 over 80. So for people who have who fit all those criteria and are not on medication, you would be part of that 12%. It's interesting that they chose HDL rather than APOB, and it's interesting that they left out fasting insulin. Right. It is interesting. It would be very curious as to what those numbers would be, should they include them? I think we would, well, I think there's two things. One is that as you hear those numbers, I would imagine that you agree that many of them are far too lenient. They call those normal, but fasting, triglyceride, or fasting glucose, anything less than 100. That's great. But ideally, you want fasting glucose to be more between 65 and 85. So a lower area of normal, because all cosmortality and risk of developing titulid babies actually goes up in the high end of the normal range. So when you're in that 85 to 100, which is still considered normal, but is high normal, your risk starts going up. So they call less than 100 normal, but I would actually say it should be tighter. And then with triglycerides, less than 150 is a pretty lenient range. I like to see triglycerides less than 70 in terms of really decreasing our risk. Like being at the lowest part of the risk, you're going to be looking less at less than 70. So someone who's up in the 140s or triglycerides, I would still think that person needs to do a lot of dietary and lifestyle changes to be optimally healthy. So if we actually were focused on optimal ranges for all of those five metabolic syndrome criteria, I bet we're looking at less than 2% of the country who's actually optimally metabolicly healthy, same with HDL. I think based on the research that I looked at for the book, really between 60 and 90 is probably optimal, but they're saying that the standard criteria would be above 40 in men, above 50 in women. So that's one problem. The second problem is what you mentioned, which is that some of these key early biomarkers of metabolic dysfunction, like fasting insulin, like your acid, apob, are not even a part of the conversation. With all that said, those five biomarkers are essentially free on an annual physical, and I think most Americans can have those without any comfort, like debate with their doctor, and they can give you a clue about where you are on that metabolic spectrum. So certainly everyone listening should go find those numbers from last year and understand whether you are in the category of what we're considering metabolic health or or not. Yes, absolutely. Guys listening, I've encouraged you to get your inside tracker or at least pull up your routine blood work. And I'll just mention that individuals that eat a higher protein diet because a lot of the people listening do, their blood sugar will remain higher in the 90s because of gluconeogenesis. But guys, if you're listening, your insulin will be less than five pretty low. So if you are eating a higher protein diet, my I would expect for you to have a higher fasting blood sugar, do not be concerned. Yeah. It's a bigger picture. It is such a bigger picture. And I think someone who's fasting glucose is 95, but their insulin is three. That's a person I'm not going to worry about. You know, I try to list right of 45 and insulin of two and a fasting glucose of 96. You're doing great. And so, but it's all it's context dependent. I would say these are pretty broad brush strokes that we're talking about here for so that the average person who doesn't have inside tracker can like at least get an absolute. Yeah, absolutely. And I will say I worked on some of the earlier studies out of Don Lamin's lab and what he did is he reduced carbohydrates to 240 and anything below that reduced triglycerides, roughly 20% is amazing. Yeah. It's very, it's a very fast way when you address diet to improve these metabolic markers. Absolutely. What else and you are really interested in this metabolic health and the mitochondria and the cellular health when you're researching for the book did anything surprise you? It was unexpected. Well, I think there were a couple of things that were the research was so strong and it was some of the most simple strategies. I think it's like some of those stuff. You know, it's like lifting weights. Like, well, absolutely change your health in your life. It's free. And yet we're just not doing it. You know, and there were some things like that that were fascinating. I mean, one for me that was wild was just just honestly the benefits of walking. Like it's unbelievable. If walking or a pill, it would be the most successful pill in human history. I probably would say the same of course for weightlifting as well. But you look at research that's been published in Dama and really big journals. And the average American is walking about 3500 steps per year. If you look at certain, wait, we're 3500 a day. I'm sorry. A day. Per year. Let me repeat that. The average American is walking about 3500 to 4,000 steps per day. Which like basically takes about, that's like 30 minutes of moving. And that is astonishingly low. You look at certain indigenous cultures that are still, you know, still around today. And some of them are walking up to 20,000 steps per day. So 3500 is very poultry. If you look at the research, there's some of that shows that for people walking just 7,000 steps or more per day. There's 11 year follow up to the study. It reduced just walking 7,000 or more steps through day, reduced all cosmortality in the 11 year follow up by over 50%. Just by walking that amount. And then there's other research that shows that walking between 8,000 and 12,000 steps per day. In large populations can also decrease all cosmortality by about 15%. But you're by about 50%. But you're also looking at like 40 to 60% declines in risk of obesity, type 2 diabetes, Alzheimer's dementia, cancer, gastrocyphal reflex disease, so many different diseases. So some of the things that were most astounding to me and the research for the book were actually some of the simple. Thank you to element for sponsoring this episode of the show. Element spelled LMNT is an electric like pack that I've been using for a long time now. I'm a huge fan, which is why I'm thrilled that they are sponsoring this episode of the show. Element is formulated to help anybody and everybody with their electric like needs. Whether you know you need it or not. For example, if you are training and sweating a lot, if you are not getting enough sodium or potassium or magnesium in your diet, this has you covered. It's a science-backed electrolite Borrillo. It doesn't have any junk in it. It doesn't have any sugar. It comes in very easy travel packs. You can throw in your bag. I drink between 2 and 3 a day. They help me with muscle cramping. It helps me maintain my hydration. Case amazing. Right now, element is offering my listeners a free sample pack with any purchase. That's eat single serving packets free with any element order. Get yours at drinklmnt.com slash Dr. Lion. That's drinklmnt.com slash Dr. Lion. You can try it totally risk free. If you don't like it, you can give it to someone and they will give you your money back. No questions asked. There was other data like the power of eating slowly. So this is like one of my biggest problems because I love I'm you know. And by the way, we are cooking today. Just so you know, I have roped Casey in to cook with me and she's about to find out that I'm the world's most cook. And we have a 30G news letter which we include your recipes. We're going to include this recipe. You guys, if you are not on the list, you can go to my website. It is totally free. These recipes are totally free. But she is going to thoroughly embarrass me. Oh my gosh, we're going to have so much fun. We're going to have so much fun cooking protein. So I think because of medical training, I don't know if this is the case for you, but I like basically learned to eat fast all the time. I was always wolfing down food and the data actually suggests that when you look at people, the people in the the fastest quartile of eating versus the slowest quartile of eating had a four times higher rate of metabolic syndrome and two times higher rate of type two diabetes. So just slowing down at a meal time, which isn't changing anything about the food composition, it's just the speed. It actually has a measurable impact on disease outcomes. And it makes sense because as you're eating more slowly or triggering your satiety mechanisms more potently before you consume lots of calories and you can self-regulate a little bit better. So that was fascinating. Another piece of information. How slow are we talking? Well, it didn't actually say it was really just looking at quartile. So the fastest versus the slowest. I think there's simple things that you can do. Obviously you can take a couple deep breaths between each bite. You can chew your bites, you know, 20 to 40 times before it's slow. I can't really try doing that. It's really hard. It's also, can you imagine it's really annoying? Have you ever go and you? You're a dinner or someone and it's I'm telling you because I have done it because I absolutely agree with you. How do we slow down? You guys should all try this in home. Sit down, go to dinner and chew your food 40 times before you swallow that sector. Impossible. It's oh my gosh. You're never going to be invited back to dinner. No, you're going to take like forever. But one of the things that's helped me the most in terms of eating slower is just really committing to trying to eat more meals with other people. And so fortunate to have a wonderful incredible boyfriend to I live with. But prior to that, I was single for a couple years and I was eating a lot of my dinners alone. And so I would just eat them very, very quickly. And then I read several studies that show that eating with other people and eating in a situation where you're in community and in a com or more like grateful state, it's actually changes our metabolic response to the food. And I noticed that I eat so much slower. Now that I dinner every night with my wonderful partner because we're talking and we're interacting. And so I think literally it can be as simple as inviting if you live alone or your eating most from your own alone. One schedule family dinners make sure you're actually eating together at a table and sitting down and invite people over for dinner because you're naturally going to eat slower if you're having conversation. So that was a really, really big one. And Sean Stevenson has an amazing book. Yeah, I was talking about that. Yeah, I was talking about that. Yeah, I'm like, cookbook. He literally talks about how the average family in America. I think is eating three or less meals together per week. And we digest food in a way that's more optimal for health when we're in more of a pair of some that exist state when we're eating. When they're in a real rest and digest mode. And one of the ways that we can cultivate that is by slowing down expressing gratitude for our food, taking a few deep breaths before we eat and being with people that we trust and love. So I think that's a part of the conversation that doesn't even involve changing your food. It just involves changing how you eat. And then I'll just mention two others that kind of were interested in to me in writing of the book that I hadn't heard a lot about prior, which is one average American, astonishingly, is spending 93% of their time indoors, not outdoors. That's major. And this is such a modern phenomenon. Like if you think about the concept of indoors, like it's pretty recent phenomenon. And our biology ourselves are entrained by light signals. And so we're literally just self-imposing this box around us that separates us from our source. And the research clearly shows that the more time you spend outdoors, the healthier you are metabolicly, like less rates of obesity, less rates of diabetes. And of course, there's a lot of reasons for that. People outdoors are probably being more active. But I think there's probably a broader aspect to it, too, which is one obviously our circadian rhythms that control so many of our clock genes, our metabolic genes that are downstream of our, you know, light sensing regions of our brain, the superchized and that a nucleus. And when we're outside more, our body literally knows what time it is. And therefore, we'll express the right genes at the right time. And on top of all of that, I think, be outside of just one of the most pleasant calming, awe-inspiring things we can do because we're connected with our source. And that is good for our biology, too. So I think just literally making it a personal KPI to spend more time outdoors is something that I think can have major impacts on our health. So this is separate from like the protocol of getting the sunlight first thing in the morning. This is literally just like the sun and the earth is our source, like be outside more. And you will probably standing and moving and that's good for you and your joy and your hormones and all of it. And the last one I'll mention, a surprise from the book, is this concept of social jet lag. Have you heard about this before? It's really interesting. So we talk a lot about sleep quality and sleep quantity. And it appears that for sleep quantity, the optimal amount of sleep from metabolic health is between seven and eight hours. Of course, it's individual. But that the studies really show that seven to eight hours is great. But what people don't talk a lot about is sleep consistency. So there's quality, quantity, and consistency. Consistency means whether we're going to bed and waking up at pretty similar times each day. And the impact on our metabolic health of sleep consistency, I think it's far greater than people understand. I think people often think that if you're getting eight hours of sleep, even if that's between 10 and six or 12 and 8, that that's the same, but it's not. Because sleep is one of the three ways that we in train our internal clock. We in train our internal clock by bed time and wake time, meal timing. And whether we see natural light first thing in the morning and get rid of the light when the sun goes down. Those are the three main ways. And I think we're really screwing up sleep consistency. So social jet lag is a measure of sleep consistency, which basically looks at night to night, you are going to identify the midpoint of your sleep. So if you sleep from 12 to 8, your midpoint is four. And if you sleep from 10 to 6, your midpoint is two. And if the midpoint night to night is more than two hours on average, it doubles our risk of metabolic disease. You mean example? If so, basically if you adjust the sleeper a week time, two hours in either direction. So if let's say during the work week, I'm sleeping from 10 PM to 6 AM. That's eight hours. And my midpoint is two AM because that's four hours from when I went to bed and four hours from when I woke up. Then let's say on the weekends, I go to bed at 1 AM and I get up at 9 AM. The midpoint of that is like 430. So two, so it's the midpoint is two PM on the weekday and sorry, 2 AM on the weekday and 430 AM on the weekend. That's a two and a half hour social jet lag. Above two hours, and in that difference between essentially like work days and weekends, confers a much higher risk of metabolic disease. And likely that is because it's representing a real alteration day to day between how we're in training our circadian clock. And that's going to have lots of downstream impacts on our metabolic health and our insulin sensitivity. So so while we are most people are very aware of the importance of sleep quality and quantity, we really need to be dialing into consistency as well because that's one of the main ways that we actually reinforce our natural internal clocks. Again, the three ways are meal timing, sleep consistency, like essentially bedtime and wake time and then how we interact with light during the day. And these are really easy things to do to eat slower, spend more time outside, and go to bed and wake up at the same time. Yeah, nothing too complicated. And walk and walk. Is what do you do target a certain amount of steps because in part of the conversation, we recognize that wearables are important. But I think that you're also saying something that I believe and I think is really important is that we shouldn't be so tied to those kinds of things. The electronic, whether you're, did you hit this step count or not these these protocols that then become extremely rigid and create quite a bit of anxiety for people? I like the ideas, one of my very dear friends always talks about the idea of setting standards, not setting a goal for how many steps you're getting or not setting a goal for X, Y, and Z, but creating a life that is structured with standards over goals. Yes, I love that. Because we only have higher standards for our life. We're here for a short time. You gotta have high standards, right? Do you think about you'd mention that the day does pretty positive for between eight and 12,000 steps? Do you think that that's enough? So I think for people listening who maybe are not super active, although your little survey says probably very active, 10,000 might be intimidating to people. Like it's not just a given that you're going to get 10,000, so I would say at a very minimum aim for that 7,000. One's your consistent with 7,000. Pretty much every day bump it up to 8,000. Because the research does show that above 7,000, you're getting a huge increase in premature mortality. 8 to 12,000, we're getting even bigger increases. And from my understanding of the literature above 12,000, we're not seeing huge additional benefits. However, my belief is that certainly it's kind of like the more the better when it comes to gentle low-grade activity-like steps. And so I think if people are really shooting for that 8 to 12,000, averaging 10,000, we're in really, really great shape. And people, there's controversy about steps. And I think the key point that is so important to make is that it's not about the steps. It's not about the activity of walking. It's about activating major muscle groups frequently throughout the day. Because if you're walking 10,000 steps a day, it's sort of a proxy metric for getting up and moving your body, which means activating major muscle groups, multiple times per day. And this is a key point that I really want to drive home, which is that why that matters is that every time you're activating the muscle groups, it's a signal to the body intracellarily, those muscle contractions. I know I'm totally preaching the choir here, but like I love it. And then we can never hear it. And you are literally sending a biochemical signal inside the cell to push the glucose channels from inside the cell to the cell membrane. Those glute 4 channels that are going to take up glucose. You're also stimulating the mitochondria to have to make energy to actually create that muscle contraction. So if you're a person who's walking 10,000 steps a day or by proxy, just moving more frequently throughout the whole day, you are a person who has glucose channels at the cell membrane all day taking up glucose in an insulin independent way. And using the mitochondria, use it or lose it. If you are a person who sits all day and then exercises for an hour at the end of the day, you are a person who, awesome, you got those glucose channels to the cell membrane during that workout, but the rest of the day, they were stuck inside the cell. So it's a proxy metric for essentially pushing our metabolic processes to be active considerably throughout the day. It's not about the steps. I mean, I think you could probably they're easy to count because we can measure them and whatnot, but it could be anything. It could be air squats. It could be doing, you know, a couple air squats every 30 minutes throughout the day. You basically want to think about those muscle contractions as pushing your glucose channels to cell membrane and keeping them there so that become a person who's constantly more metabolic the active rather than someone who is sedentary with spurts of those pathways being activated. And that makes a lot of sense. Thank you to inside tracker for sponsoring this episode of the show, blood work is key. It is one of the pillars that you guys must be looking at. Typically, you want to look at your blood work quarterly. You want to understand where your baseline is. You want to treat your body like a business. You want to hit quarterly goals and make corrections when necessary. Inside tracker makes this accessible to you. Go to inside tracker.com slash doctor lion, you'll be able to choose from a multitude of various ways to get your blood work done and packages. You'll get 20% off. And if you are a healthcare professional or a coach, inside tracker has this amazing new platform that is free. It basically allows you to for no cost for professionals looking to take data driven and personalize approaches to their clients. It offers a platform to help you do this. Whether you are a lay person or a healthcare professional inside tracker is an absolute must. I use it personally for myself. Head over to inside tracker.com slash doctor lion and you'll get 20 percent off. And that makes a lot of sense. And thank you for clearing that up because it is an important point. It's not just about walking. It's this idea of how we're moving our body. How does that become a standard for our life so that we can become a metabolic healthy, right, metabolic flexible, age well, have a good life. All of the things that are associated with that. What about some of the auxiliary things? For example, when it comes to metabolic health, do you like a red light? Do you like a cold plant? Are there things that aside from diet exercise and sleep that you think are really important? Yeah. Yeah. When I think about metabolic health, the framework that I use is I want more mitochondria, working more effectively, processing more substrate. And any dietary lifestyle or choice that I make is focused on doing one of those three things. More mitochondria, more efficient, producing, processing more substrate. So when I think about cold plunge, I'm not thinking about checking a box of my 12 minutes of cold plunging off the list. I'm thinking about sending a thermal signal to my body to create more heat. And over time to create more mitochondria to create more heat because a cold signal is going to push the body in the mitochondria to generate more heat, which ultimately does one of those three things that I mentioned. And over time, the adaptation is going to be making more brown fat, which is more mitochondrial dense. So now I've got more mitochondria doing more work. And that's ultimately so good for metabolic health. So that's what I'm thinking about. I'm thinking about with all my choices, how is it communicating with my body? We get a few ways that we can communicate with our body. We communicate with our body through molecules, through molecular information, which is like food and supplements and potentially pills. We communicate with ourselves through sound. We communicate with ourselves through thermal energy, like the heat and the cold. And so all of those ideally are going to, and then of course, one of the big ones, which is light energy. So that's red light, that's blue light. It's all these different types of light. So we have molecular energy, thermal energy, sound energy, and we have photon energy. And I think when we can start to really see our choices, that lens of like, how are we communicating with the cells to do the work we need to be healthy? Everything becomes a lot simpler and easier. And if those choices are directed at the mitochondria, then they're probably going to make you healthier. So what I'm thinking about, for instance, like food molecules, it's like, what is my mitochondria? Like literally need defunction properly. I know it needs micronutrients because there's actually like bivitomins, zinc, magnesium required for the electron transport chain. So I should probably eat those things, because that's communication with my mitochondria to actually function properly. And with cold, it's the same thing with photons in the morning. It's similar. Red light, you know, I think there's, I frankly, I haven't dug deep into the literature on red light. And I actually don't include that in my book. But from what I understand, there's some good data on it. What do you think is the most importance of this? The health of the mitochondria, and then there's the volume. Do you think much about how do we improve the volume of the mitochondria? Well, I'm thinking about certainly quantity. Like brown fat is the perfect example of this. People who have more brown fat have lower rates of obesity and diabetes, and this is literally mitochondrial dense fat that we can impact through our choices, primarily cold exposure. And then certainly, as we're thinking about building more skeletal muscle, I don't know this for a fact. I'd be super interested to hear, I'm sure you know this. But like, if we're building more skeletal muscle, my assumption is that not only we have better functioning mitochondria, but we're actually just 3D printing more mitochondria, but I haven't looked at like the actual cellular data of that. But, um, and then I'm thinking about my topology. I'm thinking about how do I recycle my old damage mitochondria to actually create better, more functional mitochondria. So kind of all those components, which one is the most important? I don't actually know for sure, but um, but I'm kind of trying to deleting the whole back. I love it. And definitely with exercise endurance exercise increases mitochondrial volume, resistance exercise has a different impact on mitochondria. Very, very important. My topology, that's interesting. Do you carve that in the book? A little bit. Yeah. And again, this is the recycling of old mitochondria. How do we improve their function? Are there supplements that you like for mitochondrial health? There's a couple of different ways I think about supplements or mitochondrial health. The first is the micronutrient conversation. Literally our electron transport chain, the final steps of ATU reduction requires several micronutrients to work properly. So obviously, primarily we want to get that from micronutrient dense foods, which means real unprocessed foods, because processing is going to strip the micronutrients from the food. We also want fresh food, meaning like as close to the source as possible, because every day your food is dead or out of the ground, it's going to lose its micronutrient composition. This is why shopping at the farmers market actually matters. The average piece of food in the United States travels 1,500 miles to your plate. Every single mile, it's traveling. It's losing its micronutrient combination. And every day, the longer it sits in the shelf, even if it looks pretty. Yeah, it's degrading. It is. Yeah. So I'm thinking about food. And then because, unfortunately, we are such an uphill battle with micronutrients in our country, because our soil is so depleted from industrial agriculture that is just absolutely decimated the life of our soil. And the soil is what injects micronutrients into our food. Even if you're eating a perfect, unprocessed diet from the farmers market, we still might be behind. So I do take a high quality, multi-vitamin, every day in order to make sure I'm covering the bases on the B vitamins, the sink, the zinc, the magnesium, the vitamin C, and other micronutrients that I know are important for my co-ondrial health. I'm also taking your olethan A, which is a supplement from the company timeline. It's called mitochondria. We love them. We love them. And the reason is because it is really the only supplement on the market that has peer-reviewed data to show that it improves my topology. And so it is, I mean, the year olethan A story is so cool. And I think could make anyone into a biology fanatic. But basically, when you eat pomegranates and other foods with certain olagetanens, the microbiome will convert those food molecules into a, it can convert those food molecules into a substance called eurolythane, which essentially a post-biotic. It's made by the microbiome, goes into the body and tells the mitochondria to recycle their old damaged ones and make new ones incredible. Unfortunately, there are some people who do not do that conversion process of pomegranate to olethan A. Some people are inefficient at it. And you have to eat a lot of pomegranate, which has a lot of sugar to make enough to really promote my topology. So this supplement, basically, bypasses the glucose spike and directly gives your body what the microbiome would make, which I think is fabulous. And then I'm also just thinking about other things like what damages the mitochondria, like oxidative stress. And too much, you know, oxidative stress is both a cause and result of mitochondrial dysfunction and chronic inflammation. Sido kind actually in the bloodstream can damage the cellular processes that are essentially part of mitochondrial health. And so I'm also kind of just thinking about, okay, I want a decreased chronic inflammation. I want a decreased oxidative stress. So with supplements, I'm also thinking about omega-3 fats. So I take an omega-3 supplement because that's going to have an impact on my inflammatory pathways of the body. And I'm thinking about taking antioxidants. So in my multivitamin, I take weenate all, which is a prenatal that's filled with mitochondrial co-factors and antioxidants. And there's actually research that shows that men on antioxidants and supplementation have a four-time higher rate of having a successful pregnancy when they're pursuing IVF with their partner. Antia, and if you really think about the biology here, you want sperm with healthy mitochondria and antioxidants are one of the ways that you can do that. So omega-3's antioxidants, micronutrients, your althine, those are some of the main things I think about with my cellulentation from mitochondria. I love that. Any others you would have? No, I think that those are great. Thank you to first form for sponsoring this episode of the show with all this discussion on blood sugar regulation. I'm going to share with you one of my on the go keep my blood sugar stable snacks that is balanced with carbohydrates and protein and that is the level one protein bar. They come in all different kinds of flavors, chocolate chip cookie dough, chocolate mint cookie, one of our favorites is chocolate peanut butter pretzel. Yes, you heard that correctly. And what I love about the level one bar is number one. It has way protein in it. It has a one to one or close to one to one ratio of carbohydrates to protein that helps with blood sugar stability. They taste amazing. You almost think that you're eating candy bar, but you're not. So if you are looking for a sweet snack or potentially even a lower calorie meal, then level one bars are the way to go. Get yours at firstform.com slash doctor lion. That's first form.com slash doctor lion. Now I want to switch the conversation a little bit. I'm curious is if you believe that we are missing anything from an exercise perspective. Do you feel that there's things that we could be doing different or is it just that we need to be moving more and reframing or thinking around it or are there things very specifically that we are not doing that we could be doing. For example kettlebell swings or whatever it is. I think big picture like when we're thinking about public health and like the country as a whole less than 28% of Americans are even getting the super basic recommendations or are meeting the super basic recommendations for physical activity. So very small amounts of people are even doing the basic amount. That's enough. So I think big picture it comes back to the beginning of the conversation. I think part of what we need to do is reframe about actually away from even the concept of exercise and more towards the concept of just movement. Like our biology is optimized by being bodies in motion on every level. So at a very basic level we need to just like shift culture towards like how do we yes we have we're not a lot of us or knowledge workers we're working at computers but how do we shift things that we in our current culture are doing sitting and think about how to do those moving. We just have to because everything we're doing now is basically seated and we're not going to get healthy as a country unless we start just basically moving more throughout the day. There's all this really interesting research about this concept of neat which is not exercise activity. I think it's so funny that we have this fancy acronym for this word that basically is just what we used to do all the time which was move. So neat is any activity that you do that is not actually exercise but that is still moving the body and so this could be like walking from your card of the grocery store. This is gardening. This is playing with your kids. This is taking a walk with your partner after work. This is dancing and the research on neat is understandably kind of and sounding the more neat that you do the healthier that you are and so I think one of the things that people can do is essentially look at their days every day and look at all the activities they do every day and down to like the very very simple ones like brushing your teeth and catching up with your partner at the end of the day and how you spend time with your kids and reading and honestly just start to think about like which one of these can I start to do with activity. This could be as simple as like committing to maybe instead of having drinks with your friends at the end of the day you're going to take a walk with your friends and instead of catching up with your partner sitting on the couch you're just going to take a walk or throw a football back and forth with your partner at the end of the day. So just take stock of what you're doing and see which ones could be done standing or moving. And of course like a treadmill desk is a great way I saw one here. We have like it's my team moved it but we have one yes so I get that all the time people should be taking meetings standing walking all me and like one rule I have for myself is that if I'm doing social media I'm doing it on my treadmill desk because essentially it's like okay if I'm going to be doing that thing that I know I probably shouldn't be doing as much of like I'm going to be walking while I do it and I kind of hate that we're in a place in the world where like we have to talk about things like treadmill desk so that's so unnatural but because we are not as workers now we have to spend some of that time standing they are $100 on Amazon now these walking pads and the research there's actually research on PubMed about the impact of standard of treadmill desks and it's profound there was one study that extrapolated from a two week study that they did to show that if people were just walking on their treadmill desk I believe it was two hours per day could lose around 40 pounds in a year if they were consistent it was not a year long study but they were extrapolating from what they found in two weeks which I thought was interesting so again you know it's it's promoting those metabolic processes so to get back to your question about exercise one of the reframes I think we need to have is that exercise is not something to be checked off a list for health we need to become a more movement-based culture and that involves taking stock of how we're living our lives and converting some of those activities to movement that's absolutely foundational if you live in a neighborhood that has sidewalks you have a lower risk of obesity like there are so many elements of culture that just need to shift and then from the standpoint you brought this up earlier but I think when we are exercising is of course amazing but it's sort of on top of this movement-based we need to like get the baseline of the movement-based culture and then we need to start optimizing and what's amazing like you said for mitochondria each different type of movement has sort of a different benefit I think of walking which is just foundational in baseline as glucose disposal how do we actually just work through more of the substrate in the body for more of the time and get the glucose channels to solve memory more of the time that's how I think of walking there's high intensity interval training there's zone two training there's resistance training and there's more like liability-based workouts like yoga all of them have different benefits and so you know I think the resistance training is a non-negotiable because we have to build our metabolic armor I'm just quoting you here and then we can use zone two and we can use hit as like really some fine tuning to just like amplify the number and the opposite of capacity of the mitochondria we do have absolutely and I'll just throw this out there two guys listening there's a great paper and the title of it we can link it it's resistance exercise training ulters mitochondrial function and human skeletal muscle this this looks like it came out of Blake Rasmusins lab I've been trying to get him on the podcast he is now in San Antonio and it it's nice because it highlights there's a lot of information out there about endurance activity but this highlights the impact on skeletal muscle mitochondrial function which is which is pretty cool there are things that stand in the way of the messaging and health a lot of that is initiatives things that seem to be enhancing and seem and things that also seem to be really creating roadblocks in understanding and learning for example mele smun day to me that that's a roadblock for overall education to our families around health do you think there are or can you speak to any kind of health care food education initiatives and how you think that they're influencing our health oh my gosh that's a big topic it is so important because stepping back it's like everyone kind of wants a piece of the conversation because it is so lucrative right now health care is not only the largest industry in the United States it's the fastest growing industry in the United States and processed food is right behind that so there are so many initiatives some of which that maybe seem positive on the surface that ultimately if you really trace it back are driving people for more convenience food to feel good about convenience food choices you know and to feel good about essentially not being metabolic healthy and so I'm always looking at like follow the money like trace some of these initiatives back to like what they're actually leading to and if if an initiative is fundamentally not leading people towards better cellular health then it's probably not in your best interest and there's a lot out there I would say there's some wonderful organizations that I think are having a really positive impact like one that I am a huge fan of is eat real which is an organization that is trying to get more whole on-processed regenerative food into school lunches it's absolutely astonishing to me that our national school lunch program is serving ultra processed food which we know is poison that is going to shorten the lives of children the current generation of children growing up are on track to not outlive their parents lifespan it's it's astonishing and so that's a great organization there's many beautiful organizations that are focused on regenerative agriculture and so many incredible regenerative farms that are creating more education white buffalo land trust lots that are getting us back to understanding like how connected we are with the soil and our food so you know some of those are very very positive but yeah I mean I think one of the biggest examples that you're seeing right now is just the huge massive push about the GLP1 agonist you've got Oprah you know talking about how we need to be creating accessibility to all these medications at the at the highest level they're on track to be the highest grossing medication in human history and taxpayer funded and there is a place for these medications in very specific situations but they are not the answer to the public health crisis ultra crisis that we have right now because what they don't do are our our metabolic crisis is fundamentally the response of ourselves to an environment they can no longer handle that is what our metabolic crisis is the environment has changed so rapidly in the last hundred years across the pillars of food, sleep, movement, stress and the amount of toxic information we're getting through our devices environmental toxins, light exposure and temperature across those seven pillars are environment has changed in ways in astronomical ways in the past hundred years our cells can no longer handle that and they're becoming dysfunctional and now we have a chronic disease in metabolic is epidemic because a shot cannot fix the environment that is synergistically hurting ourselves the shot will never fix the problem certainly a shot can make you melt away fat definitely is a more effective than any medication I've ever seen and you know frankly we use it in the practice all the time but we don't use it on an ongoing basis we use it to really jumpstart people that have been struggling for a while and we successfully are able to get people off the medication with proper training and good nutrition and we don't have effects on scolite muscle because you're having people trained right and you're protein but I think when you when you got something like this that may have benefits but that is being essentially weaponized by industry to be seen as the panacea to the problem that's where things start to go off the rails it's now being recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics in kids as young as eight and I think in a situation like that like we really need to start addressing every element of the environment before we go straight to something like that especially because for the $16,000 per person per year that that medication will cost individuals insurance companies or taxpayers you could take that $16,000 and totally reshape the environment that that person solves or living in so when we talk about costs and access we have to remember that someone's going to be paying for that $16,000 so that medication per year and we do as a culture and a medical community have the power to think about creative ways to reorient that towards creating a much more holistic healthy environment for people but we're just not really thinking creatively I think is a medical community. That's true and listen they creativity and medicine isn't necessarily there typically they are trained and as physicians should be very algorithmically there's a standard of care do you think there are a handful of really big misconceptions in health that you would love to clear up or are there or maybe not? The biggest misconception in the health care conversation is that being healthy is complicated. Boom! That is the biggest lie that we are being told right now and we have to remember that our confusion is the fuel that drives over $10 trillion of industry. Our confusion is the product. Our confusion is what gets us to be insatiable consumers of solutions when in fact it is so so simple to be healthy which is basically everything we've talked about on this podcast it's like being healthy involves eating unpoisoned unprocessed food moving your body having skeletal muscle getting decent sleep avoiding environmental synthetic toxins getting sunlight during the day not having too much artificial light at night and making sure I would say almost most importantly that we are preventing our eyes and minds from seeing a constant bombardment of fear inducing media coming to the screens in our hands that we fall asleep with because that might be the most unnatural thing about our modern environment even aside from the close to 70% of our calories coming from all to ultra-processed franken foods or the fact that we have 80,000 synthetic toxins in our food water air and homes that have virtually non-mintested adequately for safety all that's bad but the fact that we have a screen in our hands that's telling us the struggles and the fear of 8 billion other people 24 hours a day which our brains I don't think were ever intended to handle that much fear inducing information that is putting a constant inflammatory fundamental nervous system grip on our bodies that is totally inconceivable health because anything that is putting our body in a state of constant existential fear is going to divert our cellular resources towards defense and threat response and fear management away from thriving an optimal health so I think you know if we really just focused on you know get rid of the diet wars get rid of the exercise words wars it's like eating processed real food that's not covered in pesticides move your body you know lift heavy things to build muscle most of our health care costs would have operate but the confusion drives the industry and so now we have been convinced that it is confusing when actually by and large it's not on the margins in the optimization realm there's a lot of room I think for for debate but for by and large creating a healthy cellular environment it's very simple well said that it that's kind of like dropping the mic in the bomb all at once confusion drives industry and our fighting amongst ourselves all of the noise creates distraction and further makes people sick I'm so glad you wrote the book good energy where can people find you you guys will love this book and we will share it you all have to check out our recipes that we're doing together where can people find more of you hmm well I am at kc means dot com I am on dr kc's kitchen on social channels and my company levels health which is at level health dot com has an incredible blog that talks all about metabolic health and that's of course the company that helps people get access to continuous glucose monitors but yeah my my my website and you'll see a newsletter pop up when you get on my website the newsletter is really I put my heart and soul in terms of like my hottest takes and so sign up for the newsletter and then of course good energy is wherever books are sold and my hope is that this is like a pretty straightforward guidebook for for living your healthiest life and mentions dr gobby allian many times in the book so thank you so much my friend thank you for taking the time to come here and sharing all your knowledge and your personality with us everyone's gonna love it thank you

There is a connection between muscle mass, sarcopenia and sexual function. Men with more muscle mass have better erections. Men with less muscle mass have horrible erections have low libido of lower testosterone. It's all about overall health. Again, think to the paradigm about how the body is willing to give away its erectile function, if it has to sacrifice something, but it's going to keep brain function. And as we get sicker and unwell, the penis is the first to go. So don't get on well, stay strong. So when men train, when men lose weight, when men gain muscle, erections get better. A aerobic activity is as powerful as P5 inhibitors. The drugs like siallows that we talked about earlier, in helping with erections, a modest 10% decrease in body weight is as powerful as pills in helping with erections. Not only all the other benefits of keeping on the right side of the grass. So again, if you take good care of your body, your body will take good care of you. Anything you do for penis health is good for cardiac health. So it is not surprising at all. There's a direct correlation between muscle mass, strength, grip strength and erectile quality. You just got the attention of every male listener on the planet. Yeah, well, good. Or at least, uh, good because. I'm listening to the show because who doesn't want better erectile function and better penis health. And you know, just to jump in, we use the penis as a fault room for behavior change. It is very difficult for the average man to change your behavior. If you tell them listen, your blood pressure is 8.2 high. But if you tell them listen, if you lose a little bit of weight, if you start exercising, just minimal gains, 150 minutes, a week of exercise, 30 minutes, five times a day, you see tremendous improvement. And so we can use this as a fault grump to get guys to be a health in Canada. The cigarette packages have like this flaccid cigarette on the side. And it basically says smoking is bad for your erections. So we should lean into this fact and get people to be healthier because yes, sexual function is very sensitive to oral health. And we should use it as a way to get people to be healthier. Is there a dose? You said 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous activity? Is there a known specific dose that is good for penis health? Or vascular health primarily? I mean, I know that we're talking about vascular health in general. But again, as a urologist, I thought that we would focus on your organ of longevity, the urologist organ of longevity versus my definition. Right. Do we know as there are dose? Study by Jang and all. I think from last year, 2024, they looked at the enhanced data, which is like a community cohort database from like the early 2000s. And basically, I found that 150 minutes of exercise per week, decreased the rate of rectal dysfunction by 20%. 300 minutes by essentially 40%. Something very close to that. So, you know, intensity and duration as it gets higher, you get improvements. There is eventually a plateau. It's like if you do a thousand minutes or not, you're not going to perfect your erections. But even a modest amount of exercise really move the needle. And then if you're really an exercise in three or two minutes a week, that's an hour, five days a week, which is a good great goal. You'll see a 40% improvement in erections. I'm going to just lay out a handful of other statistics and numbers, because I think they're so powerful. Studies showing men who maintain muscle mastering are 66% less likely to report multiple sexual issues. Older men, this was fascinating, but not surprising. Sarcopina was linked to 2.7 times greater risk of moderate to severe ED. Both of studies are, you know, excellent in that, you know, a lot of them are self-reported studies. And where the people are quantifying their own strength, the one study about the muscle mass that's from like a bunch of scanning avian patients and the people who reported that they still were strong, had awesome erections. The people who said, yeah, I feel a little bit weaker than when I was 10 years ago, they had lousy erections. And lousy libido too. What is the role of testosterone and erectile function? It testosterone is essential to a certain point, right? So if you have normal testosterone, and you give more testosterone, their typically isn't added benefit, right? So a mistake you'll make is like assuming if some becomes over the normal, you check their T, it's normal, but they have problems with erections. But give them the testosterone that typically doesn't fix the problem. Remember the main eology of erectile dysfunction is probably the vascular blood flow problem. So you got to fix the blood flow. If testosterone is very low, though, then penis ain't going to work. How would you define very low? Well, if you want to use the scientific definition, a repeated measurement of testosterone less than 300 or free testosterone less than five. So if it's low, if you give testosterone back to those men, they typically will see a better erections, especially when they're trying to use pills. Cialis, biogur, they rely on testosterone for nitric oxide, synthetase or the chemicals that are required for erections. If your T is low, and you give T back, the pills work better. Again, I just can't stress enough, though, if you take your carrier cell for your T will stay normal, there's data where people who are look healthy, and there's 70s and 80s, the testosterone is way higher than people who look unwell. My dad's. He's really low. My let's just throw nit dog onto the bus again. We ran his labs, and I'm looking at this testosterone of over 700. No, that's amazing. And I would argue that the best single blood test for overall health and men is testosterone. And women maybe, but maybe there's a ratio we need to look at, and then along those same lines, the best overall marker for overall health and men is erectile function. Why? Because you have to have excellent vasculine integrity, excellent overall health, and the penis recrylls normal, mental health. If you're anxious, if you're depressed, the penis ain't going to work. So you can be in great physical shape, but if you're unwell from a psychiatric perspective, whether it's depression or whatever it is, anxiety because you're having stress at work, again, the penis ain't going to function well. So all systems have to be on full go for the erections to be awesome. So that's a really reassuring thing. If you're a 70 year old and you're getting great erections, you're probably pretty healthy. Is there a point of no return? For example, when we image the brain, and we see microbascular disease of the brain, the brain is arguably a large, very active organ. There is a lot of it. The brain can make up for itself, meaning it's not just a penantypically in this one area, but the penis is smaller. If there is vascular damage to the penis, is there a ability to recover? Two limited extent, like many other things, but sometimes you get age-related, you know, vasculine disease, maybe it's untreated hypertension for a long time, or you have six significant athletic, narrowing or plaque, or maybe smoke for a long time. Sometimes the damage is so extensive that no matter how much you exercise, no matter how many pills you take, and ain't going to work. Right? Yes, there is a point of no return. Very avoidable if you never get there the first place, but that's where surgery comes in. For men who may have had a reason that their penis has failed them, or maybe had a period in their life, or their own healthy, we can restore normal sexual function with surgery. Often times we can restore it with lifetime lifestyle change, but not always. And so take your care yourself, but then even with fails, there's no reason to give up hope. We can fix it. You mentioned exercise. Penile vascular health. This is the first time I've probably ever said those words together. Yeah. I'll just say I'm again, Penile vascular health. Exercise increases blood flow. Absolutely. Are there things like I saw Austin Powers, and he has the penis pump? It would also make sense if we exercise or muscle that perhaps something like that would also work. You know, the guys may take advantage of the statement, but the penis is a loser or use it or lose it organ. Okay? So when the penis goes in the garage, for an extended amount of time, meaning no erections, like no sex, no physiological erections that normally occur in the middle night, why would that happen? You just had a prostate surgery, and you had to stun the nerve, so you have significant diabetes. You basically just got into the point where directions aren't happening very often. We know that men who don't get erections commonly get penal shortening, right? So you lose length of the penis. Everybody wants to know how rapid and how much? Yeah. So on average, if you've got a consistent lack of erections for three months, you lose one to two centimeters of length, which is a half inch to an inch in length, and every millimeter, guys, fight for, right? So that's a lot. It's significant. Yeah, it's something that actually, earlier in my career, as I was a, yourrologist at the VA, and when we're doing prostatectomy surgeons, the patients would say after the prostate surgery say, doc, I think my penis is shorter. I'm like, no, no, you're just a little bit fat, or you would say it more. And then they kept saying it, and that was like one of the first studies I ever did, and we actually measured, and it's true, guys lost peanut length. The good news is is that if you exercise the penis with a vacuum reaction device, you can regain that length back. So it's not about like physically shorting the penis, is about having scar tissue in the penis, and if you have a uniform scar with a reaction, the penis looks shorter. If you have a non-uniform scar, you get this curvature, right? And that's one of these. For these, these is loss of elasticity on one side or one part of the penis, and like a balloon, if you put a piece tape on a balloon, you inflate it, the balloon's going to curve where that piece of tape is. That's what the balloon is disease is. And again, that's something that's very common in men, about 10% of men above each with.

Have you ever thought about male fertility as a man's final frontier? Not just sperm count or testosterone levels, but how modern life is quietly dismantling men's ability to create life, sustain energy and age well? What if everything we thought we knew about male hormones of aging and virility was either outdated or flat wrong? Dr. Larry Lipschult is one of the most respected male reproductive health experts in the world. For decades, he's been on the front lines of anthology, working with Olympic athletes, aging men, and everyday couples struggling to conceive. He doesn't just study testosterone, he wrote the rules for how it is treated. We are making such advances in female fertility and IVF, and we have nobody to take care of the men. So a light bulb went off. Is it true that male fertility is declining? For sure. Today, he breaks down the real cause of male infertility, the decline, have testosterone therapy, impact sperm, and what men can do to reclaim performance and purpose. From shocking truths about how male fertility is tested or often ignored, to why some of the most motivated men in the world are secretly burnt out, hopeless, or misdiagnosed with depression. Dr. Lipschult exposes the blind spots in modern medicine that are quietly ruining men's lives and how we fix it. We talk libido, aging, legacy, and the emotional weight men often carry in silence. Dr. Lerry Lipschult, welcome to the show. Thank you so much. I am very excited to have you on, and I want to tell you why. Why? Right now, well, for many reasons, but right now, when people hear men's health, what they often think about is testosterone. However, what I have learned from you is there's so much more to men's health and you have been an innovator when it comes to many things, whether it's environmental, infertility, erectile dysfunction. But I want to start with infertility, and I want to share a little bit about your background because at the time, I'm not so sure it was even a field male and fertility. Well, the whole thing wasn't a field, but should we go back to when this whole thing started? Yes, so good. So we go back to when I was an intern at the University of Pennsylvania, and I was rotating on OBGYN, and they had grand rounds like all especially. And I was sitting there and they had a lecturer, a PhD from New York, whose basic science research was on sperm. And of course, was OBGYN. It was appropriate. And he started talking of his fascinating things I never even thought about. And at the end, the chairman, who was very early in the IVF world, said, you know, that is such a fascinating lecture. He said, we are making such advances in female fertility and IVF, and we have nobody to take care of the men. So a light bulb one off. Hey, I'm an intern. I'm starting with residency. No one's doing infertility. What a great entree into an area that's been basically untouched. Were you doing a residency? Was it, obviously, yourology at the time? Yes. Yes. So then your PGY1 year was called that internship. And then you went into your lab. But you were already in the residency program. So I was in the urology program. You heard about this male infertility. You thought it was amazing, very interesting, but you were only PGY1. Right. How did you then go on to create arguably the first fellowship? Well, the fellowships, way later. So the thing we had to first create was the area, the focus. I mean, there was zero focus. So in my program, he did PGY1. PGY2 was a research. Was I clinically year? PGY3 went into the lab. So I had one whole year. And I decided I was going to devote that year to learning all I could about male infertility. So there were two urologists in New York who were doing nothing but fixing vericose veins and men's testicles because that was felt to cause infertility overheat the testicle, et cetera. So I went up and spend day with them and realized it was very narrow. I then spent another day with a man in New York who was focused on anti-spirma antibodies which was hot at the time. Is it now? No. But it was then. But the whole idea was I was opening up all these doors, all these boxes of information. I didn't even know existed. So I got back to Penn and this is my research year. And I started setting up a lab to do seamen analysis. They did not have a lab. So my good friend. What year was this? Do you mean ballpark? I'm saying, I mean it's 70s. So a good friend of mine was then the next to the top of the program. And he allowed me to use his nurse one week, one day a week. And I started a clinic. And we would develop, I taught her how to do seamen analyses. So she, as I RN, had the job of doing a seamen analysis. And since I was just fledgling, but yet the only person in the city, I started seeing men with fertility problems as a resident. So you almost had your own clinic. I did have my own clinic. But I had to build everything under my friend because I was a resident. But the point was I started learning as I was seeing these people because each patient I learned something from. And that was the beginning of it. And so by the time I became a chief resident, I did have my own clinic. And I would admit people to the hospital under my friend who was a neurology staff member. And we would operate on these people because no one else knew what to do. It was a great fascinating time. Did you, the landscape was when someone was struggling to get pregnant, it was really they were focused on women. IVF and women. Is that correct? Yes. There were from what I am understanding. No clinics, no specialty focused on men and invirtility. Correct. Wow. And you say, wow, think about how long ago that is. And we're still struggling with getting to see the male patients. It's crazy. By, you know, as IVF has become gigantic and with venture capital and whatever, the move is to get the couples into IVF programs. So I, you know, ostensibly, obviously infernal couples. And to take them through the journey of IVF and if the husband had sperm, any, that couple was with the IVF program until they released the patient to us. Because we did not have the, we don't right now have the control. Now going back to when it all started, the women would go to the gynecologist, the gynecologist would send the man to us. So it was a much different paradigm of how the infertility was approached. I think it was much better because the men got better care. Did you get pushed back? From? Whatever. What were they thinking? Oh, here's Dr. Lipschul. He's kind of crazy. Back then? Yeah. No pushback. Very supportive because all the OBGYNs who were in the field realized there was a need. I mean, they knew there was a need. There still is a need. But the thing that changed was the ability to offer couples for utility care, IE, IVF with very few sperm. Remember, you only need one sperm for each egg that that woman produces. And then in the 90s, it was discovered that you could actually extract sperm from the testicle and use those sperm and inject a sperm into an egg and get a pregnancy. So then the number needed went way down even to zero because we could go in and extract the sperm. How has infertility changed in terms of now versus then? And I'm going to ask this question differently. Is it true that male fertility is declining? For sure. So if you look at the data, I mean, and most of the data for some reason goes from 2000 to 2020 or from 1980. It doesn't go back to 1950, 1960. But even if you just look, 1980 to now, 50% drop. 50% drop in sperm density. And it's not just US. It's Denmark. It's Finland. It's Israel. These studies are like all consistent. It is frightening. Why do you think that is? I mean, I think there's a host of reasons. I mean, people are not taking care of themselves the way they should. There's an increase in obesity, increase the use of illicit drugs. There's, of course, you cannot ignore the environmental factors. Which, you know, all these, you know, there's environmental chemicals. There's plasticides. I mean, there's a chemical. I think it's either a thalate or ethylene development. I don't remember which one that's used to soften up plastics. Then people talk about not using plastic bottles. It leaches out of the plastic bottles. But it's essential to make the plastic bottles. But on the other hand, it can be an estrogen mimic. So you've heard of estrogen mimics. Of course. So that is the problem with a lot of these chemicals is the mimic estrogen, which is counter-productive to sperm production. And I think that's kind of globally what we see. Because when you mention these other countries, the US, we know that we have a massive obesity problem. Denmark and some of these other countries, they seem to be very fit and not necessarily nearly as overweight or sedentary. Right. So we can check off no obesity. But we're left with everything else. We're left with all the estrogen mimics in the environment. They may be worse over there. I mean, I don't know. I don't know anything about what they do culturally. But they may have some habits that are actually not productive for a helping sperm. I don't know. But I mean, there are so many things. Like, remember, sperm are being produced millions and millions a day. And anything that's produced so rapidly is more susceptible to environmental factors, of course, the cells are dividing. It's the same thing with like red blood cells, white blood cells, people getting chemotherapy. You know, and attacks these reproducing rapidly reproducing cells. I mean, that's very fascinating. Then you do remember when you first really thought about environmental factors. Because I remember not even too long ago, people would make fun of that idea. Oh, come on. It's not plastic doesn't create estrogenic activity. Right. I, again, I don't know if you were so exposed to that because you really have had a academic legacy. No, but I'll tell you how it happened. Yeah. It's very interesting. I got contacted in the early 70s because two very large chemical companies were producing a pesticide, a soil fumigate, that they found was sterilizing the workers who were making it in the plant. Sterilizing? Sterilizing is zero sperm. So I went out and to California where it was identified and got involved as an expert for the defense, which were these two or three large companies who were making this. And what we found out was indeed the men on the assembly line who were literally handling it or breathing it by either skin absorption or inhalation were, where they were sterile. And it was a big, a big trial on California, a very exciting because it's a very famous courtroom. Anyway, so obviously the men won, I mean it was all all suit, it was settled. But then going forward, the Plain of Returnies got winded over this, oh well if the guys there are getting exposed, have about the men who were applying it in the fields all over Central America and the banana crops and the pineapple crops because it was a soil fumigate. So then we started these lawsuits, massive lawsuits. And unbelievable, it's still going on today. We are still examining men for a lawsuit from a Central American country. These men are now 60. And they're complaining about inability to have children when you go back to when they were in the reproductive years. Fully sterile? No, they're not. This is the issue. Because they're now pulling these men out who just have a history of, yes, I worked on this banana farm. Yes, I had difficulty having kids. Was I really exposed to something? Were they really exposed because don't forget, you know, a large 2% of the world's population are sterile, male population? Naturally. Naturally. Well, you know, not because of external, whatever, yes, more naturally than something like exposure to a specific pesticide. And when you see sterile, does that mean they still produce sperm? But it's fragmented or something like that? No, I mean, they have no sperm in the ejaculate. Okay. And maybe some of them we can go in and find little pockets of sperm in the testus. But they cannot naturally have a baby. Two percent of the population. Yeah, male population. So here you come up with the positive aspect of IVF. Because now we can go, and some of these men extract sperm from the testicle, give it to the IVF programs they can inject it into the eggs. And they called you? Yes. They called you and they did they say, was the experience? Was it a known entity at the time? Meaning that was one environmental factor in the 70s. Were there others? Well, if there were, I was, I don't think I was involved with any others directly because this was known because it had been demonstrated in the factory workers and the plates of attorneys were gathering these sugar cane workers, banana crop workers to do these class action suits. So there was a tremendous amount of work to be done just on the one chemical. So I don't really think maybe I got involved with the second one, but I don't remember nothing like this. How do you think about that for the modern day? Now we probably have more chemicals. We're trying to make things easier. We have a bigger population that means we're mass producing foods. How do you think about fertility now and just the environmental exposure? Yes, of course it's a pat factor. I just wish that there were more people looking at what's doing it. We go back to our initial discussion. They don't care about the men, you know? Only when the women fail. And only when they present with zero sperm, then they call us. So I just think there's not enough focus on the why, you know, and not enough basic research on the why. It's interesting, but I have a former fellow who is at Stanford, Mike Eisenberg. His whole career since he left me primarily research wise has been devoted to looking at fertility and males as a metric of men's health. I think it's a great idea. But his publications have been groundbreaking. Increase cancer. Increase all types of health issues. Increase mortality in men who have no sperm. Wow. And he could only follow them for, you know, eight years, ten years. But it's really frightening. What do you start when you talk to patients about the infertility problem when it comes to environmental exposure? So someone is coming to you. They're young. They're 30. They can't. The wife checks out. How do you then go about approaching all of the, is it just environment? Is it, what are the, the domains? Well, see you can't because there's no tests. There's no specific tests. I think most important is what does the man do? I mean, you know, if he is a lawyer is unlikely to be overexposed to toxins that are not the same with somebody who, you know, is working in, we have huge chemical plants all around he used it. I see a lot of these guys. Wow. So there's the chemical plants. What about? There's the petroleum plants, you know, because we do, we have so many refineries. But there's no real, no one has really gone into these places and done these type of studies that they did back when we were looking at the chemicals in California. And certainly it should be done. But it's very litiginous, you know, potentially, no one wants to get, I don't think anybody wants to really go there. So how do people protect themselves now? Do you say, don't drink out of water bottles, don't heat plastic? Have you thought about what we need to do? I don't know about it. It's just, onerous. I mean, how do you tell people not drink out of plastic bottles when every time you ask for a bottle of water, are you asked for a water, you get a plastic bottle, right? Yeah. I mean, I don't think we can go back. I'm not sure. I just don't. I mean, do you think we could go back? What are we going to do to all the people who need water? I think it's a really important discussion. You know, we, by the way, I have a clinic. I don't know if you know that. It's also patients. And one of the things that we do is we do environmental testing in their blood and their urine. Right. Well, we're going to have to talk about that because I don't even know where to send it. Yeah. Well, I can certainly help you out. But then the question is, you know, there are things like agent orange. So once it's in the body, what are you going to do? So you're going to try to calculate it. But it becomes very challenging. And then if it's at this level that it's so... We don't even know if that's what's causing the man's fertility. That's right. So we have another whole area that we're just going to look at is changes in their genome. Genetic changes in men. Then may be causing problems with fertility and epigenetic changes. So the fellow who runs our lab also has an NIH grant to look at genetics of infertility. So if I see somebody now who has no sperm or hardly any sperm, we send over a blood sample and he'll do their entire genome. This episode is brought to you by Piori. And thank goodness because let's be honest, most of us think we're doing enough healthy eating. But the truth is we're still falling short, especially when it comes to omega-3 fatty acids. I don't know about you, but I do not eat salmon every day. But omega-3 fatty acids are critical for human health. This is backed by science. It supports heart health, reduce inflammation and improve brain function the list goes on. It might help with mood and depression. Now, when I was in my fellowship omega-3 fatty acids were always on the shortlist of foundational recommendations. And today, I still recommend and use fish oil as one of the supplements that I always take. But I don't use just any. I use ones that are the highest quality. And to me, that is why I trust Piori's O3 ultra-pure fish oil. It's a third-party tested and certified by both the Clean Label Project and IFOS, so that you know what you're putting in your body is safe, pure, and effective. Every single batch is tested for more than 200 contaminants. And Piori publishes all of the results online. That's what I call transparency. I trusted so much that I give it to my kids. And it is important for developing brains. I have teamed up with Piori to get you an amazing offer. That's 20% off, site-wide, even on the already discounted subscriptions, which means you can save nearly one-third off these high quality supplements. Just go to peory.com-slash-doctor-lion and use the code, Dr. Lion at checkout. Gosh. I know, but you get so many blips of abnormalities. It's now like which one's really important. So that's a big job. But look at this whole genome to figure out which of the list of infertility genes that's been published. And I don't think there's 140. So certainly that's the low hanging fruit. Do they have any of those? But it doesn't make sense. If it is true that male infertility is declining by 50%. Since, when since the 80s. I'm looking at the 80s, yeah. I mean, that is drastic and tremendous. But no, no, you have to differentiate between male fertility decreasing. We're talking about seam and quality decreasing, right? It's just numbers of sperm. So, is a man going to have infertility problems if his normally 100 million goes to 50 million? No. So the fact that these counts are dropping by 50%. It does not mean these men are ever going to show up in my office. It's just a metric of their health, right? Which is fascinating. That is fascinating. But it's not necessarily the reason one of the couples sitting in front of me. What percent do you think? And I know you only see men. And this is probably a very difficult question. What percent is the woman typically versus the man? So, and I have, this is like one of my early slides when they give a talk. So the male just by himself, 30% of the time. The woman just by herself, 50% of the time. And another 20% it's both of them. So, half the time the male should be evaluated. And it's not standard of care right now. Is that true? Correct. Is there a amount of time. So someone is listening to this. Are I going to get in a lot of trouble with the gynecologist or say? No, we love our gynecologist. Besides you, we're looking at different things. And also at the end of the day, people want families. Right. And if they have environmental exposures and honestly, I don't know the answer to what to do about it. But it is, you know, I worry about my kids. Yes. But you do. I mean, you do focus on on those type of healthy. But I do. And you measure things. And I think that's what we're working on. But one more can you do other than looking scientifically at what's going on with the individual. Right now, it's important to just gather data and look. But then you think about things in terms of, for example, receipts, transactional receipts. These all have chemicals on them. The amount of exposure that we have is tremendous. And then the other question is, what are we doing to offset that? And I don't, I mean, you have to be really diligent. Is it that you have to sauna? Do you, I mean, you have to get rid of these toxins to the best of ones ability to they have to go to the bathroom and have good digestion. I mean, we have to be able to process it. Right. I think it's a real, it's a real challenge. There's just a, it is. It's a huge challenge. And we're just scratching the surface of what these things are that are unhealthy. Or is the fertility aspect which you define is infertility? What is the definition of infertility? It's a couple, it's a couple related phenomena. It's a couple who have tried for one year to establish a pregnancy with unprotected intercourse and nothing has happened. Or if the woman's over 35, six months. Okay. And I can not tell you how many women I see as, I'm seeing their husbands, the women are there, they're 41, they're 42. And it's tragic because no one is talking to these women about the fact that they've got to think about maybe freezing eggs or if they're professional, something because after 35, it's not like they're 35th birthday, something happens. But there's a gradual decline in a quality and the guy can be borderline. And if his wife is 21, he may never have a problem. If she's 41, they're going to show up. How does someone address sperm quality? For example, what are the things that a man could do to improve their sperm quality? Number one, get tested because if there's nothing wrong, don't worry about it. Number two. What should they be looking for? Who do they go to a yearologist? They go to their primary care doctor. We do not sperm test. So let me tell you what happens. They go to the primary care doctor. He sends them to an IVF program. Neger. The IVF program does his semen analysis. If it's low, the couple are shunted and not saying every IVF, but in general they are shunted into IVF because if you're selling Cadillacs, somebody comes into your showroom, you're not going to sell them before. Or even a Mercedes, you're only going to sell the Cadillac. And that's what happens using our IVF programs as a clearing house for semen quality. What would you like to see happen? I would like to see more patients refer to their neurologist. Don't have to be a specialized neurologist. Any neurologist knows how to get a semen analysis and then how to triage the patient. What it would be safe to say that a woman can go through IVF and that would be not seems like it's really difficult as opposed to a man getting a semen analysis and then treating it from the male perspective. But the thing about it is, and I have to be honest, and that is the IVF program is actually doing something for everybody. In the way. In other words, they can offer the couple, the ability to at least put the sperm into the eggs, get embryos. But we can't treat a lot of the men we see even though we identify the fact that they're not normal. But you know, the message is, if a man is not normal, he's at health risk for other things. So at least get tested. Maybe you're not going to get cured, but you're going to know you have an issue. Because when we do our gene sequencing, we also look for what we call actionable abnormalities. Things that the man, we may pick up, like a predilection to have cancer or a predilection to get diabetes. We pick these up in their gene screening. And then it changes the way that man gets treated in his subsequent years of health. And don't forget, these guys are usually young. So it's better to know early than to know late. Is do you think that that could become a standard practice? No. It's too expensive. But I can tell you, I've seen movements in some cities and some countries to use a cement analysis as a screening tool for a man's health. I mean, that's incredible. And I'm curious. It's painless. You know? I'm happy to be there. I'm here. I don't know. I don't know. I'm sure you can find it from anywhere. But the other question is, you said that sperm are produced very quickly, very often. That would make it sensitive to both environmental exposures also sensitive to positive things, like, like exercise, essentially. Exactly. But if somebody comes to me and I identify a problem and I treat it, we're not going to see an overall new community of sperm for three months. That's how long it takes. I sperm to get from the baby's sperm in the testicle into the ejaculation. So if I think about, there's the good diet nutrition. Do we know does diet and nutrition impact sperm quality? And when you talk about quality, are you talking about how fast it moves? What are the things? I'm talking about its ability to actually penetrate the egg and make a baby. And we do know that oxidative stress is bad. Oxidative increase oxidants in the individual can cause increased breakage in their DNA. DNA fragmentation causes poor fertilization, increased miscarriages. So yes, there are things that you can do. And I'm sure you know how to treat excess oxidants in the individual. Are there yes and are there supplements and things that you think have good evidence? When you sit down with a individual and you say, you know what, I need to improve your sperm quality. Or we need to do that. What are the domains and what are the things that you recommend that have good scientific evidence? So number one, don't get into hot tubs. Really? Right. Yeah. You're looking me like, I should know that. Well, I mean, I don't know if it's fake news or what. No, it's increased heat to the testicle, hurts sperm production. Now, saw us, they're okay. You're not applying it. But hot water, you are applying it. So if I want to try to optimize everything, stay away from direct heat. No hot tubs, no baths. Well, I mean, a warm bath is not going to hurt anything. Take showers, stay clean. But I mean, you know, we know that heat is bad. That's why the testicles are outside the body. Because they're kept at a lower temperature. What about cold plunging? You know, there's no data on it yet. I don't know. I could never do it. I mean, the idea is just what? It's a blast. I know. But everybody's doing it now. I know. But you're not concerned about, well, I mean, I think we need to look at the data. It could be bad. It could be a shock. Right? What are drugs? Drugs, cannabis use alcohol. Bad, bad, bad. Alcohol in my moderation. I don't think is bad. The other stuff we don't have a no effect level. So I would say if you were trying to have a baby, stay away from drugs. Well, stay away anyway. But I mean, it really becomes important when you're trying to have a baby. So you are not a fan of marijuana. It just seems that everybody's using cannabis nowadays. I mean, again, everybody might be a really large statement. But people are always talking about how it's good for this or that. What's a good for? I mean, as I don't know. I mean, from my perspective, I don't recommend it. I think it's a great choice. I'm sure how you're getting it. But I do know that people seem to like it and use it. Right. I actually do not see a lot of people who are using cannabis. You don't. No, I don't think it's a big thing in Houston. And I think maybe it's more bicostal. East coast, West coast. I don't, at least in the patients, I say. I don't see a lot of it. Are they not telling me? But you know, they're usually pretty honest. Do are there certain kind of supplements you recommend? Would it be gluten-thione or vitamin C? Do we have a different thing? They're both good. There are studies showing that the use of antioxidants can improve semen quality. Wow. So I mean, why not? Right? We're not used them. We tried to make one. So we have one called... You did? Are you didn't even bring me any? Not the best one. No, but still. No, but it just consists of a lot of antioxidants. Okay. I think that... And we have one pharmacy that will make it for us. Because a lot of the pharmacies can't make over the counter as well as prescription. They can't do it in the same facility. Do medications depending on the kind of medication, affect sperm? Are there things where you say, okay, if you know like for women, when I think about women, for example, a woman, you don't want a woman on retinolce for pregnancy or accutane. Sorry, accutane things of that nature. Are there? Is thinking about male fertility through the lens of female fertility kind of the same? No. It's not good. I say that flippingly, but I don't really know. I mean, I know that a lot of my guys go on accutane, but they're not the infertility guys. They're the testosterone guys. We're going to get to that. I know it's not your favorite topic. No, it is. I mean, I like it. But you don't have concern about using, I don't know, antidepressant. Well, there's been a lot of data on the nasteride, which blocks the HTA and showing, but not fertility, erectile dysfunction. I just don't see it very often, but men who do experience that post-finasteride syndrome can be devastating. And I do tell my patients, but I honestly, I've never seen it. And we see lots of people. But are the biggest things that you think people are doing that are improving their sport. I guess what I'm asking is, how many I've heard through the grapevine? That you, there are days, you see 70 patients in a day. Is it 70? Maybe. But you know, don't forget, my day goes till 7, 7, 30. Unbelievable. I don't have you been in practice. I'm not going to tell you. And if, I actually know it's the answers, but yes. And if the man is there just for refills, right now, it's kind of like I see them on the way out, because they don't want to wait just to get refills, right, to see me. I don't know. People have been with you for a long time. Do you think that they want to wait? No, so you're right. Some people do, just because they've become friends. Yes. But we see them because I have excellent, excellent help. As you do, I mean, I've got support. I've got a resident, and I've got two fellows. So, you know, and we often have met students. And they're usually seniorish, met students, so they know kind of what they're doing. And that really helps move the pit. Because for me to go in and have, you know, everything's typed, everything's on the computer. We use epic like everybody else, which, by the way, for those of you don't know, is like the system for singing patients. And I type very slowly. So for these people to go in and do all that, I can just go in and fiddle, but I can actually make the decisions regarding. And there. But, and you see the reason I asked you and kind of set you up is that you've seen thousands of patients. And you've seen the landscape change. And I'm curious as to what the people are doing right, that are becoming more fertile versus what they're doing wrong. And I, you know, I do think utilizing things like testosterone, I'm really curious about testosterone use and fertility. And also age, a woman goes through menopause. He is not getting pregnant again. Is that, I mean, that it just doesn't happen. Her equality, her ability to get pregnant is not there. You'll not happen. Right. Does a man go through a period of time where he has a equivalent to menopause? No. I mean, look at, look at unnamed movie stars who in the past couple years, over the age of 70 or 80, have had kids. So the problem is not that they can't have kids. The problem is they have genetic changes as they age in the sperm that can be passed on to the kids. You know, maybe increased autism. So, you know, I think men over the age of 60 have to be very careful. And it's especially bad if their wife's over 40. And there's a risk. So the combination, it would be a risk for increased autism. Increased genetic abnormalities in the offspring. Okay. But still viable sperm. Yes, the embryo. The man does not stop making sperm. He's not wild. Yeah. But, well, you know, survival of the species and, you know, you have a bowl and all the cows. I mean, you know, it's the same thing. The men sperm production goes on. And I think when you mention the woman, that's why it's so important that women think about this and freeze eggs if they're not, if they're going to postpone having kids. It's just men can't, well, you can freeze sperm. Do you recommend it? We don't because, you know, it's not the same thing where they're going to stop. You know, women are going to stop. Are their eggs are going to have increasing genetic abnormalities and they can't change it much earlier than men. When do you, would you say that around 60 is when that sperm quality changes? I think it starts over 50. I think it becomes a significant problem over 60. What about erectile dysfunction and infertility? Right. Do you or those really? It's hard to have a baby if you can't have a child. I know. We're getting very basic here. Yeah. But would that be, so if someone has erectile dysfunction and you would say that's a marker of their health and probably an indicator of sperm quality? No. Okay. Totally unrelated. Great. I think a lot of the time when we see problems with erectile dysfunction, it's blood flow problems. You know, when you look at the actual physiology of the erection and the blood flow problems to the testists are much, much different. Not that there are in some, but totally unrelated to the blood vessels who go to the penis. So we don't really think in this field, we don't think about the two being very closely related, except for the fact that it's very frustrating trying to have a baby if you can't get an erection, which does happen a lot of times just because so much pressure. Hmm. Well, again, you've been doing this for a long time, so they definitely know where to come to you to talk about it. But we don't have to keep emphasizing the long time. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. That's okay. That's okay. What about when an individual uses testosterone? How does that affect testosterone and or other antibiotics? We have antibiotics like, androloin, andabolic agents like, androloin, what about things like, androloin, what about things like, androloin? So number one, what impact does testosterone have on fertility and then the followup would be what about other antibiotic agents? So I think you have to just keep them all together. They're all going to do the same thing. What they do is they turn off the production of FSH and LH from the brain that are essential for sperm production. So yes, it's a problem. And I tell men when I give them testosterone regardless of their age, I tell them, look, this is going to lower your sperm count. Maybe it's going to make it go to zero. So I said we can treat it. And I give them something called HCG, which is LH to take while they're taking testosterone, offered to every man. Because when you take testosterone, you turn off your own production. And when you turn off your lower significantly and when that happens, the testicles get smaller. Now I love gifts and women love gifts. And I'm so grateful for the gift that keeps on giving. And that is one of the sponsors of the show, Cozieroth, hey guys, need some more towels. They make world-class sheets, towels, and PJs. They are the softest that I have ever tried. Cozieroth's bamboo sheets are breathable, temperature regulating and let's say if you're in menopause, not to mention parents. If you are trying to teach your children chores, the more you wash these sheets, the softer they get. Trust me, I've been practicing with my almost six-year-old. They have enhanced fabric, a durable weave fabric that won't pill, and it's guaranteed for 10 years. That's more than I can say for most things. They're also from responsible production. Still on the fence, try Cozieroth, risk free for a hundred nights. Love it, or send it back, no questions asked. Plus, every bedding product comes with again, a 10-year warranty for long lasting comfort. Make sleep a priority. I know that I'm trying to. Is it Cozieroth.com and use my exclusive code, Dr. Lyon, for up to 40% off, Cozieroth's best selling sheets, towels, PJs, and more? That's Cozieroth.com slash Dr. Lyon or use the code, Dr. Lyon. And if you happen to get a post-purchase survey, tell them that I sent you. And a lot of men don't like their testicles shrinking, right? Not a good luck. Not a good luck. Oh, I tell them if they don't want that once a week, give yourself a shot of HCG. It's not expensive. Once a week, as opposed to three times a week. But three times a week if you're trying to get sperm production for just maintaining size for some crazy reason, once a week does it. Because it only lasts for 48 hours. But that single pulse, once a week, does manage to obviate the shrinkage that you get from turning off, get out of tropans. What dose do you typically start? So I usually start 15 international units, sub-Q, once a week. 15 international. 15 hundred. 15 hundred. When did you start utilizing testosterone therapy? So we had a Morgan taller on the podcast. And I mean, it's not right now pretty much testosterone therapy is not off limits. But it seemed like it was for a very long time. Off limits or discurry? I mean, I don't know. I mean, since I've been in the field, it's never been off limits. It's just been cautionary. But did people believe that if you were to offer testosterone that it would give individuals prostate cancer? Yes. But I mean, when I got involved in the field, first of all, the fertility was first. The testosterone and the erectile dysfunction came on later as patients realized that it was all kind of the innermitly related one way or another. So with the testosterone, when I started using it, AAP had already started publishing things like you can take it and you're not going to get prostate cancer. So I'll tell you there is a study that he and I did showing that you could take testosterone if you have prostate cancer and that's not going to get worse. And he and I just happened to be at the same course. And I started mentioning that I have these patients that I'm treating and he said, well, I have these patients that I'm treating. That's a publicit. So that was the publication showing that you could still take testosterone and not hurt your chances of prostate cancer getting worse. That I mean in my mind, that's landmark. Yeah, I mean it was a really important finding. It was kind of serendipitous that we both did it the same time and that we both talked about it at the same time. And that has led to many other publications that are similar. You know, I'm really curious as to what you feel and you know, I'm just kind of a weird question, but you know, I look at my long-time mentor and his name is Dr. Donald Laman, the individuals that listen to this, know him very well and really his contribution. He's had many but his biggest contribution was that determining loose scenes impact, the amount of loose scenes impact on skeletal muscle which really shaped went on to shape how we think about nutrition and muscle mass. And I'm just curious from your perspective as someone who has been very innovative in the field. What do you feel that your base contribution has been? Oh, I don't know. I know. It's a tricky. It's just something I've never thought about. I mean you've been, I mean, I'm sorry. How many fellows have you trained? Over 100. That's not, that's like a side road. I know, again, we're just chatting. Yes, we're just chatting. But I mean, I think I'd have to think about what I think my biggest. I think, and I think you brought up something very interesting. I think my biggest contribution has been my fellowship because we've sent people out there now to all your major academic centers who are now training their people. So it's been kind of like a family building type of thing. So yes, let's go with training other fellows to carry on to kind of the same message. Yeah. I like that. I like that. It's really important paying it forward and you do publish quite a bit and you've published hundreds of papers. But I believe in this is one of the reasons I was so excited to have you on is the way that you think about things and then teaching that to the fellows and really thinking outside the box. You do teach a lot of your fellows about peptides and other anaabolic agents, which I've been a physician for 20, almost 20 years and I think that that is unusual. And what do I think is unusual about it? There is testosterone, which is, you know, really have this legacy. But peptides and other anaabolic agents, I think are very important and I'll start with the anaabolic agents. Things like wind straw, and androloin. But I think we have to preface this discussion with the fact that these are not FDA approved for the most part. Now, out of our is. Now, gelone is FDA approved. Yeah. So we're using some of the things we use are proven to be effective, but they're not proven to be 100% safe. Hence now FDA approved. If that matters to somebody. I mean, to me as long as I am carefully monitoring the patient, you know, you're doing regular bloodshacks, looking at blood pressure, amatic, great, et cetera. I don't care that it's not FDA approved because I'm doing what they would have done had they sent it out for some type of approval. But on the other hand, I think I don't think I don't think it should be used without this. Cavalierly. I agree with you. Yeah. When you do remember when you started using other kind of anaabolic agents and how can we preface this, how can we bring the conversation to a place where we help people understand that anaabolic agents and we can decide whichever ones you would like to talk about, are there are ones that are safe. They are very similar. For example, testosterone. We know pretty much what it's safety side effects. Yeah. And then naturalone FDA approved. We know what it's safety profile is. You're still somewhat of a stigma, even though I think that these agents can be very valuable. I'm going to pass it over to you. But I agree. I agree. I think they're useful. And I think you have to be careful. So historically what happened, I was treating men only with testosterone deficiency, the older man, low testosterone, satisfied the endocrine society and the AUA's criteria of lower than 300 nanogram, but that's the leader around prior to 11 AM and following it by the book. And then I started realizing that you know what a lot of it didn't make sense to me. Why was I not treating a man whose testosterone was 200 in the afternoon if his testosterone was 400 in the morning? He was still low in the afternoon. I don't know how you feel about this. It just didn't make sense to me. I feel the exact same amount. Because if they have classic symptoms of low testosterone and they have an afternoon 200, he should be treated. But that goes against the party line. So whoever is listing has to understand that. That is not mainstream. But I would think it's becoming much more acceptable. And then as I got into that, I think I started attracting people who were fringy in terms of low-t, for instance, athletes who were on testosterone, who wanted other things. My rule is and still is, I'm not going to treat somebody who comes in on testosterone. If they don't have historically a low testosterone and I want to see that lab slip. Because otherwise, I'm acting as a store. Right? I'm selling. And I don't want to be a store for combating pharmacies. So I'm very careful about who I treat. I'm not going to treat people just because they show up. Have you said that the majority of these people that you see who look so healthy and so ripped in the gym will tell you at one point they had low testosterone. And they'll show you the lab slip. So you can't just assume someone is taking something frivolously until you look at their history because they may actually come from a low testosterone background. And when someone comes, they have low testosterone they're treated. And I am curious, you know, I have a former patient of mine. I think he listens to podcast, Brandon, amazing young man. You know, low testosterone, you could see in their 20s. I will come back to the age at which you treat when did you first start seeing other anaerobic agents? Because in the HIV community, they were using, oh, they were using them all. Anabolic agents to prevent death from. Can it be a, an anemia? We're seeing an anemia. Muscle wasting? Yes. They're all being used. So when did you start to use it in practice? Obviously very safely. And how do you administer it now? How long have you been using other anaerobic agents? So I would say I've been using them since I started working with compounding pharmacies. Because the compounding pharmacies were making them. Whereas if I just want to see the S. Walgreens, I would never even have heard of them. And the compounding pharmacies I use are the best. I mean, I've, I've toured them. I'm thoroughly impressed by everything they do. And the thing that you don't realize. And I didn't realize. Empowers probably won. I mean. Empowers. So, but I will get back to that. But anyway, these pharmacies who are compounding have to get their raw material from FDA approved facilities, albeit China and India. So it's not like they're getting a bad drugs from Mexico and then selling them by makes it. It can be the alternative. Yeah, but they're using pharmaceutical grade materials. Or else I wouldn't use these pharmacies. You started using anaerobic agents when compounding became available. So how long ago was that? I mean, I mean, I need to think 20 years. You've been using anaerobic agents. Maybe 15 or 15 or 20. I started with Empower pharmacy shout out to Empower. We've had just, you know, Sean, I'm a huge. He's been on the podcast of Sean Norian. Has he been on? Yes. Yes. So I was, by the way, one, I just want to say that there was the mass media is talking about how they were getting rid of, of Zembeck and all of this stuff in none of us, true. Right. And that is why Sean and I spoke because of it. And again, now you are coming on the podcast, talking about the positives of a company environment. But let me tell you, when I'm that Sean Norian, he had a facility in a strip center. So that's, that was, he could tell you when that was. That's what started me. Actually, the first prescription I ever used from a compounding pharmacy was from him. And through the years, they started adding more as they added more. I used more because they became available. And I don't know whether you've ever toured their facility. But it is mind blowing the sophistication they have there. And the goal is to be at the level of a major, of big farm and company. I mean, we're not talking about a little mom and pop shop. We're talking about really sophisticated manufacturing. And is that what brought your interest in antibiotics? Yes. I think it's a really, there is no one better to have this conversation with, which is why I want to talk to you about it. It is not commonly used in, andrology practices or your all just practices. Not commonly used across the board. And I think that they are life saving and life changing. And you, from my perspective, have been one of the first doctors to use it. Well, I think the one of them, for example, to use it legitimately. Yes. And carefully. I mean, every one of my patients, if they're on any of the, I don't know what you would call them. They're antibiotics, sure. But so is testosterone. I would say the more, what word would be used? And are antibiotics. I mean, they're antibiotics. If it's testosterone. Right. But it's more anthropogenic versus antibiotic. No. They're more cutting edge. I don't know. But the point is, all those people are seen three times a year. And every time, yes, at least, if not four, it's three or four. And they get carefully screened every time. And for the ones that I have any concern for, they go to the cardiologist for a complete checkup before I continue treatment. But is it fair for someone to come in and say, Dr. Lipschults, I've had low testosterone. I can prove to you I've had low testosterone. I have been on testosterone. I feel good. Do they say I'd like to improve my muscle quality? How does one go? And for what reason from testosterone to an agent that is anaerobic, to build muscle versus cutting? Where do you think that it becomes okay and effective? And I'll give you my thoughts too. Yeah, but okay. Safe to use. I'm safe to use if the doctor who's prescribing it understands what he's supposed to be checking. You know, I think if we're giving out the message, it's safe for anybody to write this, these drugs, it's wrong. It's only safe to write them if you understand what you need to be monitoring because they're potentially dangerous because of elevated hematocrit changes and lipids, changes and estrogen. You really got to watch that. So I really have a patient who come and uses the word I want to build muscle. They'll usually say, I'm trying to bulk. You know, bulk, which means they're trying to get bigger for whatever purpose. And you know, everybody has their own reasons and I don't want to get in. I don't want to personally with them try to understand where their mindset is. But I don't have a problem with that if they're doing it judiciously, if they're healthy, but I don't want them taking up the room in my office of patients who are really hypergonatol. So you have to be careful when you get into this area that you don't open the door to patients who really don't need your care. I mean, I want my patients to be serious about their health because you can look great and be terribly diseased inside. Yeah. So my patients have to be really health oriented. And don't you agree? I'm sure you have a question. I do. And I also believe that there should be an equal playing field. For example, if someone could come into my office or your office and say, I want to lose fat, then they should equally be able to come into an office and say, I want to build muscle. And I think there should be quite frankly a significant significantly less stigma around these agents because I think that they are transformative for people if they are used safely. And you know, when we talk about that, there are things like Ann of Ar, which, you know, we personally don't use in the clinic, but I know that it has been after you proved does it. That's right. No. And I don't do it for this reason, but I know a lot of the doctors who treat women do use low dose at a bar. They do. Increasing lean muscle mass. They do. But you don't. Because, again, you know, we could, but there are, you know, it's an oral agent. There can be changes in lipids. And not just lipids, but liver function. Right. I think they're a bad choice. They can never see, maybe one patient who had elevated enzymes from out of our. But it has a bad reputation, but I just don't see it. And the other thing is, you know, I'm not just trying to build muscle mass. I'm also treating the fat. Oh, yeah. I mean, so, you know, we make, we do a lot with the, with the, some of gluteides and tears up a diet to try to get a balance. But, you know, if you want to look better, if you want to get leaner, let's get rid of the fat and not just look at building the muscles. So we try to do it all for these patients. So they don't have to keep going from doctors. You know, absolutely. When, when will a patient and how would you start? But I got to say, I don't like the reputation of being a doctor who can write antibiotics to your rights, because you, you can attract a lot of people. You don't want to your office. Yeah. And that's how you have to be careful. Yeah, I'd be careful. But also, I mean, quite frankly, I would say you do not have that reputation. Right. I mean, you have a, come from an academic background. Well, I think that's what makes it different, right? Because a lot of the things we do, we look at research wise and academically to make sure that what we're doing is not only safe, but innovative and has positive outcomes. So a lot of the, a lot of the patients we see, the data we use to, you know, actually write papers, give abstract. Well, speaking of that, you know, we're publishing a paper on muscle mass and sexual function. I heard that. Yeah. I'm excited about that. I'm going to be presenting it. Where? At the Enderations Society. Oh, good. Yeah. Maybe you'll come to the talk. So if you're in the front row, it'll be very nervous. Yeah, I'll be there. Um, also, you know, you'd mention that you don't like this idea that they would come in and just say, hey, I want to bulk up or build muscle. But I would also argue and I think you agree with this that we have to protect muscle masses. They age. Yeah, I'm sure. And I don't know a better way to do it. Yes, you can do diet and exercise. But from, again, my perspective, and I would love to hear yours, is you, it is nearly impossible to do with an aging individual without some kind. And again, unless they are a monster in the gym and I've always been that it's not that these anaerobic agents are just for aesthetics. That is absolutely not true. You know, it's so interesting you mentioned this because I saw somebody today was like 56. And he was complaining about his inability, even though he works out five days a week, each right to put on muscle. And I'm telling you, it is very difficult for men. Thank you to one of my all-time favorite products, my opinion. Made by Timeline. If all companies operated with such scientific rigor and integrity, the entire supplement landscape would be changed. Why I love and have used mitochondria forever is because I trust their science. I have felt stronger. I have had more endurance since being consistent with mitochondria. mitochondria is a precise dose of the post-biotic urlithin A. It works by promoting an essential cellular cleanup. It clears out dysfunctional mitochondria. It is the only urlithin A supplement on the market clinically proven in human trials to target the effects of age-related cellular decline. Please sign me up. And from my perspective, it is the ultimate in muscle health and whole body health supplement. The current human data supports its benefit from muscle health, strength, endurance, like I mentioned, think about what Dr. Lipchul is saying. The stronger you are, the better. I wish that I'd come up with it myself. Timeline is offering 10% off your order. Go to timeline.com slash lion. That's timeline.com slash lion. Get 10% off or use the code lion. L-Y-O-N. Over 50. I don't know about women. For men over 50, it is very difficult. And speaking as one to put on muscle mass, no matter what you do, it's just really, really hard. And I think you can do what you can't, but you have to judiciously use out of ballicagions. Tell me about that. When you just can't go, crazy like you could when you were 35 because your body, other things going on in your body, you have maybe borderline, diabetes or blood pressure issues. You don't want to take in stuff that's going to retain water and bump up your blood pressure. And that's one of the problems with some of the antibiotics. Can we talk, I know you like to kind of bunch them together, but are you comfortable with us separating a few of those agents, so say me. Timed depends. Well, as your comfort is, what would you say the best choice would be? You've got testosterone on board. What would you or next choice be for a man who wants to bulk? Because you don't see any women? No, well, forst, kidney sons. But if he's already taking testosterone and he has a decent blood level and he's, I would really worry about his diet. I'm not so anxious to add a second agent. I'm telling you. I'm short. Well, how do we know? Problem because the, the guy, and I'm telling these men, go get a trainer, go get someone who has a really good reputation as a trainer, let him work with you or not only your diet. I mean, I don't know your exercise, but also your diet. If you're not eating right, you're not going to build muscle. Right? Yes. I'm preaching to the choir. You know? That's true. But I think that's a big fallacy. I think the over 50 year old male thinks they're going to come and get something magic and there's nothing magic. Ah, I see. Right. I actually, I see that in clinical all the time that people will want testosterone and they believe that testosterone alone. I think we see this in the menopause community where they will go on hormones and they will expect a body composition transformation. That is not going to happen. Right. And in the man, they're going to make it, they think. And I don't think it's, I think it's generally thought. Like testosterone builds muscle. Wrong. You've got to do something. It's a building block. You've got to do something to make the wall, build the ability blocks. Or else, you're going to, you can't take a shot of testosterone, sit on the couch and watch TV. Nothing's going to happen. No, increase in lean mass. I don't think so. Do you? I mean, I don't think so. And it may be different with men and women. But I don't think guys get a whole lot of positivity, except now let me change that. If we're talking about libido, if we're talking about a sense of health, yes, but not muscle mass. I think muscle mass requires exercise. Yes, I would agree with that. What would you, so an answer to your question before I jumped to a second agent, I would want that individual to absolutely prove to me that he's doing everything you can to optimize his diet and his exercise. And then if still nothing's happened, then maybe add Deca, which is natural. Natural, natural, natural, natural, natural, natural. Landryl, I'm decano eight because it's going to get those muscle fibers pumped up a little bit. I would also want them to do testosterone,cipient eight and not an antate because I think thecipient eight holds a tiny bit of water. It does give you that fullness that these people are looking for. That is a positive reinforcement when they work out. I like that. Even if they're over 65 because typically we change our patients to an antate if they're older. I know. And it's probably smart, but depending what the patient wants, it's not going to give him, I don't think, as big of a change physically ascipient eight does. And if you look at the FDA, the FDA has approved testosterone and nantate at 0.5 in the Zia-stead injectable self-contained agent so that we know they are think that and it's been proven to be safe and doesn't have age limit. Well, it could be 65. So you're talking about the injection. You're talking about the auto injector people. They don't recognize that there is an auto injector of testosterone for those people that don't like to do intermuscular. And you never see the needle. Yeah. And you don't even press a plunger because the pressure of putting it against your abdomen releases the needle. It's just wow. Yeah. That's amazing. It is. And it's not for women. It's from what I understand the doses. Well, it's 0.5. It always comes less. Interesting. Yes, you can get 0.25. Okay. We'll have to look at that. And someone comes in, do you have a starting dose of testosterone? And I don't want to ask questions that anyone could look up. And I also don't want to give information that someone's going to write down and go back and do it. And they have a problem here. Well, Dr. Lipsle said that was interesting. So anyone listening to this? There are disclaimers everywhere. We are not giving medical advice. We are simply giving education. Okay. Just say no. We're not. People should not be taking this. People should be learning and thinking about how some of the best. And I hope what we say creates questions in people's minds as well as knowledge. You know? Mm-hmm. The, again, that's one of the things that I really respect about you is I think that you are always learning. You frankly, probably don't have to be in practice. Many, you could be like golfing or something. But you're out there still contributing. I don't know if I like that statement. I'm sorry. But it's true. We're already BFFs. You love how I decorated that piece. I mean, that's it. You're stuck to me. I know. The animal agents, you start with Deca. My understanding that it's 50%. The use, so Testosterone is, for example, 200. Now Dr. Lung would be 100. That's mine. That's how I do it. I always, I learned well. I always have the Deca for the Testosterone. Is there any evidence? No. That's not. That's not. Well, the evidence is there's a, there's a, people have, for a long time said that the use of Nandrolone, Deca no wait, can cause erectile dysfunction. And I think it's the way it's metabolized and interferes with your DHT. So what I like to do is to keep it lower than the Testosterone to try to safeguard against any effects like that. And I've never had a patient complaining of ED on Deca ever. How is it metabolized differently than Testosterone? It's because I think the molecule, and I am not good at this. But the way that molecule is constructed is very, because it has a side chain, then makes it act differently and makes it degraded differently. And it somehow interferes with DHT, which is important for sexual production. Function. So it doesn't increase DHT, it lowers DHT. That's what, I don't know. It's, it's fascinating. What do you, what do you, so we see, what I use your formula, when we use 50% if not lower, I might even start lower. Yeah. I do not have patients that come in with a rectal dysfunction from that nor have I ever had a patient. No. That has it. But you will hear in sport performance realms that they, I don't even want to say it, what it's called. I know. I don't. Because we don't do jokes like that. But you know what I mean. It seems to, if used to high of a dose, it can cause a rectal dysfunction. Right. See, I mean, if the theory is, it causes too high DHT, I don't understand. Yeah, I don't know. It would make sense. Yeah. So we need to, we need to fact track that. Do you have your people? Yes. They could, hey guys, if anyone wants to drop that to me, go ahead and look that up. So the question is, does Nandrolone increase or decrease DHT? Exactly. And what would be the potential cause of rectal dysfunction? You mean, uniquely related to a rectal dysfunction? Yeah, I think it's really fascinating. I'd like to tell you all the bodybuilders in the gym now. Right. I know. We don't know. What would you be comfortable with for a dose? So if someone is thinking, I, you know. I think it's, to me, my dosing is very age-related. I'm not going to give somebody 60, the same dose I'm going to give somebody 30. But with every reason? I just, I just don't want to deal with the potential side effects in an older man. Of a lot of water. Especially water. Water, that's mainly water retention, blood pressure changes. What about effective lipids? You know, I was talking to Nelson Virgil and he was discussing, he was looking at, I mean, this guy, he has all of the papers. I know you know, I know. I know. Just wonderful. But it seems to not affect lipids in a negative way. Is that true? Which you see in Nandrolone? I don't know. But I can tell you for sure, men on steroids have lower HDL and higher LDLs. I want to speak to the lipid specialists. They can't tell me why, but I know it. And I, you know, I used to, well, maybe it's because they don't do enough cardio. Maybe because they don't take, you know, fish oil. There's something about the compounds that somehow interfere with cholesterol metabolism. Do you have concerns about that? If you see that, do you? Yeah, I don't tell them, I don't take them off. I said, look, I want you to increase your cardio, which a lot of them don't want to do. And I want you to start taking, I like CriLoil because it doesn't give a fishy after taste. And I think it's more potent than fish oil. So that's what I like. And I tell them to get it and start it. The, and do you see the improved? I do see it improved. I don't always see it go to where I wanted to go. But I've seen it in single digits. Really? Single digits? Single digits. And the HGL of nine. Oh, yes. Okay. Why are we talking about this? Because both Dr. Lipschulton, I, you know, with very careful monitoring, use very safe doses of testosterone and various agents. And we monitor the agent's and there's an indication for use. You know, I believe these agents can be used for sarcopenea. And they can be all you safely. How do you rectify that? Do you find, those men, I have to, I have to decrease doses. Right. Do you find that it changes? Yes. It's only going to change for the positive. The thing that I can't control. And I'm sure you know this well. There are a lot of boutique drugs out there that I can't even tell you the names of that primarily animal steroids that that these men are. Without a trombone or something like that. Yeah. Well, I don't know trombone, but I don't know, equi, equi, and maybe, master own. But I can't control what they take and I can't control the doses. But there's a philosophy amongst people who are trying to change their physique that if a little is good, a lot is great. And I have no idea what they're taking. I tell them, hey, look, you got to tell me what you're taking or I can't take area because you know, I can't be giving you something when you're taking, you know, pounds of something else. But that's where I think the problem is because the people who I think come in with these outrageously abnormal age deals and LDLs are on a lot of things that we cannot control. Hmm. The, I don't think you would see it in women as much. I think they're fair. I mean, I, you know, frankly, I don't see really bodybuilding women and I don't see them using all kinds of things. But what I will say is that, you know, the men that I have seen and I used to have more bodybuilders who don't really sell much in the practice. But what I saw was that they would be taking very, you know, before they were patients really high doses of testosterone. And when I say, hi, let me qualify that anywhere between three and six hundred a week. Oh, no, that's low. I would, they're taking a gram. I mean, it is crazy. And the question becomes when an individual, this is amazing because nobody else sees patients that have been on that train. And when I say, no, but I mean, you are probably one of the only doctor, I mean, these guys are not going to the doctor. Yes. I mean, I don't see patients that are doing that. And they've been on, let's just, let's pick a moderate number. Let's say we're doing three and six hundred. Which by the way, you and I would never prescribe that. Potentially, I don't know. But I would never. If they were taking 600 milligrams of testosterone a week. If they said, Dr. Lipshelts, I need you to take over my care. You measure their blood levels in a trot. They, I don't know, are not. They have all the signs and symptoms of low testosterone. Would they then feel okay, could you go from six hundred for years? And then now say, well, we're not going to go over 200. Will they still have the same effect? So what do you do? I mean, we, we compromise. I mean, so we have to go back to my basic philosophy, which should not be used by other people to do this. They hear me. Yes. And that is, I don't care that much. What their serum testosterone is. I'm treating their symptoms. And I'm not talking about muscle mass. I'm not talking about symptoms fatigue. I can't sleep. You know, I'm not building any muscle mass. I have no sex drive. It may take more than 200. It may take 400. I'm treating the patient. I'm looking at the side effects. But I'm not focused on their blood levels. I am for the things that can hurt them, for their hematic rate, for their estrogen, for their lipids. I'm not focused on their serum testosterone. I don't. That's what I think that's unfair. But also, I'm concerned. Everybody's different. Being in it. And everybody's receptors have different sensitivity. Maybe this man has a very poor, andren receptor sensitivity. And he can't utilize his testosterone as well as the guy sitting next to him. We just don't know. We do measure anders in receptors now. Is that the category piece? Yes, the age of repeats. And I think that's going, if we did it on a regular basis, which we don't, we should. Because it would help us guide dosing. Right? I think it would be really helpful because right now, the standard of care is pretty much you have to keep testosterone within 300 as low. You have to keep, is there a number that you would feel comfortable? I mean, the lab value, if it's over 1200, you know, of total testosterone, you are now outside the normal range. Right. Free testosterone, depending on the lab, I don't know, could go where would you save that? Well, I mean, I would say testosterone. But whatever my lab's range of normies, I don't care. But I think the thing to realize is that these values about keeping it in with this range are so arbitrary. What do we do? How do we close the gap between what is being done for people now? And the gaps in care potential. And here's what I mean, as I know, that's where you're going. Yeah. See, we're like, we're, we're, we're, we're on the same way. Yeah. That an individual for all, in terms of purposes is symptomatic on low testosterone. They have symptoms of low testosterone. Exactly. However, classic symptoms, which are fatigue, low libido, low energy. Difficultly sleeping. Difficultly sleeping. Mental fogging. Keep going. What else you got for me? muscle loss. muscle loss. What do you got? Hair loss on their legs. Is that one? But I know with guys. All right. Okay. Well, anyway, you, as are any other major symptoms? Not that I can. Okay. But their total testosterone is 700. Yes. And their free testosterone is, I don't know, we'll just say it's, what's a good number. 250, I don't know. I don't measure free unless the individual is, be the borderline. And their symptoms are out of line with his total. But for, the, the, the, the, the, the, the possibility of this, this conversation. Right. It's normal. You're saying it's free as it's normal or high. Okay. But they feel like crap. Exactly. And you and I both know that maybe their, their anti-undergent receptor density, they are someone who has wavy low endrugine receptors. Right. Let me, let me throw out something else, has a possibility. What if sleepa, me, they're not sleeping. So they have fatigue. They can't put on muscle. They feel like crap. They don't have sex dry. Get a sleep study. We do a tremendous amount of sleep studies on my patients. I actually, have been using honey for about a year, But not just any honey, and this episode is brought to you by the honey that I use, which is Manikura. When I've had a long or taxing day, which feels like every day, and I need some extra fuel, I turn to Manikura. I think of Manuka Honey as a functional carbohydrate. It's not just sugar. It's packed with prebiotics and antioxidants that support digestive health and your immune system. So it's serving a dual purpose. Not just adding empty carbs and one of my favorite ways to enjoy it is with apples, with my family, and of course peanut butter. We use this incredible honey in teas, especially when someone has a sore throat because of its powerful medicinal properties. Honestly, we use it anytime we need a natural sweetener. You can check out their website to learn more, head to Manikura.com slash doctor lion to get $25 off the starter kit, which comes with an MGO 850 plus Manuka Honey jar, 5 honey travel sticks, a wooden spoon and a guidebook. You guys will absolutely love this incredible honey. Okay. I don't think a man's symptoms with a normal testosterone makes it my responsibility to figure out why he's not responding, but rather what else is going on, what's his thyroid doing in a less. But let's see all that's perfect. And if we zone it. Are you creating an impossible situation? No, because we have cases, we do. And I, because I don't measure cataropedes, I personally don't feel comfortable going outside of the limits. But I would send them for a sleep study. We send all our patients to sleep. Take up stuff. Yeah. And or this would be a case of an individual that has poor androgen receptor density. And the point I'm making is that how do we manage that? And you know, because we have very clear guidelines. This is the testosterone that you can treat 300. This would be considered high testosterone. This would be considered elevated hemoglobin, hematocrit. You send them for blood drop, but they don't feel good getting 200, 250 milligrams of testosterone. Everything else checked out because that is someone. Did they feel good getting 400 milligrams? Probably good. Let's do it. Let's say they do it. I would not bother me. It would not bother you. But for everybody, every other physician who was not, I'm not saying that you've been in the game long, OG, but I'm sorry. Well, I did it out. But how was precosis? But how do we, how do we rectify that? We don't. I mean, we come to grips with the fact that everybody's level of normal is not the same. That some people require more. And that as long as they don't have any side effects that are concerning, why not go higher? Why not follow them closely? Let's see, this is a bad message to people who are watching the podcast. No, it's not. But I think it is. It's a conversation in here's why. Is that there is more to this story than just the testosterone given at X, Y, and Z is what it should be. And it's not the message. I think this is a really important conversation because I think the science can evolve. And I also think that we've been boxed into a corner by existing guidelines. And I really do. And I don't think the guidelines are based on taking care of patients. They are based on avoiding problems. There's a big difference. You have patient safety, but you also have patient care. And what is your, if your patient is suffering, and you can make them better. No, safely. Why not you make them better? No, I know. And I feel this way about the use of these and to be clear, the conversation is, my intention was to talk to you about things that nobody else would see, have answers to. Or talk about, or talk about what they're fear of getting in trouble. Right. But every, I mean, these are your unique gifts and skills that I think, again, that this is the whole goal. But I think it's what I have is an evolving philosophy on care, temperate by what works in patients and the lack of serious side effects. That's how I got to where I got. I think it is extraordinary. And I think it's important. And the message isn't, okay, take a whole bunch of steroids. That's not it. It's understanding that perhaps we are not where we need to be in the realm of understanding hormonal placement. And this is beyond hormonal placement. Right. And the other thing I want to bring up before I forget, perhaps this individual would be do better with micro dosing. Tell me about that. So I just see fewer side effects. Let's say I'm going to prescribe one CC. That's 200 milligrams. What if you take that 200 milligrams and divide it by seven? And I have that patient inject whatever them some, 0.15. Subcute, daily. I don't see that as much rise in hematicrit. And it don't see as much change in lipid. But there's this critical mass when these oil-based drugs can't be injected every day because you get too many blebs. So you have to keep the dose low. What I'm hearing you say is that if you dose, would you say how many days a week? It depends on what everything, five days, seven days, three days, whatever they want to try. I couldn't do it seven days a week. I think three days is reasonable, maybe five. Do you prefer the subcute dosing as opposed to I am? No, I don't prefer it. I think it's an alternative, it's patient choice. But if someone does a I am injection, they have more, there's a bump in hemoglobin hematicrit because there's a greater response for it. There's a big peak. Right. So if the individual comes back and says, you know, at one CC and we see this with elevated hematicrit, try subcute because you may not have to deal with it. And again, it's an individual response. That's that is fascinating. I typically, you know, I would just have them go donate as opposed to, which is, you know, perhaps in your chain of both. Well, no, I mean, I don't, number one, how is the science on elevated hemoglobin hematicrit causing an issue? I mean, if it's, do you think the science is there? Probably. If it really is an issue. So I keep all my patients, I try under 50% hematicrit. Everybody we see, we send in at the first visit. I donate a slip to Gulf Coast, blood bank and tell the patient if it gets above 50% they've got to donate. But we see them regularly. So we know when they need to go. And the other thing is because elevated hematicrit has symptoms. The patients start feeling fatigue and they feel draggy and they get headaches. So, you know, you gotta keep them. Now, if you speak to the hematologist, they say 54%. We like them under 50 just to be safe. And I know you don't treat women, but I will say there's no guidelines for females that are on testosterone and their hemoglobin hematicrit for them that would be higher would be different. Right. You know, I would, I mean, you know, I think it's safe to use the same guidelines. That is certainly what I hear. The other agents, do you want to talk about them? Because you also, when I say agents, you know, you are a scientist. I have to be very particular. You almost feel like I'm talking to my mentor of 20 years. He's very particular. He's like, what do you mean, what exactly? I mean, you will call me out as a matter. We can be on stage and he's busing my job. Right. Right. Right. Um, other agents, we can continue on the anniversary discussion. Um, if you would like because that is unusual, how you see individuals do sit if you have interest or we could talk about peptides. I would rather go to peptides. Okay. But I will give an intro that I don't know as much about peptides as I want to know. I have not used them that long. And I have not used a lot of the different ones as long. So let's read, I would rather in in depth revisit peptides in a year, only because but having saying that, I don't want people listening to think it's something to be avoided. I mean, I think they are potentially great additions to. Do you think they are? Family males regiments. What? Do you think they were? Yes. Well, I mean, listen, I was at, I don't know if you know this, but I go to the, um, what is the bark meeting? Yeah. I, I see you there. I know I'm joking. Of course. Like tacos or something. Right. So it's the, um, what is the stamp for the bealer? What's the other, um, anti-genology, uh, research group? Yes. Consortium. Yes. Consortium. I, I attend that. We don't talk about this at the end. Yeah, we did. We did. No. One of the fellows presented a paper and it was looking at you guys. We're talking about the data of the collected data of peptides. And if it was effective on testosterone to remember that, you know, back and you looked at the big data set and you did group all you guys grouped all the peptides together and basically you didn't find an increase in testosterone. It's, I mean, I never thought it would increase testosterone. Okay. But do you think that there are peptides that work? For example, mk677. So interesting enough. The m stands for Merck. Really? I didn't know that. It was, it was being developed at Merck. Uh, synchronic, simultaneously with cellobrex. They both came to fruition about the same time. Merck went with cellobrex, shelved mk677. My friend was the one that discovered it while he was there. And he discovered it by looking at whatever the ligand is that is useful for it. But it never came to market. Not never. Can you tell us a little bit about mk677? Seven. I can give you. You can be what? A little bit of my experience, but it's much less interesting to remember. Give me your experience. Mk677. I believe it's a growl, a growl in agonist. Makes people extremely hungry. Yes. It causes a significant amount of water retention. Yeah. And when I say a significant amount. Well, not in that. I mean, maybe women, more so. 10, maybe 10 pounds. We don't really see it. I never see it. We use it a lot for a women. If I ever see 10 pounds. And the reason individuals use it is they want to put on weight. Yeah. I couldn't tell you the mechanism of action. Growl in. Oh, that's right. A button beyond that if there was some other. I think that's the main thing. So you just eat more and you're just more hungry? Yes. Yeah. So that's pretty much it. But it doesn't uniquely put on skeletal muscle. No, you have to. Well, I mean, it's just like any other substance we've talked about. If you take it and don't do anything, it doesn't matter. It doesn't make any difference. But if you're trying to put on size. And you just, some guys just can't eat. And some guys are so ecumenophic that you see them when they're walking the door. I think it helps. And it also helps because we take it at bedtime. They sleep better. And they wake up the next day hungry. And then if it doesn't last all day, I'll give them a second dose early afternoon. What else do you use? What other peptides? BPC 157. The patients love it. They do. It's an anti-inflammatory. It's not available as injectable and oral. And the oral apparently, I haven't used it. It is really good for people who have bowel issues. Yeah. And inflammatory bowel issues. But the injectables to a man they swear by it. Do you think it's placebo? No. I don't because they can confidently say that it's an off-licy bowel. Yes. And they can also. They can also inject it. If they're elbow and the fatty tissue near the joint and massage it in, and they get a local response as well. And you feel like they're a great thing. I sound like a snake oil sales. No, we actually covered BPC 157 here. It'd be great to see some data about it. We've used it actually for inkling the clinic for 10 years, for a lot of the military operators. I just don't, from my perspective. Well, if you used it, it may have must have worked. I mean, I don't use it so much anymore. People ask me about it all the time. But again, as physicians, we get really interested in certain things. And potentially, we move to other things. What about an individual that has been on to what's I call it? I didn't say it. It's not a therapy. But not replacing therapy. What are you not replacing anything? Are you? Okay. No. That's not true. What do you mean? What are you replacing? Testosterone. But you haven't lost it. You're not making it, maybe. And the whole thing came from HRT. Right? Mm-hmm. Yeah. So, remember when Susan Summers and all the business about hormone replacement therapy in HRT, and it has to be bio-adentical. And women were taking Premoran and it was horse made from horse. As urine. Yeah, that was great. Yeah, yeah. Switch. Now they're using bio-adentical for testosterone, for estrogen replacement. Because they don't have any estrogen. They're menopausal women. You know, what that is a really good point. Nobody has a testosterone of zero. Right. That's my line. I mean, that's okay. The call it replacement. You're inferring that they don't have any. That's actually very smart. So you call it testosterone. Now, and I mean, it takes me. I got the word testosterone therapy from a Morgan teller. But I still think he does T.R. Cest T.R.T. But at the time, we had this discussion. And I thought it made so much sense not to use T.R.T. And then they have now the T.R.T. clinics. And you know. Do you get worried about people getting care from those kind of things? And I'm sure, in listen, I'm not, you know what? I'm not, I'm not in that question. Because you probably think there are good doctors everywhere. You just have to be careful. I don't like T.R.T. clinics. I don't like testosterone clinics. Because number one, they make people go in and get shots there. And they, if they tiny increases in doses to make the patients think it's going to do something. And they overcharge where the testosterone is just a, you know, a money maker. It's not patient care. I don't like that. You are very big in to patient care. Speaking of patient care. Is there an agent? I actually, I'm curious because again, I'm going to bring up Brandon. And I wish I had known you back then. I had a young guy come in. I want to say when I say young, he was probably late 20s. And he had low testosterone. He had low free and low total. I measured him on. No, we see it. We see it. But I was very early on in my practice. And I knew that he needed it. But here I am, you know, I might be fellowship trained doctor. But I wasn't trained in an neurology. I didn't have an neurology mentor. Now I do. But I sent him to an oconology. And they felt uncomfortable treating him because of his age. So nobody treated him. I mean, he was treated then. But how do we think about those, especially with these environmental exposures from an age perspective, one is too young to begin testosterone replacement. And yeah, I'm sorry testosterone is was pretty replacing. But therapy testosterone therapy. Well, I mean, you know, if they need it, we got to think about what we can do to make them feel better. So certainly, in adolescence, it don't yet have closure of their long bones. We don't want to give them testosterone because they're going to be short. So you know, maybe low dose HCG. So in high school, these kids that would be using testosterone that would close their bone plates. Growth plates. If they haven't closed. Kids you hear that? And that means also probably in college, their, their plates might not be closed. I don't know if people are still growing. I don't, I don't think all right, I can't even know if I don't. Okay. The, so you give HCG to jump start their own or ket, or inclamophane. Okay. Just emulate your own production to make it more physiologic. If someone has abused antibiotics or been on testosterone for a very long time, is there an ability to recover? To come off recover. Like a reboot protocol, some way to reboot their own production of testosterone. But I would think HCG, I mean, I have not seen somebody on it who wants to come off it. But there's no reason. I just want to get some of pregnant. Well, then that's totally different. If you want to talk about that, that's a totally different issue. Right? And we can talk about it because I think it's very interesting. Yes. But I'm going to first get some water. Yeah. Have we been going for it's 430 already? Yes. Can I, can I? Yeah. You can stretch your legs. You can tell me that you want to quit too. But I would have to bring you back for part two. You would have to what? You are so, I mean, I'm learning so much. Because you know what you're learning my, a lot of my stuff is opinions. It's not public science. But Dr. Lipschults, you have done something that very few people do. And I hope you understand my appreciation for that. Because I am a science communicator, which means I look to see what everybody is doing. And you've provided really meaningful innovation. You know, whether Dr. is doing this or talking about it or willing to think about it. Right. But it's also open to criticism. Do you care? No. Exactly. You have to be careful though in academics. Yeah. Maybe less so in academics and probably practice some kind. Because you know, we are doing things in a very academic way. We're just not throwing stuff against a wall and seeing if it's tax. Of course not. Nor would you. I promise I'll let you out of it. Are you good for just a couple more minutes? Yeah, because I have to go to the doctors. You do. Okay. So let's just wrap up on your discussion on you said it was important to reboot. To. Yeah. So let's just mention that if you just want to finish that, then we can run through scripts who love Mia come down and we'll like knock out some scripts. Do you have enough intro to go right to it? Yeah. We have to end it appropriately. No, this talk about the H.C.G. and the. Oh, yeah. Well, I'll ask you the question. Talk to me about individuals that have used antibiotics and I'm saying antibiotics to testosterone, which is an adult or other agents that now want to regain fertility. Right. And this is a very common problem. So what we do, first of all, we've changed our paradigm. Now anybody in their reproductive ears who comes in complaining of low tea, we get a cement analysis. As you know, sperm production, when it's impaired, it's often associated with poor testosterone production. Spur, production that is impaired is off. Okay. Because the testicles just not working with. So if someone's starting out with low cement quality, we don't want down the road, try to. Restimulate and get to a level where that individual never started. So I mean, what do you mean? In other words, I think people who come in with low tea when they're young are at risk or also having poor sperm production. So I want to know what they are before I give them tea. Okay. So when it comes time for them to have a baby, reestablished, I want to know what my target is. I mean, if their production is 10 million per mill, I don't want to try to stimulate them to 30 because they'd worn that way to begin with. I say, I say. But that's what we're doing now that's different. But before we did it, when people come in now, they haven't done that, the old technique was to take them off testosterone. Originally, just take them off testosterone. Well, that was terrible because they had no testosterone. They were miserable. They wouldn't stick to no testosterone. So what we then started doing is adding HCG with clomid and then later, which is what we're doing now, HCG with FSH. Because we found those two hormones, which are the essential hormones, for sperm production, we can give, we can give from the outside. You can purchase them. And then we can bypass the issue of trying to restimulate them. So the individuals will get pregnant faster. In addition, we found out we can also add back or allow them to stay on their testosterone because when you think about it, testosterone is bad for sperm production. Because it turns off FSH and LH. Right. Right. Well, if I'm giving the individual FSH and LH, why do I care if they're taking testosterone? Right? So, and we publish this and shown that it works. So now our individuals can stay on their testosterone. They don't have to go through any of the symptoms they came in for initially a blow testosterone. And yet they can re-establish sperm production back to their baseline. That is innovative. Do you do that need to lower the testosterone dose? You just give them LH and FSH and the Revol 2 maintained fertility? Yes. Wow. Dr. Larry Lipscholts, I could talk to you all day. And I would love to. But we all have other things. Well, I don't know. This is pretty important. But, you know what? We can come back again. We'll come back for... We can have part 2. Part 2 and you know... No son of. Yes. So grateful to you on the way in which you have really led the charge on a lot of this innovation. Really extraordinary. Yeah, well I appreciate your appreciation. Wow. I know. I know. I also hear a great interviewer. Very comfortable. Thank you so much. I appreciate that. And till next time. Yes, till then. We will not call it testosterone placement therapy. Never again. Dr. Lipscholts, thank you so much. And thank you. Thank you so much for tuning into this power of the medical conversation with Dr. Larry Lipscholts. If today's episode challenged what you thought you knew about men's health and fertility, share it with someone who needs to hear it. Partner, brother, friend. And if you're ready to take your health seriously, make sure you're subscribed so you never miss an episode. I'm Dr. Gabrielle Lyon. See you next time. Remember, strong bodies, strong minds, strong future.

Is it ideal to build muscle on a vegan diet? Does protein timing actually matter? And why does gaining muscle seem so hard? Even when you're training consistently and eating an aft. Keep high quality muscle mass. We need to ensure it's turning over, right? So with obese muscle, the quantity is there, but the quality is poor. Muscle protein synthesis isn't just about what you do. It's about when you eat it and how your body the efficiency absorbs it, how your hormones, their gut, and your body composition can change the entire equation. Really, the most important variable is consistency, right? Find something you enjoy that you enjoy going to the gym and do it, right? That's the most important. Dr. Nicholas Bird is one of the world's leading experts in muscle metabolism, especially obesity, how age and dietary patterns reshape the body's ability to build and maintain muscle. His research challenges a lot of assumptions that plant-based diets can't support strength, that protein timing doesn't matter, that more protein always equals better results. If you're an athlete or a midlife woman or just someone who wants to age with strength, this episode is for you. Because muscle isn't just about aesthetics. It's your metabolic body on the way you feed it matters more than ever. Let's break down what it really takes to make protein work for you with Dr. Nicholas Bird. Dr. Nicholas Nick Bird, I'm so excited to have you on. I've been following your work for years. That's right. I've like a celebrity sitting here. Yeah, that's me. What I think is so fascinating about your work, and I think the first time that you actually published on obesity and metabolic resistance in most of the 10 years ago, was it? I'm old. Yeah, but I'm looking at it for all, but it was so fascinating because in clinical practice, what I was seeing was that when someone was obese, I couldn't figure out why I just wasn't seeing that, again, this is anecdotal. I was very early on in my career. I couldn't figure out why it seemed as if they weren't responding. The same way, what did you call it, healthy lean or healthy weight? Yeah, healthy weight individualized. That's right. And throughout the years, I started thinking a lot about intermuscular adipose tissue, which I am very curious to hear your thoughts on, but really when we think about animal resistance and why I opened with that is ultimately an order for people to live well, healthy strong, they obviously need good muscle, not just from mobility and strength, but really from that metabolic perspective. And if they can't maintain it, or there is some challenge with training or nutrition, the opportunity to live well becomes somewhat to manage. And this is where your work comes in for intervention. Like when you look at obese muscle, the quantities there, but what my work is particularly showing in others as well, is that it's really a quality problem. So to keep a high, it's really important to live well, or aging strong, is always also another thing we're concerned with as well, is that to keep high quality muscle mass, we need to ensure it's turning over. So with obese muscle, the quantities there, but the quality is poor. And it's likely due to multiple factors mechanistically, as well as that enhancement of all that intramuscular adipose cells as you alluded to. And yeah, so we need to improve the quality and what interventions work, right? We tried to acutely kickstart the muscle, it didn't work, but doesn't mean training well, right? Because with everything, consistency, right? Consistency is key, right? So I can do during my dissertation with student fillups, we did all that load manipulation, right high load versus low load, all that good stuff, volume issues as well. But as we always say, you know, really the most important variable is consistency, right? Find something you enjoy that you enjoy going to the gym and do it, right? And that's the most important. I think with a B muscle, I think the consistency might be, might be the key even more so. I'm curious as to again, we probably don't know which comes first, is if someone has subcutaneous fat, is that the problem or is it really the level of lipids within and the placement and location of lipids within the skeletal muscle? And before you answer, I have to ask you this, because I would love kind of in your, uh, to frame it up in totality, what you're thinking. But if an individual is obese and let's say we define that as body fat percentage over, I don't know, 30%. Yeah, I mean, yeah, I mean, you know, BMI, but it is better to use percent body fat. Yeah, or BMI, how long does it take for them to be able to recover that tissue if ever, right? So for example, if someone becomes obese or is obese, then they lose weight. At what point do we see as they're an intermuscular, adipose percentage? And what point do they then revert if at all or ever? So if the listener is at home thinking, wow, I've been obese my whole life, I've never thought about that, or they're a kid, maybe kids don't listen to this. But parents do, if that is someone who is newly put on weight, fat tissue, where do we think in terms of the spectrum of what is possible for treatment? No, I mean, that's a good point. I mean, so this is probably within the last six years, this has been something we've been thinking about. In terms of when we're recruiting participants, it is something, I don't have a great answer for, but how long have they been obese, right? It's somebody who's just recently become obese, right, different than somebody who's been obese for a prolonged period of time, right? Even adolescent obesity. This is tiptoeing outside my area of expertise, just three interactions with colleagues and all comes back, that whole concept of epigenetic regulation, so your DNA is probably getting tagged, right? So remembering, so let's say you're as a child, right? You put on excess, out of post tissue, now you're putting different tags on your DNA, such that it remembers that, right? So once you lose that excess out of policy, you still remember it, right? That's a lot of pre-clinical work, so the road network suggests that concept of epigenetic memory, or, you know, so most, you're going to say muscle memory. Yeah, that's also a phrase of her muscle memory, as well, so that means I use it from a training standpoint too, so a lot of my colleagues tiptoeing around that area, in terms of stuff we've done, we try to think about it. I haven't, you know, in terms of a lot of our work is more, you know, we just make sure, and this is just something we've done, trivial, I don't have any evidence to say, least, you know, we're recruiting obese participants, at least for, you know, they've been obese for about a year prior, but that's a trivial number, or a trivial duration. I think it's interesting, I mean, it's something you got to think about, I'm experimentally, we think about it, rather there's this existence of, you know, that epigen, or that muscle memory in terms of remembering, hey, you know, what I've been, you know, my muscles been surrounded with all this excess fat, you know, when I was a young, and now, you know, I got old, found the gym, found better nutrition, I lost it. Maybe, but there's no denying that at whatever age, nutrition and exercise works, I'm sorry, right? And I guess, and there's no, you know, in this whole concept of responder versus non-responder, you know, like we say, there's no such thing as a non-responder to nutrition, no such thing as a non-responder to exercise, there's a variable responder, I agree with that assertion, but is that like, you know, obese? Yeah, I would say that, I mean, I'm sorry, nobody's not responding to food, you know what I mean? I think it's so easy to use that phrasing, but I do believe there's variable response responders, and then as we use more sophisticated analysis to understand what are these factors underpinning these variable responses, right? So, but also muscle protein synthesis. So, the muscle protein synthesis is animal response. I don't know if people understand muscle protein synthesis is somewhat of a proxy, would you, would you define it as a proxy healthy muscle for, and for the capacity for turnover for that response? Because it's not a, no, okay, this is, yeah, this is important. You know, I gave a presentation recently, you know, on this concept, and sometimes scientifically, I just, you know, when you live in Bris something, you just, you know, you just use sort of a given. So, you know, the first thing to understand is that muscle protein synthesis. So, what we study in the laboratory, it's, we're studying directly, right? So, your, your comment is it a proxy for something. So, so really what you're interested in, what we're thinking about muscle remodeling, right? Exactly right. Turn over, okay. Now, hydration isn't just about drinking Coke Zero or sugar free red bull. I'm saying that for a friend, or even drinking just more water, it's about keeping the right balance of electrolytes on fluids during life's most demanding season that matters even more than ever. So, for example, if you are pregnant or postpartum, your body is going through massive changes, blood volume, hormone shifts, breastfeeding demands, I don't know, crying kids, all of it, and this is a place where you need electrolytes. Like sodium, magnesium, potassium, element was formulated to replenish what you actually use without sugar, fillers, or junk. It's a clean, effective way to stay hydrated. For example, through pregnancy, postpartum and for men, hey, this isn't just for ladies, it's not just about hydration, it is about performance, recovery, mental clarity, and yes, energy, whether you are hitting the gym, chasing your kids or grinding through another workday, dehydration can quietly sabotage your focus. Element helps you stay sharp, strong, and ready. Weaves element because it works, and it tastes great. You can get a free sample back with any purchase. That's eight flavors. Go to drink DRINK LMNT.com slash Dr. Lyon. That's drink LMNT.com slash Dr. Lyon. Stay hydrated, stay strong. So, two parts of that equation is protein synthesis and protein breakdown. When you're thinking about which variable to trace, to try to predict muscle remodeling, an obese muscle, an aging muscle, protein synthesis, is a good variable to understand muscle protein remodeling because it's just moving the most. So, when we're looking at muscle protein remodeling, we're really defined by net protein balance. When you're in a positive state of remodeling, you're in a positive state of net protein balance. When you're trying to manipulate that equation, you want, obviously, to either turn on synthesis or minimize breakdown or whatever combination you want to do. Generally, even though we don't think obese people are healthy per se, but obese, I was almost going to say healthy. Oh, the obesity. Do you believe there's such a thing? Well, sometimes it's interesting because, you know, we'll study some of these participants who are, it depends what you're looking at, I guess, because sometimes we'll see somebody who is obese clinically, but yet there are glucose tolerances just, you know, just rock star. You know what I mean? Very normal glucose tolerance. Do you look at intermuscular out of position? We have imaging techniques to do it. I prefer, because I think you alluded to this earlier. It's such a dynamic question, right? So the location, the distribution, the size of that lipid droplet, how close to the mitochondrial is that lipid droplet? Is it tethered to that mitochondria? Right? So it's very complex. Yeah, so it's, you can get some of that stuff from advanced imaging, at least visually, but, you know, we like to get it in here as a reason. Yeah, because we're talking about animal persistence in obesity, and that's really defined by BMI or percentage. Yeah. And over the years clinically, I think that while we have these definitions based on large populations, yeah, if someone, let's just say, and this, and I don't mean to anger anybody who's listening, let's say a 25% body fat, that is not healthy for that individual. And then you see that so they're, you know, again, they whether it's, yeah, I think that's just simply saving like that. And that's why I wonder if an individual with various levels of fat within that tissue, which is very dynamic, like you said, there's characteristics of certain people, and this is where we need to define. What, what is the characteristics that are allowing animal persistence in obese muscle to be really strong? Or what are the characteristics that are making it be less relevant, the same with the loose-eaten threshold. What are the characteristics where that loose-eaten is really important, right? The older adults make sense, right? That usually when you have lessly mass, you probably have more, you know, greater fat mass, and you're just less sensitive. But the other, you know, that that concept of a young person with more lean mass seems to be a little more responsive, there might be better. You know, in animal persistence is, you know, if you were to say, okay, like, what's the linchpin of how we can move these people forward? Yeah. They have to eat 50% of Americans are not exercising. And I'm curious. So you, when you were talking about this study that you did, you gave them 36 grams of protein, and they didn't mount a response. Yeah, and that was just because, you know, we didn't have the money to do a dose response and obese muscle. And, right? And, you know, if you look at older adults, sometimes they need a little more, and a lot of the models we look at, correct? For like, you see that an older adult might need a little more food protein to initiate a big rise in my or for billioprootene synthesis relative to the younger counterparts. Well, you think some of the mechanisms of weird, I think about, you know, I'm really interested in this animal of persistence because very few people have studied it the way that you guys are studying it and have, what are some of the mechanisms of animal of resistance? Are they different in obesity versus aging? Yeah, it's out. Yeah, I guess that's, yeah, I got sidetracked a little bit. So, you know, animal persistence probably comes in very shapes and forms for one, right? So, you know, you and I are probably inducing some level of animal persistence when we, you know, through sedatory behavior when we sit here for a couple hours, right? But then beauty is we're going to get up and move around, right? That's a whole concept of exercise snacks, you know, getting up in every 30 minutes to an hour making sure we're doing some movement, to sort of ensure that we're not inducing some transient animal resistance. All right, so that's, you know, getting rid of that. But when we think about an older adult or older muscle versus a beast muscle, that was sort of my point. So, we fed that big bulls, 36 grams. Why? Because past, we shown that that's sort of been able to successfully overcome animal resistance with aging, right? And so, when we saw it with 36 grams in our original study, that was conducted by Joe Beals, when he's doing my PhD with him, actually he's at Washoe now too, has been there for a while with same client. But the fact we still showed it, I was like, wow, it's crazy. There's still resistance to that 36 grams of food protein. But when you sit back and think a little more about it, what do we know about an older adult, you know, an older adult, what do they have? They have muscle animal resistance, but they also have digestive animal resistance. Right? So, it makes sense when you can sort of one way to overcome that digestive animal resistance is maybe, or have they shown, eat more food protein, right? Overcom that digestive animal resistance to get enough substrate to the muscle to help robustly stimulate myorphabular protein synthesis. Right? What we know about an obese muscle or obese person, they don't have a problem, they don't have a digestive animal resistance. Right? So, feeding more and more food protein to a to obese adult makes zero sense because there's no issue there. The issues intrinsic to the muscle, right? We got to fix, yeah, we got to fix the muscle, right? And what are some of the problems? Well, you know, the first factor is probably poor capillary supply, right? They're struggling to get the nutrients there, right? The second one is probably, you know, that fact we can't get into or it's probably caught up in the in the sarco plasm. I can't get up to that hub very well. So, not only can it get up to that hub, the plasma membrane, but they don't have the capillary's there to support it, right? They have all that, you know, that intramuscular fat interfering, right? With the signals, right? And collectively, all those factors, you know, which comes first, I think you're sort of eluding to earlier. I don't know, is it the fact that's initiating all these problems, maybe, probably? With the muscle protein synthesis, you guys are measuring that when you say it didn't mount a response. What is it that you're just very simply? Sure. What does that mean? That's generally a good indicator of the net protein balance equation and then the subsequent remodeling response we're getting. And I like that you're pointing out that it's remodeling. It's not necessarily gross. Yeah, it's not a growth marker. That's a remodeling marker, right? Maybe for you, it's a, you know, it's a better predictor of growth. That sort of goes back to that variable responder. But for me, it's clearly not. But I think it's important point. It's an important because if someone were to look at the literature out there, the majority, unless they're done an expert and they're going because they want to learn more about it. And they like to spend their free time going on PubMed and it says muscle proteins synthesis. And I think in the social media landscape, that's people equate that with growth and high-peratured. And really, the majority of muscle protein synthesis, 250 to 300 plus grams is really with that turnover. Yeah, it's a remodeling marker. It's a remodeling marker. Yeah. Maybe five grams potentially a day, like I don't know, a day max. Well, the point is, it's like when we eat food, when we do, we turn on remodeling, right? Just sitting around eating food without exercise, you're not going to expand your myor for the live protein pool. But you're a remodeling because it's very important. We got to get rid of those old damaged proteins, replace them with new ones, right? The keep a healthy, you know, proteome. And that's the keep. Yes. The health and the ability to do that. Yeah, it's for. As an individual ages, potentially, or if there are obese, which brings me to this idea of resistance training. And some of your studies resistance training didn't necessarily boost muscle protein synthesis with obesity the same way that it does in lean individuals. If your sheets feel like a paper towel from a gas station bathroom, gross, it's time to upgrade. And I have been obsessed with cozy bamboo sheets. They're temperature regulating their guaranteed to give you a comfortable night sleep and air made from viscous from bamboo. They help me sleep several degrees cooler. And recent studies report cooler temperatures facilitate the body's natural drop in core temperature, which of course leads to faster sleep and improves sleep quality. Also, reduced risk of night sweats. So if you're an individual who's experiencing night sweats, such as someone who is undergoing menopause, these sheets are for you. And we partnered with cozy earth to bring you this episode. They've also offered you a hundred night sleep trial. You can try them. For free, the hottest nights of the year. And if you're not in love with them, return them. No questions asked. Super easy. They also have a 10 year warranty on all betting products. That's I don't know, a decade of cool sheets, high quality towels. You name it. So upgrade your night sweats and go to cozy earth.com and use the code Dr. Lyme for 40% off the best muscle in gerious sheets that I have ever tried. It's probably related to those. It's intrinsic problem. We got to fix some of those. What we can do about it. Consistency with exercise. Easy. Do you think over time? But that's fascinating. So I guess what you're saying is that in one hand, these are very discrete moments in time. Yeah. And that potentially over time does that tissue that response become more attuned to training? The phrasing sometimes I use is efficient. So protein efficiency. We can enhance the protein efficiency of our skeletal muscle tissue. And I think we can do the same by using resistance exercise in particular in an obese muscle. I think consistency with the resistance exercise will help correct some of these problems. Not saying we don't use endurance exercise to help, obviously. But I think resistance exercise is paramount. And one reason, when we think endurance exercise, it's a completely different animal than resistance exercise in terms of how it's impacting efficiency. What is protein efficiency? What is good question? All right, I guess that's another phrase I always use. And number times what are you talking about? I'm like what do you mean protein efficiency? Just make sense. Um, definitely, I mean, I guess I put a definition on this and some of my grants. But essentially, what I want to think about protein efficiency, when we consume the same absolute amount. So if we 20 grams of food protein, right, if you want, if you're efficient with your food protein, what's going to happen is you're going to get a large incorporation to the myrophorular fraction with minimal oxidative waste. Right? And so that's good definition. Yeah, that's good. Yeah, yeah, maybe. Okay, yeah, probably. And so what I think we can do with resistance exercise is actually increased your protein efficiency because why resistance exercise is fundamentally anabolic, right? It's kind of different than what we see with endurance exercise. I mean, it sounds like it should be easy and well, this is the bio-behavior or a sort of practitioners. Now you need to find out to make exercise fun, right? Right? Because I don't have the time to slam their and just move it. You know, you said something. That jokes all day long when we were doing that. Very fascinating. And it was about this idea of using, you didn't say microbial proteins, but I know that you worked on a study there. What was the name of the was it amplify? Do you remember that study? I think that the pre-ledic enzymes? Yeah, you had mentioned this idea that efficiency is important. Yeah. And efficiency is it seems somewhat up to us as to how our behaviors shape, whether we are not wasting what we are consuming. I will piggyback and say we have to eat something. Whether we are eating carbs, proteins, fats, one could choose protein. Again, maybe to support beyond muscle proteins synthesis. There are probably many utilization or uses for those amino acids. Like, you said, and from three inine or dopamine or any of those other things. I think we are presented some of the stuff that conferences too. So, using proteases or the paper here, I read it. We have followed up some of that work that thinks more interesting. So, we did that same thing in older adults instead of mixed meal. Then one of the objectives with that study is with older adults. I just sort of said they have digested animal resistance. One way they are trying to overcome that is, here grandma and grandpa you are a bunch of food. I didn't pause you on the digestive animal resistance. Can we just take a second there? Sure. When I think about digestive animal resistance, if we define animal resistance as this decrease, can we say in efficiency for our muscle to respond the way it should? Luke studies are loop on loon over in the Netherlands. There are studies are cool because what he shows is that an older adult has when you eat in this case, you know, a lot of his dairy manipulations that they have a reduced digestive protein, digestion of absorption kinetics. We see that in practice. I love you. I love you. No, no. But we see that in it. So, he has the best tools that I love that stuff that he does. That's why one of the other is what's in time to learn the techniques and super expensive. But I admire Luke a lot. He's one of my science heroes. But he shows that. And so back to your question, I think is older adults have satiety issues. So one of the things we are meaning they are hungry less. Yeah, exactly. So like I said, just trying to get them the eat more and more food. Well, it might help get some more of that substrate in the circulation to help give a big, push on muscle protein synthesis. It might not be in practice that reasonable. So we were charged with trying to enhance post-prandial nutrient concentrations by using enzyme blends. So not only proteases, but trying to get more glucose fat, everything in the circulation. So can we use an enzyme blend to try to help facilitate nutrient release? And we were somewhat successful. I think would you take a microbial protease? Would I personally? If you were older? Or am I sure? Maybe. It's on five and up. Would I recommend it to my grandparents? Yeah. Sure. Yeah. What I do it? I don't know. I don't think much about any of kids and everything. It's life's, you know, trust me. I'm getting enough food protein. What did you guys find? Did it actually? So it's not a published study. So I've been in conference form abstracts and whatnot. Can you talk about some of it? Yeah. So I mean, it's been at conferences. I can't remember which one. Well, here, let me show you over to you, ready? Yeah. Accute my microbial protease supplementation increases net post-prandial plasma amino acid concentrations after pprotein injection. Yeah, that was the pprotein study, which has been published. Yep. Right. This was another study that was with using an actual, what I was more interested in was a mixed meal. And this is a study I was telling about. You are very interested in food matrix. And there's a, again, when we look at the landscape of protein, it's, we're not giving tagged, I mean, people aren't eating tagged amino acids or no, well, you don't need to. It's just a tool that we have to understand how metabolically how they're responded in social nexusized. Now, that's what it was done in younger, younger folks, the one you're referencing with the pprotein. The study I was really keen on was the, the one that's going to be published in abstract form. So in that study, they are only objective was trying to enhance the post-prandial release of dietary amino acids to pprotein, which is a plant-based protein. Okay. My kids still sleep with me. And after 47 nighttime snack requests, two bath hernons and a snoring husband, myself tap out. Enter, might appear. Timeline nutrition is one of the most thoroughly research products that I've come across with over a decade of peer reviewed published science. Timeline is an extraordinary brand and they are an extraordinary product. And this is where it gets really interesting for those following in muscle centric lifestyle. When you age, unfortunately, things happen. And adults 40 plus, timeline has been shown to increase muscle strength and endurance with no change in your activity. So whether you've been active, resistance training your whole life, or you're just getting started, timeline can help. They have a beautiful product line with a low sugar vegan non-giumo in gluten-free new gummy, which is amazing. They also have mitochondrial berry or ginger powder. You can mix it into your daily smoothies. If there is one product that I strongly suggest that you take, it is mitochondrial ant. Timeline is offering our community 20% off. Your first order of mitochondrial. Go to timelinenutrition.com-doctorline and use the code doctor line to get 10% off your order. That's T-I-M-E. L-I-N-E nutrition.com-slash-doctorline. I have a paper here or this is a it's not a paper it's a it's a proposal. Yeah. Oh yeah that oh something's been over yeah yeah you send it over. Yeah so we go we go and it's fascinating and I'm just curious I don't want to say anything about it I'm I would love to hear from you is there something that you are really excited about? You know I get excited about I love science like I'm like if you look at my career you've probably noticed like I'm all over the place in terms you know all study dials with patients all study we just got a nice grant through the ADA to study some protein requirements for type 2 diabetics. This is a BCD related stuff I'm really interested in I'm interested in the food matrix stuff you know I was say for not having fun with the point you're right I get excited when I see my students get excited I love it all I mean you tell me I just like the pursuit of a research question and I do have a tendency to get bored easily so I like my you know each student has a little different concept and each one of something exciting about them all like I said the biggest dream I have is seeing the excitement of them right so the fact whenever whatever research study was studied study it just to see the students how pumped out pumped up they are about it I like I mean I'm a big science neuro like methodological questions where I'm doing some stuff with Dan Moore the more methodological just trying to understand the tool that kind of stuff excites me but you know the clinical work is interesting the performance nutrition work is is is interesting I'm trying to understand some of this endurance exercise protein requirements stuff I don't think we got a good handle on on those aspects certainly the obesity related questions you're asking really important how can we overcome this obesity animal resistance I think consistency with resistance exercise is going to be key do you think any of different diet for example you're going to be studying type 2 diabetes with protein you think the diet or the training recommendations need to be different I don't know you do teach on performances or anything that again you're not really on social media at all from feedback from your students do you find that there's something that is vastly different from academic perspective versus what someone thinks whether it's the amount of protein endurance athlete needs or yeah anything like that there would be help over the audience the biggest thing I I have to talk about is you know what they're really surprised about is the protein requirements between a weight lift or versus endurance athlete right this whole concept of you know optimal versus maximal these kind of concepts right and like I said there's no problem with eating protein and excess that's what you want to do do it there's a you for a healthy kidney I can handle it right but my point is you're creating it's a that's a maximal way to eat right if you want to eat maximum we go for that I'm care I did really impacts me very little right if you want to eat ultimately here's some things to think about right because a maximum response is how I view it is just shoveling as much food protein as you want make you know just eliminate anything about requirement right because you just overshot it and let your body eliminate the waste right so just get high oxidative rates right that's fine you can do that that's that's great but guess what like I said you're gut now is going to take more of it you're going to have higher sweating of extraction you're going to have an enhancement and your proteolytic enzymes it's not a problem per se but you know when you go to eat your next meal let's say not most of us that has zero issue of funding food protein in the US but let's say you even eat maximum so you know 30 40 grams of food protein per meal now you've been going in count or 15 right it's going to be different metaphorically that somebody who's been eating 15 to 20 grams of food protein as part of their normal pattern and eating more optimally because you know I see it all the time 1.6 grams per kg per day right that's that's the recommendation for weightlifting as I see online all the time maybe up over to 2.2 grams of protein per kg per day but have you ever looked at that confidence interval that 95% confidence interval why not recommend why you why you go in that way why why why not go this way as opposed to 1.2 yeah or why not eat up to lower end of that confidence interval why why why why why why is a translation by default eat that way because you could eat this way that's what that day does tell me they just looked at the breaking point into came at 1.6 right so you know the read I know why they're doing it because it's easy translation do you worry about so if the average American eats 300 grams of carbs a day do worry about where you know I think that the majority of the food were over consuming is processed yeah of course yeah also processed that's more education you know what I mean but you think educating people to eat more food proteins right education I think we have a lot of work to do yeah I don't think that's eating protein in excess I don't think is is the education standpoint understood understanding that you know different you know different foods are you know in terms of protein quality how they're interacting it's it's all education I mean just pretending like you know people can't learn it's it's crazy all the reason I do that just for ease of translation well that's fine but why don't educate them then that's our state that's our point as a as a but just running around saying you need this much food protein in excess I'm not saying it's gonna hurt them but that's that's just a crazy recommendation I just told you with a weight left you're just you're just making a system completely inefficient if you want to make that recommendation perhaps in a different way yeah right if I think about muscle health yeah the biggest driver is likely training right some kind of stimulus this is definitely whether it's resistance or endurance with endurance how should they structure their nutrition yeah I mean you know I always the biggest variable you know just just to put this in it everybody I come on nutrition podcast sometimes they you know they want nutrition you know the biggest thing I can say is be consistent with your exercise right find something you do find something you do find something to make your smile right and and that's the first thing I think that's the most important thing we can do is practitioners is try to identify activities you know something we can make somebody be consistent with right and the resistance important don't get me wrong but that that's a really big piece now you know a lot of times you know we're talking to you know I'm when I'm talking to athletes what not that's not that's not the problem because they're rather being coached to who is part of their training program they have to be pretty active so when we're thinking about an endurance athlete right the little difference in error than a weight lifter they're not fundamentally anabolic they're really catabolic right so you know what happens when an endurance athlete goes for a run right the run and you know for what how do you what I say 60 minutes right pretty intense 70% be able to peak we have you you know a lot of times we think protein as an oxidative fuel is not existent right so I use all these non-protein or are using everything or are you are you softsters in my drawer now but protein is that's a pretty overarching word right and even dawn's big on this right I think I've even heard him say yeah dawn has this funny saying cool saying that he's like you know protein you know same protein requirements like saying a vitamin requirement right eat one you have them all right and same with you know if I bite them indeed I'm good but it's not real right same with protein right you really got a zoom in and look at different amino acids and so you know some of the interesting ones with their insecticides and amino acids and the tablets standpoint right you got you got an aningolutamine, elucine so we just focus on that right so when an endurance athlete is running right they might not getting a lot of protein oxidation but they're getting elucine oxidation right we're pulling those carbon skeletons out to make a seedle coli to run them through the crep cycle have you wasted so much money on skincare I swear to you I have spent so much on my personal skincare that my pores should be I don't know a task deductible at this point but thank God for one skin and here's what I love about one skin they don't make empty promises it's a research driven minimalistic and tested for beauty skin health and longevity one skin is the first topical skin care backed by peptide science that target skin aging at a molecular level they have a proprietary peptide which is designed to reduce the accumulation of something called zombie cells that drive inflammation tissue breakdown and really this is an amazing product it's not really about this cosmetic quick fix you know we talk all about health and wellness but we typically talk about it from the inside and this is something that you can put on topically to affect the health of your skin so go to one skin dot co that's O and E SKIN dot co and use the code doctor lion for 15% off right and then what they do they stop the or they stop exercising right so they have all this oxidative amino acid waste that's induced by exercise now they need to eat food protein in the post-sexual size state right so they need to not only that food protein has to do two jobs it got to replace that losing oxidative loss okay and you also need to provide enough substrate to support that remodeling response so our work has shown that if we take you know if we take an endurance athlete have them run for an hour look at losing that balance right which oxidation is going to play a factor in that so guess what happens if endurance athlete runs they get into a negative losing balance right so catabolic we feed them food we couldn't recover that losing that balance because that food is fighting two battles it's has to replace that losing oxidative loss and like I said provided enough substrate so now we're trying to think about what strategies can we use for an endurance athlete because they also got to be concerned about carbohydrate right so what strategies can we do to help this endurance athlete recover they're losing that balance right so that's some stuff we're working on now that's some less stuff exciting I guess you're asking me about yeah the exciting stuff how can we manipulate protein time in how can we manipulate protein source to help recover that away lifters it's just kind of easy right away lifter can do they can just work out the point you know they should work out you know make sure they're getting a lot of type two fiber activation bulk fiber recruitment make sure all your muscles sensitive to substrate amino acid substrate eat something you know I always say after weightlifting you know what's the best kind of protein to eat well the kind of you put your mouth right whatever you want to put in your mouth is going to work and a durian athlete's a little more it's a little more interesting in terms of from a from a meal manipulation standpoint in my opinion we see differences and muscle protein synthesis because do they separate the type fibers out or is it just a loop down loops on some of that it's a lot of work I remember I was like when I was a postdoc I went over there and I was a gunho right I was like a loop I want to do some fiber type specific work and just like no you don't just was like no you don't you don't want to do that no we don't I mean I you know I'm not the individual synthesis rates and stuff I think scientifically and for basic science that's great but I like our our because it depends what your difference on the research question that's how deep you need to go now is there a particular impairment you know I mean that it's just but how does that impact a recommendation that you know it's just really depends on what you're trying to accomplish what tools you're going to use so I did want to learn it and it might have been so I was like yeah I want to do some individual synthesis rates and fiber type specific systems that's very short yeah you literally would let me he's like there no I was like okay do you think that the RDA is a worthy number no I mean I you know I like like I said Wayne professor Wayne Campbell's approach he his argument is that and I agree with him a hundred percent like I said he's he's also one of the guys I admire in the field we got to stop beaten up on the protein RDA right why it's sort of you know it it does what it's supposed to do it's supposed to prevent a deficiency it's very good at doing that you know we put a lot of pressure on it in my opinion like I always view the protein RDA as a starting point right when they developed it there was not a lot of information on it it does what it's supposed to do it does prevent a improvement does prevent protein deficiency but it wasn't supposed to in my opinion ever account for what about a weight lift or what about you know what doesn't it doesn't supposed to account for older adults or perhaps clinically compromised people what's it made for RDA healthy adults right so a healthy adult what's it going to do going to prevent a protein deficiency it's was never made to capsule everything and an older adult on a beast adult anybody he's weightlifting anybody's doing an endurance exercise right so I think it does a good job what I was supposed to do my other issue is that instead of beaten up on the RDA experimentally or verbally I guess we need to test it experimentally right instead we always especially in the exercise physiology field we always like to test everything in excess right and I you know I think you know one of the common numbers is that 1.6 grams for KG per day and one of the things I always like to say you know or they like to test this way right they want to keep going and in excess but I'm like why not test the other the other end and I think that's important um who is really tested the protein RDA from you know from a healthy weightlifting perspective but who's tested it well well done did but he went to one point six so done for years to some of those first studies and you know I think they're really well done and he looked at the RDA point eight grams then he looked at doubling the RDA which again is what you said a bit higher 1.6 grams and all of the and they were isocloric and yeah I remember that's some of work I know what you're saying I mean it's just yeah I did my guess my only point is is that the protein RDA is a starting point my other thing is it's hard to find somebody who's eating the protein RDA in my hands they're always eating 1.1 to 1.2 my biggest objective is using weightlifting to enhance that protein efficiency my other argument is that you know perhaps if you're doing other modes of exercise that number might vary a little bit for example and endurance athlete I think of you. Do you need more or less? I think they need more food protein and weightlifter in terms of an endurance somebody's eventually doing an endurance exercise but we also got that count for what's one aspect of an endurance athlete they usually have high caloric intakes right so it's not that number they need to be concerned about again I think I think I think it's the timing after that initial so if you just got back from a big run you know I always hear this this concept of anobalk window the prolonged nature of it a weight lift your doesn't need to really worry about some particular anobalk window but in a endurance athlete it's probably a little more important for them not only from a carbohydrate standpoint we know that's important but I would argue from a protein intake standpoint to to help them recover it's fascinating because we're definitely not hearing about that online I think that you're hearing that the anobalk window no longer matters unless potentially you're doing maybe exhaustive exercise or you are lower on the total protein in your head I put it never I mean it was interesting concept it had never mattered I mean the work we don't was stool in terms of that anobalk window we've showed it for years that it's been prolonged I've never really understood where that concept even derived from I think it was just I mean if you wanted to eat something after your weight lifting belt and go forward again but are there any other groups so endurance how long do you think the anobalk window is? No you're going to make me put a number on it? No I don't know I mean what should I get a genetic synthesis I mean it's you know it is short I mean usually you want to eat within the you know the one to two hour window right? I told I would guess right? In terms of this loose scene balance and it I don't I don't know but I would argue that we need to be able to recover those oxidative losses so the other concern is make sure that in that post exercise meal you know this is probably well you know I advocate a lot for you know food first approaches but food first doesn't mean food only and sometimes people you know let's see I'm like no that's it's crazy you right? My only point we're using a food first approach is that everybody likes to go to supplements right that's this where they want to go to that way but it's like well first you know think about this but for an endurance athlete you know it's not like I said for them I think we do they do need to use something that's rapidly we need to get those amino acids in circulation quick isolated food proteins are going to be the best at it right and so you know obviously when you co-injust carbohydrate with even isolated food source you're going to reduce that acute amplitude of change so you're going to in terms of the losing profile and amino acid profile so I always I think you know we need to test this experiment only I think having a rapid source of amino acids carbide rate blend immediately after that endurance exercise boat will help and then return to that food if you can depending on your training you need a mode of training then that's where you can return back to that food food first approach but I think that timing of that initial meal is real important for them right the overall amount they're probably fine on that's my point because endurance athletes plenty of food protein on a daily basis but where I think they might not be understanding is that that post exercise window for them is is is probably important to help them recover losing that balance and support that attitude yeah I mean when we get on the grounds of I mean we haven't done yeah I mean what we need to understand now where do some manipulation of sources um to see you know to see if you know again I usually you know it's always interesting way always got supported as being the best food protein but when you look when you look at some of E-Bore's work he's shown that casing right for a weight lift or most likely is probably not that he's studied weightlifting but arguably is probably really you know do the prolonged nature of some slowly releasing food protein hopefully which will do the same it's probably better for protein balance throughout a prolonged recovery period right but for some reason the weight lift is really like way but really the concentration yeah something that's more prolonged release for private better but for a weightler for an endurance athlete I think the way or something really fast is going to be really important for them so physical structure we can manipulate the food matrix by you know Lucas done brilliant work in that area cooking food right midsine up the food right we're I've been more interested in it's trying to take advantage of the nutrient nutrient interactions with the food to potentially the use of the dietary amino acids right trying to optimize a food right so trying to prevent I think I talked about earlier that you know you just eat isolated food protein you can use ways of example right it's not that interesting because it's just amino acids right so what's to do it was boom in terms of it's a post-prandual amino acids spike right that big spike you're going to get a lot of amino acids in quite quickly but you're also going to get a big signal for oxidation right food is kind of cool is because it's it's more prolonged right so you're not getting that big Lucy in oxidative spike in the beginning of the post-prandual period within that first two hours but some of our work has also shown that we can potentially the use of the amino acids within a meal I mean we showed this by eating you know whole eggs versus egg whites right so eating whole eggs potentially the the antibody which mods more so than eating nice so the trogis of mal of egg white right which was interesting I did I thought that was fascinating well I remember uh uh not the third loop I am loon under the bus he was like because this was one of when I got the Illinois you know we were doing some carbohydrate co-investance stuff with him he's like you already know it's not going to make a difference you're right or we did some fat co-injussian but the cool stuff for that was what we're doing we were taking isolated fat and isolated um casin because one of my big missions over with Luke was trying to make casin more anabolic right so we were adding we were trying to do different co-injussian strategies and one of the strategies was hey what happens when we add lipids to casin can we potentially aid the animal response and we couldn't right so it was interesting when when we ate a whole egg we actually were able to participate it do you think it's because it's not based on the macronutrients it's based on say the the other additional compounds in there yeah so yeah that's the million dollar question right um you always say in that whole egg study what's in that egg if I knew that then I could make a super egg right it's in there like full not full is not full is statin but there's something that they someone sent it to me it was a compound in the egg that was supposed to be very yeah I'm not ball like I can have I mean we tried to understand it we you know we we tried we couldn't identify something and we followed that up with the same in study where we fed after weightlifting the young adults 20 grams so I literally it was funny I had a salmon flew in because I want to be a piece of salmon right and so I we butcher it up and then we sent that piece of salmon so all the participants had the same salmon right so we we sent that salmon away to get analyzed and then we we figured out all the cool stuff and salmon and then what we did was we re-engineered that salmon and isolated beverage so we had salmon versus isolated nutrients fascinating and then you know I think I was underpowered but we saw an effect size it was trending that way that salmon potigated the animal response more than eating the same macronutrients and free form that's a kind of all right yeah so I was like as probably something with this lipid dense food matrix and this is more this is more recent work I'm trying to understand so this was this was in a abstract form this is the opposite review right now so one of the things I was interested in was a lipid rich meat matrix right so that's an interesting point in that you know when I was thinking about that right in egg and salmon never sort of really untouched really we didn't process it all I mean it comes right ready to eat directly right but we were thinking about even a dairy matrix or even a meat matrix especially when it's ground right what do they do they they sort of they ground up the meat and then they add in fat trimmings to try to make it more or less you know lipid rich or lean but I was interested okay when we take a lipid dense food matrix or yeah lipid dense and protein dense food matrix in the form of ground meat is that going to help the post-exercise animal response right versus a lean source of meat because our work suggested that a lipid dense food matrix is is really important to help potentiate a weight lifters, a mire for brille approaches to that response what we showed was that actually the lipid rich so that 80% meat ground meat so that's common right there's 80 and then there's in terms of the 80-20 blend if you will that actually impaired the post-exercise muscle response compared to the source of meat so I switch to entrogenous right so in this case eating a lipid dense food matrix made up of ground meat immediately after the exercise boat impaired the animal response versus a lean matrix which is exact contrast to what we showed with the eggs and salmon yeah so but the same amount yeah everything was like so entrogenous right so there's something what that lipid dense food matrix in the form of a ground meat and again I think it's because we played around with that matrix right it's no longer right we manipulate that not I mean that's the ground meat matrix right in terms of its physics I mean that's how it comes it is interesting but do you think it's way I have to think about this is this do you think it's because of the the actual grinding or do you think that it's because it was because that exists essentially in nature right if you won't egg and the salmon I mean when we direct that that was like I said on process the meat was heavily processed right so Lucas shown that like I said mitsin meat process saying yeah it is and it usually helps that gesture yeah that's right and Lucas showed that comparing mits to meat versus a ground steak right so this comparison was an 8020 blend of ground meat versus a lean portion of piece of ground meat okay so I so entrogenous and then a carbohydrate control but the um so this was post exercise and sort of goes in the face of what I just said but I said earlier that after weight lifting the kind of protein you know the best kind of protein he is kind you put in your mouth but in this case we saw we saw a blunted the response okay and so this was showing me that again because sometimes people want to argue that you know I've had this before in the review process well you already showed a lipid dense food matrix works but I was ask crazy I mean you got a test different food matrix seems to truly understand it right and here's example where a lipid dense food matrix actually blunted the post exercise animal response right and it's because you know like I said I think the pins on the extent of processing that's occurring I think in this case you know and one of the mechanisms behind this you know when we look at the you know unlike the salmon or the egg this whole loosey and trigger hypothesis right the salmon or the egg or the salmon or the egg losing trigger hypothesis didn't matter at all right obviously with the isolated food sources you're going to get a bigger losing spike but yet we saw a bigger animal response in the the egg in the salmon conditions but in this case when we do the correlations between the C max of the peak losing concentrations in relation to the animal response there's a strong strong correlation right so the losing trigger hypothesis mattered for this ground pork situation doesn't matter for so it depends on the food is my point so it has always this question of some kind of loss I always get out how significant is the losing trigger hypothesis which depends depends on the food depends on who you are depends for a young how much muscle mass you got it's it's a it's a it's a it's a it's a it's a memory I we've never really talked about it in that kind of detail yeah it's fascinating do you have a hypothesis as to what it could be or why I did but you know maybe we'll say that for another guy the cliff came down I can't give you all my tips of dricks yeah that is so fascinating yeah yeah no I thought it was interesting I thought I thought well because I'm always advocating I've been around talking about the food matrix and this was funny in this case with the ground pork matrix I was wrong right and my students I don't know if I mentioned it here on this podcast but my I have some students who are you know I'm pretty easy going so they just tell me what they feel the other day they were like they keep in wrong on your last three hypotheses and I'm just like I'm just like but that makes it fun right yeah I mean when you're one of the one of the things I was wrong about was that some of the vegan stuff because originally I thought an animal based meal was going to be better on the animal response than vegan based meals right but in my defense I did design that study that was recently published in 2017 just didn't get published recently so the sort of the environment changed a little bit from here and there but yeah so I mean that's it's a something you know I always think about and I wish you're as these clean on and off switches but there's really not right these precision nutrition notions especially with the performance nutrition you can give these overarching sort of recommendations but it really depends and that's sort of some of the concepts you were making as a practitioner it's hard right because each each situation's going to be a little different recommendation I think you just it's yeah it's cool we're getting more information on it we'll figure it out well I'll be on standby as you continue to get the kinetics of all the food matrix yes there you go and be here for a while okay yeah really it really is extraordinary and I think that your work I'm really exciting I know that you're interested in a lot of the performance I am fascinated to know over time if you ever look at this but the food matrix within OB skills or muscle yeah actually you're like this actually yeah we got we just completed that study but right in that paper up now so we to your point can we use the food matrix as a clinical tool to help overcome animal persistence so take advantage because what so I didn't really mention it because it's sort of a byproduct array of the in terms of the animal persistence of all the stuff we're talking about some of the factors mechanistically ultimately those are contributing to inflammation right chronic low grade inflammation so how can we manipulate a food matrix to to take advantage or try to help modulate some of those mechanisms and help correct animal persistence yeah so I didn't mention that work yeah we're hopefully my students at home finishing up that manuscript now so we did we did we did address that question recently is that a cliffhanger or better be another cliffhanger yeah I'm dying to know I'm dying to know how we use certain foods yeah to overcome that yeah the pens well Dr. Nick bird thank you so much for coming yeah happy to be here it's been fun it's it's really eye opening and and I think that you you challenge a lot of scientific thinking and you challenge yourself and I think it's really noble okay I appreciate that yeah like I said thank you for giving the opportunity to to talk to everyone yeah it's always fun if this episode made you rethink what you thought you knew about obesity and protein good because building muscle isn't about following trends it's about understanding your body's real needs and how they change with time stress and training whether you're optimizing for strength body composition longevity or recovery Dr. Bird's work shows that details matter timing quality distribution vegan non vegan and yes even the way you pair your foods if someone you love is doing all the things quote right and still not making progress send them this episode it might be the insight they've been missing thank you for being here see you next time

You've been told to walk more to lose weight, to focus on cardio. But here's what you likely have in intervals. Muscle is one of the most under-appreciated systems in the body. And the consequences of ignoring it are showing up everywhere. Look, you hear people say, I don't care about my muscles, which is insanity. You would never hear somebody say, I don't care about my pancreas. Muscle supports your brain, helps regulate blood sugar, and plays a critical role in weather, which means physically independent as you age. The most amazing thing about muscle is that it is what modulates our power to act upon the world. My guest today is Michael Joseph Brooks, author of Stranger, the untold story of Muscle in our lives. He spent years exploring how muscle has shaped culture, health, and identity, and why it deserves a prominent place at the table in health care. Because everybody is a gym person, even now, even though they might not know it yet. Hundreds years from now, though, that's set in so much that lifting weights is just as normal as brushing your teeth. Keep watching if you want to not only add years into your life, but more importantly, add life and strength to your ears. Michael Joseph Brooks, welcome to show. Thank you, Gabrielle. I have to say that you have written my new favorite book. Oh. And I was thrilled when you agreed to come on the show. This book is called Stranger, and it is the untold story of muscle in our lives. Thank you so much for having me. This book does something that I've never seen. It brings history, the history of muscle, the history of movement, and it integrates science. Really well done. Thank you. Tell me about why. Why does book? I think back to when we were in grade school. It starts really early how we get our ideas about muscle. There are bigger kids and smaller kids. There are bullies and weaklings. There are jocks and eggheads. And we all just kind of take that as a given about life. But if you went back to ancient Greece, if you could talk to the poet who wrote Homer's epics, the Odyssey and the Illyid, and you asked him what was more important, mind or body. They wouldn't even understand the question. They didn't even have words that would tell the difference between mind and body. The choice to see ourselves as split down the middle is that it comes from my history of choices that people have been making for thousands of years. And those choices in many ways focused on muscle. In ancient Rome, doctors and trainers had a big fight over who would corner the market in what we now call healthcare. And the doctors who won that fight, won it in large part by putting down athletes who trained to be build mass to build muscle. There was one Galen of Purgamon and he said that, Ashley, two trained to build mass were incapable of rational thought. He said that they actually smothered their souls with the slime of this muscle. Right? And that kind of marked muscle as a Lucas of anxiety and marked it as something wrong. About building muscle. That has in a way that has lasted right up until today. So I had an experience when I turned 40 of starting to train in a more serious way than I ever had before. And it really changed me. And I was fascinated by that. I wondered why I didn't know more about muscle. And I went looking for a big book that could kind of help me understand muscle in all the ways that you just mentioned. I couldn't find it. So I had to write it. And to be fair, you are an acclaimed journalist and author. You have been contributing editor at Bannity Fair. You have contributed to the New York Times, GQ, the list goes on. You've been a very curious person, which is evident in this book. After you had this moment of understanding, we had really missed the mark on skeletal muscle. How did you decide about the sections in this book? As you began to formulate, there are three big characters. There is this story that becomes interwoven. How did you begin to break that down and think about it? Most books about muscle tell you what to do. And this one's different because it's descriptive. It's not prescriptive. So I knew from the beginning that my way into talking about muscle was going to be through individuals, really fascinating people. I knew that one of them had to be a doctor. I knew that one of them had to be an ancient scholar of ancient Greece in some way, because we get so many of our ideas about athletics and medicine from there. And I knew that at least one of them had to be really high level athlete. And so I found these people. It took a long time hunting for them, but it's just kind of like casting. And you find the right balance of characters. And then you let them start playing on the page. How long did you take you to write this book? Eight years full time. Eight years full time. And for the listener or the viewer to give you a perspective of how in depth this is on the history of muscle. It is exactly that there were many things that really struck me about this book. I would love for you to touch a little bit about the history of muscle performance, the idea of the gymnasium. I'm fascinated by the way that the ancient Greeks looked at skeletal muscle. The first thing to know about how ancient Greeks looked at skeletal muscle is to really sit back and take in the fact that they didn't see it. Now that sounds impossible because you look at an ancient Greece sculpture. And to us it seems that they're obsessed with muscle. But it's really the lines of articulation around muscle that they believe do the work of movement and specifically the tendons. They thought that the fleshy part of muscle, the muscle bellies, the contractile tissue that we now know moves us. They thought that was just dumb stuff that was maybe for padding, maybe for insulation, like Aristotle thought that you're doing it. But you're glutes were built in beanbag chair. You call them useful for resting the body. It's not until just before the classical period of Greece that scientists start to open up the human body. That had been prescribed in Greece before. And they begin to see how muscles work. They know that somehow muscles are part of movement. But they believe that there is a portion of hot air that gets trapped at the body at birth called Numa. Numa is the word for breath or wind from which we get pneumonia. So Numa is circulating in the body and Numa basically blows up the muscles like a balloon. And then they deflate. And that is part of the process of muscle. This is crazy. The idea how wrong we got skeletal muscle. The next big beat in the story of discovering skeletal muscle is under the Roman Empire. And the doctor Gaelin, he understands that muscle has to do with movement. But he still thinks that there is a mysterious substance, like a portion of hot air trapped in the body called Numa that causes us to move. And he says that the brain is completely in charge. And muscle is just something it uses. We don't begin to understand that the contractile part of muscle actually moves us until the 17th century. And then we don't really begin to understand how it's integrated with a neurological system. How the brain and muscle are partners, not it's not a hierarchical relationship until the late 19th early 20th century. Even though I don't think we've accepted that yet. I think we're still pretty intent on thinking the brains, the boss, and the muscle is always second fiddle. That's really fascinating. Did they look at muscle as something different? I mean, there was we can think about words as words like victory. I know that that was something that you would want to put in the title before. Have we really changed the way that we have thought about muscle? Was it something to be revered back then? And then transition to now it's okay, well you're a knuckle dagger or just what do they say? All brains and no brawn are all brawn and no brains. So Greeks were fascinated by muscle even before they knew what muscles did. They were running races at the Olympics for hundreds of years before they had any idea that muscles had to do with movement. Okay, but we know that it's muscles that are making the sprinters win the race. They believe that They believe that strength is actually it's not only something that an individual builds through training. It's not only an individual accomplishment. It's a collaboration with the gods. You have to train, but then you also have to be given the gift of strength. And this is... Has an eating the gift of strength? Yeah, I mean Greeks were as likely to talk about strength as something you receive as to talk about strength as something that you have. That isn't unusual way to frame it. But there is a connection between that and current physiological thinking in that... There remains an element of mystery in performance, an element of unpredictability in performance that you see in something like the super compensation effect after a periodized training regimen. And Charles Stalking, who is one of the main characters in this book, he is a classist who worked his way through graduate school as a strength and conditioning coach for Bruins athletes. At UCLA, he's become the really the world's greatest expert on the Greek language of strength. And Charles says that he thinks the super compensation effect is a modern analog for Greeks description of great performances on the battlefield or in athletics as being a gift from Zeus. It's something... It's their way of explaining what we have come to understand as a physiological adaptation. What is the super compensation effect? Super compensation effect just in simplest terms is... It's the outcome of a certain kind of cyclical training. So you know, you can't push harder and harder all the time. You've got to take a couple steps forward, couple steps back, periodization, the many forms of it are ways of organizing our training to build up to a moment where we have a high level of performance. Just before we reach that highest level, we take a rest. And in that rest, our bodies repair ourselves so that we can leap ahead of where we were before that rest began. And I have a quote from your book, and it's ancient Greeks considered strength not mainly as a quote, an individual accomplishment based on individual effort. And as a paradoxical phenomenon that depended partly on what a person did and partly on what help and gifts the person received from the gods. That's right. You know, I'm sure the listener... well, you guys better be interested in muscle. But really understanding we talk about it in terms as if we've always known it. This is the bicep, this is the quadricep. But very few of us, myself included, have thought about the history and putting it into context of what was thought of it before we knew it was acting in my assan and that these muscle fibers and muscle bellies were attached to various parts of the body. And there's a whole history of what we imagined it was. And let me give you a really concrete example of the gift and strength in action. As the best as we can tell, the very first Olympic event was called the Stadyon. The Stadyon was the equivalent of the 200 meter sprint now. And the way the Stadyon was set up, it started... The Stadyon was a race between two altars. The first one was an altar to a hero who was a human who lived a long time ago, but was especially blessed by the gods. The other altar was to Zeus, the greatest of the gods. On the altar to Zeus, they had laid out their sacrifice to him, which was the best part of the bowl, the Flesci thighs. Now, this is a time when meat is not a part of anybody's regular diet. So the whole community is there and they're looking forward to this feast on meat, which they never get to taste at the end of the day. Everybody's watching this. The priest of Zeus is standing right by that altar and he's got in his hand a torch. And what the athletes are looking at as they're getting ready for the race is the torch in that hand because what they want to do is be the first to get there, take the torch, light that meat on fire, and give everybody this great gift they've been wanting for the whole four years. And you run faster if you're trying to complete the sacrifice that brings your community together than if you're just going for a run. And they all believe that the person who wins wins because Zeus gave them a very particular kind of strength called cratos spell it K-R-A-T-O-S. And cratos is only given by Zeus. It is the strength of winning. Our E-ring to readers will put them down because this episode is brought to you by the most delicious chip on the market and that's a muscle chip. Now we don't keep junk food in our house, but it's unreasonable to avoid all chips. Nor should you. All chips and fries used to be cooked in T-Hallow up until around 1990 when these big corporations switched to cheap processed seed oils. In 1970 it was a 20 pound a year per capita by 2020 seed oils each person 80 pounds. That's a fourfold increase. And listen, we've all heard about processed foods and it's really what ride along with them, whether it is inflammation or the unnatural use of these oils and masa decided to do something about it. They created a tasty delicious tortilla chip. You've never had anything like it. We can't even keep them in stock in our house. They have only three ingredients. That's corn, sea salt and 100% beef, T-Hallow. You'll never turn back. The mass of chip is beloved. Just go ahead and look them up. You will see tens of thousands of customers. Now, if you want to give these chips a try, I don't know. You're never going to put them down. Go to msa. That's msa. That's msa.cups.com slash lion. And you'll get 25% off your first order. It is the strength of winning victory. I love that. That's very different than how we look at it now. It's very disconnected. Did everybody participate in those kind of events? I mean, it seems very serious. And in the early part of your book, you have a quote here that says, It's a really a matter of life and death. That these athletic concepts, these athletic contests, they develop as sacrificial religious rituals. Communal gatherings too honor to the gods as a matter of life and death. So, to the question of whether everybody participated, no, when we talk about ancient Greek athletes, we're talking about elite males in almost every case. Sparta was really the only place where younger women, girls in young women would be trained as a regular part of their education. But that was largely for eugenic purposes so that they would be strong. They thought that strong mothers would produce strong sons would be strong warriors. They were actually right. Yes, yes. But that was really the main reason that women were allowed to train. It didn't continue beyond marriage. Really? They trained up until marriage. And then when they had their babies, they were able to take it easy. Interesting. So, we don't know specifically whether they trained through pregnancy. That's a great question. The historical record about Sparta is very sparse and a lot of what we think we know about it is mythology. But the strictest historical readings make it clear that once women are either married or pastile barring age, training stopped for them. That's fascinating. Do you know that our sons name is Leonidas? I do. I do. After doing this Spartans. That's a great good choice. So, we really, he's a wallflower. But that is very fascinating that people would get together. And this is really in stark contrast to modern southern-der-life styles. Before we get to far away from athletics as a matter of life and death, I want to say what they meant by that. They believed that the competitions of athletes reenacted the stories of heroes. The life and death struggles of heroes like Hercules, who spent a lot of time in his labors fighting monsters. And if he didn't kill the monster, he himself was going to die. So, they wrote poems after Olympic victories to celebrate the victor when he went back to his hometown. And this, the poems would compare what the athlete did with something Hercules or another hero had done. And that comparison raised the stakes for everybody in how they saw these athletic attainments. It's really, it's really fascinating. And, you know, as I look forward into the book, there is Chapter Two, which is Break and Build. And it is, you know, raises this question about athletic training, having to do with happiness and well-being. You know, you talk about there's this myth of, you should probably say the name. Cleobus and Baiton. Yeah. Yeah. And this story, there's this paradox. It looks like as muscle is this path to glory and also immortality. Yeah. Well, can I tell you the story of Cleobus and Baiton? Yes. So, it starts with a mother. And the mother is at home, and she's getting ready to go to a sanctuary to celebrate a festival for a goddess. But the, it's getting late in the day, and the oxen who are supposed to pull her in the cart to the sanctuary don't show up. She's wondering what she's going to do. Now, she's got two sons, big strapping champion athletes, and they get the idea that they'll just put the oxes yoke on their own shoulders, and they will pull her in her wagon five-hole miles to the sanctuary. So, they do this. It's a great feat. Everybody surrounds them. The congratulating the woman for having such strong sons, congratulating the sons for doing such a great thing. And then the woman says a prayer to the goddess. And she prays that they be given the greatest thing a man can have. Now, the boys, they, all they want to do after they's done, what is basically a feat that you'd see in a modern, strong man competition, like the Arnold in Columbus, they just want to take a nap. So, they lay down in the sanctuary, and then they die. Now, in the first book of history written in Ancient Greek, the wisest man in Athens tells the story of Cleopis and Biden when he is asked about the greatest happiness he's ever seen. And that kind of confuses the modern mind, right? What is happening in this story is that strength is being shown both as something that allows you to do good things for the people you love. But it also shows that sometimes transcendence comes at a great cost, sometimes that gift comes at a great cost. Greeks were much more comfortable living in paradoxes like that than we are. Meaning that there is this opportunity to strengthen but the cost, you know, if they were given the greatest gift and then they die, that's, you know, from my perspective, in this day-nage confusing. How can we or how do you think about that in the landscape of the end of the story? So, what does athletics have to do with happiness and well-being? We would all love it if there were a really simple and straight line between training and a good life. Sometimes it's a crooked line. You have spoken about an injury that you had 10 years ago and it's something you still struggle with today. I had an injury 10 years ago that I still struggle with today. I originated a disc while I was deadlifting. But sometimes these crooked lines are also a gift. And I think the story of Cleopis and Baiton kind of exaggerates that to its furthest extent. I mean, they didn't herniate a disc or tear hamstring. They died. But they became symbols of victory and of the gift of strength that we're still talking about today. That means it's fascinating. You know, another theme throughout the book is that physiological strength isn't separated. There's this spiritual aspect and this mental strength that's very interconnected. Do you think that that is reflected back to us now? I think we are slowly working our way back to a more integrated sense of mental and muscular strength, mental and physical strength. But we're still a long way from there. There are mind-blowing discoveries about the intricate interconnections of the neurological and the muscular system. I mean, a lot of the gate cycle, a lot of how we walk, doesn't involve the brain at all. It's just something that is created by signals that move between the muscles in our lower bodies and the lower part of our spinal cord. There's the phenomenon of cross education where if you injure yourself on one side, but you continue to train on the other side, you will substantially retain strength and mass on the injured side that's doing nothing. Why didn't that up a little bit and look at medical research on how weight training affects mental health and things start to get even real and even more useful? We didn't ever see. There had never been a study of heavy weight training of any kind of weight training as treatment for depression until the one published in the late 90s and there still haven't been many. But what they found when doctors finally started using weight training to treat depression was that for most people, for about 75% of people, it was as effective as the most effective anti-depressant drugs. And that's fascinating for the listener who's really interested in mental health and emotional health and mood regulation. The fact that we can utilize our skeletal muscle to change not just our mind state, but our overall, just our overall well-being from a mental standpoint is extraordinary. The idea that muscle is medicine or movement is medicine is pretty profound and you know, your next chapter which is live and die and I think that you'd mention that this is many of the readers that there's a passage in here that's one of their favorites and it's, this is the chapter that really focuses on the earliest athletic training manual. How do you say it's the gymnasticus? Yes, gymnasticus. And it says that athletic training is a form of wisdom. What is meant by that? How is that translated? So, Gimnos was the Greek word for naked. You know, that's where we get the word gymnasium because all training and competition was done fully in the new. My husband was very excited about that. He was just like, sign me up, where did I go? I'm ready. So, the gymnasticus, or gymnasticus, which was written in the third century AD, it's the only athletic training manual we have from the whole ancient world. Every other long piece of writing that solely focused on athletics has disappeared. But what the gymnastics starts out by saying and carries through all the way is that it says, let us consider that athletic training is a form of wisdom inferior to no other. So, it's putting training on the level with music, with math, with navigation, with poetry, with all the other things that we take seriously. It's saying you have to take it exactly that seriously. And then, but then most of what the gymnasticus focuses on is how bodies should look. And what it's arguing for is a sense of symmetry. The symmetry is not always functional. It actually says that sometimes symmetry should be preferred to performance because it's more noble. Have you wasted so much money on skincare? I swear to you, I have spent so much on my personal skincare that my pores should be, I don't know, tax deductible at this point. But thank God for one skin and here's what I love about one skin. They don't make empty promises. It's a research-driven, minimalistic, and tested for beauty, skin, health, and longevity. Once skin is the first top-cult skin care backed by peptide science that target skin aging at a molecular level. They had a proprietary peptide, which is designed to reduce the accumulation of something called zombie cells. That drive information, tissue breakdown, and really, this is an amazing product. It's not really about this cosmetic quick fix. You know, we talk all about health and wellness, but we typically talk about it from the inside. And this is something that you can put on topically to affect the health of your skin. So go to 1scin.co. That's O-N-E-S-K-I-N.co and use the code Dr. Lyon for 15% off. Did gymnastics is an argument against the tetraids. The tetraids were an early form of what we now call periodized training. To make its argument, the gymnastics gives another really great story. There was a wrestler named Garanoz. He was a great wrestler. He was an Olympic champion. When he won at Olympia, he decided that he was going to go out and celebrate. He went out of total bender. Got drunk and stayed drunk for days. When he finally showed up at the gym, his coach was really, really not happy. He decided he was going to teach the kid a lesson. He said, you are going through with this workout, no matter what. And Garanoz tried really hard. And I realized that every other body is starting to pile up here because Garanoz tried so hard that he died. Oh my gosh. So morbid. Yeah, yeah. But life and death stakes, again, the reason that gymnastics tells the story is that to draw a line between what's good training and what's bad training. Bad training is training by prescription. Good training is choosing exercises all improvised for the right time. So what the gymnastics is saying is that any training plan, no matter how scientifically valid, has to give way before the realities of our own bodies on a given day. You know, it's again, the history of muscle. And right now we've been talking about it from this historical perspective of ancient Greeks, but if we were to look at where we are now, I'm curious if you agree with this that strength training and muscle is really been about men from a historical perspective, the strength and muscle seems to be aside from the women that trained at Sparta to make better stronger babies, which I fully believe. It's really focused on our male counterparts. Is that in fact what the history shows and how do we then move forward to some of the origin stories about strength and women? Because you have a very amazing character in your book and shot a character. She's a real person, John Todd, one of the strongest women in history. As a way into talking about Jan Todd, I want to ask what you did lift. Well, I have a two-torn hamstring, but easily, I don't know, 200 some pounds probably. And what do you weigh? 100 in eat. Okay. Probably live more than that. Probably deadlift a little bit more than that, but yeah. I want to tell you a story about how that is both a life-changing feet and a world-changing feet. Come with me to 1973. And let's go to a really heavy duty grungy gym in Austin called the Texas Athletic Club. Now, like most gyms at the time, it is pretty much an all-male space. And a young married couple who come in, Terry and Jan Todd, and Jan looks around and she realizes there's only one other woman in this whole gym. Jan's just there to keep her husband company. She thinks maybe she'll lift some light weights, maybe it'll make her posture a little better. But she looks over at this woman and she sees her lifting really heavy weight. The woman is about what you weigh. She's 115 pounds and she builds up in the deadlift to about what you lift about 225 pounds. And Jan just thinks it's like a religious revelation. She has never seen a woman exert great force by means of muscle before because she grew up at a time when, as she says, girls didn't play sport and girls didn't try hard. But in that day at the gym, she says she wants to try it. She builds up to that same amount of weight. She realizes she has a gift for this. And then she asks her husband who just happens to be, happens to have been the first US men's power lifting champion. Do you think I might be able to go further if I tried this? Now he doesn't really know women who train with heavy weights either because there are so few of them at the time. And he says, let's try it. So it's really, Jan Todd 18 months later. Just 18 months later, earns her first entry in the Guinness Book of World Records. She breaks a record in the women's deadlift that had stood for 50 years. And that is the start of 10 years of being called the strongest woman in the world by Guinness and breaking one record after another. But one of the most important things about this story I think is that it shows how women get stronger when they see other women getting stronger. There are all kinds of barriers that Jan Todd had to overcome. She had to get access to gyms. She had to overcome the prejudices of people in her life who believed that lifting weights was going to harm her body. One of them even said, if you keep deadlifting, your uterus will fall out. But she also had to overcome the isolation of not knowing other women who did this. It was building those relationships. She eventually, it was because of Jan in large part that the first women's powerlifting competition finally happened in 1977. She then took over administration of the sport and coaching of the sport. And she created a space for more women to be able to get stronger. That is beautiful. I can only imagine what the society pushed back was for her. Think about it. You've got Arnold Schwarzenegger. You have Lou for Ignore. What's up, Lou? Down there, Venice, Venice, Muscle Beach. You look at that old footage. It is all men. And then you've got the two women that Arnold, you know, like the hayberry puts on his shoulders. You don't ever, I don't think that I've ever seen a female training in any of those films. I mean, at least not that I recognize. How was she, or did she talk to you about the desire to continue? I mean, that is, if we were to put ourselves in not a situation or position, doing something that nobody, I mean, kind of like my friend, down ago, down to go Patrick, when there were really no other female race car drivers. Do you think that there was a big societal pushback on that kind of behavior? Jan kept a scrapbook of clippings. My kind of girl. And when I would sit and go through that with her, I was just shocked by some of the stuff that reporters would say. I mean, a reporter from the Big Toronto paper said, I had to see the world's strongest woman. Was she some kind of gullum thing elephant? But one of the things that made Jan Todd unusual was that she was a very conventionally feminine and conventionally beautiful woman. And so, and one of the things that made the other woman, she met in that Texas gym on the first day unusual, was that she was conventionally feminine and beautiful. Like a lot of women, Jan had this fear that lifting heavy weights, the doing really hard things, was dangerous, was a threat to her femininity. But because she found a way of continuing to be continuing to fulfill her own standards of beauty as she did this, other saw her the same way, and that helped her go on. Really, the main breakthrough moment for her with that was not meeting another woman who was alive. It was having an encounter with a woman who was long dead. At the time, Jan seemed to feel, as if she was on an island and rightly so, they're probably we're not a lot of women that we know of, but in retrospect was that true. Were there really only a few women lifting weights? At that time, there were really only a few women lifting weights, but much earlier, Jan eventually discovered it had been much more common. In the Victorian era, if you can believe it. I cannot. A lot of women were lifting heavy weights. After Jan retired as a competitive athlete, she decided to get her PhD. And she started looking at the strong women from the 19th century who she called her athletic four mothers. She wondered what their lives were like. She knew that those strong women had been like pioneers and made her life possible, but she didn't know how that happened. So she dug even a little deeper and she found that starting in the early 19th century, there were gyms on both sides of the Atlantic, where women were doing things like overhand chin-ups. They were doing dips between parallel bars. And there was a doctor in Boston named George Barker Winship, who had a practice of what we might call muscle centric medicine. He believed that strength was health. And he actually had a special clinic, a special sub clinic in his clinic for ladies, where they would do something like a heavy partial deadlift. And he wasn't the only one. He had competition from a guy who created health lift parlors. And he was one of the first chain gyms. There were four or five of these in New York City just on Broadway alone in 1871. And you can see pictures of women in their bustles and corsets walking in there and doing these heavy partial deadlifts. It was advertised in part as something that would help with making pregnancy easier. Help with making sure. Yeah, easier. That's right. But then what happened was George Barker Winship died early of a stroke. He was in his forties. And people took that as a sign because he was so dominant as a symbol of lifting. They took it as a sign that lifting itself was dangerous. And within a couple years all those health health lift parlors closed. And it really wasn't until the later 20th century that they're started to be a little more of a movement toward lifting for women. How many of you missed the over-caffeinated feeling of your heart pounding out of your chest? Or are you on another caffeine detox like my producer Matt? You missed feeling really tired. I have just the thing for you. Nope. It's not impediment. It's mud water. Now I have two little children. Therefore, I do not have a perfectly structured morning routine. My days are full. And like most of you, I need something that helps support my focus, clarity and energy without wrecking my nervous system. And mud water has come to the rescue. It's not coffee. It's something even better. And it helps me in the afternoon with focus without making me feel wired. Mud water is made with functional mushrooms, no, not that kind. Adaptogens and organic ingredients like cacao and tumouric. It's a totally different flavor than coffee and it really is amazing. No sugar, no artificial junk, just clean, focused energy. And again, no crash. I love that it supports mood and immunity and focus. But what I really appreciate is how it helps me stay even. Because we've all experienced the too much caffeine effect. If you've been thinking about cutting back on caffeine or just want something that is different than I highly suggest you try mud water. Go to mudwater.com. That's mUDWTR.com slash doctor line and use the code doctor line to get up to 43% off your starter kit. That's so sad to think that just because this person who led the movie obviously had some genetic predisposition for cardiovascular disease. His death just changed generations. But to choose you the power of examples in strength training. You know, this is something that comes up over and over in the history of muscle and of strength that people look for others that they can identify with. Not necessarily to build themselves up in exactly the same way, like a role model, but more as a sort of There's a type of example that's more a form of companionship. You know, you become the people you hang out with. Is a saying and some gyms I've been part of. And you have to find those examples of strength in order to get strong in your own life. That so far, I mean, I find this conversation really fascinating, but so far that's my favorite aspect. And it was one of my favorite aspects of the book, this idea that women were doing it and you would have never thought in the Victoria and age. And then it stopped. But it is part of women's cultural history. I think now as women are coming into gyms more, although the statistics on women's participation in strength training are still really discouraging. What do you mean by that? I mean, men are still much more likely to lift weights than women. According to one of the most recent publications on this, it any given day 70% of the people in gyms are men. Strength training is part of women's cultural history. Strength training is not something that women need to feel like aliens about. That makes sense and it's something that what I'm hearing you say that we've been doing for a long time and that we don't even know that we've been doing for a long time. That's right. Which is extraordinary to think about as this cultural narrative shifts. In a hundred years people are going to look back and tell the story of stronger and tell the story about how muscle reemerged as this organ of longevity and really reinvigorated. I think a society and hopefully have, you know, hopefully the message has global impact because it's really one of strength. When we look out now and part of your book also recognizes female athletes, do you think that there is a cultural shift happening? There is a shift. Sociologists who look at sociologists who spend time with female athletes report that there is a lot less consternation, a lot more confidence and come to life. And confidence and comfort among female athletes. There's a great study of a soccer team where there's a very powerful center forward whose name is Sharon. They nicknamed her Big Bird because she just gets out in front and really saves the day on many games and she's able to do that because of her strength and her size. She celebrates that. Her classmates celebrate that. But at the same time, you still have women on that very same team who are subverting their own strength training by doing extra cardio or skipping some of their lifting days because they don't like how their thighs get big and they're afraid that it will. Make them less attractive to men. And I don't think that we're seeing that any longer. Also fast forwarded this idea of aging and you mentioned sarcopina again this but sarcopina again this book is fascinating because it really does a historical perspective shows a historical perspective about muscle but also a scientific perspective. And I would argue that if we want to age well, we have to recognize that it starts early but there's also no time that is too late to begin training. Absolutely. I would love for you to share some of the things, some of the surprising scientific evidence that you found as you were doing investigative journalism for this book. Well, one of the things that really blew the top of my head off was a study that ended up getting published in the Journal of the American Medical Association in 1990. The title is Strength Training, High Intensity Strength Training in Non-Agenerians. It sounds like near future science fiction, right? It all happened because there was a young woman who had gone to work in a lab in Boston. She'd never lifted weights before. She'd in medical school. She had never taken a class on exercise. But she happens to land in this lab right around the time when there's another guy who because he grew up playing basketball, because he liked to lift weights, had suggested why don't we do some kind of study of weight training in addition to all this study of robics that we're doing. And he worked with a group of men in their 60s. In a very short time, he doubled the strength of their quad-reset, sets triple the strength of their hamstrings. And this is at a time when it was just settled scientific knowledge in medicine that it was too late to build muscle in your 50s and 60s. They really believed that and they believed that any increase in strength was solely owing to neural adaptations. So he shows that's just not true. This young woman arrives in the lab. She looks at that and she just says, big deal. Like these guys are young. They don't have any real problem with function. Why don't we see what would happen if we gave this to the people who need it most? So she went to a nursing home that was called the Hebrew Rehabilitation Center for Aged. They nicknamed it inside the nursing home. He grew rehab for short. And Hebrew Rehabilitation Center was full of Holocaust survivors. It was full of people who had lived through the depression. This was not a generation that had grown up exercising. And so once they reached their 80s and 90s, they're in really bad shape. She finds a group of 9 or 10 of them. And most of them are in wheelchairs or walking with walkers if they're lucky enough to be able to walk. Again, very short time, very simple program just doing knee extension. She increases their strength so much that some of them are able to walk without their canes or walkers. They open up a whole new way of seeing muscle and aging that then leads to all the research that makes the practice of geriatrics the way you've learned it possible. Yeah, I mean, it's really striking this idea of aging what we can do about it, where muscle is. And you know, you hear a lot about this idea that walking and just moving is going to be enough. And I just don't see that reflected in the evidence. We do have to focus on strength because it doesn't happen by accident. Well, the research is very clear that walking and just general physical activity do not preserve mass and strength. Yeah, and people get from what I see at least online, very upset about that. And what in part, I believe that you're doing in this book is reexamining the past so that we have a better future. Yes. Because if we do not recognize and look backwards, we will repeat the same things. And that's really what I'm seeing that you're doing is exposing where we come from and potentially where we're going so that we don't revert back to. The same kind of behaviors that have seemed to follow us like sedentary behavior misunderstanding muscle thinking that it's only about strength versus vitality and and really strength is a privilege. Would you agree with that? That strength is a privilege. Yeah, it's not a luxury. It's a responsibility. It is a responsibility. Right now, unfortunately, the social reality is that it is a luxury. I mean, the people who are most likely to do strength training are the people who have college degrees or the people who have more money. And there's just no encouragement. There's no access. There are no systems set up to help most of our population learn this. There are so many things that could be done to change that. I mean, medical schools really need to open up the curriculum to include exercise and to weight strength training equally with aerobic exercise in how they teach about exercise. Nursing homes need to have leg press machines. I mean, that would be incredible. Medicare needs to start reimbursing to have an exercise physiologist teach us how to exercise. On the medical school board exams, there need to be exercise focused questions because if there aren't, there's no practical reason for doctors to learn this. And also a muscle is an organ system. Yes. Just like you take a cardiology exam, you take a pulmonary exam. When you're in medical school, you're learning all of these organ systems. Why would you not learn muscle? But muscle even by many doctors is still viewed as something superficial. Go back to aerobics that book by Ken Cooper that was mega bestseller. Ten's of millions, maybe even a hundred million copies sold. And he says that muscular exercise is like just putting a paint job on a car that actually needs an engine overhaul. Like muscle is so much more than a style choice. But you hear people say, I don't care about my muscles, which is insanity. You would never hear somebody say, I don't care about my pancreas. I don't care about my liver. That's true. That's absolutely true. You'd mention nursing homes and there is a center for a strong medicine, which I did was totally unaware of until now, or reading your book actually in Sydney. I'd love for you to highlight how perhaps other countries or how they are doing it in other areas. Well, let's just talk about Australia and let's just talk about the center for strong medicine, because that's a whole world in itself. And speaking of examples, it's a great example of what medical care could look like. Maria Fiataroni Singh, who is the doctor, who did those first breakthrough studies of high intensity strength training for non-agenarians. She and her husband, Nalyn Singh, did the very first study of weight training for treatment of depression. Then they moved to Australia and they decided that they were going to open a clinic where they would implement the research they had done in clinical care. So every single patient who comes to this doctor gets a prescription for weight training that is targeted as treatment for whatever chronic diseases they have. Like somebody with depression actually needs to lift weights more frequently than somebody who doesn't have it. Like just like somebody with diabetes needs to lift more frequently than somebody who doesn't. So it's not just saying lift weights, it's saying here is the dose, here is the timing. And I spent about a week inside this clinic just sitting with the doctor listening to all of the patient's stories. It was amazing, there was one man who had come in, he was really struggling with depression. I talked to him about, I said, what did your body feel like when you were depressed before you started lifting? And then what did it feel like when you lifted and when your depression went away? And he said, before I was just like water, he said, I was just soft and flowing and I didn't feel solid. And now I feel like I'm a rock in the stream. Now hydration isn't just about drinking Coke Zero or sugar free red bull. I'm saying number a friend or even drinking just warm water. It's about keeping the right balance of electrolytes on fluids during life's most demanding season that matters even more than ever. So for example, if you are pregnant or postpartum, your body is going through massive changes. Blood volume, hormone shifts, breastfeeding demands, I don't know, crying kids, all of it. And this is a place where you need electrolytes like sodium, magnesium, potassium, element was formulated to replenish what you actually use. Without sugar, fillers or junk, it's a clean, effective way to stay hydrated. For example, through pregnancy, postpartum and for men, hey, this isn't just for ladies. It's not just about hydration. It is about performance, recovery, mental clarity, and yes energy, whether you are hitting the gym, chasing your kids or grinding through another workday. Dehydration can quietly sabotage your focus. Element helps you stay sharp, strong, and ready. We use element because it works and it tastes great. You can get a free sample back with any purchase. That's eight flavors. Go to drink DRINK LMNT.com slash Dr. Lion. That's drink LMNT.com slash Dr. Lion. Stay hydrated. Stay strong. Another great thing that happens at the Center for Strong Medicine is that little muscles get big attention. You know, triceps are one of the most important muscles for our long term well-being, because triceps do so much to help us be able to get up from a chair to be able to. I saw a man at the Center for Strong Medicine in the Center for Strong Medicine has a 2,000 square foot gym in the middle of it. That is the biggest part of this clinic. There are like 30 machines, 30 Kaiser machines there, and I saw a guy on the triceps push down. And I went over and I said, what makes you do this? And he said, get off the bloody toilet. And I couldn't understand. And he said triceps are what allow me to get through the world. He has been on lipatore a statin. One of the most common drugs. He just had the bad luck to have one of the rare side effects of lipatore, which was a disease that just attacked his muscles and made them atrophy almost to nothing. So he came to this doctor. No other doctor had been able to help him, because no other doctor had even thought to use exercise to treat him. But at the Center for Strong Medicine, the sings said, we're going to even though it looks like you don't have any muscles. They're still there, and we're going to wake them up. They gave him this prescription, and he was able to start making his way around the world again. The title, the subtitle, stronger, and its untold is in the subtitle, the untold story of muscles, the untold story of muscle in our lives. What do you think is the most important aspect of what is untold? Which part do you think is untold? I mean, clearly, the whole thing is not ever been put together in a manner like this. It just doesn't exist. I've never seen a book like this. It took you eight years to do it. And within those eight years, I can only imagine that you kept coming up with things that you thought, no one else says, I've never heard this. What was the most untold aspect of this book? The most amazing thing about muscle is that it is what modulates our power to act upon the world. Without muscle, we can't be the people we want to be. We can't be with the people we want to be with. We can't get up and move around the world on our own steam. But muscle is also so much more than that. And when you start to understand the central role that plays in our metabolism and in our bone health and in our mental health, it just becomes kind of mind blowing. We've been treating muscle like it's mainly an aspect of how we look. But it is at the core of who we are. You're doing a tremendous job at really reframing the conversation. I hope everybody listening picks up a copy of this book. I think that it is transformative to understand where we came from. And you mentioned something that I also had not thought of before that even really the scientific language needs updating. Can you share a little bit more about what your perspective is on that? I'll start with another story. I love stories. It's 1944 toward the end of World War II and there's an army hospital in Chicago that's just filling up with wounded soldiers. And the orthopedic department there just can't get him out fast enough because they're more wounded soldiers coming in. So a doctor who grew up lifting weights decides that he's going to try a rehab program that is based on lifting heavy weights relative to a person's tested maximal strength. So 80% of one repetition maximum. And this is at a time when most physical therapy textbooks say muscles should never be injured. Muscle should never be exercised beyond a point of moderate fatigue. So he is completely throwing out the rule book. He is going rogue by doing this. And it works. I mean, people, the other doctors, looked down on him. He says that because of bodybuilders, most people, especially doctors are just bewildered and repulsed by training to build muscle. But he shows that it works. It works so well that the whole US army system adopts his technique. But in the course of that happening, he makes a discovery that figuring out how to solve the problem is just half the battle. You also have to figure out how to talk about the problem. And he made a big mistake at the beginning of his journey here by calling what he was doing heavy resistance exercise. Now, every other doctor who heard him say that just had a kind of allergic response. And because they thought heavy weight training, they thought big guys, they thought bodybuilders. And he took this problem to his wife and they had a long talk about it. And they decided to come up with another term. And they called it progressive resistance training. So the shift there is a shift from challenge heavy resistance training to invitation, progressive resistance training. And that is what opens the door and makes all kinds of people be able to start imagining themselves lift weights. And he does experiments with women and with adolescents. And he keeps finding that this works. He uses it to treat polio. Wow. And others do. And over and over. Well, I was researching this book. I would discover that the scientific breakthroughs were accompanied by revolutions in language. And Maria Fiataroni saying did her early studies of heavy weight training in nursing homes. She worked with a colleague, Evelyn O'Neill, who did most of the training. Evelyn O'Neill was a 30-year-old who had never really exercised. She had never lifted weights. She was just coming to this totally blank. And it allowed her to find a new way of talking about heavy weight training to old people. Like you can't tell a 90-year-old, no pain, no gain. Because they're in so much pain already. So she said, instead of pain, we always talked about sornus. She said, instead of talking about something being hard, a lift, an effort being hard, we talked about it being challenging. And she said that to learn about the cyclical nature of strength, essentially, like periodization that we were talking about earlier, she learned to say life has ups and downs. And you're going to be week one day and you're going to be strong the next day. But you can always know that if you rest a little bit, but keep doing what you can do, your strength is going to come back. It is an entire mental shift, I think, for people. Right. You spent quite a bit of time, almost a decade, actually researching this full-time, which is a truly noble. What has to happen for us to move the needle culturally? You've gone back in history to see what happened to allow things to take hold from a cultural perspective. Again, I don't think anyone has studied this more. From where we are now, to where you think, again, this is your opinion. So I want to open the floor up to your opinion, because you've done such an amazing job at reporting and really investigating all this. Where do you think we need to go? And I'm curious, as to, is there, is there a language shift that we have to really move the needle forward? In terms of language? Or in terms of anything? What do we have to do to create a strong culture? Again, I think it needs to start with our kids. I think we need to really normalize strength training, thinking about being strong, thinking about our muscles, for all of our kids, not just the athletes, not just the big kids, not just the boys. And in fact, really emphasize for the people who don't look strong, who don't seem like they have the greatest potential for strength, that they do because there's a lot of research showing that sarcapiniya-age-related muscle loss, that can just devastate us in our later years, actually starts in childhood. Yes, sir. And weakness in adolescence is the strongest predictor of disability in adulthood, according to a study of like a million Swedish soldiers that's been going on for longitudinal study that's been going on for years. So if we can build a really positive sense of strength and muscle into childhood and adolescence, that is going to get the ball rolling. But at the same time, we can't let go, we can't give up on old people. And the people who have the knowledge and the practices of strength training right now need to be sharing those. I don't know why there's not some kind of peace core for training. I mean, I don't know why the big gym chains don't create some kind of body system. I mean, wouldn't you be willing to do a workout every week or every two weeks with an 80-year-old who can't find a way around the gym? I'm always down. I'm always down. And my parents, when they are here, the deal is we're going to train. Yeah. And they love it. I mean, although my dad's a little daterous because he will not quit. He was a wrestler in college. I was capturing the wrestling team at Penn. And you just drop him in there and that guy has no quit at all. Cold punch, sign me up. His lead push is, I'm in. He's like, dad. Just chill. A little. But I agree with you. And then I, what is the answer? Could you, you know, during this conversation, you really made me think about my own messaging as you were sitting there talking? Because I am the kind of girl that's no pain, no gain. And don't break real number one. Let's go. And maybe that has to be really reevaluated. So I'm going to give you a word for that. It's chiroce. Go back to the gymnasticus. That story about the wrestler. He died. And then the gymnasticus says, it's because he was just trying to keep up with the program instead of doing exercise all improvised for the right time. The word for time there is chiroce. And Charles Stalking, who translated the gymnasticus, says that that is a hard word to translate, but it really means doing the right thing at the right time. To start me. That's right. That's right. So we need to give ourselves some grace. We need to give other people some grace. It doesn't mean take it easy all the time. It means, I mean, you've learned about this through your own injury. I've torn both hamstrings. And again, that was 10 years ago, and I decided to go do something fun. And then I re-hurt myself. I mean, it's just certainly a cycle. How do we take history and move it forward? How do we go back where you and I are, if we're alive in a hundred years, which gosh, hope they have really good Botox. But if they don't, how do we look back? And the next Michael Joseph Gross, who writes the book, saying, okay, here's the history of what we did in every hundred years. How do we say, you know what, they got it right? Well, I hope they'll look back and they'll say, medical schools started teaching about exercise. Medical boards started putting questions about exercise on their exams. Nursing homes started putting leg press machines and other actual real strength training equipment in their PT rooms, medicare and insurance started reimbursing to teach people to exercise. And schools started to really get serious about including everybody from the beginning in thinking about themselves as a gym person. 100 years from now, everybody is a gym person. Because everybody is a gym person even now, even though they might not know it yet. 100 years from now, though, that's set in so much that lifting weights is just as normal as brushing your teeth. Wow, think about what that would look like. Do you think we have a chance at that? Do you honestly think we have a chance at that? I wake up, I brush my hair, brush my teeth, put on the other end, which we need certain family members to also do that don't. And then hit some push ups and swinging couple kettlebells, half breakfast and off we go. So I'll answer your question with a question. 25 years ago, would you ever have believed it if somebody told you that in 2025, you would be spending at least an hour a day looking at a little machine that you held in your hand, mostly while sitting on your butt, and that most of your social life and much of your professional life would be happening through this thing. I mean, we've all made time in the last few years to spend time on social media. We can make time to work out. I love that. I truly do. And Michael, what you are doing, I have so much respect for. And I really hope this podcast brings visibility to your work and to this book, which stronger, where can people get it? Any bookstore, any online bookseller? It's everywhere. And if you are listening to this podcast, this is probably one of the more important podcasts that I've done. And by the way, I believe all of my podcasts are important because I'm so particular and the team is so particular about who we bring on. This book is extraordinary. It is unique. It is historical. And there are not many books that I think can pivot the way that the culture sees something. I think that this is one of those books. Thank you. You have my absolute endorsement. If you are a friend of mine listening to this podcast and would like to connect with Michael, please let's do that. And I will make that introduction because I think that everybody needs to hear what you have to say. So thank you so much for coming on and being a guest on the show. If today's conversation with Michael Joseph Gross challenged the way you think about muscle, what it's for and who it's for and why it matters. You are not alone. Being strong isn't just a book about fitness. It's a cultural reframe of how we see strength across age, gender, medicine and society. The idea that muscle is only for athletes or aesthetics outdated. And as you heard today, muscle is medicine. It's autonomy. It's memory. It's mood. It's movement. When you build muscle, you're not just lifting weight. You're lifting your capacity to live to connect and to shape your world. If you're inspired to take action, start by rethinking about your own definition of strength. Like and subscribe and we'll see you next week and as always, stay forever strong. Thank you.

People have asked me before. Were you ever in a situation where you really afraid? Like, not by or something. And I answer them quite honestly. No. What makes a Navy CL not normal? One of the biggest reasons why guys like us don't suffer from anxiety is because what is paramilitary? You're talking about operations that are less overt, usually done secretly in areas that perhaps the public isn't as much aware of. That would be the vanilla definition of that to go any more precise, I'd be concerned about saying too much. The sacrifice that our military families make is as big than the actual member. Because they're the ones who have to sit home and hold the bag. Courage is impossible in the absence of fear. You can have a group of Navy Cilles and a gunfight with Al Qaeda in Afghanistan who are in that moment feeling less fear than the eight-year-old you just asked us to step in front of the class and introduce themselves. Fear is entirely subjected to the uniting. If you gave people one piece of advice, they want to become tougher. What would that piece of advice do? That's a great question and I would say, I would say... Uh... Rich Chivini, welcome to the show. Thank you. Thank you for having me. I'm really excited. You and I are friends. You came to you, spoke it, our event, and you've floored everyone as a former commander, Navy CL. Yeah. Thank you. It was a great event. Great people. So... What makes a Navy CL not normal? It's a great question and I would say, I would say, probably only a couple things, because we are after all human beings. And I always, I always endeavor. My whole endeavor is to take the CLs off the pedestal, so I can translate what we actually do. But I think what makes us not normal, IE allows us to get through the selection course is our ability to manage our autonomic rousal, our state and the ability to compartmentalize in a way that allows for performance under just extreme chaos and deress. In those moments of extreme chaos and deress, we don't get more excited. We actually get calmer. And I think that's one of the elements that allows someone to even make it through training, and that just translates, and the profession itself, hyperdeveloped set of ability. So I think there's one key thing. I think that's what makes Seals not normal. I live with one, so I would. And he's not normal, just like all of a sudden. Quite frankly pretty annoying. I think to myself, could you please get stressed out about this? Yeah. Who's the best? Yeah, you know, and I, you know, funny, because I, in the prep for this, I saw, I watched a couple of the clips you sent, and I saw that one guy talking about the difference between Seals and Delta and CIA, about paramilitary. And, and I, he wasn't, you know, he certainly had some nuances. He was, he wasn't wrong about things, but I think he was not specific enough, because comparing them is like comparing apples and oranges, and bananas. They all, all the elements have different specialties. And really, you can't even compare Seals holistically to Delta, because not all Seals, if you're going to compare Delta to anybody, compared to Seal Team 6, which is specific command that's at Delta's level. So with a specific mission. So, but all this to say, I think Seals are, their, their medals, their mission essential tasks are such that the, its direct action, its waterborne operations, that that comes with a, a very unique skill set and attribute set to be able to deal and live in and out of the water. I think the army guys, you know, we could just talk about Delta, those guys are, and Delta is a, and the question is who is the best, CIA Delta or Seals? I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm. The best that what? That's the thing. If you, if you, if you, said best that at waterborne operations, seals hands down. If it's the best at airline aircraft take down and hostage rescue style stuff with airlines, it's Delta. If it's, if it's the best at paramilitary operations, it's CIA. I think the mistake people make when they think special operations is that everybody's kind of all the same, but just different military services, but the unique and, and the, the most special thing about the special operations is that every unit comes with it, a specialty green braze are awesome at their, their primary duty is fit for an tournament. They're primary duty. For an internal defense, basically going in and training other units or insurgents to carry out missions. So they do it better than anybody else. The Rangers, their primary mission is airfield take downs, mass, mass level style take downs. That no one does it better than them. So seals is all waterborne. No one takes down ships the same way seals do. Or gets girls. Or gets girls. Or I will, I will, I will concede that in recent years seals have won the popularity contest. Now that's not, I mean, you certainly has to do with the missions that were very public, but also the fact that yes, many of us do right books. And although my books aren't seal books, there are many seal books out there. And so, so yeah, I will concede that when it comes to the Hollywood stuff, we are, we are well deserving of all the, all the shit we get from the other units. That's, that's really funny. You make a really good point at the best at what. And again, the joke is, and of course, I'm married to seals. I can make these jokes. The guys are knuckle draggers. Yeah. Meaning not highly intelligent, but really the muscle. The reality is these are highly intelligent guys. When I went through seal training and anybody, the audience probably knows enough about it, but Navy seals holistically as a force only a small percentage of jaw officers. And that, you know, so I was an officer that's a very small percentage. So out of the entire force, maybe only 10 percent are officers. The rest most Navy seals are enlisted guys. When I went through buds, almost half of the enlisted guys in my Buds class had college degrees. So we're not, so I don't like the misnomer. Certainly we have knuckle draggers in the community. But there was a rocket site. There was a enlisted guy who had studied rocket science. Again, how do you measure intelligence? What does intelligence look like? In the CIA, paramilitary vein intelligence looks like one thing. You put a guy under water having to navigate to a target and do stuff. That's a whole other level of intelligence. I think the nuances are funny, of course. And we could say this anything about marines or the army. There's certainly a nice amount of material inside of which we can all tease each other. But the generalizations, I don't agree with it all. What is paramilitary? Well paramilitary is really those operations that are conducted outside of your regular U.S. military. I won't say per view, but certainly overtonists. You're talking about operations that are less overt, usually done secretly and usually done in areas that perhaps the public isn't as much aware of. That would be the vanilla definition of that to go any more precise. I'd be concerned about saying too much, but it's just those things we don't. We don't talk about as much and it's usually in the shadows, I guess. Yeah. Which those kind of operations seem to be necessary. They are necessary. And by the way, a lot of the spec ops units do at least some version of that to some degree. Certainly, that certainly as you go up the chain, the CIA probably is the premiere. But spec ops is about at least an element of that. What paramilitary is not what we were doing in Iraq and Afghanistan. Those were overt special operations missions that were completely the expectation of what guys like us needed to do. So. Guys like us, there is a reality of deployment. Yeah. And there is the amazing Hollywood story. What the seals do, what the CIA does, what the Delta's do. But there is a dark side. And I'd love to know how that affects you, psychologically. There's many ways that affects us. And I think there's also a difference there. You came into the community at a time as I lived the community where deployments were very kinetic. And so to deploy meant you were going overseas and you were going to be conducting combat operations. Period end of story. I joined the teams in 1996. The first five years are my career. I did a couple deployments. We did nothing. We just deployed it basically to deploy for presence. It's called deploying for presence. Or you're just sitting somewhere waiting to be to have something happen. Most deployments outside of our combat time. I've either war or like that. That still comes with it. A element of uniqueness and stress because you have to leave your family. And you don't know what's going on. And you have to get reduced to this idea that you're going to be gone for this long. And your family has to get used to that idea that you're going to be gone for that long. So that in of itself carries a level of stress and hardship that I think when we thank our service members for their service, whether they're a Navy seal or whether they're an ad been person. I think part of the joint combined sacrifices, the fact that we're asking folks to leave their families for long periods of time so that they can go do things in places. Whether they're actually conducting combat operations or supporting them. But being away from their family, that's part of the that's one of the biggest sacrifices. The combat deployments add on to that this concern and worry that my family member is going out and they are going to be in the thick of it actually. And so again, I think that carries and you can probably attest to this. That carries more stress and anxiety for the home front than it does the actual operator. So the way just we for us it's work and we don't worry about we don't worry ourselves over that stuff but the family they they suffer quite a bit. I wanted to take a moment to let you know about something new we've created. It's called forever strong insider and it's the premium subscription to the Dr. Gabriel Lion Show. As a forever strong insider every week, you'll get ad free episodes written summaries with key takeaways to help you retain the most important insights from the show. A community Q&A segment where you can submit your own questions for upcoming guests. We're going to call this the strong seat and behind the scenes content, a closer look at how I prepare, train, travel and navigate daily life. Go to foreverstrong.supercast.com. Let's keep getting stronger together. I married Shane he was still some husband for those of you who are new to listening or watching on YouTube. He served 10 years as a seal. He went in after 9-11. He was very inspired and felt like he needed to do something. When we got married he was states I'd he was actually teaching at the schoolhouse. I want to be careful about what I say and how I say it but he was teaching trauma for special operations. Trauma medicine working extremely long hours was doing night school before going to medical school. I was alone and pregnant in New York City. I did the majority of the pregnancy alone in living in a small studio apartment, traveling on the subway. It was an interesting experience and as I was going through my first pregnancy I'm thinking you know, thank God he's not deployed but it's it is not easy. There was no one to rub my feet. I tell you you bring up a great point because my wife talks about too. There's sometimes especially with the seal skating popularity. There's a romanticization that comes a lot of women who's like, oh maybe seal. As my wife will say no no it's no picnic and the reason is because even when we're at home we're working on stop. We're going away for training we're not as present as you can be. I think that also comes with this idea that there's nothing it's a tough job. It's a tough business. It's a complete commitment. When you're at home you're training and that training often keeps you, you know you can't it's hard to train for night operations during the day. So guess what that means? That means you're doing a lot of training after dark which means you're getting home late. In chainskase that type of trauma training. I mean that you know he was doing things in the city there that had to it required him to be out at night because that's where a lot of the stuff goes down. And so the sacrifice that our military families make is as big. If not more so then the actual member because they're the ones who have to sit home and hold the bag and wonder and keep their mouth shut and not and be okay with not talking every day. And that's one of the secrets. You know when you're on the plumb of my wife and I figured out real fast even though we had the luxury of being able to talk on the phone calling every day was a mistake because it's set up an expectation and by the way if something happens or if you're delayed or something, something random and you don't make that call guess what's happening at home. There's wonder, there's there's there's worry plus it actually extends the deployment because you're just your horizons. We'll talk about who the horizon but your horizons are just going day to day versus anything else. So our secret was, you know, don't talk every day maybe we talk once a week and email once in a while but and make it somewhat random. Make the relationship in the connection somewhat random is what I heard you say. Yeah. Totally the opposite of what we would think of maintaining a healthy marriage. Yeah. Yeah. How does one in your position? Someone who trains up mentally, right? If we were to frame this up for the listener and also the women listening and the guys because guys want to be tough. Yes. You know we open this with what makes an ABC on non-normal. And the reality is you guys aren't normal and I don't want to bunch you in with quote the guys but the reality is there are certain attributes and you talk about this in your first book that allows someone to be successful and one of those attributes from being with you know Shane for the last seven or so years is the things that make a close connected marriage don't necessarily exist with a quote team guy. Right. Right. That was the being one of those. empathy. empathy but being able to emotionally engage. And what do I mean by emotionally engage? From my experience and I really want to hear your perspective on this, a healthy marriage requires a close connection and an ability to breach the emotional perimeter. Yeah. But by nature and while Shane is extremely loving and caring, there would be definitely a lack of if I'm stressed or having anxiety about this or how this business is going, what about that? It doesn't even register. Yeah. The shared empathy. So part of, okay, so part of what Kristen and I don't even very 24 years. So we got married in 2001. So I was only a seal for five years. So we live the war together raised two boys. And so part of what we have explored as we went through it and since then is that first thing is we have to really learn and understand this idea of appreciation for each other. That appreciation can be garnered in many different ways but one of those ways is in the absence you know. And so we began to frame the absence in a different way. Instead of and she was very good at this and you know, if you were here, she'd tell you she had to really tell herself like explicitly. Instead of being pissed off at him for not being here, why don't I reframe it and say, hey, I'm he's away. I'm I get to do all this but also I appreciate we we the absence we we really hammered home this absence makes it a hard growth on her type thing. Because honestly, we would towards the end of the filament get to this position where coming home was like, I mean, I don't remember having the excitement of of a kid on Christmas morning. Yeah, the the only way I could replicate my the replicate my feeling is a kid on Christmas Eve was coming home for an opponent because that that absence piece. In terms of the way we relate as partners when we're together, I think that's a willingness for each person to understand and see each other for where they are and for each partner to grow and move a little bit, move the line a little bit. Shane has had to become at least a little bit more empathetic. I'm sure he has. You've had to come off of that. You've had to be okay with a lack of that to a certain degree as have Christian and I and so and so I think we have to recognize that marriage, whether it's seal marriage or any marriage, you know, if you want to go the long haul, you have to recognize that and understand and appreciate the fact that we are going to change his human things. One of the things that always gets me when I hear about couples getting divorced is when they say something like, well, he's not the same person I married 10 years ago or she's not the same person. I was like, no shit, you know, I mean, Christian, I was, you know, 28 and she was 29 or something. I mean, absolutely not the same person and for good that, you know, that's that's a good thing, but we have evolved together. Her attributes, her personality, everything about her has moved, has helped me move the line and become better. I become more empathetic as as I've grown older as I've grown old. Well, I mean, first of all, kids helps, you know, really, I can tell that's all. I mean, I mean, good people are interested in I, when we first got very, we went to see finding Nemo and and I remember watching the movie as a great movie. I mean, Pixar does a great job and I remember her just sobbing at the issues just crying at the end. I was like, wow, that's, that's an interesting reaction. I was, of course, moved, I thought it was cool, moved, but I wasn't emotionally moved. And then I had kids and I watched it again and suddenly I was, now I'm older and I joke with some of my older team, even team guy friends, like, I'll sometimes watch commercials and, you know, now part of that is my empathy is moved. Part of that, I think is is when you go through such a such a, and I say traumatic, but such a really visceral experience when you live a war and you lose friends and you see, and there's a lot of things that happen. I think I think that our, our natural tendency to compartmentalize those feelings, my buddy and I call it, we get, we get these empathy, these bursts, these empathy bursts, where you're sitting there, you're watching a course on Sunday or you're emotionally moved, you know, where the hell did that come from? Well, I think part of it is yes, you're empathy's changed, but also part of it is your, your releasing things that might be pent up a little bit. So all of this is I know of, I've drifted a little bit, but I think I think a real understanding of each other and a true love of each other's soul allows for that evolution to take place. And yeah, it's frustrating. I'm still frustrating to you and Shane get frustrated, Chris, and I get frustrated. It's going to happen. No, I never have frustrated with them. Lyr. But it, you know, there's challenges, challenges with deployment, challenges with training, and you're on a very noble mission, in my opinion, which is why I'm so grateful to have you sitting here talking and what I believe your mission is is to really make the world better and understand your very cerebral time, understand how we can live in a very uncertain world with more steadiness. Yeah, that is absolutely. And one of the things I recognized just in the profession was that we as seals had the ability to do this. We had the ability to move through uncertainty, challenges, stress fairly deftly, and I began to wonder how and why. And as I began to think about it and research it and learn more about it, both the practical tools and the neuroscience, I recognize that this was not limited to Navy seals. There's actually human stuff. And that's what drives me. Once you start putting science behind stuff, you start realizing, oh, this is not Navy seal. This is human. And then once a human, you can teach people. You can show people. You can remind people. Ultimately, I think the one of my main drive, two main drivers for this content. That is one, help people deal with uncertainty, challenge stress when it hits you without warning. That's always going to happen. And that's great if we can march, if we can have some confidence that when something happens, I'll be okay. I think in fact, that's true confidence to know, hey, whatever it goes on, I'll handle it. But the more important thing in my mind and the more the thing that drives me more is is by understanding these tools and these practices, you can more deliberately step into challenge uncertainty. You can deliberately cross that line, that comfort line, because all of our growth, all of our discovery, all of our evolution happens outside of our comfort zone. And if we are unwilling to step outside of our comfort zone, we will not grow. We will not discover we will not at all. And we will not even explore our potential because our potential lies outside our comfort zone as well. So the ability to make a deliberate choice to step outside your comfort zone, but because you have the confidence in these in this content, these tools is really what drives me, because that's really what's accelerating human potential. And I love that. Have you seen that happen? Yes. Yeah, I've seen that happen on many, and I get a lot of feedback from folks who read the book or get the content in which book attributes or master some of the books. Well, I mean, the attributes really was the feedback I got was really more of an exploration of self, which I love. I know so much more about myself and why I do the things they do and my teammates and why they do the things they do. And that continues to be a driving for that book. The master's uncertainty book, I've gotten feedback and the cool thing is some feedback from all ages, all genders people saying, hey, this has really helped me deal with X or Y or what's going on. And that's a myriad of things that I hear. And that's I love that because or you also, I also hear, I've actually been doing this all along, but now I know exactly what I'm doing. I can talk, I can explain what I'm doing, which also really jazzed me because once you can explain it, you can again teach it to others. You can show it to others and you can replicate it and you can practice it. So that's what's been cool. Hydration isn't just about drinking, co-zero or other sugar-free, sweet beverages like breadball. Now I'm saying this for a friend. Or it's not even about drinking more water. It's about keeping the right balance of electrolytes and fluids. During life's most demanding season, like I don't know parenting, maybe pregnancy or postpartum, your body is going through massive changes, blood volume increases, hormones shift, breastfeeding demands, you know, all those things. All of these life transitions, you probably need more and better hydration and you need electrolytes, like sodium, magnesium, and potassium. Elements is formulated to replenish what you actually lose without sugar, fillers, and junk that you don't need. It's a clean, effective way to stay hydrated. And for men, again, it's not just about hydration. It's also about performance, recovery, mental clarity, and yes, even energy. Whether you're hitting the gym, chasing kids, or grinding through your workday, maybe even your teeth, dehydration can quietly sabotage your focus and endurance. Elements helps you stay sharp, strong, and ready. We use element because it works. Taste amazing and it's no nonsense, just science, but hydration that actually makes a difference. And right now, element is offering a free sample pack with any purchase that's eight flavors to try on the house. Go to drink lmnt.com slash doctor line to claim yours. That's drink lmnt.com slash doctor line. Stay hydrated, stay strong, and as Goggins would say, stay hard. I took your attributes test. I would recommend anyone listening to take the attributes test. In fact, everyone has taken the attributes test on my team. Except for Matt, the producer, this videographer over here has not taken the test. I was shocked to see my number on attribute. I can't remember which one was. Humility. Yeah. That doesn't surprise me at all. Yeah. I was surprised by my top attributes. Yeah. And then thinking about the team and then comparing it to my husbands. And what I learned was there's different compatibility at work versus at home, but the person isn't the same. Yes. So what's interesting about the attributes and some of it takes just like your one through 41 attributes ranked from your first top all the way down your bottom. A couple of things that's interesting is first of all that it has nothing to do with scores. So the scores just help with the ranking. And what it also highlights is that you are we are in absence of none of these attributes. We have all of them. So you have your four, I can't remember what your 41st was, but your 41st you have. It's just you prioritize all the other attributes before that. You know, ahead of that. That list is how you act without thinking. That's you at your most role. What we're constantly doing in everyday life with our attributes when there's not a lot of uncertainty challenges stress or even minimal is we're dialing up or dialing down those attributes so we are going into an environment and if you're low on patients you're deliberately dialing up your patients or if you're high on one of my friends team guy, his number one was humor, not surprising. I said do you have to sometimes dial down your humor because the situation is like, oh yes, all the time because the joke I want to tell is completely inappropriate. So he's deliberately dialing down is actually we do this when we're able to consciously do it. It doesn't happen as easily or if at all at our most role. So the cool thing about the attributes is just shows you who you are at your most role and then it gives you an idea of how and when you're dialing these up or dialing them. That's what aids in anybody's ability to perform better. You know, we recently were in Coronado for vacation first week. I just missed you by the way. I did you record Coronado so I was there last week so it was we were at the hotel dole. I have it there. I have yes. Yes. And they have a new training facility and we were there. Buds was not happening at the time. So Buds is that selection process. Can you tell us a little bit about Buds and the follow-up question is athleticism? Yeah. Athleticism isn't the biggest predictor if someone can become a Navy seal or not. I want to know why. Yes. So first Bud's basic underwater demolition slash shield training is where regular Navy guys, few girls are allowed but none have been a three-year go to become Navy seals. About an 85% attrition rate roughly on average. How many people typically go through? So typically like my class for example and this is a typical number star with 170 we graduated 35. So that's typical numbers. Six months long and has the it's all it all sucks but the infamous hell week is is week five where that's where you get the most quiters that where you start on a Sunday you go all the way till that following Friday during which you you only sleep for about two hours. So the entire week so you're constantly on the on the go. I was with Robert and he was saying that actually they tell you guys they let you sleep but I don't know if you if you register if it registers or you. He said that he wakes him up after five minutes. Yeah that's right and then people think that they're sleeping. Yes. Oh yeah that's but that's part of the hell of hell week. No that sounds like having a newborn boy. Yeah so no it's sure yeah there's a whole separate whole separate hell few months that goes on when one one has a newborn. So why does athleticism not is not why is athleticism not a predictor of success it's because athleticism on its own is is a very certain endeavor whether it be sport whether it be just working out those who are very well and and I would say athleticism also has to do with your ability to the aptitude you have in sports okay I was never I never considered myself an athlete. I played lacrosse in high school I never considered myself an athlete. I was okay I look Ross I think athleticism has to do with your ability to kind of conduct yourself in the sports environment. It also has to do with being in shape but I think even being in shape is not a single predictor because that act of getting into super shape and being super fit is again a very certain act. I mean you have to be it has to be disciplined you have to go to the gym every day you have to work out every day you have to you have to do the thing every day. Buds is and the other thing I'll I'll say is is a lot of athletes when they're especially in collegiate athletes athletics the the goal is always to be hitting the field at a hundred percent and and an athlete will do everything in his or her power to get themselves to a hundred percent so that they can hit the field at their best okay everything about Buds is we're gonna take you to zero and what do you got at zero and so it is it becomes hey we're gonna make you so many pushups that you can't do anymore you can barely move what do you have and so they they almost mitigate the athleticism to see where your mind goes so Buds is a mental this is why you have sometimes this division one athletes going to Buds and quitting within the first week meanwhile the the kid from the farm who's done nothing in terms of sports and flies through because it's a mental thing so so Buds is designed to test your mental capacity now you have to be in shape to be able to do what they're asking you to do so so you have to still be in shape enough to do the thing but but rest assured it's not about it's not about the physical it's about the mental do you have to be taken to zero in every day life to see what you're made of no not at all you no I wouldn't say you should I think I think if there is first well first of all we are all as human beings taking to zero in different ways some some extraordinarily traumatic which I wouldn't wish upon my worst enemy others people just throw themselves into a Spartan race or some like that or go to Buds so there's different ways you can get to zero I would say a couple things first of all you don't have to get all the way to zero you have to you have to you have to really be willing to stretch yourself and move outside your comfort zone to a degree that you feel like oh actually I just accomplished something you'll know it you'll know when you go outside your comfort zone and you make it through so I don't know if that's true well I think it is because you get a dopamine roar for every time when you when you do something really hard and again hard is subjected to the individual I mean you know hard for a person who's been sedentary their whole life might be I'm going to walk up the 10 flights of stairs instead of taking elevator for you and I that's like oh I mean I could run up 10 flights of safe but that's hard for them and so when they accomplish that they're going to feel the reward you and I might not feel the reward but they will and so I think we have to be always cognizant of the subjectivity of what hard is and encourage people to do hard things getting in the ice bath for me is hard every single time that's why I do winter how weak or summer yeah I was November so I was winter yeah it was not January but it was still cold it was considered in that in that zone getting the ice bath is hard every single time I do it I don't want to do it I dread it I just don't like it that's that's still something hard same thing when I do my my I do you know Virginia Beachwalk but I do my sprints with my weight fest up Mount Trashmore that big hill I dread that too but I do it because it's hard so I think we need to encourage ourselves to push because we know you know the interior mid-singulate cortex that's the part of the brain that they've discovered that neuroscientists realize that when it's it's activated when you do hard things you do things you don't want to do it's activated and then in fact grows the more you do that and it's been linked to a the ability to do hard things more frequently and b was really cool it's been linked to longevity so you actually the more you tickle that part of your brain the longer you live so so it's not only good for us as human beings to do hard things it's in terms of just a day-to-day life it's good just for your longevity to do hard things and so oh oh sorry it's time to record an ad for the show thank you to one of the sponsors of the show timeline and listen my kids still sleep with me and after 470 nighttime snack requests bathroom my husband snoring myself they're like a yo-jee we're tapped out enter might appear time line nutrition is one of the most thoroughly research products I've come across an over a decade look to carry in my purse they have peer reviewed published science and this is where it's really interesting so for those of you who are following the muscle center lifestyle when you increase bio energetics you improve muscle function and how in adults 40 plus timeline has been shown to increase muscle strength and endurance and no change in activity so whether you've been active resistance training your whole life or you're just getting started or you're not getting a lot of sleep and you've got a million requests your muscles and your mitochondria need help and they have just launched their low sugar vegan non-gMO gluten free gummies which by the way I am eating by the handfills which I shouldn't but they taste delicious time line is offering our community 20% off your first order go to timeline nutrition.com slash doctor lion and use the code doctor line to get 20% off I recommend trying their starter pack with all three different formats it's kind of course their gummies which are physically hard things there is a beginning and an end yes sprinting yes ice baths you name it mentally hard things that seems like that's much more difficult to push I'll give you an example I thought that doing a book launch would be hard or writing a book and doing all the things that come with it and in retrospect I think well was it hard or speaking in front of thousands of people is that hard and I find myself and maybe you can relate if I find myself questioning is that really hard or where is the edge and how am I stretching myself I find that if it is mental it's much more challenging to pull that lever yeah I totally agree I totally agree because that's where everything starts and I will I will can see that we can work out in a way that adds the mental piece to it but this is also why we need to take advantage of the lives we live we are as human being subjecting ourselves and life is subjecting us to uncertainty challenge address all the time hard stuff all the time it's our job to recognize that and don't mope and don't complain and don't brush it off like it's something you want to forget understand it live it feel it and learn from it and I think just take marriages example I mean christen and I I mean we get and healthy marriage married couples get into arguments those are hard those things suck those it sucks when you're in it and ability to recognize that in the moment or at least sometimes it's tough in the moment but certainly as soon after the moment is possible as hey this is a challenge let's step let's lean into that and let's make sure we make it work that's recognizing hard stuff the delayed or canceled flights during travel those are hard things that you have to work through these are these are what I call little tragedies that are allowing us to practice our horizon shifting practice our resilience muscles in these little moments so that we get good when the shit happens that we haven't we haven't anticipate or that really big bad stuff happens but all of us every single one of us a human beings can tell at least at least one or two or three stories throughout their lives were man that was a shitty time and it's it's incumbent on us if we didn't do it back then to look back at those and ask ourselves okay what did I do how to perform how to write behave what can I learn so that the next shitty thing that happens you can actually start stepping through with more confidence would you say it's about mastering those little tragedies it's about mastering the tools that get you through those little tragedies which time we get into so so one of the biggest things that inhibits our performance is fear because fear is this you know again it's this motion that it tickles the amygdala it gets our autonomic arousal engaged our brain begins to do weird things as as our autonomic arousal goes up our frontal lobe the decision making part of our brain begins to actually start taking a backseat toward limbic brain which is the emotional part of our brain and in the extreme cases a migillal hijack or autonomic overload we are it's a case where that frontal lobe has taken our complete backseat and we are in limbic decision making other words we're acting without thinking it's this this stuff comes in very handy when we're jumping out of the way the moving train or running from the bear but in most scenarios in life we want to actually engage our frontal lobe so we can decide we can actually move through and decide that so you know Andrew he remember our good friends we we met each other after as soon as I got out of the navy we did a lot of work together on this he was still running his fear lab and so what we did together we started studying for he was studying fear kind of from a neuroscientic level and we began to kind of explore what guys like navy seals do to actually step through this one of the things we we hypothesized is that fear is in fact a combination of two factors it's a combination of uncertainty plus anxiety when you have either one of those without the other you don't necessarily have fear so you can be anxious without being uncertain that might mean I'm going to give a presentation next week I know the presentation I know the people I'm giving it to at work so I'm a little anxious but there's no uncertainty there there's no fear you can be uncertain without being anxious well that's ever be uncertain without being anxious that's every kid on Christmas Eve okay so there's no fear there when you combine the two that's when you start to get fear and so the strategy from move and that's the type of uncertainty we're talking about by the way we're talking about the uncertainty that adds anxiety that equals fear none of us have any concern about the uncertainty about Christmas Eve okay the way we begin to move through that is we buy down either the uncertainty or the anxiety or both all right and so buying down uncertainty is a very specific set of tools that I talk about in the book and this this means what it what it what it looks to do is it looks to generate certainty in an unknown uncertain environment you you anchor on something in generator immediate certainty what I mean by that in any environment our brain is always trying to figure out what's going on our our brain seeks certainty so it's trying to figure out what's going on most of the time in an environment it's it's through three factors three distinct factors duration how long this is going to last pathway what's my route in out or through and then I'll come what's the end state here if we are an absence of one or more of those we start to feel that that uncertainty rise of often anxiety comes with it let's take we'll just take illness as an example a strep throat as an illness we all know there's actually an antibiotic you can take if we get strep throat we are only an absence of one of the three we have the pathway that's the antibiotic we have the outcome I'm going to get better what we don't necessarily have his duration because antibiotics might work a little bit faster on you than they do for me so we're an absence of one or uncertainty levels mod now let's talk about the flu also a known illness nowadays and today society most people recover from the flu they don't die from the flu however when we have the flu we are in an absence of two factors we know the outcome we're going to get better but there's no known thing you can take for the flu so there's no known pathway there's a lot of people who have ideas but there's no codified way so we're in absence of pathway or an absence of duration anxieties or uncertainty level is moderate now let's imagine a disease shows up no one's ever seen before start spreading across a planet some people are dying some people aren't dying no known vaccine we don't know how long it's going to be doing this enter 2020 this is how why in when COVID hit all of us were feeling the way we felt because we were in absence of all three of these all this process we call like all moving horizons does is it basically allows you to pick something and ask yourself what do I know we'll cut control pick something to anchor on and in essence create your own DPL duration pathway outcome three thousand dollars three wait is that number I spent more money on skincare my pores should be tax deductible maybe even have their own trust fund and thank goodness that I found one skin because one skin it doesn't just make empty promises it's research driven minimalistic and tested for beauty skin health and longevity one skin is the first topical skincare backed by peptide science that targets skin aging at the molecular level I slather this on all day they have a peptide that is designed to reduce the accumulation of dead cells or zombie cells that drive inflammation tissue breakdown as we age now this isn't about cosmetic quick fixes it's about changing the biology of your skin strengthening the barrier improving firmness hydration elasticity with clinically tested ingredients so if you are focused on aging well from the inside out it's time also to think about your skin it should get the same level of care go to onescin.co for 15% off use the co doctor lion it is amazing and it will not break the bank an example during seal training would be this and people can relate to this even if they're working out but uh seal training was during hell week you run around with those big heavy boats in your head all the time it was three three in the morning we're running with these things we're all miserable we're on the beach next to a sandbrem and I remember saying myself you know what I'm just gonna focus on getting the end of this sandbrem now what I did in that moment it inadvertently is I picked a horizon in essence created dp oh duration pathway out on duration from now until end of sandbrem pathway from here to end of sandbrem outcome end of sandbrem and what I also did in that moment is I immediately engaged my dopamine system to start endeavoring or start going moving forward in that goal and then I also created a reward at the end that gave me a dopamine hit when I got it which then allowed me to once I hit that horizon ask the question again okay now what do I know and what kind of control and pick a new horizon now this horizon shifting is basically generating certainty out of uncertainty but the horizon shifting that horizon picking is subjective to the individual and the intensity environment and it's constantly moving it's not always the same thing freezing in the surf zone which we talked about winter hell week you know surf tour yeah yeah yeah yeah it's awful I remember freezing the surf zone and I say my horizon at the time was I'm to count five waves sometimes my horizon was I'm gonna make it the next meal sometimes my horizon was I was gonna you know run to the end of sandbrem it's all based on the subjectivity because what you're doing in essence is your manipulating your own dopamine reward system and dopamine as we know not just a reward chemical it's a motivation chemical we can't we don't even get out of bed without dopamine or system and so if we pick a horizon what we're doing is we're engaging our dopamine system however the reason why it's subjective in terms of how far we're how short that horizon is because if we pick a horizon it's too far we won't have enough dopamine to get to the end of it would that be for example somebody wants to lose weight and they pick a time frame that is eight weeks away yeah or or they say I'm gonna I'm gonna lose 30 pounds in eight weeks okay that is too far of a horizon well again it's subjective the person might not be but in in most cases that be too far horizon but I'll give you a more visceral example then I'm gonna be able to kind of imagine because I just talked about hell week a classic example is thinking about Friday of hell week on Monday we always have a saying in buds if you think about Friday on Monday you're not gonna make it and in fact they started doing exit interviews for for guys who quit it was probably 10 12 years ago now and I'm glad they did but but as they interviewed these guys and just say hey what happened nine times that it's 10 the story was the same it's like we were doing act we had been doing X we were still doing X I couldn't imagine doing X for the next five days right they could not shorten their horizon now what's interesting is every single one of us human beings have done this at some level most of us who work out do it all the time we don't go into a workout and say and think about the entirety of the workout we say what am I what am I focusing I'm gonna do this muscle I'm gonna do this exercise I'm gonna do this set we we break it down into horizons by manipulating our dopamine system in that way if we pick up a horizon that's too far we run out by the way if you quit anything it's because you've run on a dopamine you've picked up anything yeah you've run on a dopamine you picked up a horizon that's too far if you pick up a horizon that's too close then you won't register the reward it won't feel like anything and you'll know it you'll know it both both ways which is a waiting to too close so in other words if I if for okay here's a great example and I'll just I'll just reference a guy talk about the book those a guy who I met at a conference he walked up to me he introduced himself he said he was an ultra runner and I said it was George and I said that's cool I mean how did you get into ultra running because I think it's insane I would never run 10000 and he said it you might I believe this but I used to be 300 pounds or something like that I said okay got to tell me that story he's like well I was frustrated I was so frustrated one day with my weight my health that I decided that I was gonna I was gonna run a marathon you know I said okay what'd you do he said well the first thing I did is I went home and I got online and I ordered running shoes and I and that was came and when those came I said okay tomorrow morning I'm gonna put on my running shoes which is what he did next morning he said I'm gonna put on my running shoes on a walk to the front door which is what he did next morning he walked to the mailbox next morning he walked to the and slowly went up went up and up now if you and I because we're we work out we're athletic if you and I decided I tried to run twice a week if we took a break from running for three months and we said we're gonna start running again tomorrow I'm gonna put on my shoes and walk to the mailbox that's not gonna be enough of a horizon for us it's very subjective won't we won't register the reward it has to be something bigger so so too small it's just not gonna be big enough and you'll know it because you just like I didn't feel like anything too big you'll know it because you're just you're gonna feel like you want to quit the good thing is we can modulate if you feel like you picked a horizon as too far and you're in the middle of it bring it down a bit when I'm running my hills a trash more it's about a I would say about a 80 to 100 yard run uphill and I start I started just practicing or just doing this just to see what what I felt like I said you want I'm gonna I'm gonna pick a horizon that's some 10 steps up the hill I realized that was too small for me I realized my best horizon is actually the top of the hill now for other people it might be halfway up the hill and then go if we're doing sets at a gym sometimes we'll we'll be doing sets and we'll we'll we'll we'll we'll we'll want to do 12 and we'll do six and it's like okay just six more what we've done there is we just we've adjusted our horizon in that moment we've picked another horizon at a different focus point so so we can adjust these constantly just to get us through and it's all subjective to the individual it seems that if we go through life consciously yeah a lot of us I mean I could just speak for myself I don't think about well I do now think about the horizons but I I believe that many people are walking around with my mommy's to call it free floating anxiety yeah have you ever heard of that I haven't but it sounds well I will say it is fascinating sitting with you and just watching my husband he's not anxious I I think to myself hey man I think you should be anxious about this you have no idea what you're doing what about this what about that and it's really interesting to watch an individual go through life without anxiety yeah it is completely different then an individual trying the amount of energy to navigate life with this idea of just anxiety yeah what would you tell someone who is walking around just feeling anxious yeah and has not doesn't have a reason yeah yeah which I think that's a lot of people that's a lot of people that's just two two things and now we're talking about we we've we talked about buying down uncertainty now if the topic of buying down anxiety the first thing I'll mention is that there are anxiety causes stress in the system which causes again our autonomic arousal to go up one of the ways we there are physiological ways we can actually manage our stress okay and there's breathing techniques breathing tools visual tools which we can talk about so that's one way to do this however what I'll say this one of the biggest reasons why guys like us don't suffer from anxiety is because we completely reframe anxiety anxiety is quite literally fiction anxiety is always about what might happen so always in the future now the past is history of the future's fiction then now the the effects of anxiety stress that's the the result of anxiety is completely present that's the present physical state well yeah because it's creating stress in our system so that's very present but but what seals never do is worry about shit they can't control now it does not preclude proper planning of course I mean we're gonna plan and say no in a mission we'll say well but we don't overplan we'll say hey these three things are the biggest things that might happen let's plan for those we have say we'll put that on the shelf that way we've we've mitigated the uncertainty window because we plan for those other than that we're like hey what happened whatever happens we'll figure out along the way we do not worry about things that are in the future we anchor ourselves to the present moment and we we let that anchoring take away any anxiety so the key again the stress that is the result of anxiety can be overwhelming in in those cases we have to employ I would encourage everybody to employ those physiological tools and those visual tools meaning what you talk around the book okay so there's only so so so so so open open gaze is just soft gaze right if you're looking at if you if you pick a point in the wall and you're looking at a point and then you're suddenly stopped looking at the point just soften your gaze I don't know I'm still stressed out when I tried that one okay so I feel feel feel how it works through I know when I started public speaking which is not comfortable for me at all I'd get up on stage and I immediately just open my gaze instead of staring at one thing I kind of looked at the back of room and opened my gaze that helps it's not as powerful as the as the respiratory tools one of the most powerful respiratory tools that physiological science that's the deep breath in all the way to top top it off and then a slow and controlled exhale out okay that actually has been proven to really in fact we do this when we're going to sleep we've heard our our pets do this by the way our dogs do this all the time it actually begins to call me you it and what what by calming you it's bringing that I'll bring down that autonomic arousal and re-engaging your frontal love that's really important because you cannot start picking horizons until you re-engage your frontal love what's very cool as you can combine the two quite immediately anybody who's really feeling stressed and anxious and lonely because I know what my first horizon take 10 breaths that's their first right yeah and they can it can actually combine the two but what you're doing is you're anchoring into the present once you begin to do that once you can control that and you can begin to move horizons fear goes away and I say that you might you might put it on a shelf but I remember you know the people of us before have you were you ever in a situation where you were really afraid of like in combat or something and I answer them quite honestly no but the answer is not coming from a place of arrogance or barvato the answer is literally because in those moments when they happened all of us were so focused on what we need to do in the moment that we didn't worry about anything else it was just step by step by step so much so that it was quite often that after everything was done maybe we were home from the op all the reports I was back in my hooch by myself I think back and then the fear would hit like holy shit that was close and I get all the physiological response but it much better to get it there than you know later and that's also can be the seeds of PTSD as well by the way which is a whole other issue but but the idea is if we are actively picking horizons through a moment we are actually mitigating uncertainty because we are mitigating anxiety because we're not focused on what could happen because it's fiction I'd like to acknowledge one of the sponsors and that's our place I'd also like to acknowledge my mom jokes that are coming in hot about my old pan it was so toxic even my veggies wanted to detox after dinner but it's bad seriously non-state cookware is still used very convenient but it comes at a cost non-stick contains harmful chemicals like Teflon and other PFAS which can reach into your food in our home we use our place which is toxin 3 high performance cookware and appliances designed for paper simpler use the hidden dangers of traditional non-stick cookware is loaded with forever chemicals dump them it is not worth it if you want to start somewhere start with the four piece cookware set it is your best way to overhaul that kitchen stop cooking with toxic cookware stop spending time with toxic people upgrade your place today visit from rplace dot com slash doctor lion and use the code doctor lion for 10% off site why that's 10% off site wide with a hundred day risk free trial free shipping free returns you will experience a game changing cookware another example this was with a buddy of ours actually having lunch with a couple buddies who we were all in in red squadron together and some of the jumping programs people don't know what red squadron is yes that's one of the squadrons at the group that we were part of so but one of the things we do some insane skydiving profile so we do a halo operation is high altitude to high up on an operations where you jump out of the plane you go up to about 20,000 feet 20,000 feet you jump out of the plane at 20,000 feet and you count to four and you open your parachute so you're about 20,000 feet and you're flying to an unknown dz which is literally a dz that no one's recon before we just looked at the map and said that looks like a clear spot but you don't know um you land there and then you then you start your mission you could patrol the rock target of that stuff and then of course you're at 20,000 feet so your night vision oxygen all that stuff very intense and and multiple pieces about an operation like this well we were talking we were having lunch we were talking about what these ops is a huge op very serious target hey ho and my buddy says he says you know what's funny when that ramp opened up there's only one thing i'm thinking i'm like what he's like nail the exit and he's absolutely right because if you don't nail the exit if you don't get a stable body position your parachute's not gonna open properly and they have a whole host of problems so first rising with all that in front of us every single one of us like nail the exit once you nail the exit pull my parachute once i get my parachute out get on heading right it's just step by step by step and so anybody who suffers from anxiety should start to a reframant it's all fiction it hasn't happened yet so you're you're literally worrying about something that hasn't happened and begin to anchor themselves in the present by using this moving horizons process and they will find themselves able to start stepping through more effectively this is what guys like shane and i do without thinking and this is why i don't see him think through this process it is just an immediate reaction and that you think people can get there oh yes yeah we just practice on the small stuff you know practice on small stuff start looking at some of the things that cause you so doing hard things or causing anything that causes stress or hard hardship practice with that working out to a great place so even though working out is not an uncertain environment you can practice it during working out you know you can practice it during physical endeavors you can practice it even making it at work if you have to do you have a thousand things just say you don't want to focus on this i'm gonna do email for 10 minutes that's my horizon right we block out everything else that's my horizon you can practice this so that you start working through it and you'll find yourself a more productive but b the anxiety will will start to mitigate what about this idea of identity where does identity fall in this scope so in the book i break down the idea the the process where the kind of the mastering uncertainty method comes in two parts part one is this idea of managing our own physiology and neurology what i just talked about the good news is every single human being has the ability to do this we're all it's it's it's ubiquitous in terms of our ability to move horizons and and manage our physiology the second part deals with what we individually bring into uncertainty okay because we all are different types of automobiles some of our jeeps some of us are SV some of surferaries maybe a pre-ass maybe a pre-ass and no judgment because the pre-ass can do things that ferrari can't do and the ferrari can do things that ferrari can do but don't agree yeah that's like you comfortable well well with the the idea is the idea is uh understand what vehicle you are because you are bringing you are bringing something unique into whatever environment this is what we do with teams when we put teams to this attribute stuff is we we allow them to understand all the different types of vehicles on the team and how they mesh together because sometimes a pre-ass is what's needed to be upfront sometimes it's a ferrari that needs to be a sometimes it's a jeep so all this is say we all have very unique individual profiles that we bring into uncertainty attributes is one of those so we understand you have to just is important identity is another huge one because identity is this idea that we all as human beings are collection of items now anything we put after the words i am is i always i always say i am are the two most powerful words in the human language because anyway we put after that those two words we begin to behave towards it forms of identity but we are all a collection of different i am we collect them over a lifetime of experience some are benign some are pretty powerful i went to this high school i played lacrosse i'm a husband and father i'm a nady seal i'm a metallic a fan okay whatever those i am's are they all come with them certain rules and conditions and and and boundaries inside of which you behave to behave towards that identity in uncertainty challenge and stress we will behave towards whatever identity we are prioritizing in that moment okay so so in combat overseas of course my priority identity was husband was a navy seal just as powerful an identity for me has always been husband father okay but in combat navy seal was priority now sometimes the target would change and we'd have to take care of maybe some civilians husband father identity would come to the fore okay but but understanding which identities we have and what they're doing to our behavior actually is massively important an example of this going the wrong way we've all heard the story of the avid sports fan who beats the shit out of another sports fan okay and gets in trouble and suddenly it's standing from the judge and the judge is like what the hell were you thinking that person's like i i don't know what i was thinking i was just doing now what happened in that moment was that person in that moment was prioritizing that identity to a to a negative degree it's subconscious it's well it's subconscious if you let it be subconscious the reason why i bring it up in the book is because we can actually gain control of this by understanding what identities were bringing to the table if this person we just talked about had understood or or thought about the fact that he also had an identity of professional business man maybe husband father said you know what as a professional businessman as husband father maybe i won't behave this way i'm gonna prioritize a different identity so so the power and the the utility of understanding a or identities the list allows us to bring to the fore the ones we need to in the moment discard the ones we don't um or not bring to the fore or i would say even discard there might be identities if we go through the list because a lot there's we have a lot okay um but go through the list and there might be ones that you know what this doesn't apply to be anymore you know maybe seals a huge one and shame would agree with me you know they be seals it's not like the Marine Corps the Marine Corps is once the Marine always a Marine and the Marine Corps does a fantastic job of of solidify that identity you can talk to ninety-year-old men who still refer to themselves as gunny sergeant okay not the same the seal teams seal teams is earned you're trying to every day if so you take that try to know if you're no longer a navy seal shane and i are former navy seals now that comes with it a whole host of different behaviors different identities but but part of the vacuum that a lot of guys feel when they leave the seal teams is because they they've been holding on it's been holding on that identity and no longer exists for you are a commander that's different what how what is that well that was just that means i was an officer i was a zoonin in other words i was in charge of teams um and i was in charge of a seal command two so i was commanding officer of a team as well so it just that worked they're all really alpha types i loved it because uh because a in any type of leadership uh there's there's so much that goes into that but but there's often and i talked to many civilian leaders there's often sometimes a problem of just motivating your people okay i never had to motivate my people right from me my biggest job is holding people back in some cases and providing in the environment to really excel now that kind of holding back can be sometimes a difficult challenge but i think i'm a big collaborator my collaboration is you know collaborative is one of my high attributes and so to be able to work with such high performing individuals um and and just watch them and and give them the space because it was my job to really create an environment side of which they could do everything they needed to create the space that's where i felt my job was to watch them to do to succeed and and do that was not only just a thrill but also one of the greatest things i've experienced down do you find that because you guys did such hard things together that it created a bond yes so here's another good thing about hard stuff all right and this is something he brought when i talked about um when we when we we learn anything um experiencing anything uh we create a neural connection or a brain okay and what happens is we create that neural connection that neural network and then that that connection begins to mylinate as we repeat that so if we're learning something and we and we repeat it over and over again that that that that that that work begins to or that connection begins to mylinate which is just a substance that goes around this kind of show coaxial cable but once that's fully mylinated what mean what that means is that that connection that the energy is going immediately in other words you don't have to think about what you're doing anymore so so just take driving a stick shift car when we first learn how to drive a stick stick stick to car we're thinking about it every you know everything we're thinking about those those connections are new and they're not mylinated very well as we do it over and over again and we achieve unconscious confidence that means those connections have been mylinated fully we can do it without thinking neuro science has proven that that whole process the connective process and the mylination process can in fact increase hundred to a thousand times sometimes if three things are present in the environment those three things are intensity novelty and focus this is exactly why being told a stove is hot is different than touching a hot stove because touching a hot stove involves all three of those you will never touch a hot stove again why do I say that is because the reason why we find that relationships strengthen oftentimes you said intensity novelty and focus so this this environment is very intense it's novel it's somewhat new and then it's I'm deeply focused this is why we learn more from our mistakes than we do our accomplishments because whenever we fail or make mistakes those three things are absolutely predominant not as much when we succeed there's there's a difference there it's also why when we fail together as groups it creates these bonds because we're actually creating these networks at the same time if people do people have to experience the same level of failure no I don't think so I mean everything's subjective and it's really whatever feels I mean so you know again for you and I as in doing what we've done failing at something we might be like yeah that's not a big deal or someone else who has never experienced that that is a huge deal for them that's why I'm always emotions of very subjective things so I always have to be really a bit cognizant of what other people consider hard because it's it's real to them so having been through life and death situations and again this goes back to what it takes to become a seal and seals are not normal and I and I I truly do believe that there's a certain level that can be trained up but there is there is what I believe in and I don't know if this is true a particular set of attributes not skills right but a particular set of attributes that when stress uncertainty and chaos arise these individuals have an ability to perform yeah which brings me to you you've been in very austere environments you've done really hard things and now you're living a civilian life in order to maintain a certain level and happiness is not the right word I agree happy it is this fleeting and you don't want to all the time yeah satisfaction okay there you go you have now set the bar extremely high how do you put yourself an environment where you have to or will give you that same feeling well it's not gonna be a same feeling for so I'm gonna get used to that okay and my buddies and I talk about that it's not the same feeling however you can it's a different feeling and it's just a serious listen I wrote a book and began a business of my life I mean we I work we she and I work for no one we work for ourselves and we're building a business together that is and we have two kids we have one kid in college and one getting ready to go so so these are you know speaking in front of crowds you know that's easy for you now it's easy for me now but it's only because I I am not related myself to do it but now what do you do I continue to build the business you know we we pivot the business we we we we ask ourselves what's the next what's the next level that we need to do parenting regardless of the age is a is a stressful endeavor because you're constantly asking yourself what do I do am I doing it right how do I accomplish this staying married for you know 24 years and onward you know is is but you get what I'm saying there's a level of this book so masters of uncertainty look how well worn this is yeah I actually travel with this book that by the way I wrote it small just so people love it and it's you know I I mark in it and so I'm never giving this book away also that's writing and mark you sign that right you did of course you did I would be very upset if I lost it but there is a level of stress uncertainty in chaos and then people become people like you become really good at managing life in order to grow and there's business growth but I'm talking about putting yourself and again I look at chain it's very hard for heat for him to be in a situation where it's pushing him I mean you guys running marathon now yeah well he's working 120 hours a week but for someone like you and I also I'm asking this because I think about for myself there's being busy and working hard and then there's really pushing yourself to the edge for example for me I am a mom of two kids I don't have full time help I just wrote my second book I podcast I'm doing these things but when I reflect and I say okay is this really hard or is this requiring me to be diligent and focused how do you put yourself in a position where you're functioning at that edge? Well first of all don't mitigate the things you're doing as not being hard you're just processing them in a way that you're satire self oh was that hard you just you've learned to process chain what he's doing he is still she's moving horizons and and when he's running these long racists are doing what he's doing he might be moving about very minute levels which means he's exercising this muscle constantly so really not about the thing it's about are you exercising the muscle that's what you're doing and whatever endeavor we're trying to do whatever next phase we are constantly I'm constantly exercising the muscle even if it's comfort kills comfort kills right so I always say you know we're christening and I were talking about this the other day as I always say I always endeavor to be massively grateful but never satisfied that's what I always want to I want to be and I am I'm very grateful for everything you know everything that we've done everything accomplished everything up till now massively grateful right but I want to maintain at least a small level of dissatisfaction so I'm always looking to the next horizon what's the next place we can go what's the next goal we want to accomplish so so yeah getting on the Navy it was okay how can we can I first of all function I don't even got to get a job which I did then okay can I write a book you know and then can we build a business now that's that's the current endeavor I do include a second book and I write a second book that's a current endeavor I don't know what the next endeavor will be five to ten years from now I'm gonna focus on this horizon and then once that horizon is too position we're like okay actually this feels good what's my next pivot but what I can guarantee is I will always pivot there will always be something I'm pivoting to so that I'm challenging myself in some way again we ask where we get this stuff my dad is 80 both my parents so they're divorced but they're both very tough people that's a good yeah my dad's a lawyer he's 85 right 85 84 it was two years ago two you have about two years ago so it was 82 83 and he it was January he sent us he bent out lawyer at a law firm there in the town of grew up for 40 years and he wrote us an email the kids you know I've I've three siblings and said the one twin on the no older sister turning over the he wrote us an email and said hey kids just want to let you know everything changes you know the the law firm has realized and he was a partner for a while but then he kind of stepped back to a little bit less said the the law firm has as discovered that it can no longer sustain itself to a to a reasonable financial model so it's so after a hundred year old off from so after a hundred years it's closing its doors he said but no worries I've already interviewed a three other law firms and I've decided to take a job at this one law firm I'm gonna start in a week so he's he's an 82 year old man and he's going and he started a new job and a new law firm now he he's at this law firm he loves he's I'm surrounded by young people who are you know teaching me things I'm able to mentor them to a degree there's other people he's I'm learning a lot he's active he said he said rich I wouldn't know what to do with myself if I didn't want he loves the law he loves doing what he does this is what I'm talking about if we are not staying active if not picking the next horizons we're not picking that school then we're gonna just wilt and so I don't find to do that the idea that winners are common or pressure and I say winners loosely but are there top one or two attributes that people that are very successful have yes I'm gonna give you the the kind of soft answer but the but it's like a private best answer but then I'll give you more specificity the soft answer which is the best answer is the answers yes but I don't know which ones they are because it's completely it's completely subjective to whatever environment they're in the the super successful accountants the attributes for that person are different than the super successful Navy seal then the super successful teacher or nurse whatever that is now all that said I think that the if I were to if you put a gun in my head said hey what are the really important yeah well I would say compartmentalization is one compartmentalization is the attribute that that allows for moving horizons and so and so so Navy seals for you guys who make it through buds we all show up to the beaches of buds on day one with the level of this we have to because we're not gonna make it through the first day and it just gets hyper developed right the guys who don't make it through buds they just didn't show up with as much so compartmentalization will is compartmentalization is one courage is another and by courage I mean again we have to understand courage is the ability to step into our fear when we get afraid our made you make you like a big deal against tickle do we are offered two choices those two choices are fight or flight right fee or you know they've they've determined that the freeze one is just an oscillation between the two but it's those two choices are actually separate switches in the brain so we choose to flee it's one switch if we choose to fight it's another switch I east step into our fear that fear that that step in switch is a card it's known as the card switch so we have no access to that courage switch unless we have fear present we have no access to courage unless we have fear present which is which tells us something neurologically that we've all heard philosophical which is courage is impossible in the absence of fear you do not have courage in the absence of fear you can't all is to say fear is entirely subjected to the human being you can have a group of navy seals in a gunfight with al Qaeda in Afghanistan who are in that moment feeling less fear than the eight year old you just have to step in front of the classes and introduce themselves okay so it's subjective so you can be a generally anxious person but every day and all day you're consistently stepping into your fear you're consistently stepping into your discomfort your card's level is really high you could be someone who does crazy shit right and you're not accessing that cards or so I don't know if you've seen that I'm sure you have seen the the documentary free solo aloxone on right now it's saying I'm in free free climb this up I get sweaty palms when I watch it they looked at his brain they recognize that his amygdala doesn't get tickled like normal people's right it takes a while for his amygdala to get tickled i.e. he's not accessing that card switch the same way other people and I'm saying and I'm not saying alox is not courageous but he's not accessing the switch the same way someone else is yeah it takes less courage for him it doesn't it's in some cases doesn't take any courage for him because he's not feeling the fear he doesn't get courage none of us get courage until we feel fear so courage as an attribute is your ability to consistently and habitually step into your discomfort and fear I think that's a very important attribute for all successful people so you have to follow that up with mental reframing for example some individuals will go through their life I don't know if you know this but I train in psychiatry for two years I remember you saying that yeah and you'll see people go through the same process and not necessarily move the needle with their anxiety yeah and I think looking at the tools in this going back had I known and I'm sure that you've got moments where if you could take what you learn now to go back maybe those guys wouldn't have failed out of buds yeah but you probably you know and just thinking about the brain the brain becomes wired to do a certain thing the brain may become particularly accustomed to that level of anxiety yes that even if you they almost don't seem to get better at managing it it is they wake up they feel anxiety and then they go to bed and they because they've now anchored this isology yeah you bring up a great point this is by the way has everything to do with dopamine and the dopamine reward we get from it's not it's really the it's really the it's not just the anxiety it's what the anxiety pushes them to do or feel I have my my my cousin she now lives in Virginia Beach she does social work she's a wonderful human being and she helps people with homeless homeless people find housing and she's been in this work for years but she was telling me a very interesting story she's there's some cases where they have someone who's been homeless for years and they finally get this person in a house and after five days the person ditches him just back on the street yes and one of the reasons is because these people have developed this this addiction almost to the the idea of and the the process of getting up and figuring it out all day there's it's not exciting enough they don't get that dopamine reward so I think I think sometimes we can get trapped in this moment or phase where our anxiety is actually giving us the dopamine that's actually driving us and so we just have to again is that better good I think it's again that subject we have to decide is that actually progressing our lives or stuff we'll have I would agree I certainly certainly um physically because with that stress that comes from that anxiety comes cortisol and all the the the bad neurobiology if kind of used in extensive for extensive periods so so I'd say I would say it's much better if you can start to practice these tools and mitigate anxiety by these tools versus lean on anxiety for the actual rush itself if you gave people one piece of advice that they're thinking about this and they want to become tougher what would that be of advice be? Practice doing hard things do hard things because because you will because that anterior mid-singular cortex will actually grow you'll tickle it ill grow it'll get you will find yourself able to do harder things more frequently you will add to the to the the years on your life and you will start to gain confidence because as you use these tools all masters of uncertainty do is we use these tools without thinking we defaulted this stuff you'll appreciate this I might have told you a story at one point but but you know they're in Virginia Beach we've lived there for 22 years and we've been in the same house and across the street there's a seal down the road to the left there's a seal or you should be and down the road to the right there's a seal and my wife once said she said I'm so glad these guys are in the neighborhood I said why she said because if something happened and I needed them I could go to them and you weren't around I could go to them and they'd act I said what do you mean is it because every time the shit hits the fan all you guys do is you stop you just stop you calm down you start problem solving all we're doing is we're moving horizons we start moving horizons without thinking about it which is like what's what do I focus on this this this we just start stepping through the process so so mastering this this stuff is really about getting to the point where you're doing it without thinking and like I said it'll allow you to do better when uncertainty hits without warning but more importantly it will give you the confidence to start stepping deliberately into your discomfort and starting to really explore your potential well rich to any I love this book masters of uncertainty I highly recommend everybody get this and also get your attributes book this was before I knew you personally I loved that book and I am just a huge supporter of the attributes book and the test you're really doing some great work incredibly articulate and I just I'm really grateful thank you well thank you for your support thank you great friend because it's great journey it's nice to be nice to have great friends along the journey so thank

Our sleep is one such circadian rhythm, and the hormones underlying our fundamental ability to view a ache or be asleep also oscillate around that 24 hour cycle. And the best thing for that cycle is routine. So falling asleep at the same time, eating your meals at the same time, exercising around the same time every day. And then having a time where you enter a cold dark room ideally and you fall asleep. And the hormone melatonin plays a large role in that. And that hormone melatonin is secreted in the brain when we approach our habitual bedtime, the sun sets in our environment, and we slip into our bedroom. And we fall asleep and we wake up and the melatonin stops in the morning and then we're able to go about our day. But those two processes interact and result in our fundamental ability to sleep. We are very much either in alignment or out of alignment with that circadian rhythm. When we think about rhythm in my mind, it sounds very delicate. Is this circadian rhythm disruption delicate or does it take a lot for us to be able to get off track from a rhythm standpoint, then affecting sleep? It really is a sensitive system. And if we, for instance, one of the most common mistakes that a lot of people make is sleeping in on the weekends. And I think we are kind of enamored with this as a society actually, the idea of sleeping in or the British, you know, a whole lion. I think this, you know, it's interesting, almost every society has a term for this and it's always casting a very positive light. So what that does unfortunately from a circadian rhythm standpoint is delaying your rising time by more than an hour will start to give your circadian system information that you have hopped in a airplane and you flown to a new time zone and that your, so your body is then going to be working actively against you the next night because it thinks that you're shifting to a later time zone. Your regular bedtime is going to roll around and that makes sense. You're experiencing some neum. And you're going to stay awake and you're going to watch that movie because you have this first of energy. So many people in our society fall victim of this because they, you know, think sleeping in is a good thing. You know, I'm going to do that. I'm going to catch up on Law Sleep. And up until a point, if you maybe want to add 30 or 45 minutes to your wake up time, that's fine. But really much longer than that does put you in the kind of in the risk area for what we refer to as social jet lag where we self impose jet lag like symptoms because we've in essence given our body or physiological cues that we're trying to adjust and we're kind of experiencing then jet lag symptoms often for social reasons because we often are staying up late to go out to a movie to spend time with our loved ones which are all wonderful things. But then, resultingly, we'll wake up later in the next day and then maybe suffer from some insomnia symptoms the next night. What about this idea that I'll take my husband as an example? He's a third year year-old year resident. Wasn't on call last night, but he finished at 1 o'clock. All the surgery he's got pushed later in the day. He was exhausted, but he still had to get up at 5.30 this morning. He'll go, he'll do that now for the next five days. At some point, as we just think about our lives, is there a way to repay that sleep debt and if so, how does someone do that? Medical residents are some of the most sleep deprived in our society, but they are being trained to go out into the medical field and save our lives. In the case of your husband or surgeons are due life-saving treatments, but so often our medical professionals are trained in these environments that are fraught with sleep deprivation. And if you're a general health care provider and you've come of age in the system, you're probably struggling with sleep yourself if you were on a series of rotating night shifts. And that is a huge risk factor for insomnia. In many cases, we find patients who are struggling with sleep difficulties, they go speak to their doctor and their doctors are prescribing sleep medications because they might be on them themselves or they're struggling and there is a time in place for sleep medication, but the front line for sleep difficulties is according to the American Academy of Sleep Medicine behavior change. So for example, he wants to sleep. And after that, after having four or five hours of sleep a night, would he then be able to recoup that? Your husband is doing something that is really challenging. It sounds like it's rotating shift work, which is the case for many medical residents. And it's part of the fabric of our medical education, but my team is published research in the New England Medical Journal to show that those types of schedules and sleep disruptions for medical residents are a significant predictor of medical errors. And so we really have to ask ourselves, how can we set our young people up or the people who are getting their training, especially in the medical field, to force success, not only for their health and their well-being, but the health of their patients also. And so what he's doing right now is rotating shift work, which is the most difficult type of shift work because your circadian rhythm can't align itself with any pattern of normalcy in a typical week. So in the case of your husband, it is going to be making up for lost sleep whenever and wherever he can. And he's a very happy to hear that. Yes, please fully endorse this, sleeping in, and also making up for lost sleep with naps. They're shorter naps if he's got a little bit of sleep the night before. He's not too much in the dangerous zone of really falling asleep being just absolutely exhausted. And if he has time for a longer nap, then a 90 minute nap is wonderful in the afternoon, I say on a weekend, if he's off to make up for lost sleep. It's interesting in the way that, on one hand, you want a consistent sleep wake cycle, is what I'm hearing you say. And that is almost separate if you cannot have that. If you are someone who does not have a consistent sleep wake cycle, you want to sleep. That would be an indication to sleep in or an indication to sleep when you can. Totally. And we work with a lot of shift worker populations, whether it's truck drivers or medical professionals. And in those situations, the best recommendation is to try to find to look at periods where you're maybe on a rotating shift schedule is a shorter term situation and moving into at least patterns of shifts that are predictable. That is the best case scenario because our society is really powered by individuals on shift schedules outside the traditional nine to five. It's how we have 24, seven access to food or customer service hotlines or medical help and attention. And so we owe our shift workers a debt of gratitude in our society, but they're sleep really suffer. And unfortunately, we have determined that for the risks of circadian decincerny, the difficulties for our bodies to really repair and get good sleep, shift work has been named a probable carcinogen. So moving off these schedules is quickly as possible and into a schedule at least of consistent shifts or ideally shifts that emulate the pattern of light and darkness around us where possible. I would love to hear what happens to the brain when we sleep. One of our biggest myths is that when we're had hits the pillow, our brain just kind of checks out for the night and our body and we're in this monolithic state of sleep wrong. There's so much rich and diverse activity in the body and the brain and it changes over the course of our sleep at night. Sleep is characterized by patterns of electrophysiological activity and each of those are nuanced across sleep stages. We distinguish over the course of a typical episode of sleep at night between rapid eye movement sleep and non-rapid eye movement sleep. Rapid eye movement sleep is where as the name suggests, our eyes are darting back and forth, back and forth and there's a tremendous amount of activity in the brain as much if not more so than when we're awake. It's fascinating. We go, really. And we call it paradoxically because there's so much activity happening in the brain and very little activity happening in the body or essentially in mobile during rapid eye movement sleep. Other health behaviors you have to get on a treadmill. You have to buy healthy food. But sleep can be free and start tonight. There are sleep disorders. There are more than 80 differentially diagnosable sleep disorders that are limiting many millions of Americans from getting good quality sleep. But once we can remove barriers, occupational barriers, personal barriers, cultivate healthy sleep habits we're able to make significant gains, not only in sleep, but in daytime success, which is what we're all about.

Most people worry more about breast cancer than heart disease, but here's what almost no one tells you. You're 10 times more likely to die from a heart condition than from breast cancer. And if you're a woman having chest pain, you'll wait longer in the ER. Need less likely to get an EKG, and more likely to be sent home on diagnosed. And you are 10 times more likely as a woman to die from heart disease than you are from breast cancer. Heart disease is the number one killer of women. But we're still using diagnostic tools, risk scores, and treatment protocols designed for men. First, that every woman needs to be on HRT, that is not true. And secondly, that it will cure heart disease, and thirdly, that it can replace your statin. And today, we are setting the record straight. I am joined by Dr. Martha Guladi, a globally recognized leader in Women's Cardiovascular Health. Former President of the American Society for Preventive Cardiology, and the mind behind some of the most important advances in female specific heart research. The more physically fit you are, the longer you live, independent of all your other cardiac risk factors. So it's an independent predictor of both cardiovascular mortality, dying from heart disease, or dying from any cause. So exercise is medicine. We'll talk about why women's heart attack symptoms often get missed. The real link between your first period, pregnancy, and future heart risk. So anatomically, you know, I tell everyone to make a fist, and usually that's kind of the representative sign of the size of your heart. So size matters how fitness, trackers, and hormone therapy may not be telling you the whole story. And the truth behind, quote, anxiety, missed diagnoses that are actually silent or conditions. Whether you're in your 20s or your 70s, this episode could save your life or the life of someone you love. Welcome, Martha, Gullady, Dr. Gullady, and I have to tell you when I first saw you, it was actually at the White House. On stage, and you were talking about heart health and women, you were amazing. And I am so lucky to have you on this show. I'm so happy to be here, and thank you for having me. You really have an incredible reputation. The immediate past president of the American Society for Preventative Cardiology. You are a professor of cardiology at the Smith Heart Institute at Cedar's Sinai. I got that right, did I? You did. The practice in Los Angeles, and the director of Prevention and Associate Director of the Barber Streisand Women's Heart Center. The list of achievements goes on. You are really paving the way for women, both for women and as a woman. Oh, thank you, really. It's truly an honor to be sitting here with you. I have learned a lot going through your research as my team did as well. I had no idea that essentially women's hearts are different than men's or have differences. Yeah, I mean, I think that women are biologically different than men. And so I only know the heart because that's my organ. But you could literally say that about the whole human body that they're going to be some biological differences, even when we share the same organ because something about being xx as a woman is different than being x, y. You know, I was looking at some of the statistics just as how many women die part of these. It seems to be the leading killer of women. One and three women will die from it. Yes, that's true. I mean, it is the leading killer. And I know when you ask women what they think they're going to die of or what is their number one health concern. The answer is always cancer and it's actually almost always breast cancer and you are 10 times more likely as a woman to die from heart disease than you are from breast cancer in the United States. Why we missed that? You know, the roots are so far gone. It starts with back, you know, back in the early 1900s, what did women die from often childbirth or infectious diseases. And then over time, as we started developing medications, you know, we had a president in the United States who was a man, obviously, who died of heart disease while he was in the office in the White House. And that helped men recognize that heart disease could happen to them too and it brought national attention to it. And when I was in medical school, I remember very distinctly and everyone who's gone through medical school probably remember this picture. Remember how we learned from netter diagrams, the netter drawings, that drawing of a white middle-aged man, you could tell he had just smoked and he was at a business meeting because he had a briefcase. They had was so descriptive netter drawings. And he had dropped this briefcase on the ground. It was a cold win-tree night. And it was a man having a heart attack. And we were to remember it because he was clutching his chest and giving us a clear example of the person that what they would look like if they're having heart attack. And somehow that transmitted even to the medical community that this is a disease of men. And we know that even in our entire medical community, there's still a bias when a woman presents with chest pain. She gets treated different than how a man is when he presents with chest pain or chest discomfort. And so despite the fact that it's the leading killer of both men and women. And so there's a real problem because we haven't really educated the medical community that well and we also haven't educated the public in enough ways. Women are very good about getting their house screening. When you talk about breast cancer, when the pink ribbon campaign, it did teach women to go and get that done, get their mammogram done. And not to the little breast cancer, they've made the greatest strides in prevention and that's why the mortality rate from breast cancer is actually quite low. But for heart disease, we have not done the same. And part of that is certainly what you're saying and women were not needed necessarily in research. I don't know another term. They weren't mandated to be in research until 1993. Yeah and it really took even from 1993. It wasn't that day that some tap turned on and women got into research. It was suddenly the observation that women were being left out of clinical trials. And it goes back even a little bit further because if you think, remember, back in the 60s which predates us. But in the 60s there was a drug called the Lidimide. And the Lidimide was released with no studies. But it was too, the with a promise that it would reduce morning sickness for women. So without studies, women in Europe started using the Lidimide and much to the negative offset for the offspring was that, you know, we saw the abnormalities that were created as a result of that drug. So almost immediately, the FDA said it then in early 1970s, women will not be included in trials. Women of child bearing ages will not be included in clinical trials. But because of that, it sort of got translated to our medical community just less leave women out of it. And part of that was also because they also knew hormones change in women. So they're like, well, we don't know. You know, if they're pregnant or not pregnant and going through menopause or not, how does that affect less just leave them out of it. And so that went on for more than two decades. And then finally, Bernardine Haley, who was a cardiologist and the first woman to lead the National Institute of Health, she was the one that said to the Congress, where are the women? We need to have them here. And she used cardiac examples. She actually gave this beautiful analogy of the story of Yanto. Do you know the story of Yanto? So Yanto is a woman and she wanted to study the Talmud, but she couldn't because she was a woman. So she disguised herself as a man to be taken seriously. And Dr. Haley used that story to say, do women have to be disguised as a man in order for us to take them seriously? Do they have to present exactly like a man? Why aren't we putting them in research that we find out exactly how they present? And so she talked about it as Yanto's syndrome that we needed to cure Yanto's syndrome. So I think I've been spending most of my career and I remember writing my letter to medical school and to residency in fellowship saying I was going to help contribute to curing Yanto's syndrome. And that really was the beginning, but I will tell you, it was 2016 that the NIH finally said that animal and cell studies needed to include female lines. So female animal studies, female cell lines study. That was only 2016. That's not that long ago. And so if our basic science isn't there to lead us to what to do, you know, we don't have the beginning of the information and we're just getting it, but even our clinical trials, the trials that develop the new drugs that we use or interventions that might be beneficial or devices. If we don't include women in those trials, and if there's no obligation that you must include women, it really is affecting what we know about women. It is terrifying that one and three women will dive heart disease into the number one killer. And it seems as though we are not getting better at reducing those numbers. Is that true? Or have we gotten better and her disease is this kind of thing of the past? It's definitely not a thing of the past, but we did make some strides. I will say, in 2001, we started seeing mortality rates and women come down. For men they had already come down, but for women they were much higher than men. And then they suddenly started falling. And what happened in 2001? A big trial that included women. It was a woman, only study, it was called the Women's Health initiative. And whether people want to critique women's health initiative, whether it was a good study or bad study, is the biggest study we've ever done of women. We'll never get a study funded from the government in that size ever again. How big was that? I'm forgetting right now off hand the numbers, but it was so large and overnight changed the prescriptions. The number one prescription in the United States at that time was hormone replacement therapy. And overnight after that study was released, it dramatically reduced. And so we saw at that time that the number started declining. Additionally, at that same time in 2001, we had women specific guidelines come out. We started the Go Red campaign, that was a national campaign to bring awareness to the number one killer. So things started coming down, but now what's concerning is in the last decade mortality from cardiovascular disease is increasing. And it's actually increasing in both men and women now. And what that's concerning us for a couple of reasons, the biggest one being is that it's killing younger people. How old? So under the age of 55, those people who went men and women, but specifically the women are having higher mortality rates than men. And we know that the younger population, of course, has more cardiac risk factors now. They definitely eat differently from younger ages. There are more seditary. There's even children now, or young teens, that are being diagnosed with type 2 diabetes and hypertension. So there's definitely a less healthy population that we need to reverse all the cardiac risk factors that are coming at very young ages. But I think the other thing also is that younger people, especially young women, when they're present with cardiac signs and symptoms, we tend to think it's something else. We tend to discount their chest pain or chest pressure as anxiety and stress for women and we send them away. And they're less likely to be treated as aggressively as men. So there is something about being a young woman who may be at risk for heart disease, but you may not get treated in the right way. It's a somewhat counterintuitive in the same vein. In my mind, we were thinking older individual. 55 and above would be the highest risk for cardiovascular disease. You think a woman is gone through menopause. Her low hormone status is going to really put her at risk. But what I'm hearing you say is that it seems as though the younger generation now, they have an increased risk, which is again counterintuitive because we're assuming that their hormones are high, that estrogen, progesterone, testosterone in both men and women, like progesterone. So not so much in men, is cardiovascular protective. And you're not wrong on that too. I mean, women do tend to have about a 10-year delay in terms of the peak of when heart disease starts really being a problem, but it doesn't mean that when you're younger, you can't be at risk. Just for an example, we say that when you have type 2 diabetes, you lose that sort of hormone protection that generally we think that's what keeps women from having heart disease at young ages. It's still a disease of aging, atheroscerotic cardiovascular disease for sure. It definitely occurs much more when you're older. But if you die when you're under the age of 55 because you are somebody who's unfortunate enough to have heart disease, that's really unfortunate, especially given our life-saving medications that we have these days, our interventions, including medications, but also devices are better than they've ever been. We have a way to save somebody if they're having a heart attack, but we need to recognize that that person is at risk and there is still this prevailing myth that if you're young, you're not at risk and that is changing in our US population. Colenoscopies start now at 45. Yes, then you should be 15. For any yes friends, for the sure you're all due, cardiovascular screening is there a requirement? I'm unaware of an age requirement. That's been the hardest thing that what we do recommend is after the age of 18 that everyone be screened for heart disease and that they be screened on a regular basis with their primary care or family physician. The problem is is that it's not often happening. We've created all kinds of tools. We know that of course blood pressure needs to be checked at every visit. That's with their exception. Colenstrol at least once at the age of 18. And then perhaps every five years after unless there's some abnormality that makes it need to be checked more frequently or if there's a family history or you already have high cholesterol then it should be treated. We've created even risk scores where you can plug in people's numbers and their risk factors and it will give you a prediction of not just their lifetime risks because especially when you're talking with young people, lifetime risk may be you're saying when you're 90 you're going to get heart disease. Okay, but we also can give you the tenure risk and tenure risk is more near term and can actually help people understand it both ways. They can be thinking about the future. I don't want to get heart disease but what's my near term risk. For younger people I think the short term risk often if you're 20 or something you're going to come out as low risk. But knowing that you're at high risk in the future may make you change your behaviors. But I always tell my friends as a cardiologist who gets a lot of referrals. I've never gotten a letter or a referral by somebody saying this person is that high risk for heart disease. Like they've done that actual calculation. We've used something called the ASCBD risk score or a thorough scarotic cardiovascular disease risk score where you can people can plug in their own numbers and calculate their risk and these are online. Now we will be using something called the prevent risk score. So I do think in a new set of guidelines that we're expecting in a few months it's going to come out with a new risk score and I actually like that risk score more because it includes other things than just what we usually thought of as risk factors for heart disease. So your age, your sex, whether you have high blood pressure or not what your cholesterol is and whether you're diabetic or not and whether you smoke. The new risk score prevent has all of that but it also has included things like body mass index, socioeconomic status. So where you live geographically and may actually determine your higher risk exposure to pollution. Maybe socioeconomic status just based on living in the zip code but also chronic kidney disease is a risk factor and we're understanding the link between the kidneys and the heart more than ever now. So I'm actually happy that this new risk score will come out but my concern is you can make a new risk score but what people use it will our medical community use it and translate it to our patients. This episode is brought to you by Monacoara Honey. Let's talk carbs. Specifically honey and no it's not the nickname for my husband I usually call it something else. So people have this idea that carbs are bad and frankly it's not true. I use Manicara Honey daily. Well-position carbs like Manicara has been amazing for my own personal training and I think of Manicara Honey as a functional carbohydrate. It's not just sugar. This product is packed with probiotics and to accidents that support digestive health and your immune system. So it's serving a dual purpose. Getting you carbohydrates while also having other immune modulating properties. One of my favorite ways to eat it with my family is with apples or I have these small little travel packs that I use every single time before I speak. So if you are looking for something sweet or adding extra carbs to your diet and any capacity this is the way to do it. Head to Manicara.com that's m-a-n-u-k-o-r-a-dot-com slash doctor lion you'll get $25 off the starter kit which comes with an m-g-o 850 plus Manuka Honey jar, travel spoons and a guidebook. It's really it's amazing. That's Manicara.com slash doctor lion for $25 off your starter kit. I think it's really interesting. The someone turns 18. They get an EKG. They get blood pressure cuff. They get a lipid panel cholesterol. I trained in family practice originally. I've done that a million times and to think that that is an adequate screening. I just as I fast forward to some people that I have seen that have had heart attacks and then you look at other risk items. For example, let's see all these are normal. But you know your friend Kristi Valentine was on and you was talking about LP little A. I was just going to say LP little A where's the LP little A? I mean, I think that you need to do those things but actually if people can remember three things that they should get because the risk scores, if no one's going to calculate them, I think you know, my friend Paul Riddker always says if there's three things you can check, it would be your cholesterol. So your LDL cholesterol particularly, your LP little A because that's genetically determined and it's going to be the same pretty much throughout your life. For women maybe it changes that menopause, it does tend to increase. So if it's normal pre-menopausal, it may increase post-menopausal and then your C-reactive protein. And if you get those three things done, at least those will help us know your baseline risk. Things can change too and those numbers can change. So it's important to recognize that and be assessed because even in our life, everybody can think of times in their life where they gain too much weight, they were under a lot of stress, they couldn't get their exercise and their diet change maybe because they weren't even living in their own home and so sometimes when you're on the road as some of our road warriors are you don't have the choice always to eat the most healthy food. Things can change in our life and that's why we need it to be screened on a regular basis but I think that that's different, it's not as easy as a mammogram and that's the hard part. We can tell women go get a mammogram, you can empower a woman and a woman actually in the United States since the Affordable Care Act was in place. A woman can request a mammogram even when they don't have a primary care physician, they can go and get a mammogram and that made it easy and accessible. We need to do the same for cardiac risk screening. How does someone know that they're at risk? They're having cardiovascular disease, maybe we have a 35-year-old female 40-year-old female listening to this. Yeah, I would ask them to make sure they get those three things checked especially the LDL, the LP Little A in the high sensitivity C reactive protein, talk with your physician about your blood pressure and all those numbers and talk about your family history because family history at least gives us a clue. Sometimes it's genetic, sometimes it's not and we need to know more about you but we would definitely have a heightened risk or heightened concern I guess if we knew that there was a family history of early heart disease. I think that's the easiest way to start the conversation. There are things that are unique to women though that in these traditional risk scores including the new prevent risk score do not appear and so we do need to personalize it for the individual and I think for women it's even more important to personalize it. I need to know about your reproductive history. I need to know about things that happened related to your onset of your period or if your period stopped was it early was it late on both sides those things can put you at a heightened risk. I need to know if you have polysistical variance in room. I need to know if you had functional hypotherlamic gay menoreo which happens in women who have anorexia or bulimia. I need to know during pregnancy did you have any of those adverse pregnancy outcomes like pre-eclampsia or any type of hypertension during pregnancy that heightened your risk for heart disease same with just diabetes same with pre-term delivery and same with a small for gestational age baby. Women know all of that they remember the reproductive history better than their doctors will be able to recall it but we don't ask about it enough and those women who have had especially the adverse pregnancy outcomes we know that their risk for heart disease is high and we're not talking 20, 30 years down we're talking in the next 10 years that those are the early heart disease that we see and we are not telling women that because if they had hypertension during pregnancy often it disappears after the pregnancy and so nobody is saying to them hey you're at a higher risk you know we need to control all your risk factors do you know your cholesterol if you don't let's check your cholesterol and that's what we're doing now we we call it the field of cardiovascular and we are working much more closely with our gynecology colleagues and really identifying the women that are at higher risk but I know that we have the fortunate and academic medical center but we need it to spread across the United States and work with our internist and family physicians because they are the ones that are really the ones caring for those women who will know everything about them it is it is a very noble effort to reach primary care internists I do think that that is so important which again is one of the reasons why I wanted you on because there is very few individuals that are talking specifically about women women in menopause women pairing menopause from the lens of cardiovascular health and again the women's health initiative you said in 2001 the number one prescription was hormone replacement we don't know if heart disease was a lower imagine imagine it was lower right maybe the heart disease overall the mortality rate from heart disease or maybe the ability to detect heart disease or the death from heart disease was potentially lower I only said because I'm assuming people were less obese than the obesity number seven rates were quite high back at that time actually that was our height of our heart disease but that was because so many women I think across the country were using a medication that had not been well studied and so in that medication was hormone replacement and high doses not the type of doses that are out now that women might be prescribed for menopausal symptoms but high high doses what we used in the women's health initiative and what was being used at that time was unstudied you know we think about that book called did you ever read the book called feminine forever it was where it said hormone therapy for women was the fountain of youth and it in that book it said everyone should be on HRT and so every woman was taken that every woman but many women were taking it and this is where we've harmed women we put people on hormone replacement therapy without studies we were in fact at one time it was unopposed estrogen so we were causing uterine cancer in women until that we they started seeing higher rates and they're like oh yeah we should probably make them bleed out and give them progesterone at the same time if they're uteruses intact and so that also I mean women have not been treated well by our medical community to be honest in in all aspects we're sort of thought of after we give medication without even consideration for what might be a consequence and that that's way medicine wasn't it wasn't that long ago you know it's it is unfortunate and I wonder now it's almost as if the pendulum has won the other way and now it's 2001 everyone comes off hormone replacement they spend over a decade really I don't almost two decades where hormone replacement seems to be very fringe it is making a reappearance and wonderfully so because they're obviously being there are many benefits but can you address the I'll start with misinformation and then go to the information of what people need to know about with hormone replacement and heart disease yeah I think that's such an important question and I I'm told my by my gynecology colleagues that now we should be calling it menopausal hormone therapy or menopausal therapy rather than HRT even though that's what we all had been referring to it as and the good news one thing that I can say is in addition to hormone replacement we actually even have a new medication out that is beneficial that is non-hormonal for the hot flashes so that's good we're developing new medications but the big myth out there right now that I see even some gynecologist hopping on the spend wagon without evidence is saying first that everyone needs to be on HRT that is not true and secondly that it will cure heart disease and thirdly that it can replace your statin and I tell my woman like if you need HRT if you need menopausal hormone therapy I'm not against it unless you have heart disease if you have heart disease you should not be on it that data is quite strong and we do not recommend it when you have heart disease but four a woman who doesn't have heart disease what we tell them is it's not going to reduce your future risk of heart disease that data is not there no matter what anyone says that is a big that is a big statement and there is a ton of information out on the web talking about how the data is very clear that it will protect the head yes and I know where that data is coming from so there's a very small study that looked at crowded into more media thickness and said that some the you know small study and I actually quickly right now don't remember the exact numbers but it was a very small study and they did show a statistically significant difference in the women with HRT in terms of the plaque build up compared to somebody who was not on HRT it was statistically significant you can have a p-value that's significant but the amount of plaque was minuscule and meaningless so it has to mean something clinically it also needs to be in a randomized trial in a large study to really prove effectiveness intermediate endpoints we never say that plaque is going to be enough for us to say that something's effective but especially when it was such insignificant amount of difference in plaque but to say that a hormone replacement therapy can substitute for stat and that is absolutely not true and we tell people like this is one thing that is happening people are substituting their statin for hormone replacement even when they're not having um vasomotor symptoms really this medication should be used for people with vasomotor symptoms and like I said we have hormonal medication and non-hormonal in between you and your gynecologist we need to figure out which one works for you but in terms of taking away your stat and if you have high cholesterol there is nothing else that you need but cholesterol lowering age and it doesn't have to be a stat and I know a lot of people think that's the only thing out there there's a lot of misinformation about statins online but I won't get into that but they're good drugs we've had them for 40 years but the good news is if you have any issues or concerns or don't want to be on a statin we have lots of LDL lowering agents right now and with that being is that am I? Is that am I PCSK9 inhibitors like Rapatha and Pralulant we now have something called Inclusoran that we can give every six months and you come to it you don't even have to remember we do it in the office for you and we have another medication called Bempedoic acid and this area is dramatically changed than even about 10 years ago where 10 years ago we just really had statins and as that amide was emerging at that time so we can treat your cholesterol but cholesterol is not getting magically removed by being on a mental puzzle hormone therapy so I think that we need to work you know and then the other thing is is that for people with heart disease they certainly need to understand that they're at higher risk and that data that we nobody's ever disputed and we've never had so many fights about the way we have for people from my primary prevention standpoint but I love only work with our colleagues like when our physicians don't necessarily know for sure should this person be on it they have a number of risk factors what should we do and ultimately it comes down to the patient I'm a big believer that we share the information and together it's shared decision making that if somebody really feels that their quality of life is so significantly improved when they're on hormone replacement therapy and even if there might be some risks there is some benefits and we know that but we work it out together and decide what's best for that individual but just be careful of the people out there you know I the other thing I'm not a big believer in those bio identical hormones that people are implanting in so many of my patients in LA the pellets there there's nothing we can't guess your the amount of hormone you need versus the amount of hormone I need bio identical is just a marketing tool and the safety of it I would question but I think that that these things we should all be questioning about what are people putting into us because the one thing about a one they implant pellets can't get them out like we're not actually found in pellets for exactly that reason and it doesn't allow you to adjust the do exactly when it comes to heart disease we're using this as if perhaps there's a unified term and I'm wondering how do you define heart disease is it imaging is it blood pressure is it plaque build up yeah you're right heart disease means a lot of different things and and when I talk about atheroscerotic cardiovascular disease I'm really talking about the disease of the coronary arteries that creates plaque in them um so atherosclerosis having plaque in your arteries that's just one version of heart disease though as you and I know there's diseases like heart failure that can be connected to atheroscerotic cardiovascular disease but also can be independent um so heart failure is a common issue especially heart failure with preserve detection fraction for women is much more common in women than it is in men whereas heart failure with reduced detection fraction is much more common in men than in women and the would you say what is the overarching cause of heart disease is there one are they different and men versus women oh well they okay so again it depends on which form of cardiovascular disease and I hadn't even finished there's so many other forms you can be born with type some heart disease as well you know congenital heart disease you can have aridmias and all these other things can happen the heart is one beautiful organ that when things go wrong can create problems depending on lots of different things newborns don't get coffee to wake up unless you drink a ton and you're breastfeeding no they don't they get cholesterol and that's the OG energy shot I'm always looking for easy meaningful ways to support my health especially God Health since that's where good health starts that's why I've added one of the sponsors to the show Amara cholesterol to my iced coffee it is a whole food supplement packed with over 400 bioactive nutrients like prebiotics and peptides that help strengthen immunity support digestion and optimize performance and health Amara which is a company I love these a unique technology to preserve these nutrients in their purest most bio available form which is why it is an absolute standout product from everything else that I've seen I also love that they are third party tested so you can trust that what they have on the label is also what's in the product and they've got a special offer just for my audience get 15% off your first order at tryamra.com slash doctor line that's t-r-y-a-r-m-r-a dot com slash doctor line but when we talk about athero-scrotic cardiovascular disease or when you have disease in your coronary arteries the commonest causes of that are I mean if you smoke it's is one of the leading risk factors the good news in America is that smoking has actually gone down significantly and so that's actually helped with the reduction in cardiovascular disease but diabetes hypertension and high cholesterol those tend to be the leading known causes and reversible causes you know you could have genetic causes of athero-scrotic cardiovascular disease as well that disease that you talked about with Dr. Valentine LP little A LP little A is determined genetically how much LP little A you will make will be different than what I will make and it's genetically determined and so that is something that maybe inherited if a family member has early heart disease or early stroke you might be carrying LP little A around and not even knowing it until something happens and right now we don't have a good treatment for LP little A aside from lowering your LDL cholesterol and controlling all your other cardiac risk factors but talk to us in 2026 because we have two really big trials going on that might teach us can we by lowering LP little A improve outcomes in athero-scrotic cardiovascular that would be that would be fascinating you know I was listening to as you were talking about statins and the health outcomes do we know that lowering hypertension fixing type 2 diabetes affects long term outcomes if plaque is there so if someone is is it fair to say the number one cause of heart disease is afflone sclerotic heart disease yes or what if we were to say that percentages is it maybe 90% of people if they're going to be suffering from heart disease with that kind it's it's about half of the type of cardiovascular disease that we see the most common thing we see clinically is athero-scrotic cardiovascular disease and heart failure then is number two those are the things that we see the most of and the reason we see the most of them is because they are so closely linked to particular risk factors that are hugely prevalent in the population even heart failure for example obesity is strongly linked to the development of heart failure type 2 diabetes is also strongly associated with heart failure and hypertension as well is strongly associated with heart so we and we know specifically for again for women if they have obesity they are more prone to that type of heart failure that we call heart failure with preserved ejection fraction so meaning that when you look at the heart function it hasn't actually decreased it looks the same or normal but it isn't able to relax normally and it's not able to pump out the blood adequately and give symptoms like somebody whose heart is actually dilated and failing but doesn't look like it's failing and until recently we haven't really understood half path partially because it is in women and we haven't studied them but now we're in an era where we are actually having a few drugs now that have really proven to be effective for what we call half path or heart failure with preserve ejection fraction the ability to reverse plaque is plaque really soft or hard plaque where the damage from afflose chlorosis comes from is that really what we're targeting we aren't so much targeting the hard plaque the hard or calcified plaque tells us that it's been there for a while and it's already once it's calcified will we use test to tell us if there's calcified plaque there because we can see it easily on a CT scan even when you have no contrast dye we can see that calcified plaque it's not going to go anywhere and it's not even scary plaque to me calcified plaque just means you are laying down you've laid down cholesterol so you've laid down this plaque in your arteries but you probably have soft plaque now that we should be worried about more it's the soft plaque that has the risk of rupturing and causing a heart attack or causing a stroke and so when we know that there's calcified plaque it just helps us know that that's somebody at risk and so some of you may be asked to get a calcium score it's giving us a clue but I have a lot of patients who always are worried and they want to repeat studies to look at that calcified plaque got worse and I'm like don't worry so much about the calcified plaque or they expect the number to go down because they're on a cholesterol-loring agent and I always warn them in advance isn't that part's not going away it's going to stabilize but if we can get your cholesterol as low as possible we can prevent soft plaque from forming and that's really the target of the treatment we can see soft plaque not with a calcium score but with something called a CT and geogram a cardiac CTA and that can be an image that we used to look at both soft and hard plaque in general I would say the insurance indications anyway for getting a CCTA is when you're having symptoms and so we generally won't just order it for someone because they want to know but you can pay for it out of your pocket I do have patients who actually will say can I just have that study anyway but if you have symptoms we can certainly can it's a good way to really know the anatomy know what's going on in the heart arteries and seeing is believing and we can really now we can use different techniques with AI and other things that measurements that we can do that we can even tell if the degree of stenosis in the coronary CT is significant or not is there plaque regression there is there can be plaque regression and we've seen that in our cholesterol lowering studies particularly with statins where they looked at people who were randomized to statins versus non-statins and saw that the soft plaque did regress we generally we don't repeat those studies in our patients routinely and depending on what imaging you had like I said if you've had calcified plaque and that's all you know you're not going to expect too much regression of calcified plaque but soft plaque yes you would expect it we don't always measure it but we have it proven in studies when we lower LDL cholesterol that we can lower we can reduce and or regress plaque from a clinical standpoint what I'm hearing you say is that heart plaque is seen that is what you will get when you get in normal CT CT and geogram will show both soft and hard plaque the heart plaque is staying there we don't really care about it but it's the soft plaque and it's the progression of soft plaque yeah my question is are we looking to mitigate it from getting worse by diet and lifestyle and maybe pollution I can't get out of my head what you were saying in terms of the impact of pollution or are we looking to monitor that soft plaque because if we know it's there is this an impending doom situation or are we targeting say LDL cholesterol making sure that is low A, B, B under 70 these are the things but the plaque will progress anyway soft plaque no well if we see plaque of any form soft or calcified plaque it doesn't matter to me once I know there's plaque there I know you have atherosclerosis so my initial response to that is get the cholesterol low get the LDL under 70 and once I LDL cholesterol get under 100 get it under 70 no LDL under 100 is ideal for everybody but once you have plaque to me you have atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease now you know you haven't had a cardiac event so we wouldn't call you secondary prevention but would I call you primary and a half prevention because I'm trying to prevent future cardiac events because you haven't had any but you already have plaque so at that moment you have atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and we should target your LDL under 70 and if you are already somehow lower than that then we should target you even lower okay okay so there's a lot to talk about here this is a big deal most people are not going to know they have heart disease let's say their EKG their blood pressure or their cholesterol is quote normal they go in and they get a clearly scan or a CT on geogram they have some plaque but all other markers are normal would that person still want and when I see normal they have a CT on geogram score of what 24 50 okay would they so it's really low would you still push that LDL cholesterol under 70 and then so that's a first part what about brain function hormonal function all the other things that our secondary after lower and cholesterol yeah so I mean we should always be treating all cardiac risk factors preventatively anyway but once you like you said once you've identified plaque that person that healthy person that you're talking about with absolutely no symptoms but a small calcium score in the 25 or 50 or whatever you want to make up I still would say that person now has plaque I'm going to target their LDL under 70 now would I give them aspirin no if it's under a hundred I'm not going to give you aspirin but we do have some data when your calcium scores above a hundred I would give aspirin as long as you're not at a heightened bleeding risk and that of course needs us to talk with our patient and do some shared decision making I have some patients who choose not to be honest for him because they bruise or bleed easily or maybe they have something going on that makes us more concerned I never want anyone to bleed out on aspirin but we do have a suggestion that date that when your calcium scores above a hundred that aspirin may be beneficial so I I see plaque you know when I can get that visualization seeing is believing there's plaque there and I can do something about that to lower that individuals risk it always comes down to of course the patient in front of me and what do they want to do and whether you know some patients will be I just don't really want to be on a cholesterol-loaring agent let me see if I can do it with lifestyle so I often will bring and I yeah there's no evidence but but I will work with them because I do think it's powerful if you can you know especially if somebody doesn't have a very good diet and if they want to try to bring it down but I still talk to them but what statins particularly do in terms of plaque stabilization and ethereal function of the arteries all the things that we also get beyond LDL lowering that are in statins that could be beneficial but if they choose that and can really push choose lifestyle and they can really push it down I'm okay with that too we should all try to optimize our diet and our exercise but I will say that for patients when they get a calcium score or they get a CCTA they are definitely more likely when we look at their images together and they see the plaque they are more likely to be aggressive about the lifestyle changes but also more aggressively want to lower their cholesterol because once they see that plaque and they see it in their arteries and it's something an untrained eye can appreciate when you look at that scan they're like okay yeah that's not a good thing okay let's now be on a cholesterol-loaring agent are you getting to read those we'll put them down because this episode is brought to you by the most delicious chip on the market and that's a muscle chip now we don't keep junk food in our house but it's unreasonable to avoid all chips nor should you all chips and fries used to be cooked in Talo up until around 1990 when these big corporations switched to cheap processed seed oils in 1970 it was a 20 pound a year per capita by 2020 seed oils each person 80 pounds that's a fourfold increase and listen we've all heard about processed foods and it's really what ride along with them whether it is inflammation or the unnatural use of these oils and masa decided to do something about it they created a T.C. delicious tortilla chip you've never had anything like it we can't even keep them in stock in her house they have only three ingredients that's corn sea salt and 100% beef Talo you'll never turn back masa chip is beloved just go ahead and look them look them up you will see tens of thousands of customers now if you want to give these chips a try I don't know you're never going to put them down go to msa.s a chips dot com slash lion and you'll get 25% off your first order the do you have concerns about the downstream impact on hormones or brain function any of those things or is the risk benefit it's too big of a risk to allow that soft plaque again you know and this is it's complicated to talk about it because cases are complex and people are complex but if we were to lay out a quote low risk individual with a low calcium score that has hard plaque we know they have soft plaque we expect that soft plaque to develop and we want to move their cholesterol down LDL cholesterol below so many do we have other downstream concerns not as far as I'm concerned and let me explain why you know if you think about your vascular system it starts at the heart but right this whole vascular tree in our body spreads everywhere so to the brain and to our legs and extremities everywhere to every organ those arteries you know the reason we often use the coronary arteries is they're actually bigger than the other arteries that we have difficulty visualizing if we could do the similar thing to our brain if we saw plaque in there we would treat it and we know neurologically that people on statins are less likely to go on and have stroke or to have even vascular dementia or Alzheimer's disease and so there's a lot of people who somehow have this misconception that being on a statin affects neurologic function adversely actually it is brain protective as well and so I think that people need to know that that you know I know I have patients that describe to me this brain fog with statins and if they can't tolerate a statin then I change them to some other LDL lowering agent that's the good news living in 2025 we have more than just statins but statins we have had for now four decades and so we really know them well and the long-term risks of them are really not proven there's a lot of misinformation online about statins statins are the like enemy on the internet when people bring me in what Dr. Google tells them about statins I will always counter that we have a lot of evidence we've been doing very large trials that have really taught us the most about statins you know there is maybe an increased risk in some people for developing diabetes type 2 diabetes downstream with statins but what we do know about that data is a couple things is that the people who tend to get type 2 diabetes who have been on statins already had risk factors before for diabetes so we don't know that it's the statin or is it because they already had risk factors that they were already pre-diabetic for example or that they were overweight or both that are actually increasing the risk for diabetes statins and other LDL lowering agents are held to such a high standard when we study them these are large population studies there's no other drugs except for the cardiovascular field that is held to doing studies in large populations and I think people should have some confidence in those studies but talk with their practitioner talk with their physician or their team about their concerns because everyone has concerns they have a friend who was on a statin that didn't have a good side effect or they have a family member or they just have concerns because of what they read together will work out and find out a medication always tell them I'm never going to put you on something that you're going to hate or is going to affect your quality of life and I don't care if it's in your head or if it's genuine it's there will find something that works and we're lucky to have more than one medication. As you were talking you know I can't help but think about the female specific as I as a filter through all my conversations about heart disease one of the most common things that comes up believe it or not is a rectal dysfunction and heart disease and as we were looking through your research pride having you come on you know there's a difference from the traditional fitness formula for men and women which really has been a huge contribution from you which I'd love to talk about but also I just realized that the lens that I've been thinking about this I think about a rectal dysfunction as heart disease tell me is there a rectal dysfunction and heart disease for women or something similar. The rectal dysfunction is listening. Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I rectal dysfunction of course for men is a big issue and we don't have the biological equivalent for women that we can associate with being a warning sign for heart disease. The one thing that I will say that we've been really missing though in women is the fact that women often do have cardiac symptoms and the thing is is when they have these symptoms that sound like a schema heart disease that sound like there's reduced blood flow to the heart and we'll do evaluation whether that's a stress test whether that's a coronary angiogram and we don't find a blockage in the coronary unlike men where we often find blockages in the coronary until recently we were just dismissing those women we were saying don't know what your symptoms are but they're not cardiac go on your way and this is not your heart and the same women would come again and again to the emergency room come again and again and allow another angiogram to be done on them or whatever testing was done and they were often dismissed because they had no blockages so now we talk about eschemia with no obstructive coronary arteries it has a night you can see that cardiologist love names of things so we call it a noca but noca stands for eschemia with no obstructive coronary arteries and that happens much more frequently in women and I think we've often been dismissing women when they had symptoms and not treating them and a lot of the work we do at Cedar Sinai actually it focuses on women with a noca trying to figure out how what's the best way to detect it but also what's the best way to treat it we know from some of the early work that I did with some of my colleagues at Cedar's even before I arrived there I had a normal cohort of women and we compare them to women with a noca and we found in contrast to what had been told to everyone that these are you know this is nothing do nothing with it we found using the population called the wise women women is schemic syndrome evaluation study we found those women with a noca were much more likely to be hospitalized much more likely to have heart failure much more likely to have cardiac events and we found that link again specifically related to heart failure and now we're connecting a noca with this heart failure with preserve detection fraction that they may be along the same pathway so we are I think we don't have an equivalent of erectile dysfunction but I do think that women symptoms women are in touch with their bodies and and the reason I say that is not being biased being a woman myself but you know every month after whatever age people have men or gay we know our bodies we know and we're gonna have our period we we've sort of know our body changes and then it changes again and so we're in tune with our bodies much more than men and we know one something's wrong and I don't think women waste their time in the emergency room or going to the doctor unless they their symptoms are real and what we have been doing is an injustice for women is discounting their symptoms discounting their chest discomfort their palpitations their shortness of breath and asking them frequently are you anxious are you depressed what's going on at home we're all anxious we're all tired we're all probably have some level of depression with life but that is not why we're wasting time in the emergency room people come to an emergency room or come to the doctor because they really have something wrong and if a man came in with the exact same symptoms we know he would get evaluated and his heart would be the thing that every doctor is thinking about first and foremost and for women it's almost you have to beg to get in the KG before somebody even thinks about your heart we're talking a lot about the difference between men and women and what about heart attacks is there a difference between a woman her symptoms of heart attack versus a man that's such a good question I think that we have somehow misled women to think that they're so different than men that sometimes when women are having symptoms of a heart attack they don't think they're having a heart attack because they're somehow told it is different we have contemporary research that is shown actually that 90% of women and 90% of men actually report chest pain or chest discomfort when they're having a heart attack so in most people that's present but the difference between men and women is this women are more likely to have other accompanying symptoms chest pain may not be the most important symptom that they actually experience they have it but the question is is whether us as physicians actually hear it because they may actually have more shortness of breath they may have neck pain jaw pain back pain they may have profound fatigue I will tell you women are more descriptive in their symptoms at a time of a heart attack than men and we know this is true from a bunch of studies now the Virgo study which was women under the age of 55 who had a heart attack we have the high-stakes data which was the ones that brought us the high sensitivity cardiac components so that was all age men and women and then we had this really interesting study called the AirMaze study and the AirMaze study used cardiovascular linguistic technology so type of AI it was really a computer that recorded every word that was said as a doctor and a patient's talk and it was men and women and in that study so interestingly just like those other studies show 90% of men and 90% of women did say the words chest pain or chest discomfort it's again though they did find that women had more accompanying symptoms they were much more descriptive about what they experienced so if someone's experiencing chest pain or chest pressure and especially if they have cardiac risk factors they should be evaluated for heart disease and they should be seen as quickly as possible they should call 911 they should not delay and if someone does not evaluate their heart before they leave that emergency room they should ask do you think I'm having a heart attack because at least then I think an emergency room team would ultimately say okay let's just make sure and get an EKG or get the blood work and not attribute those symptoms to stress or anxiety because we are all stressed and especially when we're having chest discomfort we're all anxious but everybody male or female deserves to make sure the leading killer is not present hopefully we're moving in the right direction I mean definitely with people like you were advocating and yet there are still areas where we're so far behind particularly fitness I mean you walk how many miles do you walk or jog? well I walk three miles to work in three miles home so I get always six miles but I actually run my dogs before hand before I go to work and I do resistance training before I can go to work so I'm I try to practice what I preach maybe to a point of obsession but I really think it is so important that you know some of the work that I did do show that the more physically fit you are the longer you live independent of all your other cardiac risk factors so it's an independent predictor of both cardiovascular mortality dying from heart disease or dying from any cause so exercise is medicine I love that I definitely believe that to be true have there been studies looking at the kind for example if someone is really busy and there's a lot of discussion on cardiovascular zone two versus high intensity which actually came out of my master university and resistance training how do you place them in order of importance for many and women yeah I think men and women both need a dose of both they need a robotic activity and they need resistance training and it's funny because men tend to be more likely to do resistance training and women this is a generalization but women tend to do more a robotic activity and are less likely to do resistance training and everybody needs a bit of both our current guidelines all over the world are exactly the same for men and women it's 150 minutes a day of moderate to intense aerobic activity and then we say that you need that much 150 minutes per week and then you need at least two 20 minute intervals of resistance training so that's a generalization because we know activity is good for you but I do think that we are learning more about differences between men and women and some of the work that we published last year really show that actually women for once we had good news for women that women got more better well they got more bang for their buck if they did the same amount of exercises a man they actually reduced their cardiovascular risk of cardiovascular death more so than men and also reduced their risk of dying from any cause more so than men and so men really needed to do more activity and that was true both for resistance training as well as aerobic activity so maybe women get more out of exercise and maybe one day we'll have guidelines that say women need to get away with less the most important thing though is that women do exercise and that that right now we know that men at every age there's more men do regular activity and women as we age we start doing less and what we need to do is try to build it in at the youngest ages because if it becomes habit I think one of my my recommendations is like schools should teach and equip our children for their future adulthood yes teams for its are great but you're not always going to have a team so those of you who played on the soccer team or football team what do you do after you leave high school or leave you know at where in college maybe you have intramural sports and you find teams to play with we all need to have an ability to find activities that we love that bring us joy that we can do alone too it's nice if you have other people you can play with but if you can do it yourself you're more likely to do it and you do it on your own schedule and that's what we need to equip everybody with a little bit of training in resistance training and aerobic activity when I think of my school and I grew up in Canada I don't know if it's different in the United States but I remember even when I played on the soccer team the men soccer team would go into the weight room and train partially there we never were invited into the weight room and most of our training was running around the track so that we could run after the ball so they just wanted us to get faster but nobody ever talked to us about strength training and I feel like this is something I acquired quite late in age where I suddenly started seeing the benefit of resistance training even for my own research work and then I was like I got to start learning how to do this and at a quite a later age I started picking up weights and not that it has to be weights people can find many different types of resistance training but that for me is a new thing that I do every day now because I love it but I wish I learned it before is there a difference from a cardiovascular standpoint and that's a really broad question from endurance training or cardiovascular training versus strength training in my mind when I think of zone two training I'm thinking of continuous moderate activity where your heart is pumping continuously versus strength training it's a spike and then relax the long term outcomes do we know the difference in cardiovascular impact? No we just know really right now from big population studies like the one we did is we know that in terms of cardiovascular mortality there's a reduction we don't know we don't have enough data to say what even enough about all the different types of things that constitute resistance training so there can be of course you can do things like heavy weights or even small weights but you know resistive training is also things like pilates or yoga and people can do those intensely or not so intensely when we study from a survey the way that we did we didn't get to ask you know more than that and so we have small studies where people have done you know studies of 20 people doing weight lifting or 20 people doing different types of resistance training but all we learn about that from that is like the hemodynamic changes not so much exactly is changing in the cardiovascular system and how you know is there one type of activity that's better than another or is even the duration I would say we've kind of made up the duration mom jokes coming in hot okay my old pan was so toxic even my veggies wanted to detox after dinner okay my mom does aren't that good but seriously non stick cookware is still being used because it's convenient but it comes at a cost non stick contains harmful chemicals like teflon and other PFAS which is leached into food now if I could go back in time I would change out my toxic cookware to our place and it's never too late to make better choices we get rid of toxic people you should do the same with your pots and pans and we use our place which is a toxin free high performance cookware and we use their appliances they're designed for safer simpler use and there is no hidden dangers of these forever chemicals it's not worth it and again it's the one thing that I wish I had changed our place for piece cookware set is the best way to start if you want to overhaul your kitchen with a multifunctional space saving pan and pots you can get your set at from our place dot com or the sponsors of the show that's from our placae dot com slash doctor line or use the code doctor line for 10% off also they have a free hundred day risk free trial hopefully we will begin to get better at the recommendations again it's very difficult to make generalize recommendations for entire population yeah it's the best we can do which leads me to this idea of the traditional fitness formula to 20 minus age oh that's your heart rate formula what did I say oh fitness formula we have a we all you've been have a fitness formula but yeah tell me um is this inadequate for women yeah so if anybody on whose listening is ever interested you can actually find the paper that describe to 20 minus your age and the to 20 minus your age wasn't even a good formula for men and it was if you look at it though they used five studies of men who were preparing for the army so they were at the VA and we used to put these men on treadmill stress tests and that's where we learned a lot about normal physiology but these were young men right going off to the army or navy um yeah I don't know at the VA who is it everybody I'm too Canadian technically fully know but they were all these studies done at the VA and so they learned a lot about men but even that formula they just said most people would fit in this formula and the person who described that formula never thought that this formula was going to be the most used formula is the most used formula in medicine and it's the most used formula actually by lay people because we use it many people use it when they exercise or if you're like me and you wear a smart watch and you follow your heart rate when you exercise when it's telling you you're in the zone if you use a garment or an apple and you're trying to achieve it it's all based on that silly formula of 20 minus your age and for women at least we know that that formula is an accurate so I was really fortunate when I was just finishing my training I fell into the study called the Women Take Heart Project and it was a study of just under 6,000 women in the Chicago land area we put them all on a treadmill sort of like the veteran men but they weren't veterans and they um they exercised for us using the same protocol that we had used in those older studies and we found from that again we created our own formula it's not sexy and it's not easy to remember but our formula is 206 minus 0.88 times your age which I know nobody will remember are you kidding? everybody else seems can remember that this is I guarantee you this is the first time that team have you heard this Julia Matt is Matt here producer and we've never heard that and we've never heard it this is our third year the show and again we only select the very best of us we've never heard that yeah well we we need to be using formulas that fit for women because it's important we know that of course there's not whenever you make up these equations there's some people that are above that number and some people below that number and it's really a mathematical regression equation that you've created out of a large population so you don't get too worried when people are off you know when people are like my heart rate is 10 beats higher than what it said by the formula always tell people like how did you feel how how was the exercise you know that can tell us a lot the talk test can simply tell us if you're in the right zone of training depending on what you were trying to achieve but it's a way to say for a population where your heart rate should be and it is this is part one of one is such example of why we need to study women rather than just apply formulas based on men and say women are just small men we are physiologically different and there is going to be differences in how we respond to exercise it is I'm I have to pause and think about this I believe that to be true and I'm grateful to have you say that because right now with the tools that we have so much in exercise science from what I see I struggle to see really well designed studies that show this training is sex specific and I do believe eventually we'll see that but even through the lens of something so simple as this you know equation even the analysis of that data of you know looking at endurance or heart rate activity is probably going to be have done through this lens of 2020 rise rate and I understand I'm not saying that this makes or changes huge numbers again I don't know but the fact that it's wrong is a is a problem and to the other thing that you are saying the other sentiment is that we're clearly different we might not have the data yet to prove exactly how or how that translates you know I just think from a resistance training standpoint a well design program is going to be a well design program but there are probably things that we're not considering that we just don't know yet absolutely and I think we we aren't always we shouldn't assume everyone knows everything about us I mean this is why mom does we hold me we hold me yeah we yeah no we the research you know that's why we do research and that's why science is so exciting and why medicine so exciting because we don't know everything and that's why we should ask questions about even the data that we use as physicians who was it based on where did this come from what ages of people were in there did they include people like me a woman me a selfish one yeah but you know every time every you buddy we should know this about it and I think it's the burden a little bit is on obviously us as a medical community to say who does this data apply to because our patients don't always know these things and you know we can debate them in the medical community but then whether it gets translated to our patients is an a completely different question but I think that that's we there's a lot of things we don't know still and that's what makes medicine fun because every day there's discoveries there's new drugs there's new techniques new interventions new devices and we're learning because you know not everyone even when we talk about working out everyone works out a little different everyone's resting heart rate starts out at a different place if you're somebody who exercises a lot probably your resting heart rate is a lot lower than somebody who doesn't exercise very often so even you have to take those caveats even when you make these formulas but you know when we make these smart devices and you know what happens is that a lot of patients will come in because they're concerned about what their device is saying they feel fine but the device is telling them you're too tired or you're not working out in your zone or you are you know you should back down because your heart rates too high or whatever the thing is and these devices that we wear as smart as they are have not all been tested in fact very few of them have been tested for accuracy so I also like devices because they I like we all like getting feedback right but no I don't know you don't it's gonna say your sleep side and yeah I know that but when we have these things though people should know that very few of them have actually been assessed for accuracy so they're marketing them to you but whether they're accurate or not is a complete different question so don't get too bothered by them if you're someone who loves the feedback and if there is something concerning bring it to your physician because they might decide you actually need a more accurate assessment of whatever problem has been identified I have to point something out in on this podcast we bring innovators true trailblazers do you know a Morgan taller no so a Morgan taller was a hover trained urologist for 40 years they were castrating men because of this idea that testosterone caused prostate cancer somehow he figured out he questioned the status quo everyone called him crazy he went down to the basement of Harvard he pulled out this paper that was with one person and he proved that it was wrong our last one of our last podcast guest Dr. Larry Lipschulton other urologist we joke I have the number one men's health podcast I'm just kidding but um he was the guy who innovated the field of male infertility and now I have Martha Grottie on here and for some reason you thought to say you know what we're defining normal with this Saint James women take heart cohort right this idea that um my metabolic equivalent is the same as my husbands which is everybody's using to twenty minus their age you said you know I I don't think that that is right was there a reason did you have a feeling it's very unusual for individuals especially trained in the traditional medical system to make such innovations in a moment well the reason I asked the question actually started with fitness level and I came up with that formula for women too from the same cohort of women um I remember right at the time where I was finishing my cardiology fellowship we all supervised stress test and I always knew women didn't go as long as men and their fitness level because that's how you estimate someone's fitness level when you put the monestress test it was clear that there's a difference partially because of our muscle mass partially because we were a little bit shorter than men and when you put them on a treadmill sometimes it's more if you're shorter you don't have the leg spread to go up hill as easily or it's just much harder so you end up stopping sooner so I knew that there was a difference and I you know was wondering why in the guidelines there was just this one formula and it was for men and women so I went and pulled that paper where did it come from those same veteran men and I was like you're not excited I was like okay this is this is from men what do we know about women and so when I we had the opportunity to take over the women take heart study and realizing they had all had stress test that was the first thing I'm like I am going to find out if their formula actually works and I found it did not and we published in the New England Journal of Medicine actually the formula for women for their fitness level and then we validated that formula in a group of symptomatic women showing that it by if you were under your age predicted fitness level you were more likely to die from cardiac causes so that formula now we use in our stress labs and say this is you know we have what percent of your age predicted fitness level then I asked the question actually about heart rate second I was like okay what about that formula is that even accurate women I think though I think because I had always been in tune that women aren't exactly small men that I wanted to know what we what I'd been taught was it accurate and I tell everybody that you know when I train medical students and residents and fellows like question where the data came from go look sometimes sometimes 20 years after we've been doing things and we think we're doing it right and then we suddenly find out you know what we weren't doing it right or we didn't know and we assume when you assume something you know there's that expression but you should also where did the data come from did it come from good reliable data or is it something we can now study and make sure it's accurate and especially whenever something's identical for men and women I always teach my trainees ask are you sure make sure it's true because the more when you look for sex differences you often find them do you think that that translates to dosing both again dosing and exercise dosing a medication is right now they're the majority of medical care is not okay so your dose of zedomitis 10 but actually our women's your dose is 7.5 that's such a good point and I actually think that that's important questions also that we need to ask you know when we think about medications and if you remember in medical school we all learn it again but you remember the pharmacology they would tell very clearly that medications how they were metabolized how they were absorbed how they were excreted was different if you were a man versus a woman and even a pregnant woman so all we always knew that there was some sort of difference and yet when we studied the drugs they would put either all men in the study or clump it all together and not analyze if there was a difference between men and women so think about a common drug that we use for blood pressure a lot of people might know this or be honored it's called hydrochlorothizide but the problem is that when we use that medication we are more likely to see electrolyte abnormalities in women than men why is that you know why well it the distribution is greater for women at the same dose and so in it's excreted slower in women and so it's not surprising that women would have more electrolyte disturbances and as a result have more arithmias when they're potentially on that medication and we should be aware of it it doesn't mean we can't use the medication but we need to be aware of those sex differences similarly beta blockers we use a lot for hypertension and also for heart failure and coronary disease but for women at the same dose blood pressure drops more heart rate drops more we should be aware of those things when we use drugs because then we might understand why women have more side effects than men and some drugs we don't have any differences but you know we need to find out we need to study and we need to include women and men in the studies analyze it by sex so that we really understand is there a difference because a lot of drugs and this isn't just true of cardiac drugs this is true of drugs for every organ system that they're potentially could be a difference in how they are metabolized how they are absorbed how they are excreted that might change how long they last in the body and their side effects and dosing we know even for some of the drugs that we commonly use in heart failure like acenhibitors women get full of effects at lower doses compared with men and that may be why it hired doses we don't need for women but we've never written any of our guidelines to date have said different doses by sex and so that's what we need to be looking at in the future I won't say we're there yet but I will say that you know we certainly need to be looking and we are working with our pharmacy colleagues because we have been pushing them to be more inclusive when they are doing new drug trials to get more women into trials to make sure that it's representative of our diverse populations so that we really know that the drugs work in the people that we care for very it's so informative and just really important work you also mentioned something before we were recording that I had never heard about before and this is really the environmental impact cardiovascular health we spoke a lot about soft plaque as this would you say it's an inflammatory agent or process that is happening it is okay soft plaque is driven by poor lifestyle correct? so sedentary behavior being obese smoking disease cholesterol high blood pressure stress whether that it's emotional or physical stress can at least accelerate the process when you do have underlying disease process or inflammation in your body and it's safe to say that the soft plaque is the outcome all of these inputs the soft plaque is the outcome right soft plaque or rupturing of that or rupture and I'm going somewhere this yeah those are known entities we know that if you are overweight or you're smoking or you're eating a crappy diet that you are increasing inflammation but one of the things that we don't think about is the environmental influence we think a lot about the environmental influence on our brain and my exposed to mold is this heavy metal in my bone very rarely at least I don't think much about it in the lungs I don't think about the environmental impact specifically on cardiovascular tissue or the influence on soft plaque. yeah I think we need to be thinking more about the environment and it's association with cardiovascular disease particularly with plaque and plaque rupture we know that if you are living in certain geographical areas where there is higher pollution that there is more heart disease we know that after forest fires like the fires we experience in Los Angeles that again there is more heart disease than was proceeding a forest fires especially when it occurs in a big city and there's some there's studies that are going on right now to really examine that after the LA fires. So we know that environmental pollution is a big risk and we need to be able to capture it we know from big population studies when we look at zip codes and we see these differences the EPA actually can give out what daily exposures are based on your zip code and so we you know one of the things I talked about earlier with you was how our new risk score does actually have your zip code and so if you plug in if you're plugging in your prevent risk score and you plug in your zip code your zip code represents a lot of things one of which is the pollution that is in our environment and pollution you know we're learning a lot more about it I think I will still say we have a long way to go to fully understand the pollution effects but there is the environmental pollution that maybe sometimes you can see like gonna smoggy day in Los Angeles we all know that it is there's more pollutants in the air and the reason that I think a lot of people notice those pollutants is because of breathing we know people with asthma will have more trouble outside that day and people can almost see that haze but you know it's sometimes the invisible stuff and we talked a lot about this during the LA fires actually was that things even when the sky cleared even when the index that you would get on your phone would say that today was okay but the part that it was not measuring is the plastics in the air because when things burnt when all these houses burnt down in the air it was released all kinds of toxins including plastics that we're probably going to be contending with for a long time both in our water supply in our oceans to our you know wildlife and in the ground that people are rebuilding their houses on so we have it we have a lot more to do about understanding it there's just a paper actually this morning I didn't even get a chance to read it but I wasn't surprised by the headline was that sound pollution as well is harmful to the heart and we know that there's all kinds of different solutions that we need to be assessing and worrying about our environment has dramatically changed as we're all experiencing climate change has affected the whole world and that climate change is making places hotter making natural disasters more and again even at those times when we have heat waves we see higher risk of heart attacks so there's a lot going on right now in our world that I don't think we fully understand but I do think that they're we're working very closely now with environmental scientists there's actually a great group here at Houston Methodist actually looking very specifically at the environmental effects and cardiovascular disease so they're doing some pretty exciting work right here in your backyard well I might be paying them a bit so I'll get those names and probably be wonderful to talk to them you mentioned earlier that women are not small men and when we think about cardiovascular health and disease what is the difference between a woman's heart and a man's heart well I mean to begin with they're smaller so anatomically you know I tell everyone to make a fist and usually that's kind of the representative sign of the size of your heart so size matters but of course how we respond physiologically to insults differs if you're a woman compared to a man and so you know when we talk about the disease processes that we see that are different between men and women men are more likely to have those blockages in the corner arteries that people hear about and seem to be familiar with whereas women don't have those blockages but have the small vessels react differently and that's where the disease actually begins before they get blockages that's that disease state that we had talked about called anoka ischemia with no obstructive coronary arteries and it's the small vessels that we can't see but we can detect reduced blood flow to the heart by certain types of testing like stress testing. Additionally even the types of heart failure that we get are different and there seems to be a difference in the response to stressors or the risk factors that make heart disease more likely so if a woman has diabetes for example she is much more likely than a man with diabetes to develop heart disease and we don't entirely know why we know that there's more inflammation but we don't understand exactly why is a woman's vasculature? why if you are a biological woman you have a difference in response to being a diabetic then somebody who doesn't somebody who's a you know a man and that's not entirely clear we see it even with smoking so tobacco you know a woman smokes the same amount as a man and she will actually have more vasculer damage than a man so there's something about being a biological woman that sometimes these risk factors actually cause more damage and may change the underlying pathophysiology of the disease we know even know how how women get treated though sometimes is different just simply because of our size so when women get something called aortic stenosis almost at the same rate as men do it's a where the aortic valve gets very calcified and it needs to be replaced for a long while women were dying during surgery so they were less likely to be offered surgery but now we have a procedure called tavern where it's a non-invasive way or at less invasive way I should say it's not open heart surgery where we can replace that aortic valve but who did they design that aortic valve on men and so the size of it wasn't always fitting most women and that led to less women actually being eligible for a tavern I will tell you though the good news is in the last two years we've had some really big studies where they developed a smaller valve replacement that seemed to be the right size for more women and we showed that women actually have really excellent outcomes it's the same though with all our devices sometimes we build the device based on a man and we don't even think about even the anatomical differences the size differences between men and women we're still figuring out though a lot of the other things that are different or how sex specific risk factors affect the heart and why they're making women at a higher risk for heart disease and I don't think we fully have all the answers right now Dr. Martha Gullady with you on our team I'm sure that we will continue to improve and I just have to say I think you from me personally and I know the audience but really for all women thank you thank you such a pleasure to be here with you heart disease is not just a man's disease and women are not just smaller men Dr. Gullady's research proves that when we take sex specific science seriously we can catch heart disease earlier treated better and prevent more lives from being lost so if you've ever had unexplained fatigue chest pain shortness of breath or were told it's quote just anxiety don't ignore it know the test to ask for know your risk and advocate for care that sees you fully if this episode resonated share it with a woman you love want more science back tools for strength longevity and prevention subscribe now and stay strong