I have heard you say that one in seven men who see a urologist already have irreversible bladder damage. It's crazy. But we did a big study where we looked at men visiting urologists. We tested them and they tested in this zone where we called basically the bladder was no longer squeezing like it can. So the bladder, put simply as a big old pump and over men's lifetime the bladder has to empty through the middle of the prostate and out the urethra. So as women go older they don't have problems with the pump getting weak because their urethra is relatively short and they don't have this prostate which can get bigger with time. But men they have a prostate which gets bigger as we age. So very similar to the problems of the erection. So 50% of 50 year olds will have in a large prostate 80% of 80% of 80 year olds so on and so forth. And of the men with a large prostate have to be symptomatic. So if you have this pump which is struggling to empty because it's trying to squeeze your in through the middle of this donut which is the prostate the bladder gets tired after a while. It's a pump that fails and if men allow that to progress 1 and 7 come to me and that the pumps already go. What does that mean for them? Well either they will need to cat the rise the rest of their life to get the urine out either in and out or have a catheter in or they'll need a very aggressive surgery in the hopes that they'll be able to pee on their own by what we call craday-voining. Paring down. They're on my mind. They're pushing the urine out. So it can be avoided if when men get symptoms they go to the doctor relatively early and either they get a surgery early because that's the best way to preserve the pump. What would the symptom be that they are just getting would it be urinary retention or this feeling where they're having to go a lot but they can't go and feeling like there is urine still that they still have to pee? Yeah it's the former it's pushing or straining to go. Men who can't empty their bladder effectively. So one test we'll do is we'll have guys peeing to machine. We'll measure how strong the stream is. We'll give them a score and then that can be predictive of the need for surgery, etc. But more importantly we measure how much the left behind after they go. And if that number is zero you're good. However if that number starts climbing you pee out 400 you leave a hundred behind. You wait another year you pee out 300 you leave 200 behind. Pretty soon the ratio is nothing comes out and you leave everything behind. So that is the best way to kind of predict this loss of bladder function is by seeing how much is left over. Other signs can include ignoring your not emptying so that can suddenly lead to frequency getting infections. Right? Because you're in a direct infections because our number one defense against infection is peeing out the bacteria. And if you are not into your bladder well basically there's like a little swamp in the air or the bacteria like someone around having a field day and then manifesting with the infections. How would a woman know that she has the equivalent? Women will very rarely have these obstructive symptoms because they don't have the the hardware to cause the bladder to to malfunction. But the important lesson here is that you know the bladder causes this mischief. Lots to squeeze all the time and there are many lifestyle factors that lead to more bladder mischief and make me have to peeing more often and make you miserable. But and so sometimes a man will come to therologist saying, doc my prostate is horrible. And no they have the same thing that women have this overactive bladder. Yourologist job is to separate like what the problem is. But for men that have struggling urine you have to rule out the pulpe problem because if you don't you're going to have to get a catheter life long and that's not what you want to believe me. In terms of you know what can we do about the overactive bladder? This kind of irritative symptom type of thing not pushing or straining but having to go often running to the bathroom, having to get up in the middle of night like basically having accidents when you don't want to. These are bladder behaviors. So not not prostate behaviors. That's we have talked about this. We need to clarify this. You have also said which I thought was brilliant. How many times you pee in the middle of the night can predict the likelihood of death? So big men analysis. I think from 2015 men analysis when you take all the best literature you combine it and you try to come up with conclusions. So this men analysis of that men who have nocturia that's greater than two times at night they get up three times a year or more or 30% more likely to die of all causes. Heart attacks. It's kind of things. Does that mean that if you pee three times in the middle of night you're doomed? Of course not. Not a causal relationship. It's a correlative relationship. Meaning the answer probably is that if you're getting up three times in the middle of the night to pee you've got other stuff going on. One do you have sleep apnea where you can't sleep soundly and that's making it more often. Two do you have a demon in your legs because you have heart failure. You get to pee more often in the middle of the night. Three you have metabolic abnormalities. You have diabetes which makes you pee more often. All these kind of potential risk factors will make you pee more. So the fact that you're peeing tells me you're unhealthy. If you mitigate that on healthiness, if you lose weight, you start to exercise, you reverse your diabetes. Guess what? You won't pee as often. Right? So a lot of these things are reversible in life with human bodies amazing if we treat it right. Would is there a normal amount of time someone gets up? And again I'm thinking about my dad shout out to Nate in Ecuador probably embarrassed. He often says, okay, well I'm waking up in the middle of the night. Two, three, again, he lost me at three to go to the bathroom. Yeah. He is 74. Would that be prostate? Would that be bladder? Would it be impossible to tunnel? Yeah. So it's typically unusual to have to get up in the middle of the night less than age 50. Right? Once fine. But once you start getting it more and more often, we know as we get older, again, the latter loses capacity. As we get older, we tend to make less hormones that prevent us from being in the middle of the night, specifically we make less ADHD. If you have sleep apnea, the body perceives this lack of breathing as high blood pressure to the chest. And so it sends out, Nate, your atratic peptide, which makes us spill salt into the urine which pulls fluid with it. So again, these other medical comorbidities will make us have more not to worry. So I'd say if you're getting up more than three times at night, you first should look at lifestyle factors. And then obviously look to improve the other metabolic components that we just discussed. But yeah, here at risk for other things because that's a warning sign that's going on. It's really interesting because just again, as a practicing physician training in safety on the medicine and even geriatric surgery, here's some flow max. See you next time. It's a very dangerous approach. One, you're making the assumption that it's the prostate. It could be bladder. It could be the fact that this person's drinking eight liters a day. And we can talk about bladder, or since then. We definitely talk about bladder intents because you just killed half the less. I just. The other thing though is that flow max is a drug that, you know, it's temp cells. And there's all these other drugs which will improve the strength of the stream. But it doesn't protect the pump. So actually the worst thing you can do for guys with obstructive symptoms is to give them flow max because then you won't seem again for another 10 years. But by the time they've come back, now the bladder has had the damage that's unreversible, irreversible. So flow max is not a drug that will protect you long term. So if you have true prostate enlargement, I'm an enthusiast for early intervention. That is doing procedures that will help, you know, take away some of the resistance of the process. So men, P-better, and they protect their long term bladder function. You can use medications to have this effect as well. These drugs are typically. Feverize the ones that actually physically shrink the size of the prostate, kind of a chemical surgery if you will. These drugs will prevent the need to go to the emergency room because you can't pay the need for surgery in the future. But if you just give somebody flow max and say, you know, see you see when I see you're at high risk for having that person have long term bladder damage.

Everybody is going to want to know what is your diet. What is it? Yeah, I mean for me, and I talk about this in the book, I really focus on cellular biology when I think about diet and the diet that I've presented in good energy, it's very first principles. It's not dogmatic, it's about what molecular components do we know, support the cell and doing its best work? Because if a cell is functioning properly, like we don't have symptoms, so I think one framing when I talk about diet that people need to realize is that all symptoms and all disease are necessarily the results of cellular dysfunction. There's no symptom or disease that arises in a vacuum. There is cellular dysfunction happening if you have a symptom or disease. And one of the key ways that we help ourselves function properly is the 70 metric tons of molecular information that we put in our mouths at our lifetime, right? That both builds our body, literally builds the structure of the cells and also tells the cells what to do, change our epigenetics, our cell signaling, our genetic expression. So really thinking about food as molecular information. And when I was really looking at what are the components that cells can benefit from in their journey to function properly, there were five things that I think are important. One is I'll start with the one that is so relevant to you, which is healthy protein. Protein is an incredible signal. We have, well, run through them all first and then we talk about the all that. So the five things that I think are really important for healthy cellular function that we should include in every meal is healthy protein, antioxidants, omega-3 fatty acids, a probiotic source, and a fiber source. And so for different reasons, each of those can signal to ourselves good function. The health, I mean, you talk about this better than the one literally on the face of the planet, but healthy protein is like a signaling molecule. We have literally nutrient sensing cells in our gut that see the amino acids and it changes the expression of what they do. I think it's so funny, the whole like GLP1 agonist conversation and like everyone, you know, we're having this fever pitch about these medications that are exogenous GLP1 analogs. In reality, when a nutrient sensing cell in the gut, the L cell is stimulated by specific amino acids, valene is one of the ones, but others glutamine, arginine others. When it actually senses those amino acids, it produces GLP1 in much higher concentration. So certainly there's a utility for these drugs in certain patient populations, but everyone in America, given the obesity epidemic, should know how to stimulate their own satiety hormones with specific food nutrients. So protein for so many reasons, obviously it's also a signal to ourselves for antabolic processes for building and maintaining muscle mass, so many other purposes. But then we look at antioxidants. You know, one of the biggest root causes of the diseases in the symptoms that we have today is excess oxidative stress. It's this like firestorm happening inside ourselves that we have the power through three ways to actually improve with our diet. We can eat antioxidants. We can reduce our consumption of pro-oxidant foods. And we can also express antioxidant genes in ourselves through other foods. So that's a key one. Fiber, of course, is going to feed our microbiome, which is the gunner, then produce short chain fatty acids, which have a whole range of positive metabolic benefits. Our probiotics sources, similar to the fiber, are going to support our microbiome. And help us create the diversity and abundance of helpful bacteria in our gut that is so relevant to all aspects of mental and physical health. And the omega-3 fatty acids are so critical because if we're eating good omega-3 sources, first of all, we're going to be eating some really beautiful whole foods like fish and seeds and nuts that have these compounds. But they are so important as a signaling molecule in our inflammatory cascade. And just like oxidative stress, chronic inflammation is one of the key root causes of our chronic disease epidemic and the symptoms we're facing and omega-3 is which incorporated into the cell membrane, literally form a substrate for anti-inflammatory immune chemicals that can, you know, be very important in resolving inflammatory processing the body. So all that is to say, when we focus on getting those five components in most all of our meals, and the way we do that is by having a short list in our head of our favorite sources of each of those things of the protein, omega-3s, antioxidants, fiber, and probiotics sources have your little mental list of your favorite things in each of those categories. Stock your kitchen with them and then it's very mix and match, just like grab your hemp seeds, grab your, you know, sardines, grab your beef, whatever it is and make a meal that has those. And eating becomes much, much simpler. So anyways, that's really how I try and focus my eating is component-based more than dog my based. And those components could go from they could work for keto, they could work for vegan, they could work for paleo, they could work for like ancestral diets, maybe not carnivore, just because I do talk about fiber, but one fascinating thing about fiber and carnivore, and I actually make this caveat in the book is that one of the short-chain fatty acids that your body makes when you eat fiber is buterate. And we also make buterate on a very low carb diet in a different way by actually producing it through fat oxidation. And so even though carnivores aren't eating fiber, they're still making a very similar molecule to what the microbiome makes, and are kind of getting it in a different way. And so that's the one I would say exception, but long story short, that's yeah, I focus on getting those five components and eliminating all refined grains, refined sugars, and refined cedoils, and that's how I focus on my diet. It's interesting because it shows how adaptable the body is. You had mentioned carnivore, and yes, the carnivore diet is low in fiber, but the body can adapt and make buterate. The body is amazing, and I would argue that it can adapt to various types of diet. You talked about protein, you talked about antioxidants, omega, probiotic, and fiber. What are your favorite, and I want to go through each of these, because I'm curious is to know what your favorite is. What is your favorite protein? I'll run through them super fast, and basically if you go to my kitchen and I've posted videos of my kitchen, this is essentially what is my kitchen. Based on what I'm about to say, it's my favorite sources of each of these things. So for protein, I have a freezer full of ground game meats, which I get from both hunters and also from force of nature, or other really wonderful original company. So for protein, it's ground elk, ground bison, ground venison, ground grass vet beef, ground regenerative pork. I also have all have pasture raised chicken breast, chicken thighs, turkey, things like that. So basically lots of really sustainably sourced meats. I also do happen to love beans and legumes for protein, and they don't affect me at all in a negative way. I know this for a fact, because my HSCRP is less than 0.3. So for people who say that they're inflammatory, check your biomarkers, but beans and legumes and meat. And then I like eggs, but eggs also aren't the best protein source. Like I, you know, six grams per egg. So I usually supplement a little of my protein today with about three eggs, but mostly it's the meat that I get the protein from, really originally sourced. What about the antioxidants? Antioxidants, it's just a kitchen full of farmers market fruits and vegetables. It's colorful and rich colors as possible. So I just try and get as many, I basically shop for my fruits and vegetables based on color, not based on type, because I can cook with any vegetables and you know, low glycemic fruits. So purples, reds, yellows, greens, etc. lots of colorful fruits and vegetables, but the main antioxidant, the highest antioxidant sources are actually spices. Tea, cocoa, and so using a lot of cocoa in my cooking like 100% organic, cocoa tons of spices and then teas as a drink like green tea. Those are some of the highest antioxidant sources. And then some nuts and seeds have antioxidants. The highest antioxidant net of all of them is pecans, actually. So by, by like a large margin. So I eat a lot of pecans. For probiotics sources, I love sourcrout. I have like five different types in my fridge. From the farmers market, organic beat and cabbage sourcrout, carrots, sourcrout, things like that. I love cavas, which is a low sugar, kombucha alternative instead of using sugar and tea to make a drink. A fermented drink, it actually just uses beats and water. And that's it. So the fermented drink is basically from fermented and the carbohydrates with beats. I love kimchi and I love unsweetened full fat grass-fed yogurt. And so those are my my my probiotics sources. For fiber, it's basil seeds, hemp seeds, chia seeds, flax seeds, beans, legumes, raspberries, which is the highest fiber fruit and avocados, which are very oddly super high fiber. So those are my main fiber you know, it is on. When you look at the breakdown. Like 13 grams of fiber, but chia seeds and basil seeds are great because they have like five grams of fiber per table spoon in their easiest sprinkle on salads. And then for omega-3s, it's a pantry full of canned wild cop fish that I put on top of lots of different things. So I have wild cop salmon, wild cop macarol, wild cop sardines from wild planet. I love those. Those will have like 2,000 milligrams of omega-3s per package. And then in terms of plant-based omega-3s, I love hemp seeds, flax seeds, basil seeds, and chia seeds. And then certainly wild cop or regeneratively raised beef has a decent amount of omega-3. So so that's kind of the spectrum of pretty much what I eat.

Welcome to the Dr. Gabriel Lineshow. In this episode, I sit down with Dr. Eric I. President and Chief Medical Officer of Weave, Neuroscience Biotechnology. Now, I met Dr. Eric at Global Special Operations Week, and why was I so interested in the things that he was talking about? If you are someone who struggles with brain fog, energy, depression, PTSD, someone who struggles with traumatic brain injury, if you've gotten hit in the head, or been exposed to things that might jar your brain, and you've tried everything. This episode is for you, it's for anyone and everybody that is suffering with anything related to their brain. I hope you enjoy this episode. I hope you learned as much as I have, as always, this information is free to the public. Please, please take a moment to share it, spread the good word, rate, subscribe so you don't miss an episode. And if you are interested in information like this to make you the better and best version of yourself, take a moment to go to the website, subscribe to our newsletter. This is free content delivered directly to your inbox without having to do anything. Because remember, friends, together, we are forever strong. Dr. Eric Juan, thank you so much for coming on the show. Very excited to be here. Thanks for having me. Yeah, and so people should know a little bit about our history. We met at special operations, week, it was global special operations week, and it was really incredible. All the operators from around the world got together. Well, they all didn't get together, but the people, the medicine, the community got together to really move the needle and anywhere one of the individuals there. Yeah, yeah, it was very much an honor and privilege to be able to speak there. It was run by an organization called Global Soft, Stu Brayton and Keenan Yohoe or good friends who are running the operation, but yeah, I was able to speak and provide some updates on some of our clinical trials. And of course, the community is very interested in emerging data with traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress. So, was able to provide an update to the community there. Yeah, and you are a former Navy. I'd love to hear a little bit about your background, especially the listener. Oh, sure. Yeah, so I was a Navy flight surgeon, which attached to a Marine Corps unit, HMM268, and we deployed as the 11th Marine Expeditionary Unit. We had a somewhat unfortunate distinction. We had some of the first casualties of operation I rack you freedom. And as a bioproductive that, I've always been looking for something that could help the men and women that I served with, which is a big part of why you end up in the organization that I'm with. But I left a military service finished up my medical training at the Harvard Occupational Medicine Program and ended up at the Bowen Company, where most people know we build planes and satellites, but we have emergency rooms. At all of our heavy manufacturing sites, and I took on a different role as your chief technology officer for medical services, which is how we interface with this technology. And was hearing how could help men and women who were struggling with a variety of conditions, and specifically those of post-traumatic stress and concussion type symptoms that really drew me in. So, fast forward a few years, I did quite a bit of diligence during the company about eight years ago. And this is this wave narrow? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Exactly. So, it's really been a full sprint ever since. The war is never pretty for anybody, for the families, the individuals there. And I can only imagine that that really impacted your trajectory of how you even thought about medicine. Yeah, it's hard to articulate the type of impact that can have on the whole community. And, you know, the mission for me at least changed quite a bit from one of force readiness and support to how do I help all these men and women not just in the near term, but long-term. Because the conflict was very kinetic, a lot of traumatic brain injuries, a lot of post-traumatic stress. And those tend to be more long-term lingering conditions. And so, you know, I might not see them. That's right. That's right. And so, it is one of those challenges to try to find clinically meaningful therapeutic second help people through these issues. And it is one of those things that we learn that there is this secondary effect to families where both spouses and children can struggle both with not having the service member at home, but also some of the trauma gets shared. And so, so that's been a big part of our effort as well. The reason I asked you about that is, you know, we were talking about my husband who is now in his astrology residency. He was in the seal teams and he was a medic in the teams. I don't know if I told you that, again, he had been to war and there was a lot of things that he couldn't help with. And that actually saw a lot of lower blast injuries and there was a lot of just experiences that he wished that he was able to do more weight in that moment. And that's why he actually went into your all-year-old or in part one of the reasons he went into your all-year. Wow. Yeah. And so, that's where my questions were coming from because, again, he had been a medic at war and there is only so much that can be done. And when you experience that, it seems as if you take that experience and do you really good work in the world. Yeah. It certainly drives a different level of passion. You know, when the motivation is about mission and purpose, you can work long hours, grind through a lot of things and not even think about it. It just ends up being kind of a labor of love. And I would say that the science and the evidence around traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress has evolved kind of at an unmatched pace. I would say over the last decade. And so it's a fascinating time to be in the Serena and to see the types of developments that are happening both from a neuropathologic perspective. But our world when we're talk about a lot of physiology and functional brain imaging, there's been a lot of knowledge gained even year over year since month to month, we're learning new things. So rapid. That's so rapid. And to give people a background, you told me that you had done environmental medicine, environmental and occupational medicine, and then emergency medicine found this and then obviously were a flight surgeon and found this, you know, as you went back to, re-exammer what you were doing, you found Wavenero, which I'd love for you to explain a little bit about the technology and the treatments and what it is impacting. Sure. So the basic technology, it's emerging three different capabilities. One is a functional neuroimaging technology called quantitative EEG or electron cephalogram. So much in the same way an electron cardiogram is an electric physiologic picture of the heart. These EEGs are electrophysologic pictures of the brain. And we're specifically looking for disruptions or dysregulations in brain activity and neural networks. And we can identify that. We can, with a fair amount of precision target those areas and try to restore function to the circuit. And we use another technology that's FDA cleared for depression, but we're using it kind of agnostic to the diagnosis and looking to restore function to a specific circuit, most common with the default mode network. And when we see that type of function return, we also see concurrent improvement and symptoms. And we can talk a little bit more about that, but to give you an idea, it's about 30 minutes a day, the treatment. And it's usually between four and six weeks depending on the severity of the injury that we see. And just to share kind of my first experience with this technology, I was very skeptical. But I had a marine buddy. He wouldn't mind me mentioning his name, but let's just call him J to keep him medical privacy. But basically because he doesn't want you, he's not people calling him. Yeah, but he's a very dear friend. He was really struggling. And it wasn't just him. His friends were calling me saying, hey, can we do something? And I worry that he was going to commit suicide. I was. Yeah. And he he sort of the classic poly trauma with the VA calls it poly trauma case. He had post traumatic stress, traumatic brain injury and opioid addiction. And the third was a bi-product of a failed back surgery. He had pseudoarththrocers of L4L5 and chronic pain. And he's on about 170 morphine equivalence per day, which is a very high dose for the audience that may not be aware. Anything more than 100 morphine equivalence per day, or will double your risk of all cause mortality in any given year. So that was the respiratory failure injury. It's for a variety of reasons, but respiratory failure is a common reason. But there can be multiple organ issues that happen with chronic opioid use. Even is very common to see hypogonadism and low testosterone. And so there's multiple issues that happen that can happen. The opioid use. Exactly. Yeah. So it's called opioid induced hypogonadism. And so a lot of these people who are on chronic years of opioid end up requiring, you know, many different medications to manage their symptoms. But, you know, when I met with him, I talked to him. I wanted him to give this treatment to try because one of the novel therapeutics that I'd seen at that time. At that time. Because what you're talking about is transmecnetics, personalized transmecnetics simulation. Yes. In short. For the listener, basically, Dr. Eric and I are kind of framing up for you is why and if and, you know, when someone should use things to treat depression, head injury, TBIs, which then manifests in a whole host of ways, including hypogonadism, including depression, including energy fatigue. I mean, you and I share patients together. I send not only as my husband seen individuals that wave neurobit, I have patients that use these kind of protocols that that's how impactful they are. But anyway, at the time, how long ago was that? This is around the 2015-2016 time frame. Not that long ago. Because transmecnetics simulation. And I know that that's only one of the modalities that you guys use. It wasn't so novel at the time, right? It was not as well known as it is now. And I think it's become more mainstream and accepted as a non-formers food or co-intervention that can really help with depression. And I've seen many cases of people who had given up hope. They tried many of these anti-depressants and top therapy, kind of behavioral therapy. And this was the approach that seemed to help them the most. And so I knew that TMS by itself was very promising. And the question became, could you personalize it in a way that could help other populations? And we can take a deeper dive into that. But just to finish the story about my friend, my friend, I think. That came right. Yeah, so he came in. And I have pictures where he was very disheveled. He looked nothing like the crew chief that I deployed with, you know, decades earlier. And he came in grudgingly. And within the first week, we could see a change because he was sharing again. He was going to work out. And at the two week mark, his wife sent me a picture, instead I got my husband back. And he shaved. And you could see kind of the life come back into his eyes. And within a month, he had given me a call and said, hey Doc, I'm off my opioids. And my initial reaction as most medically trained doctors would be, hey, that's a little dangerous. That's a lot of opioid to come off in such a short period of time. But he had tapered himself down. And kind of boggled my mind, you know, traditional medicine. We don't expect to see these kind of changes in such a short period of time. But I knew this was my friend. He's not going to lie to me. And both him has spoused his children. We're all saying that this was really quite transformed. So I started paying attention. I said to him about it, does not have the Marines. And it was a very consistent benefit that we're seeing. And so I still remember the day, there's a Navy Seal Master Chief. Your husband may know. I won't mention him by name either. But does he under five, five? He's not. He's not. Okay. Okay. But yeah, at this point, there's a lot of special operations who were coming in. And the organization had asked me to come in as one of the leaders. And I had declined several times. I was just very happy in my role of Boeing. And this seal Master Chief kind of put his finger in my chest and said, what do you stand for, brother? Are you going to do this for the rest of your life? Stay at Boeing, or are you going to get in the trenches and help out your brothers and sisters? And really, that resonated with me in a way that I was not anticipating. Because this was a different level of mission of purpose if we can help a vulnerable community, not just patient to patient but a whole population of people that are struggling with a condition where there are very few effective therapeutic options. That was worthy of a pretty significant career change. And so spoke to my wife about it and she agreed. She said, this is all you think about. This is all you talk about. Why was it that that was the thing that caught you? I mean, you saw a lot of different kinds of injuries. Was it that the TBI, what we're talking about, specifically the traumatic brain injury, was it because the treatment seemed to do something? Why was it that caught your attention over say something else? That's a big piece of it because to this point there haven't been a lot of therapeutic set were really helping in a meaningful way. And I spent the prior 15 years trying to help men and women who are struggling with this. And we could see improvements, but this wasn't a matter of weeks people having improved cognition, having improved sleep. These were secondary effects of the injuries that we typically didn't see through traditional medical therapeutics. The other part of this that I found really intriguing is it's really the first time in the course of human history where we had the ability to predictably in some level of precision, modulate brain activity in a way that could be helpful. So to me that was worthy of spending a life trying to advance the science and help these communities that were really struggling. And I could see that both among close friends that I deployed with but other people who are coming in looking for answers. It's just it's so meaningful, especially with what you're doing now. When you started the technology or started using the technology you saw this with your friend Jay, we talked about one component of it. So it's the EEG. The other component is the trans-renetic simulation is that right? And then there's a third component? Well the third component is computational analytics that go into designing the protocol for each individual. And that's what we're trying to get FDA cleared. Right now we have a lab full of neuroscientists who are customizing protocols to each individual. But to scale that we have an automated protocol generator that can now do 100,000 EEG per second. And so if we're talking about being able to administer this treatment to millions of people. And right now the estimate is 150 million cases of post-traumatic stress globally. And I suspect that's an underestimate just with Ukraine and Israel. There's growing numbers of trauma every day. And for us a lot of my perspective as a military doc was about the veteran experience. But I've learned social trauma survivors are a much larger population of trauma than what we see in the combat related arenas. And so... What do you mean? Can you tell me more? I didn't realize that. Yeah so women or men who survive sexual trauma are living with PTSD many times. And that can manifest in many different ways. But as we opened up our clinical trial. So the first phase of our FDA clinical trial was sponsored by U.S. Special Operations Command. And the second stage was picked up by Texas A&M with the idea that we need to open this up to civilian and not just do military cases only. And we saw the large influx of interest from sexual trauma survivors. And one of the issues that we encountered was that an inclusion, exclusion, correct here for the study, was that they should not have index trauma. The first trauma should not happen for the age of 16. And sadly the majority of those sexual trauma cases, the index trauma happened before the age of 16. So they didn't qualify for the study. Which is a horrible reflection on society at large. But it was one of those things where as a technology we forward and progress is we're learning new communities that we can help. And that has been a population we've seen fairly significant in promising data. So we're still a year away from being up to unblind that data. But yeah it was one of those things that was challenging to learn. But PTSD extends far beyond just the veteran and military community. Thank you to Trulene for sponsoring this episode of the show. Now before you fast forward through this ad, let me mention that the reason that we have so many ads is so that you can enjoy this content for free. Take a moment to support the sponsors because that's how we get this content out to you. Now, every day wellness is a product that is amazing and they have these wellness shots. Basically the company Trulene made a wellness shot that I can travel with that I can bring on the plane that I can use at the hotel and here's what it has in it. It has 1000 milligrams of vitamin C, a little cayenne pepper. It has turmeric in it. It has rich phytonutrients. Take a little pack. Put in water. Taste delicious. I use it all the time. I use it when I am sleep deprived. When I am traveling, when I need a little extra boost, no caffeine, nothing just great flavor and an incredible phytonutrient shot. You can get yours there. Not only sponsoring this episode, but in addition, they are offering you 50% off. Go to Trulene. That's TRU, L-E-A-N.com for 50% off and again, it's everyday wellness. They're wellness shot and if you are enjoying this episode with Dr. Eric Juan, you'll have to understand how important it is to augment your overall health and wellness because again, the underlying health and wellness will allow you to stand up against the storm of life. Trulene.com 50% off. Thank you to Puri for sponsoring this episode of the show. One of the reasons why I always take an omega-3 fatty acid is for overall brain health. It doesn't matter your age. Even my kids take omega-3 fatty acids. Moode, it is wonderful for mood and overall cardiovascular health and inflammation. I am bringing to you Puri O3, which is a high quality, well-tested fish oil. Let me tell you about this. Puri O3 is third-party tested and certified by Clean Lake projects. I'm sorry, Clean Label Project. What it is is it makes available the testing results. No contaminants, no heavy metals. These are things that, as a provider, as a mom, I'm very concerned about. I don't want to be giving a supplement that is a concentrated supplement that has a whole bunch of contaminants. Puri O3 is a world-class supplement line and company. I absolutely am thrilled to bring this to you. And by the way, they are offering my audience 20% off. All you have to do is use the code Dr. Lyon for 20% off. Puri Omega 3 Fish Oil has a high dose of 2,000 milligrams of Omega 3 fatty acids, EPA, DHA, and Natural Triglists Ride Form. I personally can tell the difference. They also have products that have little packets where you can throw it in your bag. It has vitamin D in it, it has magnesium, no fishy flavor, nothing. It truly is what I think is going to be on the forefront of top products. So, support your health, throw it into your regular routine, go ahead and grab your Puri O3. And that is Puri ORI.com slash Dr. Lyon. That's Puri ORI.com slash Dr. Lyon. So, to kind of summarize the wave neuro technology, which is what we're talking about. And actually what we're talking about is overall brain health. We're going to learn all about how it works, what people are looking for. You and I have gone through cases and it's just so fascinating the way that someone could potentially process information where they might be tired or where their brain might be. I don't remember what you call it, but it was a bit, it was somewhat overburdened or it wasn't, it was very elegant the way that you set it, but essentially it was a non-optimized brain. And that potentially things get a little bit worse before they get better or it's not just this trajectory upwards of healing our improvement. But the brain function itself, you talked about traumatic brain injury, which is a physical insult to the brain. Now, you mentioned PTSD, which is a non-physical, it would be a manifest physically, but it's an external stimuli of an event. Both PTSD can come in a number of ways, whether it's sexual trauma or war trauma any of those things. And then is there another and then depression? So, you also mentioned depression as ways in which non-pharmaceutical ways in which we treat the brain. Are there any other potential subgroups, sub set of groups of things that we're treating? So, if the listener is at home thinking, why do I care about what Dr. Eric is talking about? You care because probably quite frankly, everybody should go through this testing because you might have hit your head and your brain waves are functioning out of lack, right? But are there other specific domains of people that are listening out there that they should potentially get their brain checked? Yeah, to your point, I think it's useful for everyone to get any EEG and to see how their brain is doing, getting a baseline, provide a reference point for which if there is some type of injury that occurs in the future, you at least know how is my brain functioning back in 2024? But there are other sub-populations that are emerging as potential use cases for the technology. Not just what we've neuroscience is doing, but the whole neuromodulation community is looking at can this be helpful for substance use disorder? I talked about my friend Jay who was struggling with opioid use, we're seeing some use cases for autism. To be clear, there's a large amount of research, double-blind RCTs, the gold standard of scientific evidence that needs to be done before we can make any kind of claims about this. But I think it's fair to say that we're seeing some early signal that this technology may have some use cases that warrant further investigation and interrogation. And I think when we talk about those different indications, it's worth spending a moment talking about network modeling. And I think that means the example that you were talking about earlier, and this is, I think, a fairly exciting development in the neuroscience world. And what is emerged is something that's called triple network theory. There's a Stanford professor, his name is Vinod, you know, I maybe miss pronouncing it, but he proposes triple network theory, where there's sort of three separate circuits that dominate neurocognitive function. And every thought feeling in emotion we have isn't coded three dimensionally in time and space. And if we had the same exposure, let's just say we look at a cup of coffee, you know, how that would look in your brain and my brain, maybe quite different. So there's a lot of complexity to this. We have 89 billion neurons, each other interconnected to 10,000 other neurons. And how that picture shows up in an image can be very different. But there's certain invariant components to that that you can image and see and potentially pick up neuro pathology as well. And so the three circuits are called the saline's network that's very closely associated with depression, the default mode network, which is sort of the area that we've been most intensely focused on. And the central executive network or front to pride on that work is also called. And these three interplay and have been researched with a really good amount of rigor. And so there's a Stanford researcher by the name of Nolan Williams, who looked at an accelerated protocol to treat depression. And specifically was targeting the saline's network. Our work is very focused on default mode network because dysregulation of the DMN has been strongly correlated to TBI and PTSD. And before you go further, default mode network, can you define a little bit about what that is? From my understanding, it's kind of the way in which the brain waves run in outside of cognitive control or cognitive thought process. When I was at Washington, there was a man named Marcus Reikel. Do you know who that is? Yeah, I think he won the Nobel Prize or something. Something crazy or was nominated for the Nobel Prize for some of his work and default mode network. And I remember just talking to him because he is like this big brain imaging place there. But could you explain, and that's kind of how I understood it from what he said, but I'm sure that there's another way in which you, yeah. So the DM, we'll call the default mode network DMN. It's your resting state kind of it idle. And a lot of neuroscientists would say that this is the specific network that deals with self-monitoring and self-awareness. And so any type of dysregulation here can manifest in a number of different ways. The important part is that there appears to be a pretty linear relationship between disruption of the DMN and severity of post-traumatic stress. And there's some great work done by there's a researcher out of floor state and Kevin Clancy who has found that if we tune to that and we treat that, we can see improvements in those symptoms as well. And that's part and parcel for our approach. And so this network modeling allows us to take strategic approaches to these treatment protocols. And so I mentioned the Stanford approach, deer treating an specific air called the left-door slot-uprifrontal cortex, and they're trying to tap into a circuit that salience network. And specifically, if they're able to, they call it anticorelation reverse, the communication between what's called the subject in the anterior single-court-text and the left-door slot-uprifrontal cortex, they see vermission and depression. So you can actually see this on FMRI. How long does that take to happen? And that protocol is just a week. And you can actually see, so you put someone into an FMRI machine, which is a machine in which you can actually see, how would you describe an FMRI machine? Yeah, so the different FMRI and a traditional MRI is taken over a time series. I see you can look at function over a period of time. And in this case pre-imposed treatment, you could look at changes between how the brain connectivity is a current. Is it current? Is it current? Is that correct? Exactly. So it's more of a dynamic type of neuroimage rather than a static still image. E.E.G. is similar instead of looking at metabolic activity, it's looking more at electric physiological function. And so whereas they're targeting depression and the salience network, our approach has been to look at the default mode. Now we're actually stimulating in different locations. The medial prefrontal cortex, that is what's been most closely associated with post traumatic stress and TBI. What's interesting is that a lot of physiologically TBI and PTSD look very similar. Now there's some neuroscientists that would argue it's almost instinctual. And so you start to wonder, is PTSD perhaps a secondary byproduct, at least in veterans of some form of traumatic brain injury because we are learning just the training that a lot of service members go through is TBI inducing. And when I talk to these operators and they talk about breaching doors or even one of the, there's two other populations where we've seen significant overpricedization blast exposures. One is artillerymen and the others EOD explosive awareness to say also. But the EOD guys have a rough job because they have to practice exactly. And I know that there's ways in which they try to mitigate exposures. Yeah. Well yeah, the men of women that we're taking care of, they're taught, you know, you train how you fight. And so the men of them safe distance when you're breaching door, they're not always following that because they want to, they want to get in, they want to do their jobs. But a lot of physiologically we can see pretty clearly these kind of disruptions. But to bring this full circle, there are some great work done. There's a researcher out of uniform service university Daniel Perl who did autopsy on veterans who had significant blast exposures. And they specifically found areas of the brain where there's disruption, he calls it Astroglyl interface scarring. And this is where white matter turns into gray matter. And as the blast wave comes to you, the drop is kinetic payload specifically at this junction. And that's where we see the scarring and the disruption. If that rings a bell, if Astroglyl rings a bell is because we've had this new discovery of the climatic system that's been associated with brain health and specifically during the deep stages of sleep, this is the system that washes away the oxidative stress that's accumulated throughout the day. And so when that system is disrupted through blast injury or scarring, sleep disruption becomes part and parcel to that. And it is a very common symptom constellation that we see. And so you start seeing you had Chris Froo on earlier and he talked about operator syndrome. The commonality to this, our biology doesn't care what the label is. You call PTSD, you call TBI, you call it operator syndrome. But the types of injuries, our biology is sustaining. All of these are neurological issues. And I think for the patients who come in and see their EEG, it's a very disarmant conversation to have because they now realize, okay, I'm not just a jerk. I'm not just out of control. There's a genuine neurological issue that we need to reconcile. And that's where you can really team up and partner and start doing some good work together. So someone comes in, they come into Waibnaro, they go through this process. What would they expect? What would you expect to see? What are the things that our outcomes and lengths of time? Sure. So we do 15 to 30 minute EEG, it's an ice-flow resting EEG. And that is processed by our lab. And then there's conversation usually with one of our doctors or neuroscientists. And we have about a hundred different centers now that have been trained and know how to use this type of capability. And then there's a consultation where the physician can tune the TMS device to treat the individual with some optimal parameters. And so that entails a 30 minute treatment daily. And the optimal parameters and people don't feel this. This is right do-day. Do-day. You can't, so the TMS device does provide a pulsing sensation. The big magnet, right? It is. It's generally about a 1.8 test of coil, but the stimulation itself isn't painful. It feels like a mild tapping sensation. And it's generally, there's different protocols, but between 6 to 10 seconds of pulses and then there's a period of rest. And then the pulses start again. And so, you know, there's a protocol called ThetaBurse. That's very short. It can be between 5 to 15 minutes. But standard protocols usually more around 30 minutes. And that's our protocol as well, although we are researching now in the state of Ohio a 15 minute protocol. So, I think that this dialing in of ideal parameters is a work in progress. And there's a number of different ways that we can approach it. But daily, the commitment is roughly 30 minutes a day for about four weeks. Some people will go up to 6 to 8 weeks. It sort of depends on how severe the symptoms are. What's interesting is usually people feel someone improvement within the first couple of weeks. And what, in what way, they sleep better? Usually sleep is the first thing people talk about. And that's intriguing to me is not necessarily quantity of sleep, but the quality of their sleep seems to change. And we now had a group from the wounded warrior project. This foundation very generously gave us some funding to do work with veterans who came into our San Diego office and all of them were these ordering. And we can see roughly 25% improvement in deep sleep, which is pretty meaningful. And so, that ability to get deeper, more restorative sleep has many secondary benefits in terms of the ability to, you know, handle stress, resilience, managing information, cognitive function. We also saw improvements in heart rate variability, which are interesting. And HRV, heart rate variability is something that isn't always talked about necessarily medical circles, but I, in functional medicine, and especially in kind of key performance, you know, the trainer world is become a metric. That's very much an area of focus as a proxy for emotional resilience. So, interesting to see those kind of changes as well. Yeah. And when you think about the other things, are there things that an individual will first fall? What do you expect to see? And we can talk about that one patient. We won't name him that we have together, which seemed to have a very striking, striking scan. I don't know how else to describe it. But again, you look at these scans. I'm much more often than I do, but if we were to take that patient from what you remember, how would you describe what you saw initially? Yeah, there's pretty significant disruption of activity in the prefrontal cortex. And the prefrontal cortex is an area responsible for executive function, organization of thought, and impulse control. And those symptoms were being exhibited utterly. By the individual, and really within a few weeks of treatments, subjectively he was feeling these changes and improvements kind of returning back to normal. Because he had a pretty significant head injury. And that was corroborated by the changes we were seeing on the EEG as well. And so having what we'll call longitudinal biomarker, we can see and track these changes over time. I think is important for not just the physician, but also the patient to see because they become their own strongest advocates. And the individual we're talking about is a highly motivated individual who takes great care of himself. But other patients, they may become inspired to be better advocates for themselves. They may have a cleaner diet, they may exercise more. And one of the areas we really enforce is protecting their sleep and using good sleep hygiene. I hate hearing that. I'm a terrible sleeper because there's just so much to do. And I now hate hearing that. Why would you prioritize sleep over, say, exercise or diet? I don't know that we have to pick one over the other. You know, I'm trying to make myself feel better. No, I mean, nutrition and exercise are foundational to any sort of regimen, right? Like everyone, if you're going to pick one foundational building block, those two are really high on the list. But recovery and sleep, I think deserve to be mentioned within that, you know, one of those foundational pillars. And the reason for that is there are many processes that happen during sleep that are important. And one of those we talked about the climatic system, we have the structural scaffolding in our brain, these glial cells that shrink during our sleep. And we didn't know that until quite recently, there was a research for outing University of Rochester making a netter guard who used two photon microscopy, dynamic imaging to see these glial cells shrink during the deep stages of sleep. As cerebral spinal fluid rushes through those channels and washes away the oxygen stress that he can't waste throughout the day. And in a separate study done out of University of Washington, they lumber punctured and started washing the university. They say Louis. Yeah, that's why it was exactly. Yeah. They loaned our punctured people after just one night of sleep deprivation. And what they found was accumulation of proteins that may sound familiar to you, or anything. Exactly. They saw an accumulation of tau protein. Now that doesn't mean, you know, tau proteins occur naturally. It doesn't mean they're phosphorylating and creating these neurofibilatory tangles per se. But what we learned is it's not just an accumulation issue, there's a clearance issue as well. And so if we're trying to protect our cognitive health, deep restorative sleep should be one of the areas that we're really trying to pretend. There's also a stage of sleep, REM sleep, where this is a stage of sleep, where a lot of emotional confidence happens. And so our ability to manage this stresses out the day, a lot of these things, we benefit from during these deep restorative stages of sleep. Are there things that would you see individuals cause backsliding. For example, cannabis use or alcohol. So they're on a great trajectory, where you're doing the EEG, you're treating them with a magnet, you're putting them on very specific protocols, you're matching their wavelengths. I know that there are certain brain waves that are active during sleep that are supposed to be slower during waking. And those oftentimes there's a reversal of that. And traumatic brain injury is that true? Yeah. Yeah, unfortunately, especially with cannabis being a bit more normalized these days, we do see slowing of brain activity. And I don't want to be kind of a preachy guy or anything like that. But there should be some awareness that both alcohol and cannabis, these are compounds that will slow down brain activity. And it's very hard for us to overcome that. So we do see people backsliding with regular use of these things. What does it do when you say slowing brain activity with that, there just be processing speed, or are there other things that happen? It is processing speed. And so we reinforce specifically alpha activity of the brain, which is the cycle rate that your brain process is an information generally between 8 and 13 hertz, which means we encode information 8 to 13 times per second. Mine's more like 7. I'm sure that's not true. But these slower brain waves kind of 7 between like 4 and 7 we call theta. And then slower than that we call delta. Those are your sleepy brain waves. And so when your stage one stays too sleepier generally in theta and then we move into delta. And with the slower brain waves, we're able to restore our ATP and people get deeper and more sort of sleep and refreshed for the next day. Now during our wakeflowers, you should see mostly alpha and then bed activities more of your fast way of activity. That's associated with complex thinking, complex processes, lots of sensory inputs. But you will see in the wakeflowers people who use alcohol and cannabis excessively more theta activity than we want to. And so that's where we talk about the slowing of the activity. They may feel like they're in a bit of a fog. And that's what we're trying to prevent. If individual were to remove that without treatment from additional stimuli from the magnet would so you remove the alcohol you remove the cannabis. Do their brain waves return to normal it's there's no other way to flip the switch. Then or is there then trans magnetic stimulation? The body doesn't naturally go back to a normal rhythm. Does it? So there's a lot of variables involved. And so the quick answer depends on somebody's age neuroplasticity. And what are the other behaviors that are associated with the individual? So if somebody's taking really good care of themselves and they smoke a joint one night, they're probably going to be just fine. If they're heavy smokers over years, they're recovery maybe slower or the brain may reorganize in a way or it's just operating a little bit slower. And so there are many things people can do to optimize brain function. We've touched on some of them exercise very few things are as useful to brain function as exercise. Do you care what kind? It doesn't matter to me so much what kind I think you know movement is always the key even for the elderly population even just walking is helpful. We do push-ups before the podcast. I heard that on your last podcast we didn't do it today but maybe we did push-ups. So yeah so I have a really good friend who she's amazing and she was a former Secret Service agent and she said I said you know like hey heavy should we do push-ups together? And she's like Gabrielle you want your guests to be relaxed and be able to be in the flow. You and Matt can do push-ups but don't you dare rip that guest into it I think okay. You're right. That's impressive that's impressive. Yeah so I try not to be too prescriptive in terms of saying you know hit exercises the best or I know resistance training is what the intensity matters. I think you know when it comes to blood flow and you know there seems to be different metabolic changes just looking at Martin Gabalas work and I think maybe intensity matters but anything is better than nothing. Yeah you did remind me of one of the things where we we had sort of clicked at Softweek based on discussion uh this was George Brooks's work at UC Berkeley where he was specifically he spent the neuroscientist to spend quite a bit of his career studying the lactate shuttle and so if there was any question about whether exercise health's brain function we can dispel that notion there's a clear correlation and what they found is that you know growing up we always associated lactate and lactate casted as a negative by-product of exercise we get sore muscles but it turns out lactate is a preferred fuel for the brain and this lactate shuttle specifically not only is it providing fuel for the brain but it's also increasing the amount of vascular and the theolier growth factor so it's increasing vascularity through the blood brain barrier someone called veg f which also increased the amount of brain-drivenorotrophic factor which is a proxy for neuroplasticity and so we're learning at a cellular level how exercise can improve and then upregulate brain function so and to develop lactate to your point the intensity actually matters quite a bit. Yeah I mean again I think that's fascinating I'm so glad that you pointed that out because we think about exercises medicine there are lots of things that someone could do that wouldn't be good for their brain like stacking drinking and new sleep and smoking a lot of pot and not exercising but the thing that sounds like a terrible don't do that but the things that we can do that really make an impact are working really hard physically to the point where you're producing lactate and allowing that to be fuel for the brain choosing a really good healthy diet sleeping which I'm guilty that I don't I I know I need to but again I have two little kids they like to come away kiss up million times a night just might not be a realistic thing but when you think about improving individuals cognitive function that that's part of it the when my husband went and by the way so he didn't have any no I'm sure he had blast injuries you know they is just because breaching and doing all that stuff and you know even micro injuries when you you shoot guns there's like micro trauma that happens one of the things that they had told him was to be very particular about sunlight was to be very particular about being outside something about melatonin something about blue light I don't know if any of that has changed this is this is a couple years ago when he got treated were are there certain other things that you recommend for patients and brain health yes I love that you brought that up because there were two normal prizes awarded for the discovery of blue light and so you want to have them no I wish no I was you know I wasn't privileged enough to be part of that team but blue light specifically is 450 to 500 nanometer light it's richest in morning sunlight and this is our first biological to start our circadian rhythm and so the advice is to be outside sometime during your first wake waking hours and to get natural unfiltered blue light into your eyes and when you do that there's a specific receptor in your eye called a melonops and that sends a signal we just learned about this yesterday by the way yeah so it sends a signal to your super cosmetic nucleus that will tell your pineal gland to release melatonin roughly 14 to 16 hours later so the second part of that is is you have to listen to your biology and the first sign of nighttime solenoids usually between 9 and 10 pm you do actually have to get into bed because when your melatonin spikes you know there's a short window and if you fall asleep at that time you'll get very deep restored it's amazing and if you miss that window you may stay up quite a bit now that all makes sense yeah does that have to do that happens to me all the time so basically I get really tired and like I just got to read this one more article just this one more thing yeah and I'm like I'm up even though I just I fight it so hard yeah okay Matthew Walker he's one of the he he's sort of one of these podcast heroes at every time I list to him like that guy's really good but he is mentioned that we're one of the we're the only species in nature that voluntarily deprived itself of sleep and it is usually the overachiever that's doing that and so I'm guilty of it as anyone so to the degree possible yeah we have to be vigilant to it and try to get really right you're absolutely right so I think that before I kind of got down the path of of brain function brain waves flipping backwards the reason I brought that up is because my husband there was no way I don't think that so basically when he did his can he was awake but his brain waves looked as if he was asleep was almost as if they had flip lock I don't think that there would be any way for him to fix that or redirect that naturally without some kind of electrical impulse is that would that be fair to say that that that this may be that eventually this EEG of the brain this treatment of the brain would be as common as going for your annual physical and getting an EEG yeah so each case is individual your husband was in a pretty kinetic environment and so I don't want to speak in absolute because it's hard to predict what may or may not have happened but brain stimulation certainly allows people a quicker path to recovery and if we were seeing theta and delta waves in the prefrontal cortex that is specifically a snare that we do very well with and it's a really common pattern in our operators in general what we noticed among this cohort speed specifically of service doesn't matter can be an army delta green beret you know air force brach get those brachs out of here I'm totally kidding yeah anyway the first thing we observe is they're very fast brains they're very fast processors they could be many of them have the profile of an Olympic athlete don't tell them that but we also see the similar signature where they're slowing in the prefrontal cortex and I suspect some of that is they're in an environment they go overseas they're in a combat environment where they have to be hyper vigilant they're usually operating at night because they have the tactical advantage of night vision goggles 18 times zones away it is circadian rhythm nightmare I did not know that with it because the night vision are just because they're awake when they should be asleep and we're not an optional with that be the reason why yeah they particularly in Afghanistan and I rack the enemy didn't have you know knobs and NVGs and so a lot of the operations have it at night yeah and Shane and my husband was in Afghanistan yeah yeah and so you take six months to a year of that kind of environment night after night after night many times multiple missions a night and you ask them to come back home it's hard to get back into a circadian rhythm and many times without the knowledge of getting blue light in the morning our biology takes a little while to catch up and given enough repetition and crinacity of that type of environment there's reorganization of brain activity that's hard to move back now not in a positive way is what you're saying that there's a reorganization almost as if you get an injury a tenant injury and the collagen lays down cross linked in a way that it shouldn't that's right yeah now the happy part of that story is God our mother nature dependent on whether you believe in God you know we've been engineered to be healing organisms and if we give the brain a friendly reminder and a stimulus that you want to be operating at this speed body does the most the heavy lifting for us we don't have to overpower the brain with lots of energy although electro convulsive therapy is a modality and I don't diminish the value of it I think it's incredibly valuable so the sorry to interrupt you the so that's ECT electro convulsive therapy yeah which is you guys don't do that or you do we don't do that so that's typically what you guys are thinking is was it one flew over the cook who's nest or clockwork orange or something where they they it is exactly what it sounds like but that's not what it it is it seems as if ECT would be scary and shocking its electro current therapy like shock therapy but it's not kind of how it's been that's right that's right and not really often used anymore and I am sorry if I'm speaking out of turn for the psychiatrists out there but when I train in psychiatry so I train to the University of Louisville in psychiatry for two years and out of all of the patients that we saw I think maybe only one or two in two years where was a candidate for ECT which was really depression that was absolutely resistant to every kind of medication yeah well that is a population where ECT is pretty effective and well yeah I don't I don't like the one flew over the cook who's nest but that is the move that is the procedure that they describe in the movie but these days it's a fairly safe and fairly effective procedure and so I don't want to diminish the value of that you know I've had the privilege of working with numerous academic psychiatrists and it definitely has its place definitely and there there are patient populations who are served well by ECT what we're doing is much lower energy and you know you don't require any anesthesia or no anesthesia people are awake they stay awake maybe they get sleepy that's right it's very it's very mild but but that gentle stimulation you just need a little nudge and then the brain and our biology takes care of most of the work for us do you want to know what I drink in the morning that is a little bit salty and gives me a huge pick me up well I'm going to tell you and that is element chocolate element that's LMNT in my coffee I brew a black cup of coffee with a shot of espresso and then I put a scoop of collagen and a little bit of MCT oil in it and one fourth a packet of element chocolate sometimes I use chocolate mince I've also saved chocolate caramel it's kind of this like chocolatey caramel uh amazing so I get my caffeine I get some collagen for of course here's skin and nails and I get electrolytes in my coffee sodium potassium magnesium all amazing I have now created my own supercharged drink which you can to and by the way this is a different way to take element that's a little packet of electrolytes if you get headaches maybe you get headaches with your caffeine because you dehydrate yourself or maybe you get headaches because you sweat a lot while training or maybe you just live in Texas where it's hot and so you definitely sweat a lot you definitely get headaches and this is why I love to add electrolytes to what I'm drinking and it can be coffee it can be water lately it's been coffee and it tastes amazing you can get yours at drink element that's drink LMNT dot com you'll get a free sample pack when you use the code a doctor lion and by the way if you don't like it it's totally risk free you'll get your money back no questions asked I love this stuff you will too this episode is brought to you by timeline nutrition uh mightopure the product that I wish I had developed but didn't so I've teamed up with timeline nutrition to bring you one of my ultimate favorite products and that's my dopure mightopure is a science backed uralithin A uralithin A sounds like a species of something or other what it is it's a post biotic and 30 to 40 percent of you humans cannot make it why is it important it's important because it's one of the first gut muscle access connection mightopure helps the muscle and all mightocondria when you take it you can take it in pill form you can take it in powder form I recommend trying the starter kit they have ginger and berry I put some in my yogurt it's amazing here's what it does for you it will improve your potentially your energy your strength your endurance again mightopure helps with mitochondria and the name mightopure it helps with the regeneration and cleaning out old mitochondria and if you remember anything about I don't know fifth grade science mightocondria they are the powerhouse of the cell so you have to have good mitochondria to have good energy and one of the hallmarks of aging is a decline in this mitochondria so if it sounds like you need more energy more strength more endurance and something that tastes great mightopure is a way to go go to timelinenutrition.com slash doctor lion that's timelinenutrition.com slash doctor lion and you'll get 10% off your first order I recommend either the starter pack or the pills try it I know that you're going to feel great have you done your blood work if you haven't I have a solution for you and that is one of the sponsors of the show inside tracker wise blood work so important well you know I use inside tracker my friends use inside tracker also my parents use inside tracker inside tracker makes getting blood work very easy and user friendly they have an amazing interface you can check it out on your phone you can check it out on the desktop which you know hopefully you're using a small one inside tracker allows you to look at really important biomarkers like hormones iron thyroid insulin the list goes on a bobe it never stops and by the way if you are a professional and you have clients inside tracker also has a pro platform amazing I really feel that inside tracker has a revolutionized healthcare and listen blood work can be expensive but it doesn't have to be inside tracker is offering my listeners 10% off 10% off anything on the store in the store anything as it relates to subscriptions 10% off go to inside tracker.com like inside tracking your body use the code doctor lion and do not wait if you are due for your blood work give this a shot it's extremely valuable back to the show what do we know about children what do we know about children and hyper activity what do we know about children and autism and again whether it's wave neuro or these technologies because wave neuro what makes wave neuro so unique and by the way I am so grateful for what you guys did for my husband thank you and what you guys do for so many others out there I think that it's really it's really tremendous and the thing that makes you guys unique is that you use EEG so use the electricity the electro current imaging I don't know how else you would say that with the transbiotic stimulation with the program that then creates a protocol to implement that get that all right yeah yeah okay and so I've seen it work well I've seen it work for my husband I've seen it work for my patients and it makes me think about children because we know that probably a lot of also hyper activity originates in the brain again I'm not a pediatric or child specialist what would you say to that and are there any trials for brain function and children yeah well so first I should match as very much our honor and privilege take care of military service members and especially folks like your husband who sacrificed so much for the country and it's something that I'm very passionate about and I think our whole organization rallies around the community a specific to kids it's not as well researched we're still learning a lot of the the science has a ways to go but there are large population sized studies and end of the thousands and in the thousands of autistic spectrum children where we can see slowed in delayed development the prefrontal cortex and and these are not our studies their studies Yale has one of the largest databases where we can see and prepped not coincidentally it's a default mode network that develops that is dysregulated in many of the autistic children interestingly just because there's an article published within the last week gut microbiome this regulation seems to be an issue an autistic development as well and so there's so much heterogeneity in this population I don't think at least for speaking for myself I can't speak from any position of great knowledge I think we're learning every day but that specific issue an electrophysiologic disruption seems to be pretty clear and they're even listing sensitive and specificities for ASD in the 80 to 90% tall using the EEG so I think in the future it may be I don't know that it'll be a diagnostic tool but I think it can be a clinical support study where if children are exhibiting these behaviors and we see these EEG changes that may help leaves down the path of having more accurate diagnosis. Do you or have they done studies where they anticipate improvement in certain symptoms or even not even with autism but with hyperactivity? Yeah so the studies so we would like to do a large double-blind RCT on autism we do have a group in Australia who has done two studies one that's been published where they look at this open label study they don't have a sample CBO but in these children they noticed clinically significant changes in social behaviors meaning they were making more eye contact their vocabulary increased and many of the changes that we hear from the parents and we see in the children are difficult to quantify and measure scientifically that's been part of the challenge in terms of putting together a methodologically rigorous study that would pass with FDA there's no universal scale or metric that is that has been declared so we were using something called the car score there's also an A-dust score there's a number of different metrics that we can use but that's one of the first issues that we need to be able to tackle before we invest you know these trials cost millions of dollars and so to be thoughtful stewards of any kind of funding that we receive we'd want to ensure that on the back end of such a trial that we would have good data that would convince a scientific community that this is a both safe and effective therapeutic so that is something we're aspiring to do but we have some early pilot studies that are giving us some promising data and that's reasonable you want to make sure that the money that you're spending that from funding is used well have you this might be another hard question because again this is very difficult to control but have you had anyone go through this process on a ketogenic diet or some kind of diet that or take beta hydroxybuterate or some thing or a neurotropic that we would believe or know depending on what the literature is depending on the input show improvements yeah it's a great question and unfortunately I don't think we document that specific type of diet but yes we've had a number of in-ecession because I can specifically remember the cases we did have a cohort of seals come through and three of them were on a ketogenic diet and they were specifically on that diet for purposes of some of the neuroprotective qualities a ketogenic diet confers and dead rate responses to treatment. I wonder if they had better responses and another individual but it would be so hard to so hard to measure. Yeah it's hard to parse out what contribution the diet would make but it does make sense that they would have some advantage in terms of the treatment being more beneficial. What is new? I mean I totally agree with it that and it would be so fascinating to see eventually if maybe there is other has to be some synergistic effect because the a ketogenic diet which is 70% fat was used for the treatment of seizures. In children yeah I'm sure there is some kind of some kind of crossover a few more questions are there any nutrients that you guys feel seem to really support treatment whether it's fast fatital colon or any kind of dietary nutrient? That's a great question. We have an astro supplementation with any type of dietary nutrient per say. There is a segment of the population it's very controversial this MTHFR mutation. There have been some families who have let us know that when they supplemented an autistic child with metal folate they saw better response. I spoke into some researchers both at U Pen and at Children's Hospital A who are skeptical about the clinical validity of MTHFR it's kind of I think a space that's the evidence is just starting to come in and so I can't say with any strong scientific evidence that that would be something I'd recommend to other populations but it was we talked about supplements that's one of the first that comes to mind. One of the areas that I think is worth mentioning and it's not a supplement especially a DAA tract medication but we had a couple of operators who did not respond to treatment and there were some of the first that we saw not have any kind of response and the commonality between these two was that they had very low testosterone and so one of the secondary effects of blast injuries and TBI is neuroendocrine disruption and it's very common to see not just really low testosterone sometimes zero and when they went out and got supplemented and came back after having a stable dose of TRT they had great responses to treatment and so it seems that there there does need to be some degree of hormone balance that lines itself towards having a more effective response to treatment. That's fascinating any any thoughts is to why? Well yeah I mean the physiology of it especially in men this is kind of it it's sort of a critical hormone to have anything about all the biological pathways in impacts and especially in terms of cognitive function of brain function we need to have at least some amount of circulating and free testosterone and so when you restore that system it makes sense that we would see a better response to treatment and you could see as well those were people who were struggling with motivation and you know all the different things associated with you know testosterone placement therapy they would benefit from so that is kind of led to there's a group called the Special Operations Care Fund SOCF and Tom Hochscher-Dibles Solutions was another nonprofit that contributed to something called we're called the Tri-Fecta Study and so Brandon Wise is a researcher out of John Hopkins University designed to study where they're first getting testosterone replacement therapy then they're going down to Mexico this is Marcus Capone's group that's they're getting eye-begining therapy which is a psychedelic and then they're coming to San Diego to get our treatment and so that's the tri-factor with the conceptual framework of first balancing the neuroendocrine system then eye-begining is allowing for neuroplasticity and then our treatment is writing on top of it and reinforcing alpha and DMN restoration and the feedback that we've gotten thus far has been not that one plus one plus one equals three they feel that this is so synergistic you know we're hearing one plus one plus one equals ten and we're still blind to the results I can't share that data yet but I think that's where the future is going is different protocols and stacked therapies if we're truly in this to help these communities you know no treatment works in isolation and there may be different regimens that help you know these populations recover faster and better as there've been any pushback any criticisms of the technology the protocols the things that you guys are putting together again I mean medicine is interesting it's it's a science of uncertainty people think that you know medical science is certain it's a challenge it's human body just as you've been saying is incredibly complex it's a great question I remember I attended a talk at the solkens to San Diego and and they said you can always find the innovators in pioneers are the ones with arrows in their back but um I'd have to tell you the neuroscience community psychiatrists neurologists have all very warmly embraced the approach and I think anytime we're working together collaboratively to advance the science it's been a very kind of warm environment to work with and there's a lot of good information sharing out say largely is been positive we may encounter naysayers here and there I think that's part of the process but largely I would say I've been blown away by the collaborative environment and how this community whether it's academic clinical or commercial is working together to try to find answers for the community and work together to you know advance the evidence base and the science. Well I love the work that you're doing what what is on the forefront for you guys. Well the first thing is we'd really like to complete this FDA trial and we're currently enrolling in Plano, Texas Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Columbus, Ohio we're about to open and Seattle and Costa Mesa. Are you still recruiting for those spots? We are still ready. All right go ahead give us this field. Knock it out. Yeah you can you can include in the show notes I'm not sure how much I'm allowed to share there are rules that govern sort of what we can say. They're interested in being part of the study should they yeah there is a link that they can go to to enroll in the study there's a second FDA trial happening in Dayton, Ohio that is sponsored by the state of Ohio I should mention that there were legislators in the state of Ohio Senator Hoagland and Doc Johnson who is in self and air force veteran who sponsored our treatment for any veteran or first responder in the state of Ohio so part of that was to conduct an FDA grade clinical trial as well we just finished phase one of that which was a safety study and then we're embarking on stage two which will be the double blind RCT so we'll have two separate studies that are ongoing. That's incredible and people can find you well not find you but find we've narrow yeah at we've narrow will include all of the links and is there anything else that you wanted to share with the listeners or the viewers? I guess the closing message would just be that there's never been a greater time for hope if there are people struggling with any variety of mental health conditions neurologic conditions there's so much exciting research happening innovation in this area that there is valid and incredible reason for them to have hope that in our lifetime we'll see really meaningful breakthroughs in this area so I hope that they will be encouraged to keep fighting for their health and if we can be of any benefit yes please reach out through our website or you know I'll include my email and you will not know friends we will not but yes anyway you are doing an incredible incredible job helping and we will put everything there so that they can find out more if they have any questions they can ask our team and will get them over to you if they are military veterans where do they go? There's a wave neuro landing page for veterans as well and so the treatment is covered by tric here and so we can fund through that mechanism but I know most of our clinics welcome veterans and then if someone is listening to this and they are civilian can they come and find out about their brain learn how to get their brain better? Yes of course yeah most of our centers will just do EG's for information educational purposes as well and if they want to treat but they could also get that there. Yes that's a little bit amazing Dr. Eric one thank you so much for coming on it's we could have gone for another probably hour and a half but once your trials come out and all of that stuff I would love to have you back and we can chat all about it. Absolutely that'd be great you

So like, you know, basically 75% of the world is over fat. 92% of Americans are over fat. And I'm going to stop you. I'm going to stop you right there because I bet you. So we talk about them 70% of them being over fat. We would also say then 70% of you under muscle. Yeah, absolutely. Well, so like, I do have patients who. Quality of muscle. Quality of muscle. Yeah, I have some patients who because they weigh so much. They do have an okay amount of muscle if they weigh weight less. And so yeah, but I absolutely agree. There's a I have a avalanche patients with normal weight obesity or sarcopenic obesity. Now, this is the worst thing ever. It's someone who's so sedentary and just sits on the couch and has no muscle at all. And so even though they look hugely fat, they actually don't weigh that much. Thank you to Vivo Health for sponsoring this episode of the show. I am bringing to you my favorite Vivo Barefoot show. It is what I've been using for the last year to train in. And I'm going to tell you what Vivo Barefoot is on a mission to create regenerative footwear. Why do I love Vivo Barefoot? It allows me to lift in a way where I feel the ground. I never have to worry about if my shoe is going to be unsteady. I'm able to get in a good squat position. I'm able to do a good deadlift. I'm able to train closer to what I would do if I was in fact, Barefoot and studies show that foot strength increases by 60% in a matter of months, just by walking around in these Vivo Barefoot shoes. I love these shoes. They have a range of shoes for kids, adults, walking, hiking, training, everyday wear. You will not be disappointed. And in fact, go to VivoBerefoot.com slash a doctor lion. And they're offering 100 day trial on their footwear. That's VivoBerefoot.com slash a doctor lion. And you can use the code, doctor lion 15 for a discount on their footwear. Dr. Ted Naman, he is a friend and truly, you know, you have innovated a lot of the protein discussion from a practical standpoint. And I consider you a great friend and an excellent physician and sounding board. So welcome back to the Doctor Gabriel Langeau. Wow, thank you so much. That was very complimentary. It's great to be here. I feel the same way about you. Yeah, no, great. Thank you. Okay, ready for some rapid fire questions. And you and I are friends. So I am going just so you all know, I will do Ted justice. And I'm going to put him on the spot. Top three ways to lose body fat. You can only, you can only give me three. You got to give me your top three. Oh, wow. Okay. I mean, let's see. I mean, obviously the big buckets in the in the way it lost jar are died next size, but were you looking for something more specific than that? Exactly. Exactly. Okay. Protein, fiber, wear it as training fit in. And for those of you guys who don't know Ted, which everybody should know, Ted, he talks a lot about training. And he talks a lot about protein and satiation. You name it. Gotcha. Gotcha. Okay. Yeah. So well, protein would have to be on their for sure. So number one would be targeting protein, prioritizing protein, protein awareness. You want to make sure you're eating adequate protein. You want to be eating that protein earlier in the day and earlier in the meal. And you're just trying to leverage it for a society and body composition. And all the other great things that protein does for you. So number one would be protein prioritization. Number two would be lowering the energy density of your carbs and your fats. So if you can keep the energy density of carbon fat lower, you're going to automatically lose calories. You're going to be avoiding some hedonic hyperballible combinations of high energy and c carbs without together that you can't say no to. And then the third thing would be exercise. Basically, you are eating the calories of a moderately active version yourself at all times. And if you're not at least moderately active, you're screwed. Like you'll be going nowhere. You can only get so far with diets. So you have to be having a little bit higher energy flux and that's going to be some kind of exercise probably more than most people try to lose weight or already did. So so those are the big three. If you really just put a gun in my head and say, what are the biggest things? It would be protein prioritization, lower energy density of non protein, macros, carbon fats. And then just uping the exercise in any way you enjoy so it's sustainable. You know what I mean? I love that. I love that. Read a region, protein, lower energy density and exercise. Protein recommendations. How do you recommend protein? How do you think about it? Right. So, you know, we we've pretty much established that you don't need more than 1.6 kgs. I want to point 6g for kg of ideal body weight or normal body weight or non-obuse body weight for maximum muscle protein synthesis. But I think going a little bit higher might give you satiety benefits that we haven't really explored as you know, so I'm going to do a lot of things. I'm going to do a lot of things that we should in the literature. So I kind of like a grandpa pound of your ideal body weight for your reference body weight for your height. So not has nothing to do with how much you actually weigh. You know, I have all these patients who they're like, yeah, I should I should be about 220 and I'm 250 now and I'm like, I know you should be like 150. You know, it's just like way lower than the average. Absolutely ideal body weight would be for your height. And then a grandpa pound of that. I think is a super awesome target. Most people even if they're a little bit below that are going to be fine. So that's basically my favorite metric is a grandpa pound of ideal body weight based on your height, which might have nothing to do with how much you actually live. A wonderful recommendation. One gram per pound of the ideal body weight. As you mentioned, the evidence is really 1.6 grams per kg. However, when we're thinking about other things like satiation and perhaps protein turnover if someone was getting ill or increasing their training volume, I mean, there's many different reasons why one could choose protein over fats or carbs. When you think about protein, do you care about the protein? Less and less to be honest every day because we have some really good studies now on various types of soy protein and lagoon protein and other non-animal protein isolates. And they do seem to be okay if you up the quantity a little bit. So you're basically getting enough of all of the individual amino acids. So I'm worried about source. I'm worried about quantity. So just getting a total quantity high enough is more important to me than where it came from. Because at the end of the day, it's just 20 amino acids broken down. So I'm actually looking at the carbs and fats that come along with a protein more than I am, where the protein actually came from. Because there are some animal proteins that just have horrible macros, like hot dogs. It's like, okay, carnivores and instant win. Maybe not since your hot dog has only 15% protein in it. And the ratio of fat grams of protein, gram does horrific. And you'll probably not lose any weight doing that. So I'm not like, oh, it just has to be animal protein versus plant protein. Because there's some jacked vegan out there just consuming a bunch of soy islets whose way more successful than someone who just hit the carnivore button and it's just eating hot dogs. You know what I mean? So I'm worried about the fat and carbs that come along with protein. I'm worried about the total of the protein. I'm worried about the ratio of protein non protein energy. But at the end of the day, the protein is actually just 20 amino acids that breaks down to be at leaner stomach. Anyway, so who goes actually right from. Although there is a little bit of a spectrum of difference between plant proteins and animal proteins when it comes to some of the essential amino acids. So, you know, you have to take that into account. But as long as you have the quantity by, you know, maybe 20 or 30% of the most, you can get there with any source of protein. And that is true. When we're talking about dietary protein, the evidence does suggest and point to that it is the total amount of protein. And one could overcome the source if the protein is high enough. If you are hitting one gram per pound ideal body weight, does the source matter when it comes to the amino acids? The answer to that is actually no, Ted is correct on that. I will say that the lower your protein in your diet is the more important it comes from animal base sources. The other aspect of that is there if dietary protein, yes, consists of 20 amino acids, I think Ted, we are going to see the importance of the low molecular weight molecules like creatine and serene touring and some of these components when we look at the food matrix. So, from my perspective, adding in a mix of animal and plant-based proteins, it is probably going to be more effective for overall aging, you know, B12 zinc. Curious is to what your thoughts are on that. And then I will also say when your younger does the protein source matter as much, not necessarily. Yeah, no, all grade points I totally agree with you. If you're flying your protein plane really close to the ground and you're trying to live on your 48 grams per day, it's a huge big deal. If it's animal versus plant. But if you're like some Jack vegan body builder who's just consuming hundreds of grams of soy ice lids every day, yeah, it doesn't really matter what the spread of the amino's are. So, the less protein you're eating, the more critical it is that it's of the right spectrum of amino's. And then I totally also agree with the micro nutrients that come along with that protein. And I do think that probably omnivore is, you know, optimum there's a reason why humans are omnivores. And I do see patients who are strict religious vegans and they do have deficiencies in B12 and in zinc and in iron and icey assault time. I also have patients who are pure carnivore who have horrifically low, full eight levels and sometimes my museum. And so it does seem to be optimal to be somewhere in between this sort of like middle path might be the way to go on honestly a lot of this stuff. So, yeah, good point. Yeah, definitely the combination of both plant and animal is ultimately where we're going. And Ted said something that changed my perspective of thinking a while ago. I had always thought about the negative impact of process foods and we're going to move to kind of that highly palatable food discussion. But when you take us back and you think about it, well, protein patterns are highly processed. And definitely in the words in which we choose to speak about this probably makes a difference. So, our all processed foods bad know because, again, even the soy proteins, that's a process type food. Right. Yeah. And like, you know, from a first order heuristic, okay, just eat whole on processed foods, sounds really good. And that's kind of overarching correct. But then there are so many like whole and processed foods that if you just ate, you know, if I just ate dates and honey and tala and lard and that did, it would be probably not great. So, but then if I'm eating my, you know, artificially sweet and Greek yogurt with amazing macros, I might have like, you know, a huge success with that product. And so, there's some, it's not 100% there are unprocessed foods that are not going to be close to your goals and there are processed foods that will. And so, I wish it was that easy, but it's not. And I hate to sit, but if you just look at the trend, humans are eating more and more processed foods, we will continue to eat more more processed foods. We're not going to colonize Mars, eating whole unprocessed. You know, you're not just going to pull a turn up out of the ground and kill animal with your hands when you're on the, you know, asteroid colony or whatever. So, so like going forward, it's just going to be more and more processed. So, we really need to have a way to parse out which of these processed foods are good and bad and it's not going to be enough to just say unprocessed food because nobody will be able to afford that or they won't build the find it or it's not going to be, you know, it's just going to be less and less common, unfortunately, which is probably bad, but that's just the way it's going. And it is absolutely the way it's going and it's it is and will be about finding solutions. You mentioned eating protein earlier on in the meal and also earlier on in the day. Why would one want to do that? Right, right. So, protein is incredibly say shading is the most say she can make a nutrient. And it takes a while for that information to get to your brain. You know, it's going to be 20 minutes before your amino acids are hitting your bloodstream and then you're getting some of this fullness from the lower portion of this montest and in the in Cretans and the GLP blood and all of these other signaling hormone it takes a while. It's kind of slow. And so if you can frontload that protein, you're just going to eat less down three calories. We have lots of studies on like preloads where you give someone a food, something to eat or drink and then they hit the buffet in our two later and we weigh it measure how much people eat and proteins are really great preload especially if it's before a meal. So we have studies where like for example, people drink a protein shake half an hour before their meal and they just eat in a hundred and ten less calories. It's a it's sort of a frontloading thing for a satiety effect that takes a little bit of time to really maximize. So it's just really helpful to eat your protein for us. Like so that's the way to desert should be left. So if I just gave you like a whole box of crispy cream to eat, you're going to eat the whole thing and then I'm like, oh, and here's your 50 gram protein shake and you'll be like, okay, you'll force that down. You know what I mean? So now you really haven't gone anywhere even though you ate your 50 grams of protein with that meal. On the other hand, if you drink the 50 gram protein shake, you know, and then maybe 20 30 minutes later, I eat the box of crispy cream. If you're going to eat like two and you're going to be done. And so it's just very valuable to frontload that protein shake. Not only per meal, but you know, in your day. So we have studies on people who eat more protein earlier in the day. And they're just more successful. They just eat less downstream calories later because they kind of got something they really need. And so that's why protein prioritization, you know, you know, it should be the focus of every meal, every snack. Where's the protein? How much protein are you getting? Getting more protein? Or something else first that has fiber or water in it. So drinking two glasses of water before you eat, this is been shown to people eat less calories, eating a salad before you eat less calories. So you're frontloading protein fiber in water, which are the main things that raise, you know, satiety for calories. It's giving you more weight and volume and nutrients for just less calories, basically. And that makes me, you know, to just mention that is absolutely correct. And we see that in brain studies. There's been a lot of work. Heather Lydie really kicked this off when she imaged young women, whether they were skipping breakfast or having high protein meals and then the later on downstream effects of their food choices. So if you are out there listening and you are thinking, I have my protein dialed in another layer of strategy would be when you are sitting down to a meal, have your protein first. Perhaps even have two glasses of water, then have your protein and see if that impacts the amount that you're consuming. Ted really believes in calorie control as well as as I do. There's some camps that say calories don't matter. I am in the camp that I firmly believe the quality of the calories and the calories do matter. Do you care about how distribution happens of dietary protein? Way less than I used to. So now I'm mostly worried about how much you get in a day. And it's probably good to divide that into two meals instead of one. So if someone sort of bookended their eating window with bulls of protein at both ends, I think that's great. There also seems to be like a bulls effect to protein and muscle protein synthesis. So if you get like a meal with a large amount, it would be better than just having like an IV drip of like one gram every 10 minutes. You know what I mean? So I like this sort of large amount at once. So this is probably the main tool to pick up for the last couple of weeks, with bells in there to raise engine in charge of friedrofen stuff, and will eatray. So while the gate wins in fact, it's more of a big influence at all. I think these are helpful. Beyond that, not super worried about it. Excellent advice. You're talking about a protein hierarchy. Number one is how much protein you're getting and then dividing it into two meals, at least, or two meals, and it's not. But two meals is certainly adequate depending on your capacity to eat, really like that advice. When you think about fiber versus fat, where does fiber fall when you are designing a diet or telling your patients? Where does fiber fall versus fat? Well, okay. So first of all, the more carbs you're eating, the bigger deal fiber is. So if someone's eating, you know, less and less carbohydrate, I'm not as worried about fiber. For fiber seems to be more and more important as the percentage of calories in your diet from carbohydrate goes up. So the more carburet and the more fiber you should be eating. So I'm almost more worried about a ratio between fiber and non fiber carbohydrate than I am, like fiber overall. But I do think it's a mistake to eat zero fiber. I think it is providing some satiety and for like hardly any calories. So you're just leaving money on the table if you're not eating some fiber and getting some satiety benefit from that. So I'm not like trying to nag people, oh, make sure you eat your, you know, 30 grams of fiber per day. But I am like, okay, let's look at the ratio of fiber to non fiber carbs in the foods that you're choosing because I think that's a big deal. And so yeah, for me, it's like you should be leveraging fiber some extent because it's helpful. And then you really just want to keep the ratio of fiber non fiber carbs as high as you can. So give me an example of that. What does that look like? Great, great. It looks like let's say I buy some wonder bread and it's got a slice has, you know, 50 grams of carbs and one gram of fiber or zero gram of fiber. But then I got my, you know, my easy, keel bread, my sprouted bread that's like, you know, super whole grain, whatever it might have 25 grams of carbs and five grams of fiber. So it's like a five to one non fiber to fiber carbohydrate ratio versus the wonder bread, which is like 50 to zero or something like that. So that's the sort of thing that I'm talking about. You just, if you're looking to label, you just look at the sort of the rough ratio between total carbohydrate and fiber carbohydrate. And you just want the fiber to non fiber ratio to be higher, you know, higher is better. And so that's that's mostly what I'm talking about. Thank you to thesis for sponsoring this episode of the show. If you have been following me for any amount of time, you know that I love thesis. It is the world first customized, nitropic company. What does that mean? Nitrophics are nutrients found in nature or the human body. They enhance cognitive function. We talk a lot about the body. We talk a lot about muscle health optimization. You're not going to get there if your brain is not functioning. If you are looking for enhancing your thinking, your focus, your energy, your mood, thesis is the way to go. I use this company personally. I recommended to all of my friends and my patients. By the way, while many companies take a one size fits all approach. thesis doesn't. It's not one supplement. There are multiple different formulations in which you will go to their website. You will take a quiz. You will answer questions and you will get a starter kit with four different blend recommendations to try over the course of a month. They are an incredible company, incredible people head over to take thesis.com slash a doctor lion. You can get your own customized thesis starter kit. Also, you can use the code. Dr. Lion at checkout for a discount. I really like that. Do you use our number that you should for example, if you see that it's less than x you're out? I like to see it at 15% or so. Like a six to one fiber to nine fiber would be pretty good. That's just basically all fiber. That's what you're looking at. Do you have a favorite source? Do you have a favorite source of carbs for yourself personally? I absolutely do. I like soluble fiber. soluble fiber is really the best for society. I'm free. It is a pretty good source of this. There are some fruits that I eat a lot of berries are my absolute favorite apples are second. I eat a lot of apples has soluble fiber. Of course, all of this stuff has almost no protein. This is like an side dish to something with protein in it. But it's excellent. A compliment to some high protein food. I love fruit. I like basically any kind of low sugar fruit. All of your peppers and your cucumbers and tomatoes and all of your of a codos and all of your low sugar fruit. I love all of your fruit fruit as well. Like citrus is amazing. Lots of really high-saltide recovery. Lots of fiber. Lots of water. Very low energy density. So yeah, but if you look through the ones I'm eating the most, it's probably fruit mostly berries, apples and then your low sugar fruit that people think are vegetables like cucumbers and tomatoes and peppers. And then two versus well eat a lot of carrots. I'll eat a lot of potatoes. I'm typically throwing those in the air fryer and not adding any fat to them. But those are some of my favorite carbs sources. It's basically fruit tubers, the low sugar fruit people think are vegetables and a few whole grains in there too. I eat like some air pop popcorn, maybe some brown rice that kind of thing. Do you worry about fruit us the fruit us and the fruits? No, not at all. So, so you know I have to ask these questions. I'm anticipating questions. From our community about fruit us because we did have one of these world. We had a world leading expert on fruit us metabolism. Yeah, so basically fruit us is bad in overfeeting. And fruit us is bad in overfeeting when you get a lot but all that one. So if you're just pouring regular soda with high-frucks, this corn syrup on top of a high-brickaloric diet and so on is already overfat. Yeah, that's going to be mercilessly giving you fatty liver and it's bad. But saturated fat is just as bad as fructus. There's just the fructus in saturated fat are two sides of a coin where they're both empty calories. They're both bad in overfeeting. They're both bad in hypercoloric situations. They're both mercilessly driving fatty liver and But they're both super harmless if you're on a low calorie diet if you're hybicaloric if you're thin if you're metabolic healthy. They are empty calories true, but they're harmless. The does make some poison on all this stuff. So if you're thin in your healthy and you're metabolically Intact in your not eating a hypercolor diet not too worried about fructus or saturated fat. However, because they are empty calories and because they are You know, not really that helpful other than being a pyramid resource. You do want to keep them to a smaller percentage of your diet, which is probably why the guidelines say, you know, less than 10% of your calories should come from saturated fat and less than 10% should come from sugar and that also Sort of illustrates the fact that there are two sides of the same coin and they're both kind of bad and you don't want to eat tons of it. That's an interesting point. Do you so you do believe that the guidelines did do an appropriate job for saturated fat and sugars in that perspective? Absolutely because these are both just empty calories that are frequently just unnecessarily added to the food supply Deleting out other things. So like you know, saturated fat. Let's let's look at a wild animal which has amazing macros. You're venison. You're actually in ground beef. It's just a crazy awesome food, but I'm going to over I'm going to overfeed a cow and make it the fat is cow you've ever seen and then I'm actually going to make ground beef and throw more fat into that and make the cheap 70 30 ground beef in the grocery store, which is actually only 18% protein. And protein has a super high energy density, super low protein percent kind of actually horrible from a satiety calorie point of view or any point of view. And what's in there that's making it bad just a crap ton of saturated fat that you generated by overfeeding an animal and then maybe even adding more when you made the ground beef. That's really fat is bad. This is the reason why red meat looks bad in all your epidemiological studies is because they've overfed the animals. They've added more fat later to make it cheaper and you basically end up with a horribly protein delute monstrosity that just has a bunch of saturated fat from the overfeeding your cultural practices and then the economic drivers of just deluding out all your cheap meat. So your hot dogs and your burger patties and your super cheap 70 30 dollar pound ground beef in the grocery store. This is all terrible and it's terrible because of all these saturated fat that's been added for profit by agriculture and industry blah blah blah. Fructose is the same way I'm going to take a sugar can or a sugar beat or whatever I'm going to you know, press it with rollers I'm going to squeeze out all the sugar I'm going to drive I'm going to crystallize it I'm going to sprinkle it on every single thing I eat and then boom I'm just putting fructose in everything makes it more palatable you can eat way more of it. It's just pure empty calories and it's that literally fructose and saturated fat are the flip sides of the same coin one on the car upside one on the animal side one on the plant plant side and I'm sorry when a car one on fat one on plant one on animal there's same thing flip sides of the same coin. And if you really want to give somebody that you liver like your mouse in the lab you just overfeed them with both sugar and saturated fat like your high sugar butter diets are just making fatty liver like crazy in the lab. A few really good points that you made number one the idea that red me and it's bad for you and it seems to not do well in a lot of the epidemiological studies which is essentially large population and low quality evidence. Because of the saturated fat content or you know the overfeeding aspect of it a really good point it's not the red me per se red me and their venison by send there's lots of lean lean stakes it is the likely over the overfeeding effect. I have a question on satiation which is really kind of where you've got so I've known you for years. And originally there was a lot of talk about protein and fiber and now you've really evolved the conversation through practice to this satiety model. Do you think that when individuals are overfed via saturated fat will start with saturated fat that it deranges their satiety or their capacity to have satiation meaning as they are overfeeding or going through periods whether they are emotionally overeating or overeating because they're making bad choices. And it's a feed forward mechanism. It's a talk more about what we're actually consuming and where the numbers of obesity are driving to that's really a point. Got you got you well. So like you know basically 75% of the world is over fat 92% of Americans are over fat and. I'm going to stop you right there because I bet you so we talk about them 70% of them being over fat. We would also say then 70% of the under muscle. Yeah absolutely well. So like I do have patients who. Quality of muscle quality of muscle. Yeah I have some patients who because they weigh so much they do have an okay amount of muscle if they weighed way less. And so yeah I but I absolutely agree there's a I have a avalanche patients with. Normal weight obesity or sarcopenic obesity now this is the worst thing ever it's someone who's so sedentary and just sits on the couch and has no muscle at all. And so even though they look hugely fat they actually don't weigh that much. And this is your absolutely right there is a simultaneously an under muscle crisis because we've basically disconnected movement from survival so nobody ever has to move at all you can literally just sit on your couch. You're in tire life you've got Uber eats on your phone your whole job so on zoom. You never have to even stand up you can just live your whole life without moving so everybody's simultaneously over fat and under muscle another yeah I totally agree this is absolutely true. And to the point that you know we're measuring body fat and maybe you're using or using an in body or using dex what are you using. I mean I don't do a lot of body composition measurements with my patients to be honest because I can just look at them and tell them they're over fat so it's not that helpful I mostly just do low by just stuff like waste to height measurements that's where I'm at idea of it like you know skin calipers in the office we do dexa in the in the office but I'm not like regularly doing those to track anything because you can just measure your ways to conference at the beloved and know exactly. What are your problems and how do you what number do you like to hit and how what someone do it so someone is like wow. This is so great I don't have to go to the doctor I don't need to get an in body scan I don't need to get a dexa what do I have to do to. Got it got so waste a height ratio is incredibly powerful incredibly important super super good and free so you measure your waste circumference at the belly button with your abdomen completely relax. Then you cry because it's so high and it's so much higher than your pants size right you know it's the like I have so many patients who they're they're shoving their their until to do a you know thirty two. Genie into whatever but you measure their abdomen at the belly button and it's like forty and so you measure your waste. At the belly button abdomen fully relax divide that by your height you want that to be less than half your height so wait should be less than half your height. And it's it's going to work on almost everyone yeah even people who look kind of skinny I have a lot of skinny fat. Patients they look pretty thin like nobody would ever think they have any issues but if you actually measure their waste at the belly button they're out of no and fully relaxed it's so yeah it's not. It's not always as low as you wish to most so that's a really great metric for just about anyone. And it's free like he said waste height measurement is very helpful less than half. What did you say less than half your your height right your waste should be less than half right so if I'm you know seventy five inches tall my ways to come to should be thirty ten point five or lower I mean that's probably the bad example with. To match math but like you know if you're your 60 inches tall your way should be less than thirty inches. Other than. Thank you to timeline nutrition for sponsoring this episode of the show. When we talk about muscle health aging the human body the energy generating machine that we are going through life with I have to say that if I could have developed one supplement. It would have been might appear might appear has a compound in it called yearlithin a and yearlithin a is what we call a post biotic and it helps increase your energy by affecting your mitochondria which is extraordinary. And if you're interested in living a forever strong or muscle center lifestyle then you understand you cannot be healthy without healthy muscle as you get older especially will to say older for people in their forties. One must think about the health of their mitochondria and that is why I am hooked on timeline nutrition's might appear you can try their might appear very or ginger powder into your daily smoothie routine. They have a vanilla protein shake with mitochondria they also have soft gels which are great when you are on the go I use them myself head over to timeline nutrition dot com slash doctor lion. That's timeline nutrition dot com slash doctor lion and you will get 10% off your order. Really easy to do and and I'll mention I you know part of me agrees with you do we need to continuously measure body fat you you know one would know perhaps looking at themselves or doing a measurement like this. Because we don't have great ways of getting a wonderful comprehensive picture what do I mean by that we're not directly measuring skeletal muscle. You could have an individual who is over fat and if you measure their skeletal muscle it looks as if they have enough but the reality is that is not healthy muscle is typically marbled. It is not necessarily is metabolically effective as it should be because the tissue changes skeletal muscle as an organ system that tissue changes you get fat infiltration decrease and flux meaning you're not moving glycogen you're not utilizing these fatty acid by products the way that you should. And again we've really been hyper focused on body fat and the reality is just like fructose and saturated fat body fat and muscle are opposite sides of the same coin essentially. Right right and and you're totally right you can all these measurements are just really rough estimates nothing's accurate. Dexas kind of an accurate skin folds and accurate your impedance is accurate the only way the best we've got is some for compartment model and MRI and it's going to cost you $1,000 and even then even if you knew exactly what your composition was. It's a Sicifian daily struggle the rest of your life to constantly get more muscle and less fat and you have to worry about that it's like a war of grams every day and every time you eat and you're trying to get more muscle and less fat and you're going to be doing that forever and health is. Never owned only rented and the rent is due daily and so like it even if you had a snapshot that looked pretty good. It's going to go down hill after Christmas or Thanksgiving or the cruise you're going on so it doesn't even matter it's like. Let's pretend I did a Dex on someone and it sucks you're too fat you don't have enough muscle now what are you going to do about it and then oh by the way you have to do that every week for the rest of your life so I just don't find it's entertaining to track these things but it's not value added for me to be honest like I've. I'm going to practice you've been in practice how long we've been in practice. Let's see there was dinosaurs and then I'm late listen so Ted I know these answers but the reality is it's so fun that Ted and I get to chat and you guys are all involved in this conversation. I'm asking because the more advanced a clinician is there are certain components of the body or certain ways of practice that. You know we see it's very cyclical in the beginning of our practice we talk about this in the beginning of your practice as a physician you know we do have lots of providers listening. You are testing and tracking everything literally everything and by the way that is extremely overwhelming for the patient. As you advance I mean I'm in my second decade of practice as you advance in to practice you do less you are hyper focused on more and you are hyper focus on the things that truly move the needle. If I put a gun to Ted's head which I'm not going to and I said is Dieter exercise more effective in moving body composition and creating changing home your status he would say exercise. Probably so probably so but it's so right. I'm holding him but but again that is very difficult to impart which is why you know you can't really do one without the other you really have to nail in nutrition. You can be training like a maniac but you do have to have your nutrition and balance and he's done a wonderful job at that. So we've talked about protein we've talked about how to prioritize it we've talked about carbohydrates and fats. When you are looking at the overall picture what are some numbers that you would give and how do you think about it if for example in your model of a two meal a day eating how much are you consuming are you worried about. The dose of carbohydrates that then stimulates insulin safer example over 50 grams or are you worried about the impact of a dose of saturated fat at that first meal. Got it so yeah so protein basically targeting protein first. I'm really in for a pound of ideal body weight based on your height and then divide in two or three meals or two meals in a snack and like an eight hour eating window that would be kind of ideal for me the. I thought is basically like if you're if you're dieting you you want to keep pat fat to about half a gram per pound of ideal body weight based on your height. So yeah I'm stopping you I'm stopping you I this was on my question list. How do you determine ideal body weight I'm going to tell you I determined ideal body weight but there's lots of talk about because everyone is going to be thinking okay I got to calculate this how do you determine ideal body weight. So you know if like if I'm just looking at someone and I don't care about gender or anything I basically do some fancy calculation of solving for a BMI of 22 what your height would be in meters. I mean you if you're height meters solve for what kilograms would get you to a BMI of 22 but that involves like square roots and a lot of math and it's kind of you have to be a math leap just even understand that but you know how. BMI is kilograms per meter squared and if you just take a BMI of 22 for everybody on the planet men women large mall whatever just as a rough average and then you enter your height in meters squared and you solve that for kilograms you will get like ideal. Body weight for pretty much anybody in to indiscriminately whether you know their male or female or whatever but like on a practical level I did have like in the book I had a little quick and easy calculation where for women you get a hundred pounds for the first five feet of height and then you get five pounds reach an additional inch over five feet so if you're. If you're five that tall even you should weigh a hundred pounds if you're five four that would be a hundred and twenty pounds so a hundred pounds for a five feet and then five pounds reach inch over five feet which is four inches which is four times five twenty so that would be on the. Men exact same thing except men are allowed to weigh one ten for the first five feet and then five five pounds for each inch over that if you know I'm saying. So like if the male was five four he could weigh you know hundred ten plus four times five is twenty hundred thirty. That is like you know really easy anybody can do it way to look at it when I'm designing calculators for ideal body weight based on height I'm basically solving. For kilograms using height and meters and a BMI of twenty two. Interesting interesting you want to hear my way of doing it so so there I mean because listen there's no it's very difficult how do we know. And you you may totally not agree with this because again there is no it's really difficult to say what is your ideal body weight I think the last time if someone was ever fit so for example. I don't know in college I weighed a hundred and ten pounds pretty lean and fit that's my ideal body weight. The last you know I look at my husband in college he was pretty skinny. Sheen but his ideal body weights two hundred pounds the last time he was super fit he was at two hundred pounds and I think picking a. Weight in which you felt great and is could be just as effective I know it's not scientific. But I have found and also pushing yourself a little bit I often pick and we often have patients pick a call to wait. Yeah and that works for all people like me because we weren't always that but that's not working for the next generation because like they had like childhood obesity and they were never at a good way. And so it's a scarily becoming less and less. Like that's going to work less and less going forward unfortunately but yeah I do actually like that for older people it's like you know. Yeah that's that's a really good point with this whole childhood obesity thing we we have to then begin to think. Where do we set our standards in terms of nutrition we then you know my mind we have to go back to. What are the calories that they're and this is a it's going to be a huge challenge because the people listening to this podcast are doing the thing. But what about everybody else who is outside of the arena. What are the recommendations that we're going to tell them when we're going to tell them that the RDA is you know you should have what 48 grams of protein depending on how. We're going to be doing it for some real struggle because it's again to us or yeah. Yeah just go look at a school lunch look at a hospital lunch look at a nursing home lunch. It just makes you want to cry it's disgusting it's disturbing and protein is what's really getting thrown under the bus on all of those. I know it's so odd. It's odd because I think that there's a political agenda there I think that there's a money agenda there and when I say politics I mean we have to account for the whole world it's not just us and. There's a lot of challenges with animal based products and even taking out the animal based products even the plant based products. How are we going to prioritize that's not really the message that we're getting it truly is. Reduce dietary protein which is the worst piece of advice I could ever give somebody. Yeah I agree yeah I hear you I mean the whole plant based thing I mean okay they might be right that fibers good and they might be right that lower in a agency's good and then might be right that you're going to have a less hedonic. Factory's in your diet, but they're really missing the protein angle. For the most part the big picture and a lot of the plant agenda is like oh you're already eating too much protein don't even worry about that and I just really don't agree with that. problematic. And if you have a bigger view, you can see, okay, there are some advantages to this plant-based thing, which might be fiber and energy density in the lower head on the head. I agree. But they're missing out in the protein side. So why don't you actually look at both sides, combine them all, and kind of, you know, take some sort of middle road where you can actually see the pluses and minuses on both sides of the political aisle. So I basically hate politics. I'm super apolitical. And I can just immediately see all the good and bad on both sides. And so I'm just squarely in this all middle zone where I'm just like just absolutely a gas at the extremes on either side. And I do the same thing with carbs versus fat. I do the same thing with plants versus animals. And I do think there's this sort of agnostic neutral middle ground where you can actually see the getting bad on both sides and kind of weigh it out. And it's probably optimal somewhere between. Absolutely. And then the just to kind of round out, I don't know if I got the answer for the question because I'm sure people want the tactical aspect of it. Do you care about the dosing permeal of carbohydrates and... Oh, right. Okay, so fat less so. Like fat can, fat's fairly positive. It takes a very, very long time to be absorbed and to, you know, gets packaged into carbohydrates and it filters through lymphatics and it gets dumped out in the thoracic duct and goes through delivery and gets repackaged and ends up in fat cells. And so the time of fat, I really don't worry about too much. You probably want enough with each meal to add to the longer term to tidy. But it can kind of just be distributed evenly in, you know, more or else however you want. Carbohydrate is a little more strategic. So I think carbs could have a ergonomic benefit. Pretty good. So like some people, if they eat carbohydrates right before they work out, they might have a better workout. They might be able to perform better, either at cardio or resistance training. So there seems to be a bit of an ergonomic effect to carbohydrate kind of like caffeine. And so it's almost like a pre-workout effect. So I think using carbs strategically and the things that carbs do that I think are good are possibly ergonetic before during a workout. Possibly speeding up recovery after workout, you know, or if you're doing multiple bouts of working out in a day. So like if you're, you know, playing soccer for four hours, you might want to drink your gatorade somewhere in there. So it's like basically timing carbs around workouts before during your after. And then possibly in the evening, there might be rest-in digest, person-pathetic, benefit-to-carbohydrate, which is why so many people backload their carbs to eat them later in the evening because you seem to trigger more of a person-pathetic rest-in digest state. So I like using either backloading carbs later in the day for just like people, some people sleep better, or just using them around workouts before they're in or after. And so like a carbs is more of a strategic thing around exercise for me. Special thank you to Inside Tracker for sponsoring this episode of the show. The name is Inside Like Inside Your Body Tracker.com slash Dr. Lion. Why do you care about Inside Tracker? Because you care about your blood work. You must understand what is going on with your muscle health. One way to do that is not just by tracking strength, but also by tracking blood markers. Things like fasting insulin, blood glucose, triglycerides. These are all markers that will tell you where your metabolic health is and where your muscle health is. Go to insidetracker.com slash Dr. Lion and you'll get 20% off their entire inside tracker store. I use their mobile flabotomists. I get a report. It's super easy. I have a ton of friends that are practitioners that also use inside tracker not just for their patients, but for themselves. As a health care provider, you can go to Inside Tracker and you'll see the Inside Tracker Pro, which enables coaches, health professionals to provide premium and personal life services by leveraging inside trackers analysis. I know that's a lot, but here's what I'm just going to ask you to do. Go to Inside Tracker.com slash Dr. Lion and you will get 20% off the entire inside tracker store. And do you dose it? For example, I tell my patients that if they're going to have a meal, it's to not exceed outside of training 40 or so grams of carbohydrates because I don't want a secondary insulin response. Again, if you're eating all these vegetables or some of these fibers carbs, potentially you could go higher, but I give them the baseline recommendation that 50 grams, 40 to 50 grams or less if you're not training, the rest of the carbohydrates are earned during exercise or post exercise, the amount that I give them is I'll say for every one hour of moderate intense training where your heart is over 120 beats per minute or so. I might offer them anywhere from 40 to 60 grams of carbohydrates or something like that. Do you have a number that you shoot for? Yeah, yeah, roughly. So like, you know, per day, I'm thinking about a gram per pound of ideal bodyweight in carbohydrate, similar to gram per pound in protein with the caveat that you want the fiber to non fiber ratio as high as you can get. And then I'm a little bit less worried about, you know, per meal if the fiber to non fiber ratio is high enough, that'll kind of take care of itself, I think. But I do agree with what you're saying. You could add in an extra, like a gram per minute for all the high intensity exercise you're doing. If you do an hour of high intensity, like liticate exercise definitely another six-year-old of the carbs, sure. So I like that. It's, you're going to eat roughly gram per pound. You're going to div eat up with your meals or use it around exercise or in the evening. And then you're going to basically keep the fiber to non fiber ratio as high as you can get. And that's kind of how I would make my carbide recommended recommendation. What about saturated fats or fats around training? Do you have any concern? worry about it just it's so passive and it's so delayed and there's just no, nobody's getting an irregogenic benefit from fat, nobody's getting like anything right away. So the the carbide rate is so immediate. It's definitely more time sensitive and more of a timing issue. It's a way more tactical. Fat is not tactical at all. So you just mix it in with your meals so you get a little more satiety and you want to make sure you don't want to go less than 20% of your calories from fat. Pretty much ever. Probably somewhere in the 20 to 40% of your calories is good, you know, right in the 30 35% fat would be awesome. So yeah, so you just you have to have some fat in there for a bunch of reasons and it doesn't really matter when the timing is the least important when it comes to fat in my opinion. Yeah, absolutely agree with you and the evidence would suggest to die at lower than 20% fat can affect hormonal status. I see this often with men, particularly the lower their fat intake below 20%. Again, these are just individual cases anecdotally, but they're testosterone decreases and you will definitely see the information in the literature about lower fat diets and potentially impacting hormonal regulation. What about exercise? What kind of exercise where do you throw exercise if someone is looking to be less fat and more muscle just improve body composition? What's your point of view? Yeah, so basically there are three forms of exercise that everybody should be doing. The first one is resistance training, right? You have to put maximum tension in all of your muscles and you have to give your body the signal that it needs more muscle or you're going to die. That's the only way your body will make more muscle. You can't you can't create muscle by just eating more protein. That's like pushing rope. You have to demand more muscle from your body. By telling your body you're going to die if you don't have more muscle and that's doing things to failure. I like compound exercises, push pull legs, hinge. You want to do at least twice a week, full body to failure. Three times we probably slightly better, but you're basically trying to do big compound movements all the way to failure. That's resistance training. Everyone should be absolutely doing. You're never going to get more muscle about it. Super critical. The second thing that everyone should be doing is cardiovascular exercise. The positive adaptations from cardio. You want a higher VO2 max because that's more associated with longevity than pretty much any other number you can measure on a human. You want to challenge your cardiovascular system regularly. I like people to get maybe not to maximum heart rate, but close, 90-95%. At least once or twice a week, you're trying to, of course, talk to your doctor first because there's somebody out there with every time you do maximum effort cardio, you have a 0.00 or 0.1% chance of just dropping dead because you have some widow maker left-hand surgery sending a thing that you don't know about. But the vast majority of time, you're just going to be better and stronger after doing this sort of thing. But as long as you're healthy, you want to be approaching maximum heart rate once or twice a week at least to try to get positive adaptations. We're going to improve your VO2 max and your cardiac output and how are you tens? How are you tenser? Are we talking? I'm talking rate-of-perceived exertion of 10. You really want to kind of push out of your comfort zone and as you crank the intensity up, you get better and better adaptations. It's just like resistance training, the closer you get to failure, those reps are where you're getting all of the bang for your buck. When it comes to cardio adaptations, you're getting a lot of those at the higher output levels. You're just not going to get the same thing from walking, for example. So you're trying to get a bunch of adaptations from exercise but you're trying to increase speed, you're trying to increase power, you're trying to increase skill, you're trying to increase endurance. And you're not going to get all those things without doing some high-end cardio. So I like people at least once a week to do more of an endurance cardio, at least a half an hour. We'll add a fairly high-art rate. I like people to try to approach maximum of heart rates at least once a week if not more because of the adaptations you're going to get. So you're trying to get cardio adaptation. So everyone should be doing a high-end cardio and endurance cardio and then just cardio, more higher volume zone too, zone three, whatever you want. So you've got resistance and cardio and again, you have to have both just like diet and exercise are equally important and you have to do but you have to do resistance and cardio. You're never going to be an optimal health without both of those. So yes, you want to be strong, you just want to be muscle, but you also want to be fast as hell and you want to have tons of endurance. And so resistance and cardio both. And then the third form of exercise that everyone should be doing is just general movement, a high-step count, a high-level of non-exercise activity thermogenesis just walking around a lot. You know, our, you know, your hunter-gatherers are getting 20,000 steps a day and we're getting 3,000 steps a day. And so you just want to be at least moderately active because there are so many people out there who are just constantly thinking about their diet, diet, diet, diet, they're, they're just really white-knuckling the diet. Everything has to be on process and paleo and they're looking their macros, but they're never doing enough exercise and they're never going to get exactly where they want to be. And half those people would be better off just doing just a way higher volume of exercise and then eating whatever the hell they want. Because exercise, as your caloric burn goes up from exercise, your body just very smoothly regulates intake to expenditure perfectly. And you'll never get that at low energy expenditure. So if you're just sitting on the couch and really trying to dial in your diet, harder and harder and harder, you're just not going to get to where you want to be. And so a lot of these people need to think way less about their diet and just crank the volume of exercise way higher. And so you really want to be pulling the diet and exercise lovers equally hard and not get too freaked out about one of the other. That makes me think of the biggest misconceptions that are just discussed. What do you think the biggest, if you were to pick, we'll go to three, how about three, or maybe two, whatever you want. The biggest misconceptions related to fat loss that we're seeing now. Wow. Let's see. That's up. The three biggest like from like mainstream media type thing. Yeah, anywhere. Yeah. And maybe there are the old things like just restrict calories and walk more. I don't know. Do you think that there is a certain misconceptions? I think one big one is basically a monofocal approach where you're just looking at one thing. So like, okay, it's just all about fructose. Just don't eat fructose. Look at all the fructose. Or it's just about animal foods. Okay, if we were all vegan, if we were all went plant-based or just looking at something like that, you know, you just need the lowest fat you possibly can. So if you're any time you're doing a monofocal approach where it's just carbs, it's just fructose. It's just fat. It's just saturated fat. It's just calories. It's just the exercise. You're really going to get like 10% better and then just completely fail. And you really have to integrate all of these things at once. And so everybody's right about something and it's really all them together. And it's a higher priority percent and more fiber and lower intensity, unless he donics, in less processed and doing cardio and your stepcat and resistance training and muscle quality. And all of these things are like kind of equally important. And if you're not looking at all of them together, you're just not going to, you know, get the whole picture. It's just monofocal reliance. And then every time you read a clickbait article, it's about one thing. It's like, you know, everyone's eating weight to make saturated fat. Or you're already getting plenty of protein, you know, we're obsessed with protein, you know, or it's like there's a fiber problem in America. It's like you just focus on one thing. And it's just really not going to explain everything. And it's really not going to get you there. And I'm definitely worried when somebody tries to just blame everything on one thing. Very smart answer. Putting you on the spot. Very smart answer. I could not do better. That is an excellent, excellent answer. What do you tell or have you had people that you find our weight loss resistant or their body composition just doesn't move? Have you had that experience with your patients? Yeah. And it's especially people who've just always been obese. So I have patients both their parents are morbidly obese. They were morbidly obese as a child in adolescents as an adult. And they've had so much fat cell hyperplasia. Basically, your fat cells can either hypertrophy where they get bigger and die. Or they can undergo hyperplasia, which is where you multiply them and get way more and more more fat cells. And these people have, maybe 10 times as many fat cells as someone who is never overweight. And they hit this major wall on body fat percent because they, you know, let's say they were 50 percent body fat at one point. And they have 10 times more out of sight than everyone else. They can die it down and shrink down all their fat cells a lot. But they get just so hungry at this shrunken out of a sight level. Their their leptin resistance or whatever you want to call it. They're leptin to out of an act in ratios or all screwed up because they have so much fat tissue hyperplasia that they can only get so low and they're just starving out of their mind. It's like if I try to get down to 5 percent body fat, I would be the same little hunger that they have when they're 30 percent body fat because of how much fat's all hyperplasia they've undergone earlier in life. You know what I mean? And that is just a really tough situation. And honestly, I do prescribe drugs for people who've had this just lifelong program to be a city. I am prescribing JLPw. Under subgrading, Mr. Trezzepotide, Giuseppe Bandir, Wigavy, I'm in Jaro, Jaro, Zambic, your semagletide. I'm using all these drugs and they are effective and they are basically just massively overdriving, society signaling in a way that you could never accomplish. With food and that does seem to be helpful especially for people who've just always been overweight because it's so hard for them to get to normal weight. It's the same amount of difficulty it would be for me to be like stagely bodybuilder style. You don't mean those are about the same degree of difficulty. So, yeah, definitely people who've been fat forever, super super super super tough for them to get all the way down to their goal. What do you do on the flip side of that? You know, we talk about fat and the opposite sides of the same coin. Do you then prescribe something for skeletal muscle health? What are your thoughts on that? If someone has low engines, yeah, if you're a high bogonaddle, I might be prescribing testosterone or something like that. But typically, no, it's really just protein and lifting for most people. Thank you to first form for sponsoring this episode of the show. I would love to highlight their micro factor. You know, people ask me all the time, what kind of foods do I recommend, what kind of diet, and the reality is humans get into this behavior of eating the same thing over and over and over again. And that also means that they get the same nutrients over and over again. And that is one reason why I recommend micro factor. And this is a complete daily nutrient pack. It has antioxidants. It has co-cutin, essential fatty acids. It even has a fruit and veggie cap, a multivitamin. The big picture is you're not going to get everything that you need just by eating food, especially if you are one of those people that just gets into the rut of eating. That is why diversifying foods and diversifying supplements can be very helpful. If you are not taking a multivitamin, I strongly suggest micro factor. They're complete daily nutrient packs. Super easy to travel with. You don't have to lay out the whole pill box. Everything comes in one small pack. You can grab a handful, throw it in your suitcase, grab it for when you head on over to firstform.com slash doctor lion. That's firstform.com slash doctor lion. You know, I think in an ideal world that eventually will get to a place in medicine, we have pretty set standards for how we're treating obesity. Which again, I do. I feel like we have an obesity problem. I always say we don't. We do, but I don't believe that that's at the root. But we have standards and treatment protocols put into place to deal with someone who is obese or having fat cell hyperplasia. Yet, we ignore the muscular skeletal health issue and even the medications available. Sarcopenia wasn't an ICD 10 diagnosis until 2016. Obesity was finally a diagnosis in 2013. The perspective that we have has to change so that we can then be more effective at treatment. Because those with fat cell hyperplasia or those with exceedingly low muscle mass, the skeletal muscle system can be somewhat wanted. Muscle protein synthesis. A fact can be blunt in it really does people to service if we cannot prescribe things that augment skeletal muscle health. And we're so restricted that it has to be based on hypogonatism or low levels of hormones. Because it's just a matter of time before the skeletal muscle health is going to catch up to them. Again, these are these are just my thoughts and I'm hoping collectively as physicians, we can really begin to move these guidelines and bring in muscle-centric medicine and create guidelines for that. It would be really really helpful for people. Yeah, I agree. And even like, you know, post-manipausal women with the severe osteoporosis, acupena, anabolic agents are probably way better than bisosinates and protein and lifting and anabolic are probably where it's at. And you can probably just walk into the room and just glance at someone and look at their appendicular lean mass and be like, oh my god, you need way more protein, you need to be lifting. You might need anabolic if you're, you know, post-manipausal female with an undetectable estrogen testosterone. And so you're like all over that, but the average person is not even on their radar. Like nobody in the clinic is talking about muscle amount or quality or any of this stuff. And you're right, that should be that. You know, it's like, you know, how much can you binge-press should be like, you know, what are your vital sides? It's like, you know, how much can you dead live? What's your, you know, dead hang time? What's your, you know, it's like what, ratio of your body weight can you overhead press? These should all be like on your chart, along with your blood pressure. And so like you're preaching the choir, I like really appreciate muscle centric approach. And it's a massive huge big deal. And if everyone was dialing that in, it would be enormous. Well, maybe as I begin to put together the board for muscle centric medicine, I can count you in. Absolutely. Yes, please definitely. I would love it. What are some of the biomarkers that you're looking at in your clinic? Things that you think are really important. Right, right. Well, kind of like you said earlier, now that I've been out of practice for, you know, our out of residency and in practice. And dinosaurs were alive. Yeah, I got out of residency in 2000, believe it or not. And I used to do so much more lab testing. I did all this, you know, functional medicine training and I was checking all these crazy labs. And the, the, the, the, with age, you get like this wisdom and you kind of realize that some of this stuff actually doesn't really matter. And so I do less and less and less testing. And you know, I hate to say, but if you go to like a naturopath who's fresh out of school and has no real good feel of how everything works, they're going to be thousands of dollars shot going labs. And you, you've got your reverse T3. And like all these crazy crazy things that are just so not helpful. And the long idea is the lesson less I look at in terms of lab testing. So it's a very, very short list of things that I'm looking at. But I do like, he and the club in A1C, that's a critical test that I'm doing in everybody. I do like fasting lippids and I'm looking at triglycerides, especially, very, very useful to see how you do you want to share the numbers? So you guys fasting triglycerides is a certainly one of the things of that we think about for insulin resistance and just metabolic dysfunction. What number, what numbers are you looking at? Right. So basically, you want, you know, fasting blood draw no calories 90 to 12 hours and you want to triglycerides to be under 100. Anyone with triple digit triglycerides is has an issue. And if you hit, you know, 1, 21, 30, your severely insulin resistance. And of course, the textbook is like under 150 is normal, but it just gets worse and worse, you know, anything above basically 100. So lower is better. Definitely want to be double dated instead of triple dated is under 100. And that's a really useful test in my opinion. So yeah, A1C, I'm looking at that a lot, fasting lippids, I'm looking at that. I'm looking at, you know, and of course, I'm also in anyone who's struggling, I'm checking a thyroid, I'm checking testosterone, I am checking some of these other hormones. But you know, and everyone who comes in gets a, you know, a completely like count of conference metal panel, A1C, lib is thyroid, these kinds of things. But I'm not doing a lot of other fancy advanced testing beyond that because it's just not that helpful because at the end of the day, everyone needs more cardio, a better diet, higher protein energy ratio, higher, cyber calorie, you know, more lifting, more cardio, more muscle, less fat. These are all cissophia and things that you have to work on every day forever. And it's, you're playing the long game and it's a marathon and not a sprint. And so whatever you're allowed to today, I just pretend I checked them, they suck and now you need to work harder in the kitchen and in the gym. Right. And actual numbers are not that helpful. I, I just love that, that you're saying this because again, you've been in practice for quite some time and it ends up being full circle. We can do these fancy things that, yes, some people need them. We have to build the foundation, we have to get the foundation right. Once you build the foundation, you get to have a lot more flexibility in the fun stuff, whether it's red light or sauna therapy, all thing cool plunging things I love. I do all of these things. But building the foundation for long, lasting health and the trajectory of one's health and wellness is so critical. You have, we had one of your business partners or medical partners on, we're talking about an app about satiety before we close out. I'd love for you to mention it where everyone can find you, find the app, etc. Yeah, great. Thank you so much. I've been working with Dr. Andreas. I felt another awesome primary care family medicine doctor, like us, you know, we're the greatest, let's face it. So, Dr. I'm a Delta Doctor fan and I developed this or with his Delta Doctor team developed this Hava app, HAVA. You can check out the website at Hava.co. There's an app for, you know, on the Google Play Store and on the app store and I've always been, it's basically an app that just calculates satiety per calorie of foods and it's looking at things like protein percent and she density, fiber, fraction and hedonic factors and basically, you know, you put in your extra lean ground beef and you've got like an 80 out of 100 spectacular and then like a cookie is literally a zero because the hedonic factors are just going to make you eat a ton of them for no protein or water or fiber or this tidy calories, you know, literally zero and so it's just a very interesting way of looking at your diet from a qualitative point of view instead of a quantitative point of view. You basically take pictures of everything you eat, it all gets tracked, you're looking at a satiety score, you're looking at protein that there are two things that the app is trying to encourage you to do. Number one, eating a protein and number two, keep the satiety score in a good range. So that's basically lower energy density carved in fat. So if you're eating lots of protein and then, you know, fruits and vegetables, you're going to do great. If you're just eating cookies, you're going to do horrible and it's just a, I think it's especially helpful for somebody who just doesn't know all this stuff. Like, you know, you and I, we walk into the grocery store and just glance at a food and the nutrition label and boom, it's like the matrix. We can see exactly what all the macros are and exactly what it's going to do long term and exactly what the satiety for calorie is. It's almost intuitive at this point. But that's the skill that you have to learn and most people just have no idea. And so this app just takes all this complex nutritional information and just makes it super simple and dials it down to like one number and I think it's pretty cool and, you know, people would check it out and see what they think. But yeah, it's been great working with Dr. Ryan Feld. He's awesome and it's whole team's very tall. Super tall, holy cow that guys tall he was six, seven or something and I'm five, ten, but I feel so short every time I meet Dr. Ryan Feld. He's just really tall. Well, Dr. Ted Naman, thank you so much for coming on the show. I really appreciate all the work that you're doing. If you guys don't follow Ted, you definitely should. I will link to all of his stuff. His Twitter is wonderful and his website, his Instagram, you name it. I'm going to put it here again. Thank you so much for your time and I am counting you in and the Muscle Center of Medicine Board. So thank you so much. Awesome. Thank you.

Alzheimer's doesn't start with memory loss. It starts silently, decades earlier. In places you'd never expect. How young is then too young to think of a brain health? But never too young. The fourth section is not too young. Today's guest might completely change how you think about your brain, your food, and your future. Dr. Alexis Wood is a leading researcher at Baylor College of Medicine. She studies how your genetics and your diet interact to shape your brain. From the moment your born to the moment it starts to fade. Lifestyle changes could certainly delay on itself. We're diving into some big questions today. What is it that we know about childhood nutrition? Can we affect ADHD just by nutrition alone? What role does the current science information landscape have to tell us about how we can feed our children? Never go of one study. Ever ever ever ever ever. Okay. I can show you studies that say smoking does not cause a lot of cancer. This conversation doesn't just focus on what's going wrong. It's about what you can do to protect yourself and your loved ones. What to eat, what to look for, and how to fight back. Set up a healthy food environment, and model good food bait is set boundaries for your children. Because the earlier you understand this, the better the chance you have of changing your brain's future. And it starts with changing our children's present. Where are we in the landscape of childhood nutrition and genetics? I want to really hear and focus in on the research that you're doing and the questions that you're asking. Okay. I think we have basically nothing in children in child nutrition and genetics. A tool bring those together. I would say that even in child nutrition, it has been overlooked. In fact, the history, so you know, every five years, as you well know, the USDA can't wait for some major changes. Right. You're lost. Just kidding. Just kidding. I'm sure you talked about it. Still waiting. Produces the dietary guidelines for Americans, which changes slightly in each iteration, how the purpose is stated. But it's essentially how to make dietary choices that will keep you healthy or reduce your risk of chronic disease. And it was only in the last iteration. They included my advice. I know for two to three year olds. You know? And if you read it, I understand no one wants to read right in the weeds. The very honest, very transparent and they spell it out. We had no research on foods and their effects on cognitive and social health. You know, anthropometrics, but height, weight, we've got. I mean, we need more, but we're there. This piece we had nothing so we're sort of inferring from other populations and we don't even have great things there. So it's really a black hole I feel for children. I feel confident saying that because when I speak to people at the USA, they agree. You know, they're very excited by the idea of creating a cohort of children that we can study the effects of diet on more social cognitive development outcomes. So that's a black hole. And we're doing everything from what we know in adults. And I think we actually know a lot in the science field as adults. But now I'm scientists we're up against the white of world. And how people interpret it, what they choose to make into a news story and so on. And that's bringing a lot of issues to our goal that feels a bit like a step back. Do you think that it's always been that way? And when I say always been that way, meaning issues to your door. Because there is more information out there than ever before. I think we are all struggling with what to trust, what not to trust, who to trust, how to understand the science. And then also children, again, there is nothing, I mean, even for protein recommendations. We don't really know for kids. We don't buy opti kids. How do you see your work helping? And what is it that you're working on now, specifically? So I've started a study. So we won't be analyzing the data. We won't be during conclusions. But we are looking at establishing a longitudinal cohort of children from 12 months, assessing their diet, taking blood samples to look at both biomarkers of dietary intake. Because it's so hard to assess that and everyone children add another layer. You mean they don't listen. And they're not going to do food free food. Well, they're not going to tell you what they're eating. No, and parents, you know, may not be with their child all the time. They may be divorced. They may have big hair. They may have a friend's house. So capturing is challenging. So we're looking at some biomarkers in the blood. But we also want to use the blood to try to capture when that food is being digested and processed and absorbed. How does it change the body? And then we take those changes and say, can we look at what those might do for health now and long term? That's fascinating. Are you able to share any of the biomarkers or meaningful metabolites? No, we haven't done anything in kids yet. We did find that red meat was associated with an anti-inflammatory metabolite. Most of that actually was, this was in adults was actually confronted by the association at a population level of eating red meat and high BMI, which is not to say that eating red meat leads to the high BMI. It's just there are conflated. And we did find an unknown molecule associated with avocado intake too. And we tracked the effects of those molecules on health outcomes, which is really interesting. Where do you think the landscape is right now for kids? So the information that you know, I know that you feel very passionately about childhood nutrition and brain function. I'm assuming all of these things. Yes. So scientifically, I think it's an emerging field. Okay? I think for parents, I don't think they know that. I think a lot of even scientists were shocked to be like the when the USDA produced their guidelines. They pull a lot of experts together to do the literature review. And I've had anecdotally from people in the room that people were like, I didn't have any said you didn't know. What do you mean they're like who? Go get them, go find them. Yeah. They're not there. So that was very surprising to scientists. They'd be even more shocking to parents, right? And caregivers of the children. And in terms of the landscape, I think the good thing is, we have a lot of parents now. At least I meet. And I think I see out there that are very interested in the importance of nutrition for children that, um, believe it has help effects and it can help them now and help their developmental children. And that is a wonderful place to start because I feel like from the point of view of chronic disease 30 years ago, I'm drawing around and decade. It was an uphill battle to persuade people and even some clinicians that what you eat could affect your diabetes risk and so on. I totally agree. So we're starting from a better place. I think the the flip side is it's overwhelming and confusing. I I couldn't agree with you more and probably more so now than ever with the increase in tick talk and media and the damage that it can potentially do, which I think is really profound. You studied ADHD, right, a hyperactivity disorder. Are we seeing more of that now and do you think that there is a genetic versus an environmental influence? We are seeing more and numbers of diagnosed cases. I find it hard to believe we are seeing a change in the children's presentation of the behavior. I do believe it's very possible that as expectations as school landscapes change, school expectations, set ups, classrooms and so on. The behavioral response is one that is labeled attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. And it's actually to me ADHD is a diagnosis of certain behaviors and then impairment is a key pot. And if it's impairing yes, then it's there. I'm not sort of super interested in a debate of is this real or not. So we are seeing more cases. It's definitely has strong genetic elements. I did a lot of heritability studies. Yeah, I know there's a I think he works also with twins with twins. We used monitors like autistic and said and dice like autistic these are twins who have different amounts of genetic sharing. But they each within a twin pair that to show the same amount of their common environment. You're able to do just that information. So no actual genes or genetic variants to take traits and take the overlap between behaviors and say how much of this is genetic environment. And ADHD came out as one of the most heritable traits. I think there's some mathematical issues in there. But it is heritable and I think it's also one of the child's definitions we have found the most robust evidence for which genes are playing into it. Tiny portion. But that makes me feel even more confident there's a genetic element. What about the nutrition aspect? In terms of ADHD, there's a lot of information out there that for example is a parent listening. And I've heard parents at my children's school say, I don't want to let my child have, I don't know, get rid because of the red dye or various food out of it. Have you heard those? I have heard those. I hear those. I'm lucky enough that people trust me to ask questions when I meet them in my daily life. Right. I'm lucky and I had someone text me and say, hey, my kid has ADHD. The medication is that we're going to, my son has ADHD. He also has lactose intolerance and that parent had put those two together and said, is it, do you have him off lactose? Because she knows when she's kind of to bring treats into class, sound scary, free. She keeps him off dairy because of his ADHD. And I was like, oh, that is actually a very separate issue. I'm very aware of those. Feel strongly. Scientists are interested in that. They can see a mechanism for that, a rational for thinking that. I've never known a study get very far with showing that. I think we have failed to find evidence that diet can significantly impact symptoms of ADHD. The place to go if you want to check out a hundred percent grass fed and grass-finished beef stick that are nutrient dense and clean, you want to go to Paleo Valley. Now, these beef sticks who doesn't love a good beef stick, they taste amazing. No added sugar, no artificial anything. They're fermented, which means they support your gut. They deliver more bioavailable nutrients and they have a long shelf life without the use of harmful additives. They've found one in my purse from when I was pregnant. I did not eat it, but that's still not the point. Paleo Valley has been sourced from regenerative farms here in the US, which is really important. We've got to support these farmers. It's like getting farmers of market quality delivered to your door. Go to PaleoValley.com-doctorline to get 15% off automatically. That's PaleoValley.com-doctorline, real food, real ingredients. I will tell you, people are always messaging me about what kind of foods that they can eat on the go and for kids. There are a whole host of beef sticks, there's chicken sticks, you name it, they have it, they are incredible and you will not be disappointed. That being said, I don't want to take away, I do hit parents. They will I took my child off this and they are doing fabulously. And I'm very respectful of that and if you could do that and that works for you, I'm not going to say that's wrong. I'm not going to say you didn't get that right. I was at a population level. If we wanted to shift that diagnostic percentage rat or we wanted to shift the customer environment, we have failed to find evidence that changing that. Do you think that we've looked, do you think that we have good enough clinical evidence have we been able to look at it in a meaningful way? Potentially? I think it's no, I don't think we have. I do I think we've struggled to do it in adults. I think we have to, we have to also remember adults have been studied much much longer. Mentor of the criticism about how we've devised our evidence was done on studies in adults. We also have to remember that ADHD is relatively new and interest in children and understanding that. What happens in childhood may impact that comes is also relatively new. What happens in childhood? Well, I think there was a sort of sense. I mean, obviously not among pediatricians and pediatric scientists, but child is sort of a discrete category rate and we didn't assess the diet. They just need to eat healthy and grow and it'll be fine and they're not getting diabetes. They're not getting heart disease. It's not so important. In fact, in the UK, Kate Middleton picked this up as her interest and had a campaign for a focus on the early years and a focus on the importance of those, which arose out of a concern that the country, as she saw it, was not focusing on those important years. So I think it's safe to say it has been overlooked. So there is a lot of potential to find things, find exciting things. Really figure out how to help kids. When you're looking at nutrition in your lab and nutrition genetics, what are some of it? So you'd mention that you're working on a study now looking at metabolites in children. Yes, you will be. Are there certain diets that you believe or feel that there's enough evidence for that we can say this is a good choice for kids? If you're prepared to make the leap that we can generalize from adults to children, which I think is reasonable, except that we don't study brain development. So that is a huge huge. It's pretty consistent across the literature that a Mediterranean diet as well. And how would you define a Mediterranean diet? Oh, my goodness. I'm going to go back to my coding of how I code it. So we are going to say high in pulses and whole grains high in low fat dairy high in high in low fat dairy. I mean, high in white meat, fish, fruits and vegetables, moderate in alcohol, which I don't think sadly for me is going to stick. That is pretty much unpicked fat. So if I did interesting that that never really made the headlines from the scientists know the meaning. I was like, not really like that. Yeah. I would not advise alcohol. I did drink alcohol. So, fair play. I think that will go into the no, no into added sugars and really whole foods, nothing crazy. Yeah, it is. I think the focus of the Mediterranean diet, which we do not assess well in our studies from the tools we use was the olive oil and the fats and the oils. And we have really not been able to look at that well, except in one intervention as a whole. I mean, there are some smaller randomized control trials. So under that caveat, I sort of look at it and I'm like, yeah, I mean, if I take someone with just sort of a little bit of interest and say, well the best diet is high in fish and white meat and pulses and whole grains and fruits and vegetables, they'll be like, what time is something I don't know. Right. And I'm like, I think it might be that simple. It's very hard to do from multiple reasons, but that might be 90% of your variants in nutrition can do run-out all the way. Maybe you run-out old a crucial lifespan if you're not a bodybuilder or an athlete, but facing a condition. You know, I think it's an interesting thought in terms of the Mediterranean diet because I've seen different Mediterranean style diets. And we know that in terms of, for example, iron deficiency in in children young adults, you know that that certainly is of concern and I know that the iron content and say white meat is a bit lower than a bit lower than red meat. And I really don't think any of our studies in which we can really draw these conclusions have got at, but a little bit of my soup sop box. The immense amount of privilege that go absolutely into being able to choose a diet like that. To choose, yes. A obtain, consume, and stop. I mean, all of that. And I really bothers me sometimes when I, you know, took people when I see people feel like I'm failing my job because I can't do this. And I'm like, I mean, come on, you're not failing. There's multiple other things. You're doing an amazing job to be here. I'll ask me these questions. And so the study I mentioned, one of my second and my top table, I'm like, study really looking at the effects. I got into because I said, I have, it just doesn't make sense to me that we demonize red meat. And we continue to do it now. We just continue to do it. And I'm going to be such a privilege to have it. Right. Other countries. And also though, for some people, some forms of on-person's meat can be affordable. They're palatable. They don't, everyone gets to, I didn't want my dinner. I get another one. You know? And I'll tell you a story. I presented the findings. I went to the American Society Nutrition two years ago. And I presented the study. And I said, basically, we didn't, what was the study? The study was to use just self-reported red meat intake, divide it into unprocessed and processed red meat, quantify their intake, identified by a marker in the blood that correlated with that, and see what the health effects of those might be. And it was to look at whether red meat increased information, which is a risk for how did ask it is. Is this the metabolites link intake over healthy diet? Is that the one to better answer? No, that's the miles one. It's a red meat in metabolomic study of red meat. Un-toggy-toothed metabolomic study of red meat can take something like that. In American Genomecline Conetration 2024. And essentially, I went into it because I was like, this should be a pretty healthy food, like all things in moderation, right? And I don't see the evidence we see in everything. Theological Studies playing out in controlled trials. Now that might happen for various reasons. So let's take a look. Let's take a look at sort of fascinating. Imagine eating the way we assess it, we get some idea of the fat content and so on. Like, fairly low fat, unprocessed protein. And the rates, the amount people were consuming is that these are slightly odd. It was not super high when I had a seven stakes for breakfast. Imagine showing that really affect your health, like, these are probably little into this. And we didn't find any association. We didn't, we didn't ever even go into analyses to say, it was healthy. We just said, we did not find this association with increased information. And we can tell you why, because we just mixed with other studies, some studies might. And I presented it at the ASL. And I'm like, and it was a blood bath. That is the only word I can use. I mean, wow. The audience got so angry at me. Someone stood up and criticized it for being a cross-sectional study, which is very fair. But all the other studies that session had been cross-sectional. Wow. Someone else just settled a stuff and finished with, I'm going to dedicate my career to proving you wrong. And I was like, I hope you can see it. Because I'm very happy. Were you? Was that a lie? And I think that brought home to me the effect of misinformation, the bias, and how it may not even, when I'm day-to-day being a scientist, just be out there, is like, okay, we should communicate more. We have a duty, we are funded by Texas to communicate more. But I do see my job as largely producing these results. So here. And so it was like, okay, the misinformation is causing problems down the line. And I was like, wow, it's around me. It's a base of, it was really shocking. But then, I was getting round two, is the motorway to actually help me out and cold it off. I was like, we're just going to add some move on. And you were surprised. I was like, what? I am so unprepared. Like I had no concept. And this is an academic meeting. This is ASS. It is. Yeah. I mean, I can't, not everyone is 100%. But for the most scientists, yes, this is where we're going. It's around. It used to be experimental biology and ASS combined, right? It was. It was, yes. And so I had people come up with me and really thank me for sharing that first reasons. And one that stopped with me. Sadly, I was getting in a cab for dinner, so I couldn't talk to her. She said, I'm a dietitian. And I have a lot of people come through my practice, the best recommendation. I can give them for what they will do. And what is achievable for them is to increase their red meat. And I'm not allowed to say it. I don't know about you, but I stop breastfeeding a long time ago. And I'm not talking about my kids. I'm talking about me and classroom, which is in the first of Mother's Milk. This is where good health starts. And that's why I've added Amra, classroom, to my diet. And I use it in my ice coffee. It is a whole food supplement packed with 400 bioactive nutrients like prebiotics, peptides. These compounds are amazing. They support digestion, optimized performance, help with all kinds of things. And Amra uses a unique technology to preserve these nutrients in their purest form. So you know what you are getting is actually what is on the label. This is one of the finest products that I have seen. I also love that they are third party tested. You can trust it. And we've got a special offer for you. So if you are struggling with your gut health or you want something extra and you don't want to breastfeed as an adult, get 15% off your first order at triamra.com. That's TRY-ARM-R-A.com slash Dr. Lyon and use the code Dr. Lyon at checkout. And I need this research. Would it be my top food if I could pick any food? No, that's just early. Who knows? But for these people, they can do that. And I can't. And so I've got where we got back around to like, what do we know? Yeah. You know, foods that you think are valuable for people, what we actually know, what is the best diet or individuals? Oh, you would have the like, wait, the red meat and the red meat. We have not because we really did the ice-up from it. Again, at the end of the day, I don't care what people eat. I care that they're healthy. There's a million different ways to get there. Wait, but if we are going to push in one direction and push a narrative that says go more plant-based, then we have to have signs to back that up and we don't have that. Right. And what I think is the science, if I felt comfortable saying what a recommendation would be, that would be a diet of both fruits and vegetables. We are not consuming of fruits and vegetables. The RDA for protein is very low. We need more nutrient-dense foods. The RDA is probably even the raw meat number. Right, it's probably an irrelevant number. And unfortunately, because of media, we are confused as a country, as a world. And so that's why I think it's important. And that's actually why I started the podcast. Is I wanted to have transparent conversations? Right. And we need scientists like you who, you're a career scientist. And you're getting up in front of ASN, which is some maybe non-scientists, but the majority of them are academics. Right. Yeah, absolutely. And that's to move into a landscape where there are a good scientist has nose their bias. Right. And they can put that aside to answer a question. And also a good scientist should know one study does not a recommendation make. Right. It was one study to say, hey, I think I might have to say this. We gotta replicate. We have to do a trap. Through all this stuff multiple times and to see that response is pretty shocking. Did that change the way you thought about doing research in the future? I mean, it had to be kind of in the back of your mind. Like, oh, do I want to, well, I mean, you're a pretty strong personality. So maybe you were like, you know what? I'm going to do more on that. And pretty much did. I got a little angry. Yeah. And again, you know, I can step back and say, you don't need to get angry at individuals. Maybe I can channel this feeling into productive science. But I, you know, I would talk to people and I talk to the Catholics who will work a association who will fund research if it's good and they're quite unbiased. I know how to extend this. We gotta do it again. Like, I'm interested. It did make me like a little like, it's hard not to take it also personally. When you go up in good faith and just say, I am reporting data and people are like, I mean, I didn't, I didn't even generate the data. You someone else's. Yeah. Happens all, but it happens. It does. It does. It does. People get very angry. You know, we did an episode talking about cycle sinking on the data behind that and whether someone wants to train around their menstrual cycles is total, I can appreciate feeling more fatigue all of these things. But we don't have the data to say that that is what is necessary and maybe eventually we will. But we don't have it at that time. And so, and I think it was important. Great. You said if people want to change around that. And I had you say that in some of your clips. And, you know, so I used to be a bodybuilder. I was interested in how just new menstrual cycles. I was going to compete when I got pregnant with my son. Wanted, but was quick, so great. I mean, by design. And so I was going to compete pregnant. I thought that'd be really cool. They don't have to win or just the experience. But I couldn't keep protein down. I was vomiting a lot a lot. I didn't. So I didn't lift and then I now do it. I now do it recreationally. I prioritize other things more than I would like to than heavy lifting. But I looked at the menstrual cycle in the training. Because if I'm really limited in my ability, and I was like, ah, the data are not there. And I was like, but you know what? Right? Before I am a little feel, I definitely have lower ability in number of reps. I can do because I track it religiously right around my cycle. There's no data to say that's any different. Right? You should always, in the style of lifting. I do go to failure pretty much. Have your rest. Do your rip. And then if you can do more, you're not doing it right. So. And so, as I, you know what, though, I'm kind of tired and right before. I don't really want to push myself out. And that's fine. Right? That's a very, as a good choice to make. Right? So decoupling that need for data to say something we want. We don't have to weaken one and recognize other constraints or other pressures or other drivers of our lifestyle. And so, you know, I go into that. I feel tired. Yeah. And it doesn't have to be a data driver. You can be driven. You can be driven. There's a problem that we feel like now it has to get it soon. Right? No. I think that that's right on. Your work on brain function. So there's one, you know, you've actually published quite a bit. This one, so this was in obesity society, cognitive performance in BMI and childhood. The shared genetic influences between reaction time but not response inhibition. Can you share a little bit about this study in our eye? Can you just provide a background? Is that this study provides this was the first direct evidence of shared genetic factors between slower reaction time and higher BMI and children? Okay. Yeah. And the great thing is we replicated that study in an independent sample. So, you know, so we do see that cognitive abilities associated with the tension deficit and high-pructivity disorder. So I think the best way to explain it that's also scientific is challenges with self-regulation. You know, my PhD did a lot of looking at how cognitive self-regulation actually gave rise to what we see as high-pructivity and possibility. And people at the centre of the time were pushing forward research that has really stood the test of time that children with ADHD don't necessarily have a lower performance. It's just much more variable. And so we have this concept of self-regulation and cognitive regulation how you regulate your attention, how consistently can you pay attention? Can you plan, can you organize those sorts of facets of cognition? And we do find that children with obesity also have lower schools in those. And I was fascinated why can we show this and demonstrate it and then what does that mean? Either for the e-tology of obesity, maybe they're having trouble self-regulating their food to take or maybe it's a consequence of obesity in which case perhaps there are population we can give more support to. Maybe it's both. Probably about, right? But the problem is correlating those two, even longer, you cannot dramatically increase a child to obesity and see what happens. They're cognitive development. There's not a lot we have learned how to do to meaningfully and stably change people's cognitive self-regulation yet and that is largely genetic or, ah, or is it both? Probably you have a good genetic potential but the environment can be huge. I always tell people that one of the most heritable child cognitive abilities is reading a ability, bring a child up without books they're not going to be able to read. So you cannot that right out the water with the environment, right? Now it's extreme. But so, you know, I really wanted to look at, because the correlation between those abilities and increased BMI, words and in best correlation, right? Lower abilities, high BMI. Lower cognitive ability. Yeah, lower ability. Yeah, lower ability. Suffering, you eat. Yeah. So you know, that was a project that I worked on in my postdoc at Witton. Oh, really? Yeah, we never ended up publishing it but we looked at body composition, brain function under FMI. There you go. I saw the higher the BMI and actually the higher the waistline, the lower the brain volume and the lower the cognitive restraints and various markers from like the strupestings like that. I think that is a beautiful example of what I was trying to do to which is, okay, we see an association on an investment association. Can we provide a little bit hotter evidence? Right, but it's not just, they didn't test so well or it. And so you use brain imaging. I didn't have that option. I use genetics. If I can find genes at driving these, I mean, that's pretty amazing. Yeah, that's probably even more valuable. Oh, so they're the combination of all of it. So that was what we found is that this association, these two domains, the BMI, that Michael, that physical domain and that mental domain, the cognitive domain, shared genetics. And what I took from that is they really are interlinked. They are meaningful for each other. It's not an artifact. And this is the meaningful relationship. It is BMI and is it fair to say cognitive performance? Yes, yes, that would be very accurate on specific tests that we give. And so the reaction time is just the precise metric of a broader self-regulation test given to the children. Also, there was one finding here, again, this may have been in the discussion, that this might help explain why disorders like ADHD are linked to obesity as a true. It is true. Which would, is there a, you know, it's interesting? Is it a bidirectional relationship? Does ADHD? So would, would obesity drive ADHD and vice versa? My understanding we've never studied that specifically is that obesity can impact behavior in the ADHD direction. Can you know, lowest African? I don't think it could push it over the threshold. It does seem that ADHD can push over into the threshold of obesity, which I think is probably linked to it occurring over time. But there's really interesting study designs that provide strong evidence that ADHD increases the risk of obesity. One of the sponsors of the show are place is a key to that. Now, many of us still use non-stick cookware and if I come to your house, I guarantee I will be rating your cabinets to throw them out because non-stick contains harmful chemicals, like Teflon, PFAS. We've all heard about this. They leach into food and if I could go back in time, I would change out my cookware. But it's never too late to start to make better choices now and in our house, we use our place, which is a toxin-free, high-performance cookware and appliances designed for safer, simpler use. And by the way, they don't kill your aesthetic of your home. They look amazing. None of the cookware has forever chemicals in it. It is worth it if you change one thing, change your cookware. And if you're wondering, all right, Doc, what should I try first? Well, they have a four-piece cookware set, which saves you 150 bucks. You can start there, throw out the rest, stop cooking with toxic cookware and upgrade to our place today. Visit from our place that's FROM-O-U-R-P-L-A-C-E.com. So, use the code, Dr. Lyon, for 10% off, site-wide. And you have a free 100-day risk-free trial. Free shipping and returns, so you can experience quality cookware. How young is then to young to think of what brain health? Navituyang. But a four-piece set is not too young. I think that's right on. And then what about this idea of reversal of cognitive decline or watching cognitive decline throughout life's challenges? Do you think that there is an influencer? I think we would like there to be. We are keen to study and find out if that can be done. We haven't shown that yet. I do think there is enough to say that lifestyle changes could certainly delay on set. It could certainly, if there is on set, I'm going to help the body, which can get a lot more things functioning better. I think what we're talking about here is I think diet and lifestyle may be good and prevent cognitive decline. Once that process is starting, I'm not sure, but I think we've icy no reason to say we can't slow it. I really don't. And what is actually cognitive decline versus at the brain level versus someone functioning in the real world? There actually are quite different. What do you mean by that? That's fascinating. Coordination. Not falling. Let's say you said to me, well, we have looked and we can actually trace that. Alzheimer's we are tracing, right, the biomarkers in the brain that accumulate like talents on. But cognitive decline, if we could map it physiologically and I can tell you that exercise doesn't change those. I would say, but it can do health. It can give you social support. It can give you structure. It can increase your function. It can give you coordination. It can prevent falls. It can prevent failty. Like frailty. Sorry. It's a little simplistic to say it has to operate almost at the disease level to say it's not going to help and enhance the lives of people that we're trying to help and improve. Maybe the cognitive, maybe you can't reverse the biology of cognitive decline. I think there's a good chance to count, but if you can't, I wouldn't give up on lifestyle yet. Yeah, of course not because then you are just doing nothing. You're letting life happen to you. And we know when health is not maintained or at least there's not attention to it, then we know where that goes. You look at groups. You do the research. You don't do clinical practice. I think it's important to mention that individuals that are interpreting the science, say someone who is a science communicator or an influencer or something like that might take a study and say, if you will. This is what this study showed and then this is how we can apply it. Do you want to just mention a little bit about how we can think about studies and then the interpretation of data and how that can direct or not direct or influence our choices? Sure. I think the biggest take home is if you're reading a science communication being a myth, never go off one study, ever ever ever ever ever. I can show you studies that say smoking does not cause lung cancer. Now, for all sorts of reasons, the one being that one of the reasons we study a lot of people and we have probability statistics is you can get the wrong finding by chance. So when you think about that, but I could show you that. I could show you, you know, studies that say parenting doesn't matter, which just common sense. We're not going to go there. Don't ever go off one study. That's where I think we go wrong. I'm not saying people have a time to do this. It's a body of evidence and there will be it leaning in one direction. But I can tell you that even some of the most strong findings we have, every so often a scientist is like, I'm going to see if I can repress. Maybe I didn't wrong. Yeah, like, and it's harder to get that one. We don't want lots of just repetitive stuff, but it is that strong. So don't go off one. I'm sure all listeners know, it does make sense looking at biases. You can be a very good scientist and have something to sell. Right? Absolutely. But that is, again, I wouldn't go off one facet from anyone article. It's just, you know, it's sunk. Just know that it's always more complicated. And when you said we like tough conversations, I wanted to say yes. It sucks for public health, but it's a conversation. It is. It's a conversation. You know, this idea of precision nutrition. The metabolism is conversation is very interesting. Can you share a little bit about the idea of diet and nutrition and the metabolomics in the body, just to explain to people what that is, what that breaks down to be. Yeah. So, you know, we eat our food. It goes into our stomach. It gets broken down. We're in our intestines. As it's broken down into small molecules, those are absorbed. And that's really the first time that the food is yeting into our bodies. Like a drug, right? That might affect our health. So like, I don't think the process of taking an aspirin for a headache is different than anything in Apple. So we know what we can picture an aspirin being broken down and getting into our bloodstream, same with our food. And so what I use metabolomics for is try to pick that up. What is just passed through. You won't see an apple in there. What will you see? And the most striking finding is that if associations between food x and health y are there, the association between the metabolite that comes from food x and outcome y are just unbelievably strong. And that is what I think is so fascinating. Do people have the same metabolomics? If I eat an apple and you eat an apple, do the metabolomics from what we know? Do they show up the same? So these are, in my mind, these are the bioactive compounds. And obviously, please correct me where I'm wrong. In my mind, these are the, this is the food matrix. Then we eat protein carbohydrates fats. We have vitamins and minerals, but there are compounds that these then become, whether it's in the gut microbiome or in the bloodstream, however, and that they are different for me and that they are for you, even if we're eating the same food. So there are some, I don't think there will ever be anything that's 100% universal. Right. I mean, we find people genuine allergy to water. Right. There's anomalies where we cannot count on human physiology. There are some that are probably old but damn it. You know, universal. We probably will see people having different amounts after the same food didn't take rate, which makes sense. That's right. That's right. That's right. And I do have some early evidence that there are some molecules that some people who report eating the same foods based on, in this case, whether they have diabetes or not, we just don't see an association between that molecule on that food. So I think there is early evidence that was a lot universal with some differing levels of association. There may be some unique associations there. So for example, in my mind, if I were to think about an example, I eat a pomegranate and through the process of digestion, it creates a postbiotic uralithinate. 30% of people can make that while the rest of us can't. Great. Would that be an example of something like a metabolite or a measurement? Absolutely. And those examples are more commonly than we think. There's a set of genes that metabolize linelac acid and people with a certain variance on a lot of these cluster of genes don't make certain, such as fernases. So we see that in, you know, that's such a much better example. I'm going to use that example I give is sometimes in my 20s and I've moved out of home. And I, before I realized I was a phrypto's intolerant, although this should have any sign. That's interesting. Are you sure? I mean, I had the chance. But what if you have a small test and I'll let you overgrowth? Well, it's possible. But I don't have any other symptoms. I don't have any bloating. I don't have any. I don't have any. Nope. Okay. My one is pretty rock star on that front. But you know, so I had eaten watermelon, delicious. And gone to the bathroom and it had come out whole. And I was like, I'm dying. This is I am dying. Oh, my mother. I'm telling you, I don't know what is it. She's like, oh, no, fruits always gone straight. Are you like, we never had a fruit. Right? Like, and she's like, oh, yeah, no. And was funny is, I mentioned it. You're slated to my then ex-fiance saying. He was like, oh, yeah, you could never eat strawberries. Like, what do you mean I could never eat strawberries? I was always eating them. And he was like, be yours. I'm comfortable and so on and put it together. But what I would say is pretty sure my buddy did not get any metabolite. I mean, it was just going straight through. That's a good example. I mean, that's a good example with this is an interpersonal variability. Would that mean that certain foods would be better for certain people? Do you think that? Yeah. I mean, that would be extraordinary if we could say, all right, here is your metabolomic profile, you need x, y and z. I mean, I don't know if we'll ever get there because of the breakdown of whatever you're looking at. I think it impact myocondrial. I probably most likely will look like a clinical profile and say, because of this, you need these foods and it was metabolites that told us that. Because this group do not get this metabolite, this group do, this get more or less. That kind of thing. But that is one of the passion projects that like, unbelievably, it sounds to me so again obvious. When you ask the question, can you just explain, what is the thing between diet and metabolites? And I'm telling you, I'm my grants, I get that over time and it just sort of foxes me and I'm like, it might be an English expression, confused me. Because it's very obvious to me and it seems very obvious that there is right there precision health. It doesn't seem obvious to me that following that for precision health will lead to clinical level changes in health outcomes. I think it could very likely, but we haven't shown that, right? But the idea that, actually, between people and sometimes with inner person, like, at different points in their life, maybe even different points of the day, maybe what else they've eaten, what is arising in their body after they're intake. One of the most overlooked aspects of health is addressing mitochondrial health. And that's really where all the energy starts and that's frankly, I believe we're aging starts and mitochondria in skeletal muscle is, I think, really a focal point. And this is why I love and have been using mitochondria forever. They also just release their gummies which are amazing. You might see me just throwing them in my mouth. But here's why. mitochondrial health is actually a post-biotic. It's a post-biotic. You're a little bit in a, and it works by promoting essential cellular cleanup. It clears out old dysfunctional mitochondria, which is really everywhere. mitochondria is everywhere in the body and it is critical to maintain the way that you feel just in general. And from my perspective, although I focus on muscle health, mitochondrial health and youralithin A affects the body in all aspects from brain to joint health, from immune health, we're going to start to see more. One of the tremendous things about timeline, this company, which I really, really believe in, is that they focus on the evidence first. There's a lot of different choices for supplements out there, but I will say that timeline does it differently than anybody else. And timeline is offering 10% off your order of mitochondria. Go to timeline.com slash lion. If you want to have more energy, more endurance, better brain function, better immunity, and better mitochondria. I'm just amazed, that's not like obvious. Yeah, I think it's just a really great perspective. You'd imagine something that I think is fascinating. Are there certain groups that don't show various metabolites? Not that I know of. For example, if you have obesity, then you can see that there are a lot of things that are not going to be in the metabolites. Not that I know of. For example, if you have obesity, then you might be, again, I don't want to see deficient because we don't even know what the recommend. We don't know what a baseline need for a metabolite is. Right. Right. No, we don't even know how they transient, how much they stick around. They may not be a good, you don't have this metabolite, and it may be like the metabolite we indicate you're not getting what you need on that pathway, right? That starts with genetics and your lifestyle, and then you put the food in, and you come out at a health outcome, they're like the mediating picture. They're like the brain MRI between the BMI and the cognitive performance in your study. Do you think there could become clinical targets because the mild study, do you want to share a little bit about the mild study? Sure. We had about 300 US participants. We excluded people with type 2 diabetes because we were looking at progression to diabetes in the study, and they also had to do an oral glucose tolerance test three times worse. The worst. I'm telling anyone when he's had a kid like you're putting this in your study and they're like, no, don't do it. So part of that study, which was really to look at how the microbiome influences can be a good version of the brain. Oh, mate, prevent conversion of diabetes. We did collect a lot of information on what they ate. We gave them a pretty validated food frequency question at their horrible. I know. Yes. They did. The Dave Clarefeld was just on here talking about how terrible they were. My director will just sometimes randomly run to me about them. And then you know what, you want to give me enough money to do 24 hours of recalant objective measures of a set. Bring it on, I'd love it. I also, slightly here. He was once like trying to educate me very passionate. And I was like, Danny, I don't disagree. Right. But there are some things we know. I think we know whole grains, you need protein. And they're all substantiated by a very vast number of studies that use, like nutrition epidemiology for all its sins. Like a study shouldn't be taken in isolation. An athlete should not be taken in isolation. We've got pretty far. We know some stuff. And he looked at me and he went, you know, like he. They're awesome remarkably concordant and effective findings. I'm just nervous of how we get there. That is fair. That is fair. So we gave them a food frequency questionnaire, assessed their metabolites. More related, the patent of metabolites with their dietary patterns. Spoiler alert, all the healthy dietary patterns were good. None was better than the other. And then we looked at, did those metabolites influence ability to control your blood sugar on the oral glucose tolerance test? But did you guys control for everything diet before we were going to assess their habitual diet? And then they came in and we had a fasted, yeah, a tabloom, a panel. And we got their glucose at the fasting and we get off to a 2,000-sauans. And we found that, yeah, all good diet. You eat a, a, a, a, a, a, a metatries, the higher you are adhering to the recommended Mediterranean style diet, the USDA guidelines plug for my plug for my set of employers there. I was also the dash diet. The diet you approach is to hypertension. The metabolites associated with adherence are strongly associated with metatry glucose control, suggesting they may reduce diabetes risk. Do you think that, um, do we know if processed foods have, um, I love, I love the protein. I'm so hot. I love the face of which means I'm asking a good question. Can you share a little bit about your thoughts on processed foods and maybe how that is impacting? Well, why don't you start with your thoughts on processed foods just because you made that face. So that means that, yeah, this is a, this is a good question. This is terrible. Um, my thoughts on processed foods are that they are typically affordable, available and palatable. And we have to stop from that point. We have an entire nation to feed. If they are unhealthy, that doesn't mean we shouldn't find that. We need to know, but we have to count it in those terms about elimination. I think it depends on how you define processed foods. And I don't mean that, you know, I review a lot of studies. People have come up with definitions. It's this million we've got certain stages. But the concept of a processed food is so diverse. Right? If I make spaghetti bolognese by hand, or maybe I pick something like lentil bolognese, I would never think lentils. I don't like them. You know, is it processed? Right? I've all done it. I mix things. I've added things. May I reluctantly admit there is emerging consistency to evidence that processed foods may not be the best for health. Or is it the amount? The amount? Oh, it's like everything is the amount. Right. There's a side of bacteria. And so on, there's nothing you eat that's going to kill you tomorrow. Right. I'm going to give you diabetes tomorrow. Which I think is the problem, right? Right. I think about it. There's so much flexibility in what we're eating and how our lifestyles are. For example, sarcopenia doesn't happen in a day. Right. None of it does. Right. And you've got to maintain it, which was my interest in self-regulation. If your goal directed behavior is 50 years in the future, how do you go towards that? Um, and weight loss and weight maintenance, very different things, right? Because of that. And you, that's what Jim Hellisauce. Yes. He was amazing. Right. Are you going for a goal or not and once your feedback and wants the psychology around that? I did find very interesting. You described this metabolite summary score as a more biological meaningful tool. Do you feel kind of, I mean, that was just so interesting. So basically, the work in metabolites that you're doing, it's really fascinating. And I, again, I think it's kind of the way the future, because now we're looking beyond just proteins, carbohydrates and fats, but we're looking at, okay. So you eat this car, but then the breakdown is what actually, and what is the gut microbiome doing within a house of adapting? Yeah. That is novel. I don't know if novel. It's just very thoughtful. So what is this, as, as? Um, actually, it's just basically, if I took those bioactive compounds associated with a certain dietary intake and I summed them up, you've got a score. Because looking at, you know, we found hundreds of metabolites associated with a dietary pattern, which one would expect from a very complex diet you learn, right? Looking at them individually, this does not give us a clear direction to follow. Yeah, that's actually, that's a really good point. And maybe do you think it's a reductionist way of saying, okay, so eat this apple because the apple is going to be good. But is it the inner play between, I don't know, fruits, vegetables, fibers, proteins? I think so. I think the metabolomic profile you get for many of you depends what you eat it with. I mean, I did look for really strong evidence of that in fun, but we do know, you can change the glycemic load of a meal, right, by changing what you eat with certain foods. You can add some fat to your sugar. It will be digested slowly and you'll have a different insulin response. That's just the same, really, different biological systems as the metabolites. So I think they do interact. And I think that's a really complicated piece of looking at nutrition is we need to know what individual foods might have the potential to do or not do, but it depends on how they're eaten. And maybe how they're prepared, which brings in the processed issue. What are you most excited about that you're working on right now? I would be, well, I'm very excited about the ability to maybe characterize the metatolome of people with pre-diabetes. It's not just a very good thing to be right in some deep analyses. And we have maybe been way more successful than I ever hoped at being able to discriminate between without knowing what their status is, discriminate between them. Maybe taking that forward, I'm just really fascinated by what changes the effects of food on your body. So maybe theta night does, right? In that sense, I'm like, didn't we all go out drinking alcohol when we were 19? Go to bed at 2am. Wake up at 7, I'm hit those glasses. Now that is not happening. Something physiological has drive that behavior response to that healing response to alcohol. So we can change within ourselves too. And I think even just, I'm probably less at the implementation end of the going, okay, now I'm going to figure out morning and night. I'm more of the, like, can I demonstrate that convincingly that we need to be thinking about groups of people who are fundamentally and the same person responding differently, perhaps across their lifestyle, perhaps, on whether they develop diabetes or not, perhaps time of day is acudient. Can I demonstrate that we're bustling and repeatedly in a compelling way that other scientists could really take that forward for public health? Which is really meaningful work. You know, you think about these early life behaviors, do you think that there is a relationship between early life behaviors that track with aging? It's a really good question. You know, had a heads up, this might come up and I thought about it. And we do see the tracking of some behaviors right across the lifespan. I just don't, I don't believe anything is immutable. And you know, on the two AM, drinking my help conversations, it always comes out like, just so optimistic. Right? Like, everyone can be, everyone has worth and value, read sort of the same thing, right? Not that what we eat and whether we actually just think to or whether about a tool. But, I do, every moment you put your body in a healthy physiological state is better than every moment. It's receiving a health, it has a chance to use the word insult. Right? We will always have, we ate the cake, whatever we want to drank the mug or eat it. And I think never did that. I don't believe you anymore. I think we have a sense that it's that repeatedly, rate over time and the views are going to state. And so, of course, childhood is part of that. Children are, you know, I worked in infant cognition for a while as well because I wanted to demonstrate how complex infants are with their, how much they could do and see and understand. I believe it's fundamentally important to treat an infant like with the respect you would treat an adult. Right? So, unless you're saving their life, I was not a big fan of just moving kids who are in the way. But you never did that, you were not, I mean, I mean, you pushed me out the way we're going to have words, right? Do not cross her. That's right. And so, in a framework of like, this time is really important. You may also, it's a great time to set up some behaviors and some trajectories. And the nice thing about childhood is that care give up, whatever that is is you've got a wonderful enriched opportunity in which they're all eyes and all ears to share something. Right? You think it's helpful and beneficial. I don't think we know fully how far that carries, but it's almost unethical. Not to do that, right? Right? And then, I believe that what the things I care about in parenting my children, keep some healthy now, we'll set them up for success and impact their health trajectory. Can I show you a convincing study on that? No, not yet. No, yeah, not yet. Do you think that you looked at the increase in screen time? Have you been looking at that? And yeah, some kind of influence on brain development. So we have someone at the sort of decision research center who's a developed more objective measures. Screen time and they've decided about it, I said, then they wanted to write some studies around that. And I lead with two other wonderful colleagues, a study that looks at, it looks at ostensibly the amount of screen time, self-regulation and BMI, and does screen time decrease self-regulation. And it would be a minus that one of the pathways by which screen time may be associated with increased obesity risk. My personal interest is can we alter that? Which is more, that it's not? There is definitely an association between screen time and lower self-regulation and high BMI. Is it causal? We don't know. That association is there. Can we alter it? And so I'm very interested today, I think about, for my developmental psychology, parenting rate. And the model we give parents for the ideal general parenting, set boundaries, model good behavior, maintain those boundaries flexibly responding to the needs of the child. And in a club, it's not going to be respectful. So don't coerce them. Collier Mindshower, he's took that framework and applied it to food parenting. And said, today, that just about seems to be our best population advice. Set up a healthy food environment. Model good food babysitter, set boundaries for your children, and help them stay within those boundaries in a flexible and responsive way. I as a parent realize I did exactly the opposite of the screens. Right? I think we all understand food should not be used as a reward. Or a punishment rate. How often do we say, well, if I probably said yes today, if you read for an hour, you can have 20 minutes screen time. And I'm like, maybe the parenting around the screen time is part of the problem. And I think about when we look about parenting around emotions and emotions self-regulation, you want to give your child a safe space to express those emotions. And your role as a parent is to help shape what they do with them. How do they down regulate and unpleasant emotion without hitting something? Or the tantrum that we see, L, you're very developing a program. So what did I use to say to my kids? I won. So when it's 12-18, when eight-year-old was coming to three and was allowed an iPad, my goodness. Like I remember the name of the name. She went to cry when her time was up. And I was like, Sam, what happens if you cry over electronics and he parative? If you cry over electronics, you don't get them for a week. And he was quite happy with it, but I was like, man, that is horrible parenting. Like you're like blunting their emotional response and not allowing them to deal with it. And it got me thinking like, but maybe he was dealing with it. Well, I don't know. I mean, you know, it was like don't cry in front of me. I say, go away. Who knows if they're dealing with it, hopefully. Or if they're, you know, it's not about talking about it and saying, how do you down regulate this healthy? I was like, I don't want to hear it. And I also then, you know, when we talk about fostering good self-regulation in the home, and good cognitive development, it's a lot of like asking kids about their day, doing things with them, helping them problem solve in a way that it's not that is autonomy promoting. I know that kind of thing like, hmm, that's a lovely break house you built. Do you think it would look nice with a chimney? What else could you add to it? Let's stuff, right? Because you did earn your peachy and part-in psychiatry. Right, development psychology, yes. Yeah. I mean, that is a lot of stuff. I have two very... Fast- different lines that I'm trying to bring together, with chalky, trisha, metabolomics, and combative development. Right, bring that in. Do you think there is a unifying statement that, and again, I understand, as a scientist, you probably don't like unifying statements in terms of, I mean, because good scientists always say, well, potentially we might see this, but we're just so fun at party. Right. I actually have a feeling you're very popular parties, but had nothing to do with the Margarita or the burpees before. But what do you feel comfortable? Maybe it isn't proven yet, but are there a few things that you truly believe are related to, say, the positive development of our children? Sure. I do. I believe modeling could behave, which can be really hard, definitely. Even sometimes, over-model-an, talking about it, so when I'm very upset, I'll say, I am upset. I don't know how to do this emotion. I wouldn't say to an adult, right? So the kids can see that, right? Modeling, good modeling. I think, again, setting boundaries. How would you define setting boundaries? Oh, I mean, it could be bedtime as this time. Right. It could be, we don't speak to people like that. It could be, you always say, please. You know, you always say, thank you. When you have someone who hasn't used you, so still, in my preteen, I will hand something, and if you don't say, thank you, just hold onto it. You know, and you love, say, thanks, Mom. So setting those, they're cool boundaries, but I guess you could call them goals, you could call them behaviors, and consistently modeling them, and adhering to them, but being responsive and flexible. You know, the child has changing needs. Maybe those behaviors are boundaries need to change. Maybe the extent you hold them to that standard needs to change. I think that is really key, and I also think, treating children like adults and talking to them and explaining, they can understand, they can understand. And if they don't, they'll get there. They'll get there. They'll take. I mean, the human, are you studying child cognition and cognitive development? I am blown away by the complexity, and I want to say the word adaptivity, how adaptive it is. So it will take what they need, and I'll say it in, and just, get rid of the rest. I mean, we're all struggling with information overload. We struggle going back to tick talk as a nutrition, because what, why don't I want to believe, which is a reasonable concern. To an, a side of that, or face with this information, I've allowed it in there. So good at what I'm going to take this thing. This is what I need right now. I'm going to build on it as phenomenal. I think, you know, the future is obviously this younger generation. And if we can get it right for them, yeah, in terms of nutrition, behaviors, modeling, and I definitely believe that all of that starts, I'm not a professional child reerer, but I do have to. The things that you're saying make a lot of sense, and if I were to take away from all of the things that you talked about, it is good modeling. An appropriate diet could be different for everybody, whether you can afford luxury foods or not, but really thinking about, yeah, how do we pattern a matter-terranean style diet, which makes tons of sense, and that there's this level of inter-individual variability from a tabloid McSdam point, and don't get your information off to talk. But you don't want to think what I find kids really respond well too, because I often I go into schools, you know, and the things is telling them at the food level, they set up what your values are and why. Why you believe in a healthy diet? And almost letting them make their own, I mean, you can't just let them make their interest in the diet. We do that, actually. Right. We do that. And I took to my kids a lot about why I ate a healthy diet, and what it can do. And it's more I set the values up here. Now, my pun is very different. He's very focused on the behavior, and we've had a good coming together, like, hey, there's a middle, they are a little. Let's not let them make too many health mistakes. He did when my daughter was three, and I was like, sir, the healthy meal. We don't serve anything else. But it is their choice if he did, because I wouldn't force an adult to eat, and then there's healthy food else. Why? And he said, Becky, your three-year-old has had candy for dinner for three nights straight, and I was like, you know, maybe that's a little bit. We did it like that. That was a little bit much of a little more. A little bit more. But yes, I would say, absolutely all of that. And watch this space, because I think I would like to think we're on the brink of being able to at least quantify and demonstrate the importance and the power precision nutrition that would be extraordinary. I would be amazing to be able to say, I mean, I would do it at a population level, but there was no reason if we did it well, and you had the time, you could go have to do it. Feed you stuff, they'll look at it, you know, in your own clinic, and figure it out on that level, which is just huge. Yeah, super exciting. Well, Dr. Alexis Wood, I'm sorry, Becky. Becky Wood, you are a joy, unusual for a scientist, very robust. Robust and extremely well-educated in your doing tremendous work. I am so grateful that you were willing to spend the time with me. Thank you so much. Well, thank you so much. That's really kind of. Thank you. If this episode challenged what you thought you knew about food and health, share it with someone who deserves better. Then fear, base nutrition and confusion. If you are hungry, four more truth, tap that subscribe button.

What would you say to someone who is afraid of dying? Not much. A son of my mom. Her eyes were so afraid. So I decided when I saw her eyes in the end of her life that I was not going to be afraid of that. My guest is Elena Brower, bestselling author, poet, meditation teacher, hospice volunteer and now a candidate for Buddhist chaplaincy. The letting go is the whole practice. Letting go of the body, letting go of the mind, letting go of the attachments to the people that you love. It's so hard. I see how hard it is. Her new book, Hold Nothing, is a guide to living fully as a practice with clarity and respect. Very few people would actively go to seek out helping someone die wow. And so many people are dying alone. I am speechless that you are here. In my life, I have learned so much from you and to have you on the show to share your experience with the world. In a world where we are spending billions of dollars trying to live longer and escape death, which it's something nobody gets out of. We spend very little time and very little energy thinking about the end. I've only just become more comfortable with it since my mom died. That was about eight years ago now. None of us actually really consider what it means to die well. We're very few of us anyway. And I've discovered that this is one of the things that I can do in this world. Yeah, is to help people live well. And so that they can die well. In full transparency, there are a handful of people that I really go to in my life. And you and James, you're on that very short list. I sent you a text and you responded with this. And this is the five remembrances. I am of the nature to grow old. There is no way to escape growing old. I am of the nature to have ill health. There is no way to escape having ill health. I'm of the nature to die. There is no way to escape death. All that is dear to me. And everyone I love are of the nature to change. There is no way to escape being separated from them. And finally, my actions are my only true belongings. My actions are the ground upon which I stand. And there is no way to escape the consequences of my actions. How can we think about and live well with such intense impermanence? I think the way that we live well is by keeping all of this in mind. It's not to kind of, yeah, that's coming later. Some other time. I just experienced learning news of a kid who was 15 who died in a very sudden accident, very unexpectedly. And that could happen any day. And I have been, I don't know for the last five, ten years, even more. I think about what it would be like if today were the day that somebody came knocking or calling and saying, your son or your partner, you know, has died. And of course, we may look at that and think, well, how morbid, how ridiculous. When actually, it's one of those things that keeps me living very intentionally and carefully my life without a lot of ranker, without a lot of dread. I'm ready. And I'm going to enjoy this day. I'm going to enjoy this moment. Looking at you, I can't even believe the road that we've traveled years, many, many years, many years, probably many, many lifetimes. Many lifetimes, many moments, together, keeping these five remembrances, which by the way, of thousands of years old from the Angotara, Suta and Suta, Suta, um, Tick-Nod Han did that translation. And I learned it from people like Roche Joan Halifax, Frank Oster Sueski, that people who take the time to share what it means to really serve what it means to sit at the bedside of people who are dying, what it means to serve people who are in penitentiary, who have, you know, very few resources for healing. And I keep those remembrances close because it helps me live my life to the fullest and do my service in all of those realms to the fullest. When I was in Gerry Atrix, and again, you and I do, we speak a lot about death, and I struggle with the idea of it, especially with two little children, um, four and five, and when I went through Gerry Atrix training, there was a, it was full of death. Yeah, there were two kinds of physicians, I would say. There was, on one hand, the physician that they were, this is what they were doing. They were hospice, doctors, they were seemingly unafaced, perhaps they were accepting. And then I think that there were doctors like me that were afraid and felt very vulnerable to that, seeing it. Lockword, it didn't feel inspiring, it felt, I couldn't wrap my head around it, terrifying. Yeah, terrifying. Yeah, that's how it was for me. At first, I don't know why. I was called to this hospice volunteer training, and I took it. It was a full weekend. You know, I don't know, 16 and 17 hours. And I then started volunteering in hospice. This was several years ago, and I walked in the first few times, and I was so afraid. I was so, I just, it was so awkward. I didn't know what to do, and I just went in and did whatever I was asked to do. And this is a local hospice, and the town where I live and five beds, it's not profit. So we're doing everything. You know, I learned a bunch of rules. You could never hand a patient, medication, I learned all these rules. I follow them myself. But in this kind of a place, it's like anything goes. Everyone is there to die. When I see somebody being wheeled in, I know this is, this is the last stop for them. And it's beautiful. And I have to practice not knowing how this is going to go. I have to practice not trying to make things perfect for this patient or this family. And I have to just remember, life and death are very close to each other. What can I do today to make things easier? It may be it's dishes, maybe it's changing a patient's, you know, basically diaper. Maybe it's helping to serve them a beautiful lunch on a beautiful tray with a little flower. Maybe it's just cleaning the room. Is there an active death process? That it just feels and sounds intense. And I can speak for myself. And I can speak for you. It's listening or watching. Very few people would actively go to seek out helping someone die well. And so many people are dying alone. What are the risks of not being aware of our own fragility? Now, I don't see it that much in the hospice because these people know that they're coming to die and they're ready there in a state of relative acceptance. Some of them are even choosing medical assistance in death, which is legal in the state where we are. But when you keep life and death very close, you know that you have this very sort of sacred secret teacher, death. I'm going to keep you really awake and aware. So what's happening? When you try and sort of keep it at a distance, there is a level of fear that pervades everything. And it's so frustrating for folks because they can't let go in the whole practice. As far as I can see in my very humble and very limited experience of three years, it's not long, but I'm committed to this for the rest of my life. Those folks really struggle and it's hard to watch. And it's the letting go is the whole practice letting go of the body letting go of the line. Letting go of the attachment to the people that you love. It's so hard. I see how hard it is. Some of my mom, our eyes were so afraid. Yeah, so I decided when I saw her eyes in the end of her life that I was not going to be afraid of that. My question was going to be, why not just wait? Why not wait and towards the end? Be afraid and be afraid for a moment and avoid it. And what I'm hearing you say, it's probably where the title of your new book comes from, hold nothing, likely a different way to do it. And this is an invitation to let go and come home to yourself. I'm committed to this. I'm committed to offering what I know as I learn it about this. It's very, very brief to day by day, imagine what it would feel like if this were your last day. This was my last day. I think we did okay. The kids fell, sleep on me last night. We had the best time with Jane. I mean, okay. Every single day now, because of the presence of this death is like in the marrow of everything that we do, we know this. Because of it, I am really conscious about how I'm approaching everything. If you're listening or watching and you're thinking about this and how uncomfortable it is, what if you were to picture that today is your last day or God forbid, you just got a really harrowing diagnosis. Who are you choosing to put by your side now? You're better be cultivating that friendship or those friendships. Keep those connections alive. I was talking to Sierra Campbell, my friend who founded nurture. This is her job. She helps folks die. It's her full-time job. And she said, make sure that you talk about connections, the people who you keep close now in this life, and who you would choose if you were going to die soon. Who, whom, would you choose to be there? You know, you're one of my people for sure. But that's what that's our task. Think about that, cultivate those friendships. Keep those connections alive. It's wise and uncomfortable. Yeah. I wanted to take a moment to let you know about something new we've created. It's called Forever Strong Insider. And it's the premium subscription to the Dr. Gabriel lion show. As a forever strong insider every week, you'll get ad free episodes written summaries with key takeaways to help you retain the most important insights from the show. A community Q&A segment where you can submit your own questions for upcoming guests. We're going to call this the Strong Seed. And behind the scenes content, a closer look at how I prepare, train, travel, and navigate daily life. Go to foreverstrong.supercast.com. Let's keep getting stronger together. We live in a very fast-paced world. And again, we've known each other for years and I watched you do and continue to do extraordinary things. In addition to that, you push less. I mean, you are a world renowned meditation teacher. Very early on in our friendship. You were traveling. You were going to all these different places and speaking all over the world. Now, you could certainly do all those things. Only every now and again. But now it's different. No, I really love how I really love the volunteer hours that feeds me. It is very different. And there was a term that I came across a couple of years ago on being an island of coherence. It's a scientific term, actually. But I fully took it into my soul. I was like, wow, what does that actually mean? And I decided that's what I wanted to become. As long as I'm on that island, say with Jimmy, Shane, you know, do you? And another one of my best friends who's sitting over here, helped design this beautiful podcast studio. This book, Hold Nothing, has proved downly, touched me. I I already ordered five copies and I will be ordering more. Many things here that are tremendous. But one of which I noticed is letting go of your personality. How and why should we even consider that? There are a few things that I'm thinking about. The first is sort of the more surface and then there's a cool, Taoist teaching that I think is worth mentioning. The surface is I spent most of my adult life building up this persona personality. I'm a teacher. I travel the world and do this thing. I teach yoga, meditation, and I'm a business person. I have this wonderful business that supports my family and many, many hundreds of other families. And this letting go of the personality has everything to do with getting back to the essence of who we actually are. And if we don't have an answer to that question, who actually are you, then it might be time to sit still and actually practice being an island of coherence. I found then meditation five years ago, 2020, and was immediately touched by the level of discomfort and awkwardness that I felt sitting still, stock still and not moving. And what I've come to understand is not moving is actually the way because when we move, we're moving away from what it is that we're trying to avoid. When I sit still, I can really face it. Ah, this is what my mind is doing. These are the thoughts that continue to secret from my mind very naturally. This is how I habitually follow said thoughts and the practice is actually to not follow the thought. To see the thought being omitted, emitted rather from my mind and to not follow it to just let it drop. That's the respectful thing to do for my brain and for my body. And for for this island of coherence that I want to become. So I let those thoughts go, then that intern becomes letting the personality go, and that intern yields somebody who is a force for calm who can walk into a situation like somebody in active dying process. One of my dear bosses at the hospice Whitney, I love you. She came in the other day and she said, this person is about to begin the active process. I can hear it feel. Let's see it. All of us could, of course. And would you mind making the room a little more sacred? She said, I was like, hmm, my language, my love language, and I began cleaning. I started with really deep clean of all the surfaces and then I started lighting up little plants all over the place. I put new flowers up, I washed all the vases. Like that I can do. And that we don't realize that but imagine if you were dying. So the end of your life you're in a hospice was maybe one person you know, but maybe not nobody that you know. And some little fairy comes around and starts making the flowers fresh and cleaning the space so that your transition is a clear one. How about it? Don't you love that idea? I think death really scares me. Yeah. And I'll take a ferry at the end. I'll be there. God willing. Well, how about we just, right here, I'm going to try to negotiate death. Do it together. How about we just all do it together? I think of a bea just join join a cult. I'm going to go to Costa Rica. We're going to hang out. We'll wait for this tsunami. It will be, no, yes, we were definitely prepared. But I had to use humor and bring you in because it is that uncomfortable. I'm just noticing my own way of trying to avoid this relationship with growing old and dying and losing everything that I hold dear. We are in culture, sister. We're in culture to shy away from it and turn away. Our culture does not include like most indigenous cultures include ritual and respect for the dying process is a very natural part of life. Why do we turn away from it? And this is when we look at the way in which we're made. So comfortable, all the convenience is of this life, the fast food, all the chemicals that are put in everything. Everything, all in the interest of efficiency, we're losing contact with these rituals and ways of being and seeing that include death. How important is it to become comfortable with this process? You know, I think there's to go back to that Taoist teaching I mentioned earlier. There are two polarities absence and presence, right? And the Tao absence is the fundament. The most generative force, it's the thing from which everything arises. What if we were to start as parents from the very very beginning realizing that we put these people on the earth to take over for us, to do a better job than we do? What would be the result? That we are now looking at your babies, who might love so much both of them as the next step? Why would we avoid that? We are in permanent. Practices for Matt, my producer, listening, who is in his early thirties with a very young family. Although he's been a soldier for him, the relationship to life and death may be different. Same with Shane, my husband, who also served, he will say that he's not afraid of death. Right. And that every warrior knows what they are called to do. And he also has said that once he let go of that fear, things didn't necessarily matter. He wasn't shackled by his own thoughts. That makes sense to me. Is it important for someone like me to become comfortable with this? And to be clear, I wanted you to come on to this podcast. Number one, very few people have taught me more. In this world, just by watching you. And number two, we spend hours. Myself, you at home, learning about life and health. And no percentage of that time is allocated to when it ends. staggering actually when you think about it. And we know a lot about what it means to you know, live well, healthily, vibrantly, radially. And I don't think that that's a bad thing. But I do think that we need to, I do think to answer a question that it is important. You know, Matt and Shane, they have had the experience of serving to wake them up to the reality of death in Japanese. There's actually a term, show G, life death. So close. There isn't a separation. It's one word. Show G. I hope I'm saying it properly. But it's taught me a lot, because it just keeps the two of them. They're right there next to each other. There's no distance between them. When I sit for meditation, that is exactly what I'm thinking. Each time I see a thought coming up, let it die. For you personally is this to augment bravery. I do think my quick answer is yes, but maybe it just is bravery to keep these two things very close. Life death, birth death. That is bravery. I was so nervous. Just coming here. You and I are best friends. And I was nervous coming here because is this even relevant? And now I'm sitting here talking to you and I'm like, you know what, if two people watch this, it means something good. We did it. Keeping death close. It drives my happiness. Happiness generating. In is part of that because it allows you to save each moment deeply present. Yes. It's all about presence. I think that's the one thing. I learned the most from one of my teachers is Roche Joan Halifax, the founder of your prize sense center. Presence is the main teaching that I've derived from being in her field for these last five years. Presence is what is all we can give. When you say my actions are my only true belongings, that's what I can give. I've walked into the hospice and tried to solve things and fix things and help kind of those things of real. They all assume brokenness and wrongness. But serving, presencing people as my service that I can do. And that makes all the difference. I'd like to acknowledge one of the sponsors of the show and that is Puri. This podcast has allowed me to speak to extraordinary experts and they have one unifying message. There are only a few core compounds that we need in the diet. And one of those is Omega 3 fatty acids. Puri's O3 Ultra Pure Fish Oil, which is third party tested and certified by both the Clean Label Project and IFOS. So you know what you're putting in your body. It is safe, pure effective. It is tested for 200 contaminants and Puri publishes all their results online. I've teamed up with Puri to get you an amazing offer. 20% off site wide. Even on already discounted subscriptions, which means you can save nearly a third off. All you have to do is go to PuriPURI.com slash Dr. Lion and use the code Dr. Lion at checkout. Do you do that with rituals? And should we have rituals? You'd mentioned other cultures have a lot of rituals. A coming of age. We don't seem to have that here. No, we are task at this particular point in time given where we are in terms of the health of our country and these two polarities. We have this really sort of sick culture. I mean ill culture. And then we have this crew. We're all after like cold plunges and all the biohacking. We can possibly imagine all the great products that have been put out there. And somewhere in between those two is a person who's willing to be present for the truth of their own death, truth of everyone else's death, and actually serve in small ways toward that truth. And that's where I come in. I think I can do that. I think I can continue to volunteer and continue to share the joy of volunteering because it's so lovely. You know, you can continue doing your work. I'm not saying everyone has to do this. It's hard. But I am saying it's really nice to go and serve someone who's dying or someone who's incarcerated. Oh my god, it's the opposite of what we want to be doing with our free hour or two hours of the week, four hours of the week. However, when I enter into those settings, time disappears, time stops. I'm there. Not just for them. I'm there for myself. I'm there to feel what it means to actually be of service. I'm there to present folks who are so not served well in these times. And for me, that it propels me. It keeps me going. It makes me better right or better friend, better daughter, better mom, better partner. And we don't think about it. But I'm here to, I'm here to vote for that. I'm here to sort of advocate for volunteer. Take care of your mind. Sit still, really listen to people that you love cultivate the relationships and the conversations that are difficult. Cultivate the friendships that you want near you when you die. They care. Not things we talk about every day. Not at all. You and I, you were chatting and you said you're having these conversations a lot more. Yes. There seems to be a cadence to the conversation where people go, okay, you know what? I got it, dyes of a deal, something like that, right? That people will hear and listen up into a point and then especially the young and healthy ones are, okay, I'm ready. Is that happening? Do you feel? Yeah, for sure. They're, you know, it's hard. It's hard. I don't try and force it on anybody. If I masked the way you're asking, I will talk about it. My kid doesn't want to hear it at this moment in time. I mean, he's 18, he's 18, almost 19 and I totally understand. You got all forced it on him. If I'm leaving to go there, I'll say, hey, I'm heading over to the hospice now. And there was a time where he'd be like, why are you doing that? What'd you tell him? I said, actually, it brings me a lot of joy and it helps me appreciate the fact that you're here in my life. I love you. I'll appreciate James. I'll appreciate all the people who might get to work. My friends. And then there's nothing else you can say because obviously that is what's true. Is there an age that we should begin to talk about death? I remember I called you because Erie said, do you know, Mom, what happens when we die? Are we going to have it? Or angels get to talk to us? And I honestly didn't know what to say. I didn't know how much of death's even talk about. What did you end up saying? I think I just called you. And then I said, oh, what should I say? And you sent me a voice memo and I plated for her. Well, that's awesome. I probably said something to the effect of no kid is too young to understand that life starts in my friends, something like that. And I don't doubt that there are some forces or greetings that we receive based on the information that I have watching people in hospice almost every time. I'm going to lift my hand for a second. Right before death, an arm goes up, if they have mobility and arm goes up like this, almost every time. There are so many stories of this in the field of hospice, care, palliative care. I can't help but think there's some hand, some energy reaching down and they're reaching out toward it. I can't help but think that. So you could say to a child, you know, I don't really know, but it has to be something that you feel and you believe. And if that's what you want to think about, that the angels are coming for you or there's somebody who's passed on already that might be coming to welcome you. Cool. Great. Let's keep talking about it. But I think as a parent, if you're listening and you don't know what to say and your child is asking, you can say, I don't really know, but here's what I think or here's what I saw when this person died. Just be honest, you know, we don't, we don't have answers. Do you think if individuals have a lot of trauma and grief in their life that they meet death differently, I don't know. I wonder about that. I certainly saw my mom's eyes, like I mentioned, prior. I actually stood up over her bed and I flipped open her eyelids for a moment before she passed. I just wanted to see her eyes one more time. It was pretty as brown eyes. And she was just afraid like I said, they just look so scared and I just wanted to do something about it. We kept why is she not a piece with letting go of this body? And I just whispered into her ear, we're all going to be fine. We are all taken care of your grandboys, your girls, we're good. Everybody's going to be okay. Come closer to it. Let go. Don't be afraid. And she died shortly thereafter, who's to say that my words helped. I don't know. I hope they did. Do you feel that you know less? Not more. I see you seen this. Yes. Yes. That's the craziest part. I sit still for so many hours of the week, honestly, at least seven hours of the week. I'm sitting very still. And I don't know more. It's not about getting more information or knowing more. It's just about being more comfortable with all of these very uncomfortable concepts. Even think about how you and I know each other. How did we get here? We were both willing to be very uncomfortable. Get past it because we could see that there was somebody across the way who was actually going to be with us for life. How did we figure that out? We were both listening very well. I'm convinced of that. And that's what's sitting sitting still gives me. It doesn't give me information or knowledge. It gives me good listening patience and the care that I can be present with somebody when I don't feel comfortable. And that's through Zazen. Yes. That's the word for Zen meditation. Zazen. Zazen. Zen meditation. How is Zen meditation different than transcendental meditation or other various modalities of stillness? So TM Vedic meditation, lots of other kinds of meditation they require. The use of mantra or mudra, which is like a hand placement. All of that is wonderful and all of it has been a part of my formation. All of it. There's no better or worse here. There's no hierarchy. The reason why I personally love Zazen is because there's nothing there. They're just sitting. The word for it is actually just sitting. She can't Zazen Japanese. And just sitting means literally just coming closer and closer to the way in which my mind works and seeing how absolutely funny and terrified it's been and how easy it is to just let go of what drops. Let go of what drops. Everything is so a femoral. My mind is dropping another thought. I'm going to drop it to. I'm mind is dropping another thought. I'm going to drop that one to until there's nothing there. And then I get up from that seat. 40 minutes, 30 minutes and hour, whatever it is. I am a slower, calmer being. I am an island of coherence to the people around me. You can't shake me for hours after that. A munchakeable. You know, and you've taught me how to be physically strong. You know, how to really prioritize muscle. I have muscle now that is just the best thing ever. Physiologically, structurally, everything. I feel so good. This is this is that for my mind. I would argue also that she've always been very strong and that you have sought to put yourself into deeply uncomfortable places to have this unshakeable presence. You write in whole nothing that's as unmeditation allows the body to disappear into the practice. We live in a world that is faster past than it was 10 years ago. It's only accelerating. How would we even begin to embody this kind of stillness so that one could metabolize trauma or grief? I think the first thing I want to say is in addition, a sort of an adjunct to that question. We also live in a world where visibility is very important. It's everything. Here we are. Lights are on, books are out. My book is not out, but your book is out. Where is your book? My book is coming out. We have a few months left. Be sitting and the dropping of the thoughts, the personality, all of the sort of configurations of the mind, the disappearing that I write about, that is so I can be present for you, for your kids. Why are those kids love me as much as they do? Because I'm right there. You smell good, you're funny. So they talk about how I'm being consumed. This episode is brought to you by something sweet and it's not me. It's Manakura. Let's talk carbs. Specifically, honey and no, it's not another nickname for my husband. I usually call him something else. People have this idea that carbs are bad and that is simply not true. I use Manakura honey daily. Well positioned carbs like Manakura honey, they have been amazing for my personal training. I think of Manuka honey, which is what it is, is a functional carbohydrate, not just a sugar. It's serving a purpose. It's not just adding empty carbs. Honestly, we use it anytime. We need a natural sweetener. The bees collect the nectar from the Manuka tea tree in New Zealand. It's very complicated. The nectar is unpacked with bioactive ingredients and the honey that is produced has three times more antioxidants than your ever-tony. If you're looking for good honey, under-or-looking for something sweet, you can check out their website to learn more head to Manakura.com slash doctor line for $25 off your starter kit. The disappearance is really so that everything else can happen and I don't need to be there. I can just be present for what is happening. I'm not trying to do more or be more or be more visible. I'm just trying to be present. God, it's so hard. It's so hard. And think about it because for exactly the reason that you said, we live in a world for visibility if we want to speak and share. You will go to hospice and there are five beds. We will talk and you will help millions of people. I know. Even have a whisper thinking about dying while it is not an if. It is a when and again, just very personal to me. These are things I reach out to you about all the time because on one side we have joy. And I think that we all feel so privileged to have each other and our families and their is a level of for me and I hope that I'm speaking to you out there who is listening a level of vulnerability of complete and total loss of everything that you hold dear. I love my parents so much I love my best friend Don Laman and I also know that there will be a moment. We will not be together. How good are you to finish the last question? How good are you? How practiced are you at letting this go? Letting them go? Not at all. That's the that's the charge that's the task at hand. That is it. And I will say to finish that thought the sitting still when I'm grieving especially after I heard about that 15 year old kid I can't even. I sat for an hour that morning the next morning after hearing it I barely slept that night. It just couldn't get over me. I'm like all toss-piss. I'm you know but when something sudden like that happens and it's out of order like that and it's the kid dying before the parents. Wow it just really throws you for a loop but I sat for that hour and I suddenly felt okay okay I'm back and I could feel the waves of grief. The waves moved through me. They're so palpable now and slowly I was able to move that sadness through my system because I was sitting still. It's the craziest truth and it's really boring. It's not bright lights and it's not visibility and it's not a personality. It's the opposite. It's the disappearance that you just sighted. We have to disappear in order to be able to metabolize and then once we've metabolized these things little by little years we can really serve other people and helping them get through a challenging time. Where is the balance between the personality and the ego being driven? There's a drive of contribution. It sounds to me that there are layers of this. There's being driven to contribute but then also just being is the word study and present to be contributing? How do we enter twine those two things? I like the word study a lot. I use it a lot perhaps too often but yeah I have to be very careful when I walk into that hospice that it's not about me. I have to be very careful when I'm talking to my kid. It's not about me or my agenda. I am here to serve your unfolding. I am here to serve the unfolding of this person who's in the death process. I'm not here to be perfect and make it nice and help. Nothing is broken. I'm just here to presence and it keeps coming back to that because that's the only truth. It's not exciting. That's the the funny part. I wish we had some big. This is the teaching. It's like no, actually the teaching is how present can I be? For you, when you're having a hard time, when you text me and you say, I don't understand this. I can't rub my head around this. How present can I be for you? What practices have I done or tried that have helped me? How can I share that with you without foisting a agenda on you? That's how that's friendship. There are tactics. There are practices that do help. Most of you have told me about grace. This is an acronym that she uses. That she's taught to clinicians and doctors and people in the social engagement field of any kind. G, gather your attention. Our, recall your intention. I can do this now in just a moment like this when I walk into a room. I'm gathering my attention. I'm recalling my intention. The A is attuning to myself. How am I doing? Can I attune to the other people in the room? Has everybody else doing? C, can I consider what will serve? What will actually serve right now? And mostly it's going back to the very boring, but very real. I can present these people. And E, engaging and ending. Like sure, that's something we can cite here. It's lovely. It really does help me. But there's nothing like super exciting about any of this. It's just how present can we be for each other at the end of life? We're all going in that direction. So we're here. It's weird. It's I, um, I hope that I am doing a service to those, that person listening because there are a million health conversations that we can have. Oh my god, so many. And you've helped me have so many. And I feel so good. A 55 years old. They feel amazing. Because of you, we've been doing this for eight years. You've been seeing this in your experience. There is this practice of grasping. I, I see this biohacking space, this, how are we going to live in our body? Well, how are we going to be jacked? Yes, it matters James. How do we think about our brains and our experiences in ultimately my wish for people, which it really isn't even my business to wish for people? But I believe that they can be strong, both mentally and physically, and they should be able to choose. And when I think about your book, hold nothing and we, we talk about death because again, selfishly it's the thing I'm most afraid of. Yeah. But it could be anything. It could be the relationship that you're grasping. It could be the stage you want to speak on, the job that you want, the friendship that is no longer working. Any of those items, it could be any of those things. And what I am struggling with internally is I, as I just talk about this and just try to share as openly as I can, is that I believe and many people want to do this thing. Shame. My husband, he's in his third year of surgical residency after being created, a decorated seal, seal with multiple word deployments and a medic. Yet, here he is pushing. And I'm more talking, 100 hour week. Yeah. Easily, right? Felicipe comes home on a Tuesday night at 130. I go into the the kitchen. He's sleeping there with pizza. He was busted with a pizza. But there is there is a drive. And if we are to hold nothing and if we are to be deeply comfortable with life and sitting allows us to drop our personality, our identity. How do we configure the two, two fulfill as I would when I, you know, talk to James or Darmat or whatever it is that vision for us. How do we combine the two? How do we do that? This I do not know because everyone is different. I know that I'm trying my best to grasp less as women especially, if you're a woman listening, you know, to stop trying to hold everything and everyone together and know that everything and everyone, they're on their own road, on their own journey in their own process. At a certain point, we get somewhere in our 50s, I guess, maybe even 40s, where we can let go of more and not so tightly on the things that are no longer important. Thanks to one of the sponsors of the show, bond charge. Ben, if you're a mom out there and you've been carrying the whole team, I got a different form of therapy for you and that is red light therapy. In listen, good light impacts sleep hormones mood and even your ability to recover and focus. bond charge has created science back tools to help me live in better alignment with my circadian biology. Artificial light is overloading us. They have blue light blocking glasses that are staple in our house. They have red light. They have red light light bulbs. They also have infrared, pmf, mats to help chill my body relax my muscles and support full body recovery. If you've never tried red light therapy, this is the time to do it. They have some of the best devices that I've ever seen great for skin, mitochondrial health and overall resilience. If you care about your skin, if you care about your sleep, if you care about your body and want to try something new, check out bondcharge.com slash doctor lion, use the code doctor lion to get 15% off your entire order. Simple, proven, designed, do support your biology. We hold a lot of shame, we hold a lot of grief, we hold a lot of blame, we hold a lot of ranker. As I mentioned, we hold a lot of grudges. Those are the things that we can practice with first. In my humble opinion, that's what I'm practicing with. All the shame of all the mistakes that I continue to make. All of the grudges that I have ever held against anyone who has ever done me wrong. All those things are a good good place to begin. Are you a grudge holder? I don't think so. You know, there are a couple of things that I'm just like, how could that person actually do that? How could they actually think that about me? And then I have to let that go too. Wow. How quickly can I let go of that thought, that mistake? I would say a lightning speed. James is at my correct. She is the we have James and studio here. But it's a practice dude. I have known you 10 year, almost 10 longer. Let's see. Longer, you 2013, 2013. Right. You have not worked up lightning speed any faster because when I met you, you were at lightning speed. I've been really working on it. Lightning speed of letting go and not holding on to. Again, two types of learning, I don't know how often we learn when people tell us. You never tell me things. You say, perhaps what is your round about way? You know what I'm talking about. I can't even put it into it's an invitation. It's not a telling. It's not advice. It's an invitation or a question. Maybe. What do you think about this? Perhaps you can consider this? Jimmy, do we have a round about way that she offers a solution? And why do I bring this up because there are things that perhaps come very natural to some people and then some things that are just very cultivated and this letting go and emptying of your identity, but yet you've been tremendously successful. Yeah, I don't know. And I create it. What does success even mean at this junkshare? I don't know. I'm just trying to figure that one out too. I'm redefined. Like speaking of letting go, I'm redefining what success is actually. The entire construct is crumbling before my very eyes. I feel. And now it's up to me to create what I want. And I think what I want is a life of service, of friendship, of being an excellent partner and being a great mother. And as one teacher once said to me, inefficiently using what I have, I don't think I've been entirely efficient. I think that I've been very forgiving and I'm becoming more and more intimate with the contents of my mind. But I'm really eager to see what happens over these coming years when I could just shed a few more things. One of my teachers talks about illuminating and shedding. That's kind of the process of sitting. And I'm doing that in a partnership. I'm doing that in my friendships. Illuminate what is happening. And then shed what is not needed. You have a page and a chapter here really, this emptying of self-doubt thing. Went right there. I have to go in because you might not take this personally, but you are extraordinary. And you're writing and your transmission is extraordinary. And I feel so honored and so fortunate to have walked all of these years with you. It is a surprising and unusual friendship. So say the very least. You say the very least and yet all makes perfect sense. I think what we share is kind of a panoramic acceptance. It's such a great word. It's just so broad. It holds everything. It doesn't need to. It doesn't need there's no judgment. There's no fear. There's just this full level of acceptance. And that acceptance. And I dare say the acceptance of our own mortality impermanence. That of everyone we love. It brings a certain caliber of vibrancy to things. The colors are bright. The connections are real. There's no veil. I think that's everything. That's what holding them. To me that's what holding nothing really means. In order to hold nothing, you obviously have to let go of everything. Yes. Self-doubt. You do mentor people. I don't know if you still mentor people. I do. I do. I do. I love it. Actually, there are, I would imagine just like as a physician, a handful of curated items that may be less than ideal for an individual to carry. One would certainly be self-doubt. Yeah. I would love your experience with it or how one would get rid of it or why even have it. The scene which we're swimming that would give rise to such a thing as self-doubt. The scene which we're swimming is kind of internalized and dare I say patriarchal environment. That's just what's true. I'm not saying it's good about it. I'm just saying that's what's what does that mean? Exactly. Meaning it's hard for all of us, both men and women, to let go of the winning and losing paradigm. It's very difficult. I know. Winning or losing. If we could let go of that binary, the whole world would feel different. Everything would change. There would be no war. There would certainly be no lines in the sand. And I know this is a much bigger conversation, but that's what I mean by internalized patriarchal. I think there's a lot of winning and losing happening. And that keeps us from actually doing what we're meant to be doing, which is connecting and carrying. I was going to ask you, do we know what we are meant to be connecting and carrying? I was thinking right above. Produced, but best podcast is your way of connecting and carrying. Those are just the surface modalities that you've discovered and are fluent and boy proficient in. But really, I know you. I know you a long time. You're trying to connect and care for people. You started cherry atrics. Who does that? Who does the monomer best out? But still, you're your little path led you right there. So the elders first thing first thing. Do you want to learn more? I was not ready. I know. I am still not ready for it. But as a core fundamental belief, you remember when it was winter. And I myself and Kara was out. It was a tough winter. Wearing, I don't know, deaf. She was probably wearing 80 pounds and I was wearing my backpack with 40 pounds and we are walking 10 miles up and down New York City. Yeah, yeah, I'm from. Incidentally, last week, my 16th found weight vest was delivered to my house. I'll be starting to hike with that soon. Very excited about this. Yes, I remember. And I say this for this idea of utility. James and I were talking about this quote by Ralph Waldo Emerson and Emerson, that it's not the purpose of life isn't to be joyful, which that might be a mistake, but it is to be useful. That might also be mistake. It might not be utility in hold nothing. I just want to read this this line because I love it. Life presents us with endless choices to doubt that we're capable enough. Why's enough or creative enough or release that doubt and learn to trust ourselves implicitly? We are living in a world of too much visibility, too much information and constant comparison. It's crazy. I just want to know how we navigated and should we hold nothing and we let go of self doubt and numerous other items. That's what. So the doubt usually is the result of some kind of coping mechanism or something that we heard when we were very small. We have not forgotten it. Even if our brains have forgotten what was said or done, our bodies haven't. It's somatic grief. It still lives. Letting go of that is the practice. I mean for me, it was sitting still. That's what worked for me. And some combination, I will be honest of that and this weight training that you have been doing at first very reluctantly. I might add. When I met you, I'm pretty sure you were, I won't even say it. Let's just say it. Deeply plant-based. Deeply plant-based. Which I was okay with. Yeah, no. It's fine. After all, though, your blood sugar was just continuously. You know, just creeping up towards where we didn't want it. No, it's much better. It's much, I mean, look at you. Yeah, much better. But I will say this. The letting go of doubt is so much about sitting still, watching the tendency of our mind and teaching ourselves to release as swiftly as possible the thoughts that perpetually arise. If we do that, how do we choose the next right thought? There is no choosing. The mind will continue to secrete thoughts. Oh, goodness. The practice is to keep letting go. And after some years of this, at least in my experience, it was two or three years of this. Very assiduous practice. I know it's annoying. That's just, I know. I know. I'll tell you when I start. You'll start when your kids are older, perhaps. But after those two or three years now, in real life, in real time right now, as I'm sitting here looking into your pretty green eyes, I can actually hit on a doubtful thought. I can see it and drop it. So the next thought that might arise might be something very supportive and helpful. And that's that will be my next offering. Usually the best offering is nothing at all. Unless I'm being asked a question, I will not speak now because I've seen what my mind does. And there's no point to it. Just let everything be in your mind. No wonder you're more quiet when I call you to scum, but everything's happening. Of its own volition. Everything is happening. You know, I always just wonder how do newborns get so much energy? They wake up. They cry. They go to the bathroom. Well, they get something that we don't. They get cholesterol. The OG energy shot. And I'll tell you what, I'm always looking for ways to improve my energy. And gut health since that's where good health starts. And that's why I've added Amra cholesterol to my ice copy. Amra is a whole food supplement packed with over 400 bioactive nutrients, things like pre biotics. Pepp-guides that help strengthen immunity, support digestion, optimize performance in case you want another newborn. Amra uses a unique technology to preserve these nutrients in their purist, most bio-available form, which is why it stands out from nearly everything else that I've seen on the market. We have a special offer just for my audience. You can get 15% off your first order. Go to try Amra that's TRY, ARMRA.com slash Dr. Lyon and use the code Dr. Lyon at checkout. Intergenerational healing. As you do this work, as you drop, more doubt, more patterns, more personality. Please share with me this thought and concept of intergenerational healing. It's such an interesting one. There's we are looking at seven generations. Back, seven generations ahead, we do some work for ourselves. We begin to be friend our mind. Begin to get really good at illuminating and shedding ideas, doubts, fears. Whatever the case, and because I'm doing it, I can see that my son somehow, I have no idea how is more confident moving through the world. There were these inflection points over time where I would get clear on some aspect of my own doubt or fear, and I would see a playout and him. Tell me, I don't know. Okay, I can't believe I wish I knew how. There's probably a million experts that you can have on this podcast that will tell you how structurally, cellularly, what happens in the mother happens in the child, even when the child is no longer the mother's belly. I'm sure that's true. But I'm watching it playout in real time. When I do my work, my kids somehow get a little closer to himself and a little closer to me. There's a certain level of intimacy that I'm having within myself, fearlessness within myself, that I see in him. I don't know how to explain it. I wish I could be more articulate. I don't know how to explain it. But I could see it, feel it. And when he's older, I think he'll be able to speak to this. Like, he will have seen me. I was very open about getting sober. It was in 2013. 2014. I was there. I remember. I was very open with him about it. I wrote this really beautiful spoken word called ritual of recovery. He was there as I would practice it. He was there listening to it. I would practice it in all these different locations to really try and memorize it for myself and to offer it to people. He would say that something changed within him when that happened. And I would concur. He was a different guy after that. And so was I. I don't know. I wish I knew. But I do know this for sure. I was unwilling. I shyed away from my grandmother's death. I did too. She was dying. I was on vacation with a boyfriend and I had this family and I was like, I'm not going. I'll reticulish this. I regret this so deeply. Gramm of bell. She was amazing. I wrote about her in the book and she loved me so much. I can't imagine that. I would have missed it. So I will never shy away from death again. And the way that I was able to approach my mother's death was very, very different. And that is a healing of a sort that is intergenerational. So you're picking up on something that I think is important on a personal level that you're listener, the reader of this book will find ways to detect it in their experience. It's one of the things that happens naturally. We don't have to really try. If I heal something within myself, the generations behind me, the ones that went through World War II, the ones that are coming after me, Jonah, if he ever has kids and his and theirs, everybody heals. What we are going to do actually, because I do have five copies. I'm sure I will buy least five more. I would love to offer. If you are listening, we've never done this on the podcast. But if you are listening and you write a review for this episode, I will send out. I'm not going to give you all my copies. I will send out three of the five copies that I have. And I will have them signed by you. Again, if you are listening to this episode, please write a review. I will pick the top three reviews and send them out of copy. I think this book is so important. And it talks about, again, you're writing as an extraordinary. As I've watched you grow up, we both grow up in parts together. Yes. I always ask, how and I ask James, is to how is she just so good at things? How is she just so good at James's laughing? Because we, you know, I have a team of 13 to 20 people and honestly, Elana could probably do all the jobs, all at once. Now, maybe not your job, but I couldn't do his job. But how does someone become? And again, there's no ego to you. It how does someone become so capable? And is it because you continue to open up to your true self? One of the teachers in the lineage that I practice, Shonrius Azuki, his sort of right hand for many, many years was teacher by the name of Kudegiri Rochi. Kudegiri came up with this term, settling the self on the self. And I think even though I've probably had all these capacities all along and I remember several jobs along the way before it became a yoga teacher doing many different, wearing all the hats in the room. But I think since I started sitting meditation, I'm just able to be aware of what is needed around me because I've been settling the self and so I have this five very direct intimate experience of myself. And you know, I can look at the copy for your website and be like, hey, gee, let's work on this and work on it and in an hour, it's done because I'm also the customer so it's easy for me. But I can do almost anyone's job, you know, and is it just from a level of clarity? Because there's not this self-doubt, noise, ego or no one. I really am so interested in serving in whatever way that I can. And this just happens to be like what happens sometimes between you and me. But we have taken care of each other for a long time, but it's very natural. And I think it's only because you in your field have a level of presence and like rigor. Yes. And in my work, I have a level of presence and that's what I can bring in that yields a certain kind of rigor and attention and care for things. I think that's all you're picking up on. It's not a certain like, oh, she's so smart, talented, whatever. It's just that I'm present. I would argue it's smart and all of those things. We could all argue about that. But there is what I'm also getting at is there's a level of clarity that allows you to execute swiftly that it might take someone three months to do. And this is really an example for the listener at home. It is an example of what I believe is possible when you can recalibrate your mind. I'm not there. I see a new, I see it in chain. There's a level of silence that allows for, in my mind execution, which is kind of the very opposite of what you're doing. It's you're just doing the next right thing, the next moment, the next step. There's a level of ease that, again, how do we live well and how do we live true and how do we live effectively? Part of that is, I think a lot of us spend a long time doubting and running from things. Maybe that's something natural in your 20s. But perhaps that could end now. Yeah, that could end now. Does this end a moment? Susuke also said we're all like clocks. We're really wound up, but we have no idea what time it is. And let's say your listener is a parent. You have many parents for sure. Let's say is a partner or somebody working in a certain situation that's really challenging right now. Any challenge that we have, we sit and we can begin to feel a sense of groundedness and a whole bunch of thoughts that don't pertain will definitely emerge from this very productive mind. And then some really good ideas, well, merge, but we have to be quite enough and still enough to know, to drop all of them. It's, you know, it's like sand settling in a glass or something. Know to drop all of them so that you can be very discerning as to which one you're going to pick up on later. It's not something cognitive either. I'll walk out of a meditation that'll be an hour or sometimes I'll go and spend a whole month that you pie a sense in it or so or you know, I imagine I'll be at other places to at some point thus far at you pie. And I'll sit for a month. And in that month it'll be five to eight hours a day of sitting. But by the end of that month, I have so many good ideas. I have good ideas for you. I have good ideas for me. I have good ideas for James. I have good ideas for the household. Just things that add to the groundedness and the efficiency. There's another teacher by the name of Katherine Thanas who invites us to in her writing and speaking, she is long gone to be this moment. Not be in this moment or of this moment or with this moment, but to be this moment. So if you're a parent and your kids are losing it. Yeah, happens every day. How can you be this moment? And you'll be standing in the kitchen. It will be a totally zoo around you and you can put your hands on the counter. I'm just going to be this moment. And then instead of shouting maybe you'll whisper or instead of having a big reaction instead you'll actually sit down and your kids will be like, what is home? What is going on right now? And the parent is sitting down and everything sort of ratchets down three levels and something actually that needs to happen can actually happen. Who's to say what the right reaction is, but at least you can start to feel a connection to what will serve in that moment when you could be that moment. Very profound and very efficient which I love and it speaks to almost a spiritual discipline. Perhaps for sure. You describe silence as is kind of prayer and listening as the most powerful form of action. Can you speak to that? Did you ever as a kid? I think I know the answer to this, but I'm actually really curious. Did you ever as a kid have somebody who really listened to you? Oh yeah. Can you name that person? My grandma. Hmm. Also her name. Marcella. Marcella. Yeah. What? How I never heard her name? Marcella. Yeah. Marcella. Who's mom? My dad. Okay. That explains everything. Yeah. She was red. She was red. She listened to like crazy. Like, crazy. Just sit there. Hands on her chin and be super interested. Oh, into it. What a blessing. I found some letters that I wrote her from camp. Oh, go. And it was hey, the oranges are here with these apples or kind of soggy. You know, she sent you Harry's fruits. Yeah, I did the message back like that. So, what made me just this so beautifully written response to my damaged fruit. Yes. I letter that I had written. That woman loved you so much. So, that kind of listening is a gift to the whole world because look, she gave you that kind of listening which lent you somewhere in your cellular tendrils of your body, a certain confidence that you were okay. You should be heard. That little confidence, little thread of confidence, has now two of us sitting here, the way in which we know each other's bonkers, that we love each other so deeply as bonkers. And you have a significant impact on the lives of the people you're serving. You've had a significant impact on my life. Why? I would aim to say many, many reasons, but one of the earliest ones is Grandma Marcy listening well to you. It says a lot. And who, you know, if you're listening to us or watching, who has listened to you and how can you emulate them in the service of all humanity? And don't be thinking that that's some sort of big idea. It's actually true. If I listen to, I don't know, a driver, somebody helping me at a restaurant or something. If I'm listening well, they have a better day and then their kid has a better day. Their partner has a better day. It's these little tiny things. But Grandma Marcy, she's part of the reason why you're so successful. You know, successful. And that was air quotes for those of you who are just listening. Yeah. It makes a lot of sense because the way that we can then show up for others, certainly perpetuates not only one individual life, but then a ripple effect and potentially intergenerational healing. There are a few last questions. And this is something that when I think about being clear and discernment, you describe boundary setting with boundary setting with someone you love as an act of love. Yes. You describe boundary setting with someone you love boundaries as an act of love. How do you discern who and when to remain in someone's life versus love them from afar and close out chapter? This is a very important question. I want to take it, you know, with sort of kid gloves. It's very case specific, but I know that you and I have been walking this road together for a long time. Thank you Anthony Lyon. Story at the end. Story at the end. So you have to stay tuned for the story at the end. I wanted to take a moment to let you know about something new we've created. It's called forever strong insider and it's the premium subscription to the Dr. Gabriel Lyon Show. As a forever strong insider, every week you'll get ad free episodes written summaries with key takeaways to help you retain the most important insights from the show. A community Q&A segment where you can submit your own questions for upcoming guests. We're going to call this the strong seat and behind the scenes content a closer look at how I prepare, train, travel and navigate daily life. Go to foreverstrong.supercast.com. Let's keep getting stronger together. There are and have been certain situations in my life where somebody comes into it and I can see very swiftly that this story does not belong to me. It's very hard to discern that. Before I was sitting regularly it was very hard to discern that. Since I started sitting I can very swiftly see okay this is not mine to hold. I'm going to let it go quickly without fanfare, without any sort of nothing else is happening. I'm just going to quickly exit the situation. It's to call it Taoist, call it sort of martial art where you sort of move out of the way of the moving vehicle, out of the way of the moving limb, whatever it is. I'm just moving out of the way. I'm not engaging with this situation even a little bit. I've had a couple of clients in the recent years where there's some sort of very obviously narcissistic partner and I just advise if they're asking, not if they're not asking, I advise to block delete, release, forgive, move on, no contact. That person will ultimately find some other venue to express their illness. In those cases in any case where I detect a sense that it's not actually about me, I will as swiftly as possible, remove myself from the situation. And I won't talk about it. You don't. That is one thing that I have learned. I will bring something to you. Again, as I confident as someone who I trust deeply as my family. I will lay a situation at your doorstep to ask you advice and you'll say, now this person is it's washer hands of them and they don't need. But as I sit to rationalize, while maybe it is I that I'm being unreasonable, you are very clear and secondly, there's no shame. There is not I feel so guilty. Am I going to hurt this person's feelings? It is. Thank you and move on. Moving on, the best thing we can do very, very often is not to engage and not to try and make it right or make it easier or somehow perpetuate the situation. Just release and move on, like I'll. It's really hard to do. If you're listening and you're struggling with this, some sort of situation like this, just don't do anything for some time and see what happens without your process insinuated on the larger process. See what happens. The thing might resolve by itself. But oftentimes, if I don't do anything at all, suddenly everything is better. I like that doing a little bit less. There are two more items on our list, perhaps three, and one of them, which I have not been attuned to in the past. This is what you call a literal altar, an altar in your home and what does it mean to have an altar in the heart and how do we live? What does it even mean? How are we thinking about that? So many of us have very small spaces and we are looking for some meaning and the things that we do and the people that we with whom we surround ourselves and altar is a place where you can actually set your eyes and see something that has meaning to you. All of those items and those paintings that would not be one that I have of yours in my home, purpose like placed in very particular location. The little vase that I gave you so many years ago, that whole shelf is sort of an altar in her bedroom. What else were you showing me? The little cards, the little jewelry, even weirdly when I walked into your closet and I saw that bag that I gave me these many years ago. Yes, that's hanging there. That too is like a little bit of an altar. It's our friendship. You know, there's something about it. You walk by it. There's like a little heart warming, a little burst. Those items are strategically placed so that I can see them and I would say I did that consciously. Is there a benefit? Could someone create a tiny little space? It what is someone trying to anchor? I encourage this all the time. In fact, this is one of the things that I want to teach as the book comes out. I'm going to offer this. I have to design it, but I know I'm pretty sure I know what I want to do. Can you find one small shelf in your house, dear listener or viewer, where you can place a few of the items that remind you of who you are. Maybe it's a little picture of yourself as a child. Maybe it's a little piece of jewelry of your grandmother's. Maybe it's some photograph of somebody you love. Maybe it's a quote that you ripped out from some magazine so long ago and you have it sitting in a notebook, but you'd love to look at it every day. That's an altar. And you can make that altar as a physical space in your house. You can also make an altar in your little heart. So every time I sit, the first thing I do when I sit down, I exhale. I sort of gather my attention as my teacher has taught me to do or should go on and then I let everything settle. I take a few breaths like that. And then there's some kind of like anchor for today. I'm going to anchor my sadness there. That's what it was yesterday when I was thinking about this child who died. I'm going to anchor my trust because I feel so afraid right now. Whatever it is. And once that anchor is placed, I let it go. That anchor is at the altar of my heart. I have another friend Tracy Stanley, a really well-known teacher, respected teacher, who has two books. One is called Radiant Rest and the other is called Illuminus Self. I've read that. Radiant Rest. Yes. Tracy would be. She's just one of my dearest teachers and friends. T-Sister also. And she teaches a whole yoga nidra where you're traveling basically to a location that you're envisioning as you're traveling there during the nidra. And you're landing at this altar of sort of a heart as it were. What are you placing there? That's the altar of your heart. There are many ways to go about this, but it's nice to have these kinds of intimate moments with yourself where you and you are the only thing that is needed. Nothing else is needed. Nobody else is needed. You don't need a piece of special something to you know or object. Nothing. You can just place your attention in your heart. Anchor what you need and then drop it. It's beautiful. Yeah. It's beautiful. This is a heavy one. Okay. You're ready for it. I think I'm ready for it. What would you say to someone who is afraid of dying? Not much. I would just ask them how they are. I would ask a lot of questions. I would be very curious to hear how they're doing today and what's happening in their heart. What's happening in their mind? Who's been here to visit and I would let them kind of drive the train. If they ask to me, I'm so afraid to die. I don't know how to think about this. I would say why don't we just sit quietly together for a few moments and any thought that you have that arises seemingly from somewhere in your consciousness. What if we were to just practice letting that thought gently drop? Let's see how that goes. That's probably all I would say. And then they would make some discoveries for themselves and then we would go from there. But there is no advice for that. There's experience. There's a practice. You know there's just a comforting presence that I can offer. Maybe even take the comforting out because that's extra. Maybe I can just bring in presence. Question mark? I mean again we know each other so well and I want to let everything land and breed and have its space rather than filling it up with a lot of words which is probably shocking to my friends and family. I also have sitting over there. You know I think I'm very funny. I'm the only one that thinks I'm funny which is where I actually would add in the humor to deflect any any way in which I may be feeling which is intense gratitude for you. Quick story. Elena Brower and I know each other because we both married Tony Lyon. Shout out to Tony. Probably isn't listen to the podcast but we are all very dear friends at this point. All of us which is so unusual and when we were getting married this is many years ago obviously I'm married now to Shane with my two little minions. You who we love who we desperately love and at the time you wanted to come to the wedding and needless to say I was not keen on inviting my future husband my fiance's ex-wife to the wedding. Huge Jimmy's gigal. And yeah and you and Jonah and James have been the biggest blessing. We married and I don't know how to say this kind of the decided not to stay in the divorce the same person. Amazing human. Amazing human. We love him. And his family like his family is still my family. Incredible for sure but it would make for an unlikely friendship which also makes perfect sense. We could both recognize in each other something that was timeless and we both put in efforts. We've all put in efforts. James and Tony are really close. I mean they talk. It's really sweet. They say I love you at the end of the conversation like Jonah and his friends like it's real. But we put in an effort and I don't know what relevance this has for your listener or your viewer but efforts matter in the absence of mental illness efforts count. You know there's mental illness there it's very difficult and I understand. But in this particular case we both put in some time and work and care. We both care very very much and that goes a really long way. Just just wow. It's just silly. It's silly and amazing and that we have all these narratives in these constructs about how relationships and friendships form and such a unusual one the way that it started and the way that it continued for well over a decade. Yeah I want to close this out before you offer us a beautiful meditation and that is one more time the five remembrances. Let's do it. I am of the nature to grow old. There is no way to escape growing old. I am of the nature to have ill health. There is no way to escape having ill health. I am of nature to die. There is no way to escape death. All that is dear to me and everyone I love are of the nature to change. There is no way to escape being separated from them. My actions are only true belongings. My actions are the ground upon which I stand. If you would honor us in a moment of meditation thank you again for being here not just in this moment but in all of the moments and has mattered so deeply to me and my family. I love your family so much. I love those babies. That video that you took yesterday of airs jumping into my arms. How often does that happen in this life? It's a blessing. Wow. We are blessed and this is quite a gift. Yes it is. I love you so much. All right let's sit together. If you are listening or watching go ahead and make yourself comfortable in your seat. Find a way to place both feet on the floor. If you are on a chair or if you are sitting on a cushion maybe just move to the edge so that your spine is nice and straight. As you grow your spine tall feel like you are reaching the crown of your head. Skyward. And then allow yourself to feel feet or seat or both grounded. And take a few deep breaths here. Really gathering your attention on the inhalation. Allow your inhalation to be this kind of retrieval of parts of yourself perhaps that you've scattered about your home or your day. Allow the exhalation to be a very certain settling of your energy of what you're collecting and retrieving. We'll take two to three more breaths like that gathering and centering grounding. And gently become aware as we've talked about during this conversation of any thoughts that begin to emerge out of your consciousness. Maybe it's a thought about a plan or something that's happened in the past and just notice it and bring your attention back to the next breath in the way in which you're collecting and settling. And the idea of being that each thought that emerges as we spoke about secretion of the mind becomes something you can just allow to drop. And you can certainly keep your eyes closed or if you wish you can open your eyes and the reason to gently open the eyes, take in a point on any surface in front of you is to practice being present for a reality as it is. And it can take time to learn how to keep your body still to learn how to not address every itch. Just stay still as to face the things that are difficult to face and to become stronger in your discernment of what you tend to and what you leave alone. And this time passes you begin to notice that there's a part of your attention that actually can see and feel and ascertain everything that's happening. And it is on that part that you can rest all of your energy, all of your attention on that which sees everything. And the practice of noticing and dropping thoughts never really ends, but you may notice in time that the thoughts slowly become fewer and farther between. The pace slows down. And the body begins to move into a really restful healing state in which homeostasis or health spray-ortized balances by ortized naturally physiologically. We're taking about five to ten more breaths here depending on how deeply your breathing so enjoy each one to the fullest and be extremely discerning as to which thought you follow and which thought you allow to recede. And if you're so inclined, you can bring your hands together, you're palms together and gosho, you can place your fingertips right in front of your nose about a fist away. Just take a moment to dedicate the benefit of this practice to all beings. Anyone you know who needs it, any community you know who's suffering, and feel what happens in your chemistry when you move this benefit toward someone else and how it changes within you. And I want to thank you for your practice. Thank you my G. You love it. I love you so much. Thank you for having me on. It is such an honor. My moments with you are some of my favorite. Same. Love you.

If you've ever felt dismissed by medical professionals or if you've struggled with confusing symptoms, like dizziness, racing heart or fatigue, without clear answers, this conversation is for you. histamine is one of 1,200 plus chemical massengers that come out of mass cells. In this episode of the Dr. Gabriel Lyancho, I interview Michelle Shapiro registered dietation. Clients who eat tomatoes and citrus foods and fermented foods. If you went to a gut health doctor, these would be the healthiest foods unless they would say you have to eat these foods and they would be the exact foods that would sicken those with histamine issues. We're tackling a widely misunderstood and ill-defined health issue. Histamine and its related conditions like mass cell activation syndrome, postural orthostatic tachycardia, or pots, and she shares her personal and professional journey navigating these challenging conditions. It's impossible to believe that something that's healthy for someone can create severe symptoms. It's not logical. Almost right, why would someone drinking lemon water make them violently ill for a week? It's like defies our understanding of the human body almost because that accident is very odd way, basically. We'll explore why traditional medicine often misses the mark on diagnosing and treating them and discuss how these conditions intersect. We break down practical strategies to reclaim your health, calm your nervous system and build resilience. Michelle Shapiro registered dietation also one of my dearest friends. Welcome to the show. I'm already emotional. I'm so much for having you. I mean, this is so happy to be here. Unblurable. It's unbelievable. One of the reasons why I want to have you on is typically when we see a patient in the practice that has all these strange symptoms like disiness, heart rate variability, they are reacting to foods to son, to things that we couldn't even imagine. It seems as if mass cell activation syndrome is something that plays a role and it being related to nutrition. You certainly are an expert and have seen many patients with mass cell activations in her. But what is it? Yeah, so we'll first define what mass cells are. I think that's really important. So much of the conversation online right now is about histamine. So we're going to use that word a lot. But I think to even define histamines, we have to talk about where they come from. Mass cells are a part of our immune system. They're type of white blood cell and I really think of them as being the guards to our body. So what their job is is to assess for threat and then send messengers out to the rest of our body instructing them on what do we do in the situation. And I really think of mass cells as being this not only they not only help with the healing in times of a threat, but they are always anticipating threats as well. So what happens is something will attach to the outside of a mass cell and then the insiders, these sacks where they will release these granules that have these chemical mass hinders in them. One of them is histamine. So this is why this histamine conversation becomes so important. Mass cell activation syndrome is when those mass cells are constantly activated and releasing these chemical mass hinders. And it's really important to state. histamine is one of 1,200 plus chemical mass hinders that come out of mass cells. So wow, and we really have kind of honed in on histamines. I just had to get asked, why do you think that is? I think histamines create the most emergency like symptoms. And I think that's why we focus so much on them because histamines are the most, I guess the loudest. You could say of a lot of them. There's elastases, trip tases, cytokines. There's so many different compounds that come out of our mass cells. But the ones that we can actually see and feel come from histamines usually. For anyone who's interested in research, I wanted to pull some of the new existing data. And this is a 2024 paper. It's the world journal of clinical pediatric, said it's mass cell activation and up to date review of the literature. And again, it talks about mass cells as this again, what you had said, a type of white blood cell that is involved in the immune system. And they create a common list of symptoms, flushing, hypertension, itchiness, swollen, tongue, headache, vomiting, diarrhea. And it seems as if there's a lot of outstanding questions. I'd love for you to talk about a little bit about what these symptoms are, is it system dependent and how is that going to happen? I can't believe how excited I am to talk about this. I'm like, this is so great. Thank you for asking me that question. So when we think of histamines, we often think of medications like anti-estamines. I just think of this as a benedrial deficiency. It's right. It's like you just need a zirtag, right? Which in some cases, by the way, you do need a zirtag. And we can talk about the medication component of it. But histamines are so much more than just these compounds that cause mucus and coughing and this type of classic cold symptomology. So mass cells are in our connective tissue. And our connective tissue lines, every organ in our body, our joints, our bones, really anywhere where they say there's a dark hollow space in your body, there are mass cells. So that means that the symptoms from histamines can come from anywhere in your body. So it's really weird because if people can get tacky cardio or low or blight, high blood pressure from histamines, they would actually think, maybe I'll go to a cardiologist. But in reality, because the symptoms are coming from this type of chemical compound, it's really hard to trace kind of their place of origin. And other symptoms that people experience with histamine issues are flushing and those classic allergy symptoms that we think of cold symptoms. But then also people can experience extreme urgency in their digestive system, extreme urgency in their urinary tract, feeling like their bladder is constantly full and irritated, feeling extreme anxiety because one of the roles of histamine is to keep us awake and alert. So people have insomnia, anxiety that's really prevalent, depression or depressive symptoms because we can't say there's only one root cause of any of these conditions or syndromes. histamine issues can cause joint pain and our perception of pain can be increased from them as well. And then a lot just again, a lot of digestive issues people are seeing rapid diarrhea, also constipation, which is weird, it depends on the person, and a lot of nervous system involvement too. And that's really tricky because it's almost a catch all phrase, you're not feeling well, it could be massile activations and which is not common. I think that this case, when I say it's not common, it's not very common in the literature. It's also not common from a diagnosis perspective and it reminds me of when mold and environmental toxins were never thought of. I remember when I was living in New York City, I mean we've known each other now, it's going to be almost a decade, you know, be going on decade. And when I was living in New York City, so it was a cry right now. So it's sweet before book babies and before Shane. Literally. Before Shane. Aren't you so glad we don't have to listen to Bud's class two, three, four? I like we were on repeat last night, but in the time I know. When I was living in New York City, I got really sick living in my apartment. I went to multiple doctors and I had already been a physician, right? So I'd been a physician, seeing patients, and it turned out I went to probably five different doctors and I didn't get any answers. I couldn't explain word-finding difficulties, vision changes and just terrible fatigue. I mean I could barely get out of bed. And it ended up being mold. I was exposed to stocky batteries in the apartment that I was living in, but at the time, people would think that was crazy. Now, everybody is talking about mold. It's really become more of a prevalent disease, just like lime. That's sort of a massive activation, I think is the next thing. Yeah, and mold, by the way, can be a very clear root cause to mass-illotivation syndrome, by the way, because of this inflammatory cascade that happens as a result. Because anything that triggers your immune system to be in that constant state of threat or activation or needing to detox all the time, anything like that, if you don't have proper drainage, can create this immune system need to constantly put out these messengers and constantly fight. That is very interesting because it gives us a root cause approach. And that is something that you really focus a lot on. How does someone know what would be the process of trying to figure out if someone had muscle activation syndrome? And I'm thinking of one patient I have, and he would go into his house and immediately he would get a histamine reaction. Mm-hmm. Yeah. So, first of all, you can have that histamine reaction to these environmental toxicants. So, when I think of, we'll talk about the diagnostic piece, but also when I think of this histamine problem, usually it's a composite of different factors. So, histamine issues are not just from one thing. So, it's not that you ate a tomato and then you were sick after. I think of histamines much like we think of auto-munity kind of like a bucket theory. So, you could have a little bit of environmental toxicant that puts your immune system on guard, a little bit of mold, and then you have a stressful conversation with a family member, and then you eat a bunch of tomatoes, and then you drink a little bit of alcohol, and then that turns into this new update. And then you watch an ABCL documentary that nine PM, which is way past my bedtime with the children. Yeah, exactly. But it's a composite of these things that then puts your body into this state of activation. So, it really is not just usually one event. However, I will say, a lot of times if there is one event, it is usually from a very strong detox protocol. So, I often see clients coming to me after they've been to functional medicine doctors on these incredible parasite cleanses mold detoxes, they're correct, but their immune system is too reactive, and what I'm hearing you say is you're describing what people would probably pin on a hurts reaction. Exactly. That is exactly right. And so, usually if you're working with a fabulous functional medicine doctor, they'll tie trade down, or they'll say we kind of have to push through. Right? We have to push through this hurts. The problem is with histamine issues is you have a new problem. If you have, if you have mass-altivation syndrome while you're going through a moldy detox, you now have to deal with the mass-altivation syndrome because you're immune system in that state of constant searching and fighting is going to create new problems for you. That just sounds really challenging. Yeah. When someone is thinking, okay, I might have mass-altivation. How would they then go through kind of a diagnosis criteria, or is there a criteria for diagnosis? Sure. Yeah. So this can be done in immunologists' office. This can be done in a primary care office, a functional medicine doctor's office, so you can measure the actual mediators. You can measure serum triptace, serum histamine in your actual, like, at a lab with a lab test. You can also measure through a urine test. The reason why these can be very limiting is because histamines aren't don't live in our blood for very long. And if you're not an active flare, you might not be able to see what is circulating basically. And so it's really important that if people are using that mode of diagnosis, that they actually go during a flare. I would say it's really important. Yeah. And you have to be off of antihistamines to be tested for it. A kind of more accurate measurement and another way that we can diagnose, not myself, but that doctor's can diagnose, is through biopsy. So you can get a skin biopsy, or if you happen to be going in for an endoscopy or colonoscopy, you can you can biopsy the cells and see massillativity through that as well. The standard laboratory diagnostic markers of MCAS according to this up to date review for MCAS is serum triptace with a normal level defined between 0 and 11.4 nanograms per milliter in adults. It also exactly what you said studies have shown that the sample should be taken within one to four hours of the beginning of symptoms and that that basal level should be evaluated in advance during a symptom free period at least 24 to 48 hours after complete recovery. As one could imagine, this is not easy to do. And some studies suggest that even a normal triptace level that that does not diagnostically rule out MCAS. You had mentioned and I'll just this is for the providers listening and if you are someone who is testing in your urine or urinary metabolites that other mediators such as histamine, prostate landins, luka trines, other urinary metabolites of histamines. It says that they are not as well known in terms of diagnostic criteria. What else would be a way to tell? Is this a diagnosis of exclusion? It can be and while of course as a dietitian, I'm not diagnosing anything, I will say this. I tell the story about a mutual fund of ours, Olivia, I'm a trano, who you introduced us. That's right, I'm responsible for the friendship. You are very responsible and I'm giving full accountability and responsibility. Olivia wrote an article a long time about what her number one travel tips were and what she has to pack with her when she's traveling. And in that article she said I always bring Benagerl with me because you never know when you'll need it. And I said you'll only need Benagerl if you have a histamine issue so that's a good way to know. If you take Cliratin or you took Azir attack or you took a pepsid and you felt immeasurably better, that would tell you you know what, maybe this is this is something and maybe this is a direction to look in. Because for people who do not have histamine issues, you would not feel better taking those medications. So sometimes there's a little bit of a trial and error as well. I would also say that after working with probably at this point in my practice a thousand clients between myself and my practitioners, there's very clear patterns that we can see when it comes to histamine issues. So clients who eat tomatoes and citrus fruits and fermented foods, if you went to a gut health doctor, these would be the healthiest foods on the list. They would say you have to eat these foods and they would be the exact foods that would sicken those with histamine issues. So when I see clients coming with the list and I said what foods do you react to and they say vinegar, tomatoes, spinach, avocado, that leads me in a direction of okay this is not a regular gut issue like leaky gut or something. They're not reacting to fiber particles, they're reacting to one specific component of the food. So it's it is a little bit of by exclusion and also by pattern recognition I would say and there are some really easy patterns to see. Have you wasted so much money on skincare? I swear to you I have spent so much on my personal skincare that my pores should be unarmed, I'm not attached to ductable at this point. But thank God for one skin and here's what I love about one skin. They don't make empty promises. It's a research-driven, minimalistic and tested for beauty skin health and longevity. One skin is the first top-cult skin care back by peptide science that target skin aging in a molecular level. They had a proprietary peptide which is designed to reduce the accumulation of something called zombie cells that drive inflammation, tissue breakdown and really this is an amazing product. It's not really about this cosmetic quick fix. You know we talk all about health and wellness but we typically talk about it from the inside and this is something that you can put on topically to affect the health of your skin. So go to oneskin.co. That's O-N-E-S-K-I-N.co and use the code Dr. Lyon for 15% off. That made me think about that list. It also made me think about small intestinal bacteria overgrowth. Which is exactly what it sounds like, small intestinal bacteria overgrowth. There is a disproportionate amount of bacteria that would be less than ideal for the gut. People get a lot of bloating. When you see a patient with histamine, do we call it histamine intolerance? How do we differentiate between histamine intolerance and mass-ylactivation syndrome? Yeah. So mass-ylactivation syndrome will probably involve those other mediators. Hissamine intolerance can be you have actually a normal amount of histamine circulating. You just don't feel well when you're having that amount. So it's an intolerance to existing histamine that you're experiencing. Pretty hard diagnostically to differentiate. However, if someone has histamine intolerance, I'm always wondering if there's a mass-yl involvement as well. And there is mass-yl involvement because that's where histamine is released from. What it'd be safe to say that if somebody has a histamine reaction repeatedly that they should be checked for mass-ylactivation syndrome, absolutely. Is there a list of symptoms, a validated list of symptoms that they would say, okay, you go to your cardiologist because they see tachycardia or pots, which I'd love for you to talk a little bit about. Is there a checklist to determine? Because I haven't seen one. I had never seen a validated checklist although, again, I think immunologist probably have access to something that's pretty, again, this clear pattern recognition. It is not, there would not be a diagnosis based on that list that I'm aware of. I could be wrong by the way, and I'm open to. No, I haven't seen it, but for example, in low testosterone, there are questionnaires for sleep apnea, there are questionnaires for narcolepsy, for all of these many of challenges physical challenges. There seems to be a questionnaire in this would make sense that guys, if no one has done this, someone could go to it. So, get on this right away because it would be really, really helpful. Yeah, so this part of the conversation, I think, is the most important part because the philosophical question we have is who's responsibility is it to treat Mcasts? And what can each person do? What is the role of each provider? What's the scope? Because this information on Mcasts is exploding very recently. The first practice paper I believe is only in 2017, maybe 2019. So, it's all very new, and we've also seen an explosion of Mcasts with long COVID. So, the question is, where's each of our roles? I think, and it's really, really important, because if someone, again, if someone has a pounding heart when they stand up and their heart reads jumping up, severe tacky cardio, which is a frightening experience. You think you're having a heart attack, you don't know what's going on, you're so dizzy, you can't move. People can't walk when that reaction's happening. Where would you go, Gabrielle? You'd go to your, the ER, you go to a cardiologist's office, but there's no cardiologist who's pulling out a list of histamine intolerance checklists when someone's coming in. They're going to do an EKG. They're going to do what they need to do to make sure that their heart as a muscle is functioning. The issue is that histamines, one of their main functions, is to cause vasodilation, which we'll go into more deeply, but it's not that the heart itself is not functioning. It's that the brain is signaling and the massile, the immune system is signaling for the body to operate in a different way. So, it's really challenging for doctors because that's not in their inclination and it shouldn't be, they want to make sure that muscle is working, that the organ is working. So, it's really challenging when clients go to the ER because you can get any emergency sign you can think of respiratory rate changes, fibers, obviously any visible signs and things like that, heart rate. So, the question is what is each of our role, I think, because it's really tricky and it really conceals itself as other conditions as well. What would the diet look like? Is it fair to say that there is a diet to help modify these symptoms in the short term and that I'm curious as to treatments in the long term? Absolutely. Yeah, so let's say someone, let's say we have identified a root cause for amcast. Let's say we know someone's living in a moldy home. Let's say actually someone has Sebo, because Sebo's actually one of the syndromes or conditions that we say travels with amcast. So, they often have overlapping, like symptomology as well. So, if someone has these symptoms in the short term or we've even identified the root cause, you still have to treat the symptoms first. This is very different than other conditions because if you know that mold is an issue usually, you treat the mold, right? If you know that parasites are an issue, you treat parasites. Because histamines are so react, our immune cells are mass cells are so reactive to any type of detoxification, including a vitamin C supplement. I had a one week reaction with fever because I got a vitamin C IV. Wow, this really brings me back to my new practice. Of course, we had a patient that reacted to vitamin C. This was before I was even thinking about mass elevations syndrome. And we're thinking to ourselves, how we don't believe this? We do not believe that she is reacting to vitamin C. Tell me more. Yeah, so it's really funny because those patients are my only clients. So, I only see the people who have those reactions and those reactions had exploded since COVID by the way. So, it's impossible to believe that something that's healthy for someone can create severe symptoms. It's not logical, almost right? Why would someone drinking lemon water make them violently ill for a week? It's like defies our understanding of the human body almost because that acts in this very odd way, basically. So, vitamin C is powerfully supportive for our immune system. In mass elevations syndrome, your immune system is not hyperactive and it's not autoimmune. It's hyperactive. So, it's constantly turned on essentially. So, anything that enhances an immune response can also enhance a mass cell response as well. The other issue is if you are not draining or detoxing properly, you can have recirculation of toxins. What does that mean? Does that mean liver removal? Yes. Does that mean going to the back? Thought removal, liver removal. So, any if any step in the detox and drainage process is inhibited, you can have recirculation of toxins basically. So, in C-bows, a great example, you have this bacterial overgrowth and your body is like let me mount an immune response to help you to get rid of this and to move this through, but you don't you cannot handle the edit, immune, and detoxification response. So, it is a body that is in a state of turned on too much. So, anything that enhances the detox response that could help you, you actually can't do. Which is really, really frustrating in treatment. That would be really, again, very challenging. Here, I'm just going to read this. This is the relationship between C-bow and MCAS is as follows. C-bow, and this is for my science nerds in there. Dad, I hope you're listening. C-bow causes the activation of the mass cells and increase in T-limpicides. T-limpicides in turn secrete micro particles that again activate mass cells, activated mass cells, and T-limpicides release cytokines. This increases intestinal permeability and leads to this vicious cycle. Friends, why this is so important is because when you hear mass cell activation or when you hear C-bow, you must have a mechanism of action. When we don't have mechanism of action, and the way that I would think about this is read meat causes cancer, calling cancer, or read meat causes cancer. What is the mechanism of action? This has a clear mechanism of action. How do we begin treatment? Because obviously people would think, oh, well, I'm going to take Vitamin C, I'm not feeling well. But before actually before we go to treatment, give me some other items that people would take. You said vinegar, avocado, any of the foods that seem to exacerbate small intestinal bacteria overgrowth, I did a episode with Ken Brown, Dr. Ken Brown, He's amazing. If you want to learn more about C-bow, we should link to that episode here. Vitamin C, what else? From a histamine food perspective, and the original question, yeah, absolutely. The original question you had was like, what is the diet, the deal with the diet piece of it, and we will talk about that, of course. So the foods that are high in histamines or can cause the body to release histamines are vinegar, citrus fruits, spinach, avocado, tomatoes, especially like aged foods, unfortunately pickles for me. It's a major loss. It's actually the only high histamine food I can't eat. Chocolate, everyone's mad at me for saying that one. Alcohol, anything that's aged, the food itself can build histamines over time, basically, because histidine gets converted to histamine in the aging process. Fermented foods, those gut healthy foods, me, so, natto fermented vegetables, like these foods that again are so objectively healthy, they have a high histamine content, or they cause the body to release histamines. Benanas are another one spinach. So would these reactions happen immediately? Depends. It's a great question. Yeah. Or is it over time, for example, the person who eats a ton of bananas, one day can't totally pronounce it, or I used to eat, you know, like my producer, talking vinegar, or he maybe could do it, and then all of a sudden he can't do it anymore. Absolutely, yeah. So it's a depends on where you are in that bucket theory, right? Have you had a lot of other environmental toxicants stress? Have you been exercising too hard? And exercise is something we have to talk about because it's not said because exercise is essential for pots, especially an MCAS, but everything's about titration and everything's about creating safety in the body first, and you have to do things in a certain order. So the answer is this, does a low histamine diet treat the root cause of MCAS? A little bit. But not totally. The way that it does a little bit is because unfortunately our body has this very odd mechanism where the more histamines that are present in serum, the more body, the more the body creates histamines, which I'm like, don't do that. We have enough clearly. So the problem is if you eat high histamine foods, it enhances this cycle that continues as well, and can cause drastic symptoms. And when I say drastic symptoms, I mean violent digestive issues for days at a time. Could be all the way up to vomiting. It could be migraines. I mean, these are really, really intense symptoms, not just that little rash that people think of, which is also a common histamine symptom, of course, as well. But these symptoms are so drastic and it is hard because you can have a reaction within minutes or the reaction can be delayed like 12 hours later. That was my, that was going to be my next question. It does someone have an immediate reaction. And if we're thinking about diet, obviously you're removing those things, is that the first time? Yes. So I would say in any protocol, so this is the same thing with supplements. And when we were talking about supplements, vitamin C, vitamin B, especially glutathione, anything that's enhancing that detoxification or immune system response. But really people with mass-illotivation syndromes, I think of our bodies as, and these highly sensitive bodies as bodies that are on guard. So anything that's perceived as a change to the system can be really challenging. So it's those supplements that enhance the immune response, mitochondrial response or detoxification or anything that's new to your body, unfortunately. And it really depends on the state because I can eat 10 bananas a day one day. The next day, if I took a flight and my, my mass-illotivation is already irritated, I might not be able to tolerate them. So it is really challenging to kind of chase, but in the beginning you have to stabilize two things. Of any mass-cell journey, you have to stabilize your histamines and you must stabilize your nervous system because our nervous system and our immune system are intricately connected and in mass-illotivation syndrome, there is no way that your mass cells can become if your nervous system is hyperactive because that's the number one signal for our mass cells to to activate and they literally communicate with each other. Mass cells are also considered neurotransmitters and are released by our hypothalamus as well. With histamine stabilization and nervous system stabilization, can you give me a sample type protocol and we've actually worked on a few quite a few patients together and there's this one patient that I'm thinking about and this was a Shidlong COVID and we should talk about long COVID, long COVID, ACE, receptors and this M.C.S. connection. We started her on Pepsit and we gave her a handful of items and it seemed to really improve her symptoms. So let's start with that. Yeah and I'm going to actually mention a case study with a different client and why Pepsit even came up to me and why it even started thinking about Pepsit. I had a client who was on eight psychiatric medications. Actually, I had a fantastic psychiatrist and it was well-furned Psalm me. She had untreatable in Psalm me. She was sleeping one to two hours a night. Then maybe like the third night she would get like five or six hours but it led to the point where she had like paranoia and hallucinations her and Psalm me it was so severe. In my emails to stay up to date I always get these medical lectures and I recently listened to a lecture from an academic MD PhD about magnesium. I have to tell you it completely changed my perspective from a scientific point of view on magnesium. One of the most common causes of headaches you won't believe it is a magnesium or could be a magnesium deficiency and you can test for this in the blood. There are hundreds of biological processes that magnesium is responsible for and the absorption in our diet is not great and after listening to this lecture I am more convinced than ever that taking magnesium can be helpful. Also 75% of Americans are deficient. That means three out of four of you listening to this podcast may be deficient and that's where Melo magnesium comes in. It's a daily super blend that contains the three most bioavailable and nutrient-ense forms of key-laden magnesium and not to mention over 70 trace minerals. Full transparency, Ned shares all of its third party lab reports. So you know that the product that you are adjusting it has what it says it has. So if you are someone like one of the 75% of Americans who are magnesium deficient go to helloneed.com that's HELLO and ed.com slash doctor lion and they have amazing amazing small travel packs of this magnesium. Melo magnesium you will love it. And at some point I started noticing she had other histamine reactions. So I said why don't we try pepsid which is actually an antihistamine. The reason I even thought of pepsid is because I had seen a study. They studied 16 people out of who were inpatient and hospital and they found that 14 out of 16 of them had an 80% reduction in symptoms with the intervention of 80 milligrams of femodidine which is pepsid and I was so shocked because I was like what the heck does pepsid have to do with long COVID symptoms. Why would that make a difference and it's actually because pepsid is an antihistamine which most people don't know. And I think this is a little speculatory but I think because it works on the gut I noticed it helps with a lot of neurological symptoms for people and nervous like numbness, tingling, that zingy feeling because I think it's the vagus nerve impact. So it works even better than some of those each one receptor medication. So she took pepsid and it's been five years. She's never had a trouble sleeping since. Obviously she worked on the rest of her medication protocol with her doctor. Dietitians actually can recommend over the counter medications and we worked on that together and she is sleep. She is not said the word sleep to me in five years. So we heard. Yeah. That's wild. Someone listening to this and they wanted to take matters into their own hands. Obviously we always suggest we don't give medical advice here but this is for educational purposes only. You start a lot of your patients on pepsid that have this. Do you take them off of supplementation? I know that you use a lot. We both use a lot of electrolytes. Yes, absolutely. Tell me a little more and why what it is that we are using. So the first round for us is always those two things. Histamines, nervous system. The deal with histamines in the M.C.S is that you have to kind of radically drop those histamines down because if you're in that symptomatic state, your nervous system is going to be so active and it becomes this cyclical, um, a state of existence and unfortunately for people again Gabrielle, we're really talking about people who are mostly, many of them are unable to work because if they walk into an office where they recently use bleach, they're having a potentially as a medic reaction to it, right? They're having such a severe reaction to environmental triggers or having going out to dinner with friends and having something that's super healthy and ending up again violently ill. So in the beginning, I will often even as a dietation recommend over the counter medications, a combination of H1 receptor, medications like clarinet, ligorose, or tech and then probably a combination of pepsid as well. The question that's going to come up in your amazing medical community is, well, pepsid lower stomach acid and low stomach acid is a huge problem, Michelle. So in this population, it's interesting because they actually may have higher stomach acid because stomach acid and, um, mass cells releasing histamine, it's a direct relationship. Higher the stomach acid, higher the histamine release, higher the histamine release, higher the histamine release, higher the stomach acid, this all happens on the parietal cells. H2 receptors are very, again, there's this cycle that happens. So what you have to do in the beginning is whether it's over the counter medications or supplements like we use perilla extract, pea, quercetin, um, again, we can't use vitamin C in the beginning usually, but we will take people off of the supplements they're on most likely because we don't know what they're reacting to and we will just focus on supplements that will help the nervous system, mindset work that helps the nervous system and then also anything related to histamines to bring down that response. When you focus on their diet, is it mostly proteins? What kind of foods do you typically have in me? Yeah, fresh protein because leftover foods can also, again, the older food is, the more it can develop that histamine response. So fresh meats, many vegetables outside of the ones I named are fantastic, fruits usually are fine outside of those citrus and raspberries, unfortunately, and strawberries, um, but there's, and tomatoes as we talked about, but there's basically most whole foods, most carbon foods are low in histamines as well. So you can eat a whole foods diet. It's just being selected with those foods. So we will go on at probably an eight to 12 week low histamine diet. There's some research about low oxalate diets as well. I haven't seen as much for positive response. It's really hard because people can still have histamine issues while they're on the low histamine diet because I don't know they have an abusive partner, and that's the reason that their mass cells are activated, so it's hard to know the exact reason, but you can see some really tremendous symptom improvement from that low histamine diet, and it's still so essential to eat those whole foods during the time and very possible. Eight to 12 weeks on a low histamine diet, whole foods, taking some form of a typically an H2 blocker, and H1, a combination of H1, H2, yeah, H1, H2 blocker. That's one side of the equation. Is there something to directly work on the nervous system? Would that be meditation? Are there other, obviously you're probably, they're not seeing doctors and going on SSRIs, or how we stabilizing the nervous system? By the way, that's a really good point too because a lot of medications can cause drastic reactions, so it's really hard for people to find out which medications help are hurt as well. So when it comes to the nervous system and mass cells, I have this visual for mass cells, I almost, and I feel really silly saying it here, and I hope Shane doesn't. Think this is extra silly, but I kind of think of mass cells as the guards on the watch tower of a battle that just happened. They're kind of like looking to make sure they're witnessing the battle and then they're deploying resources after to help clean up the debris and also to prevent that from happening again. So the problem is that people with extremely uncomfortable and frightening symptoms get really scared when those symptoms happen, and this is what keeps mass cell activation going. It's really challenging for me to look at someone who's been sick with painful frightening symptoms that no doctors been able to help them with and say, I need you to become when these symptoms come up and I need you to find a way to be non-reactive to these symptoms. So there are actually brain retraining programs that help retrain our limbic system, which is our hypothernalymus, hypocampus, and amygdala, which will process our threat response memory and basically again is deeply integrated with this mass cell response. So it's really interesting because these brain retraining programs are one of the top ways to support MCAS, the Goop to Program, DNRS, Primal Trust, and it starts in the brain. So we often think, oh, maybe mass cell stabilizing medications like promo and sodium, ketatiphen, but in reality, starting in the brain is the most important thing. At home, I'm not asking people to meditate and do things like that, even though it's essential because the symptoms are so loud that sitting in them can be really challenging. So what I invite people to do is to just ask themselves questions and get really curious about their symptoms and just ask yourself, I have people just have their heart and say, what do I need? What do I need in this moment? And really, just at home, again, this is temporary. I know horrible. This is, I've personally experienced these symptoms to an extreme degree. So I understand, but anything we can do to become non-reactive really, really helps in the long-term treatment of these conditions and our mutual client. I had that it's a hard conversation to have because I'm like, it's not your fault that your nervous system is so reactive, but we have to find a way to feel safe again. And what is fascinating about it is this is not something where individuals are usually very reactive. And they're having these experiences in their body that are real and they are coming from white blood cells and other portions of the body that are really pushing up anxiety. I was reading one thing about migraines, they believe that massel activation seems to play a significant role in the pathophysiology of migraines. I'm bursting at the seams to talk about this. Yeah, go, burst. So one, one thing, one of the functions of histimines is to cause vasodilation, okay? The widening of our blood vessels. And this is you have such an intelligent audience. They're going to like, Michelle, please don't explain vasodilation to me. Okay, you know. So I want someone to think of a scenario where they've had this experience where they're in the shower and suddenly they feel really dizzy when they're in a hot shower and they look down, they see their legs are red and their heart rate is pounding. Why does this happen, right? So what's happening in that situation is that heat and histimines both cause vasodilation. So if our blood vessels are wide open, we're standing in the shower, it's steamy, our body standing up straight, gravity plus vasodilation will pull blood down and blood will pull down. So blood pulling is a big component of both massel activation syndrome and pots, pusherle or thestactic cardiocendrum. So when the blood pools and our feet and legs, you see it on the surface. That's the opening of those blood vessels. You see all that redness. And then what's happening is your heart and your brain don't have blood flow going to them. Now, of course, they have some blood flow going to them, but there's limited. So what happens is your body starts pounding, your heart to get the blood flow back up to your heart and your brain. The dizziness comes because you're not having blood flow to your brain and your heart starts to pound because it's not getting that blood flow. So in a histamine response, again, what you can see is blood that's pulling in your extremities dropping down because you're constantly having that vasodilation. All right, this is my big moment. Okay. Migraine medications are what? They're vasoconstrictors, right? We think of excdent migraine that has caffeine in it. We think of what helps people with migraines. There's this very popular trend that's happening online where it's like have a diacoke in front of us and like, don't. There's other ways. There's other ways. We think of electrolytes that help people with migraines. We think of cold compresses that help you with migraines. All of these have vasoconstrictive properties. Migraines we've known for a long time are a vasodilation issues and histamines are potent vasodilators. So I believe that the root cause of many people's migraines, there's many root cause of migraines can be histamine issues because of this vasodilative feature, which is, I think one of the roles of histamine that creates the most havoc in the body symptom wise. I have had many patients explain that scenario to me. Doc, I was in the shower and I don't know what happened, but I started red and lightheaded. How do we treat them in that moment? Is that a pre-treatment with H1 and H2 or is there a different way? What do you thought about? It's the exact right question. So this scenario is very common in people with this syndrome, Pusheryl or Thurotac orthostatic techiecardia syndrome, which we did not really get into and I'd love for you to talk about. Yeah, that'll take us into that because this is one way where those two are very related. I have a joke about pots, the way that we treat pots in conventional medicine is we kind of create a gogurt tube through your body. So we compress your stomach, we wear an abdominal binder, you squeeze it, it helps the blood flow go up. We wear compression socks, we kind of squeeze your body like a gogurt tube and just bring the blood flow back up, right? And you know this from all of your extensive years in practice and training, but if someone has like low blood pressure, you might have them put their legs up on the wall. Basically the goal is to get blood flowing back up. Now pots, we think of as maybe that's a cardiac condition, right? It has to do with how fast your heart rate is jumping when you make a postural change. When in reality pots is a form of disautonomia, wait a second, it's a nervous system disorder. It's a dysfunction of your autonomic nervous system. So that means that treating pots is not about treating your heart in most cases. There's different types of pots, three. One is hypovolemic pots, which is that you just have low blood volume. When you don't have enough blood volume, you don't have that pump and then you're again, your heart will start pounding faster. We often think of pots, we're like, why are people's parts pounding so much? They get put on, propanolol, metaprolyol, like anything that beta blockers to help bring the heart rate down and stabilize it. In the case of hypovolemic pots, the treatment is also to have not only this compression, but to have 10 grams of sodium per day additional. So we drink element, right? Elementy. That's one gram of sodium. We're talking about 10 element packets and again it's 10 hands, basal construction and increase that blood volume essentially and to help so that there is that blood flow and that blood volume will help to enhance the blood flow. The second type of pots is hyper adrenergic pots, which is you're having this hyper adrenelene response. These people do not have low blood volume necessarily. They're having an adrenelene response that is causing their heart rate to go really high. Very related to massel both of them. Again, in this feature of massal activation syndrome enhancing that vasodilation, causing leak-year blood vessels, pots and MCAS are connected right there and it's really important. And then adiopathic pots, which is there's actually some sort of blood vessel damage that's causing it. How long does it take to treat pots? Would you treat pots or MCAS first? Because they're almost as if soap pots is this downstream effect of MCAS. However, it seems that what I'm hearing you say is for the treatment of MCAS. Number one, regardless of what is causing it, you have to stabilize both histamine and nervous system. But histamine is kind of a catch-all term for the multiple other responses it could be. It could be prostate linens, it could be, it could be, it could try and it could be inflammation. It's the immune system. And then the also, you need to block the histamine symptoms on submoval because people are unable to work and live their lives. It's really excruciating. There was one study out of the University of College London that stated that those with long COVID, which if you ask me, I think it's a composite of MCAS and pots and almost every single scenario, had worse quality of life and morphity than those with stage four cancer and stage four cancer related to NMEAS. And it's because the symptoms are so drastic and so intense and no one knows how to help them essentially. So I think that if you have a pots issue and I've never seen someone with pots who doesn't have MCAS. I have to tell you it is such an honor to have beef sponsor this podcast episode. As you know, beef is more than a delicious, satisfying protein. It is a nutrient powerhouse that supports strength, energy, and vitality at every stage of life. It is packed with high quality protein, iron, zinc, b vitamins, and health promoting bioactive compounds like creatine. Beef is a whole food source that helps fill your body. And whether you are trying to build muscles, support metabolic health, or simply aim to feel your best beef delivers the nutrition to your body to thrive. Beef is what's for dinner.com is one of my go-to resources to gain valuable insight on how beef is raised, grown. You'll find recipes. I am so honored that they are helping to support this podcast and your journey to be for ever strong. The beef nutrition team at the NCBA is made up of dedicated nutrition scientists and registered dietitians who are passionate about sharing accurate science-based information. Go to beef is what's for dinner.com. But you said something Gabrielle, it's going to be Dr. Gabrielle line that is going to be so profound for people. You said pots is a downstream effect of MCAS. No one says that. Just so, you know, that's not common in the conversation. I believe that to be true. I have never seen a pot's client who doesn't have MCAS. So the question is how do we stabilize him histamine, to stabilize symptoms, and then with pots, you must recondition. You have to because it's blood flow. Right. That's a huge piece of it. And you have to have a tremendous amount of electrolytes and you have to hydrate really, really well. That brings us to exercise. How does that happen? How can we manage exercise dealing with pots or MCAS? And I've had patients with pots who probably have MCAS, but the major presenting symptom is this exercise intolerance and heart rate changes. Yes. And those symptoms, I don't think we can overstate how absolutely terrifying those symptoms are, by the way. It's not just like, oh, my heart is fluttering. People feel that they can't see. It's excruciatingly anxiety inducing and the anxiety around pots, especially hyper-agernergic pots. You have this, it's like a, I can only describe it as a very full body anxiety where you feel like there's ants crawling onto your skin and you're at it. Oh, woohoo! If I had to, oh, you're a personal story. You have had absolutely pots, MCAS, hyper-movability and long-quiet. We should talk about the connection between hyper-movability and MCAS, but after you finish telling us how we are going to exercise because this crew, they want to train. Hey, that's nice. Yeah. And it's the most devastating for this crew because, first of all, being unable to exercise doesn't make exercise less healthy for us. So it's like we know the information, you have, you have told us this information, yourself, you've devoted your life to telling us this information and it doesn't change the information. It just means that we might have to build our tolerance to it. You know, I've had so many clients Gabrielle, were there at the point where they can't walk 10 steps. So what do you have to do? What do they do when they walk 10 steps? They just feel out of breath or something. So dizzy that they might actually faint. Some that pots, there's a huge fainting component to many, not every single person has that symptom. Their heart rate is so rapid, again, that they could immediately have this feeling when they stand up. So dizzy, the heart pounding so profound. It just basically pulls you back to sit down and those episodes from just standing up once can leave you with that anxiety and that adrenaline response for days. So it really makes people feel so frightened and it's actually with mass elevation syndrome. You can also have pretty profound exercise intolerance and they would actually get full body rashes and then what feels like a flu basically. So the answer is how do we tie trade it specifically? Something else that's very, very important with pots is something called upper cervical instability, which happens in hypermobility that I know we're going to talk about. But really with pots, it's about protecting your neck because if there are, if there's any instability in your neck, all the nerves that control your heart rate are in your neck, right? We talk about the biggest nerve all the time. In ways of digestion and ways of anxiety, but think about the fact that these nerves are going to control that heart response and it's nervous system condition. It's a nerve condition, right? So it's really important. There's actually a type of exercise protocol called the chop Levine protocol. It's a free PDF they have online. It was developed for people with pots to increase their exercise tolerance. All of the workouts are very specific to not be, you're not doing standing up exercise to start with, right? You might be doing more combat because you don't want that blood flow dropping down, not getting the blood flow back up to your heart and then also the really mindful neck as well. Is there one modality of exercise when I say one modality? Is it easier to tolerate resistance type training than it would be walking or cardiovascular activity? So excellent question. I think it depends on a person. I think people can probably tolerate low weight resistance training easier than cardiovascular to start with. It would make sense because, again, we share a few patients together and when those patients do a lot of walking with weights, they feel terrible. And these are regular exercises. Typically, we have a handful of patients who have had long COVID and that seems to be their response. If we don't tie trade, it really really slow. How fast do you think, and again, I understand that this is individual, how fast do you think someone could tie trade up movement? It really depends on the person. It depends on their exercise capacity before and it depends on how much can you control those histamines, honestly. What about the hyper mobility part? You mentioned earlier that there is a connective tissue potentially bone joint involvement in this. Talk to me about that. So our connective tissue lines, all of our joints, bones, and organs in our blood vessels, most importantly too, which is what will come into play with how pots and hyper mobility are related. Hyper mobility, as I'm talking about, it is probably a collection of conditions that are connective tissue disorders called Ellers Danlos Syndrome EDS. I have HEDS hyper mobile Ellers Danlos Syndrome. Ellers Danlos Syndrome. What did you just say you have? Yeah, I sure do. I, exactly. I remember do you remember when you called me and you were like, I would be like, do you remember you won't believe it? Can you just share because this really plays into this Ellers Danlos? Absolutely. And just share a little bit about what you were going through. Yes, absolutely. So I had moved to, so, it's so embarrassing, Lime for me. I had moved to New Jersey from Manhattan, but I was right over the bridge, but I needed a car. Basically when I got there, I had gone through a mold detox in my apartment in Manhattan. I moved to New Jersey because I had such a severe and profound mold. I mean, there was mold. It was such a good apartment. Otherwise it was very hard. You did not want to leave. How long were you there? I was there for two years. So I was not planning to leave and then I walked into my bedroom of that apartment and I saw my husband. It was like the movie interstellar. He was coughing up along and I'm like, are we in a dust storm in here? I'm like, we have to leave this apartment. Like, I know I have weird reactions and I was having symptoms that were again, dizziness. I was like, maybe this is a thyroid thing. I was like, oh, you know, I have having gut conditions. I'm going to get a GI map. Let me see what's going on. Nothing was really showing up. I was like, oh, now I know what's mold related. So I went on a mold detox in that apartment. It was like the sickest ever was in my life. And I just, I mean, herks reaction, those symptoms where you feel like your body is going through such, you're in a flu state, dizziness, anxiety, and samya. So I left that apartment and when I moved, I had to start driving and when I started driving, I started getting a lot of dizziness when I was driving and I was like, I thought these symptoms were gone. I then had COVID again and then I went to a chiropractor and the chiropractor did an adjustment and he said, oh my, you know, I've never felt a neck this tight in my life. So I took this like metal tool and chiropractor's for less than ever. I'm like, I know the name of the tool. I don't, I'm sorry. Doug into my neck did not assess me for hypermobility and basically on a very small level, loosened the joints in my neck. I walked out of there and I actually don't mean I walked. I crawled out of that appointment and I crawled directly to the ER. I could not stand up without my heart going up to 160. I mean I was sitting. It was 80, 160 within one second. I crawled. I was on the phone with my sister crawling on the cement in an urban place crawling to the ER. I said, what just happened to me? It took me a long time to understand how mass elevation syndrome and because I kind of knew there was a histamine thing. I kind of knew that something was going on but to pull this all together. Wait, it was this when you, I think I wanted you to come to something and you were going to come, you weren't sure because I was going to. And then you were wearing a neck brace was this during that time. Do you know that I would risk my life to do a talk with you by the way? So this is the funniest thing. You were doing, we were, it was for your book. We did a Q&A for your book and you invited me and I was one of the biggest, like the biggest joys of my life and I was like, all right Gabrielle, I cannot fly to come to you but I will, I will film him and hand. You will film there. I came in an act race. My tolerance for even sitting up because my, the hyper mobility situation was so rough. And again, he had the car park to have loosened all the joints in my neck. My nerves were so inflamed from that and your brain has to send the signal to your heart to pump. That's what I think people don't understand about pots. It's not a heart condition. It's a brain condition. Your brain says sun blood flow here, activate this muscle, do this. In hyper mobility, which is a connective tissue disorder, that relationship is not there. And we also don't have the structural support because connective tissue holds us up and it gives that structural support. So if you don't have proper connective tissue development and someone goes like this with your neck, what's holding your neck up? So I went to that, I went to that Q&A with you and in between takes, I would take off my net brace, I was like, we can show people the video. I was like, this is like, tell me about forever strong. You're like a job, but we didn't use it. We did not end up using that. Yeah, but you didn't know you had elders down low. And I want to talk a little bit about it's a group, it's a genetic disorder and it's mixed connective tissue. Is it uncommon? I think they're degrees to it. So the amount of women who are hyper mobile, but you can be hyper mobile and just have basically just different joints in your body or have mobile, but not have elders down low. The numbers are over 60% I believe of women are hyper mobile. So hyper mobility is not necessarily a connective tissue disorder. The rates of hyper mobility are very high though and people also need to work out differently when they're hyper mobile, which many amazing chiropractors, personal trainers, no. And I actually have a personal trainer who specifically works with hyper mobility, shout out to Taylor Goldberg, she's the best. And, shout out to Taylor Goldberg, you know, you've got Michelle Shapiro, I said Michelle, do you want to come train with us this morning? She goes, oh no, I am going to stay at the hotel gym and I'm going to lift my 15 pounds. Exactly. Yeah. And Taylor tells me what to do. She's one of the people I let bully me besides you. Taylor, you fired. Okay, well, I guess you also threatened me and said to go in the ice pond. I'm like, you got to give me a break. Oh yeah, I am really actually glad. Oh yeah. We brought that up. I do want to talk about other modalities. First, something to write this down ice plunge. Yes. And for it's on a way to talk about this. Yes. How can someone assess for L.R. Stamels? And what is the relationship between L.R. Stamels and the association with M.C.S? Yes. So, L.R. Stamels syndrome, there's 13 different types of EDS. Hyper mobile EDS is one of them. Their genetic tests for almost every other type of EDS besides hyper mobile, that's done through assessment. Basically, there's some genetic markers that lean towards it like coal 5A1. There's some that we know. There's one type of L.R. Stamels syndrome that's really important for us to talk about because it requires additional testing. And that's vascular EDS, which means that again, your blood vessels can become leaky. And this is, if someone has vascular EDS, they could die in pregnancy. It's a profoundly important thing that we any one who has L.R. Stamels syndrome gets in Echo Cardio Graham. Now, on EKG, an Echo Cardio Graham because you have to make sure that there's not going to be, you know, even like a rupture of those blood vessels. So, just understanding how important our connective tissue is. There's assessments that can be done and also genetic diagnostic features for EDS as well. So, if our mass cells live in our connective tissue and you have taught us this more than anyone, Dr. J is our connective tissue, like our muscle is endocrine facing. It's immune facing. It doesn't just sit there. And if we don't have the structural support from connective tissue and if there's connective tissue dysfunction and our mass cells live in our connective tissue, there's going to be communication errors that happen. And that is going to activate mass cells. And the same thing with pots, you have constant mass elevation syndrome that can lead to leaky blood vessels as well with the constant inflammation and the vasodilation pushing outwards. And then you have this kind of cluster of what we call the triad, which is symptoms from any direction. Now, hydration isn't just about drinking coaxero or sugar free red bull. I'm saying number a friend or even drinking just more water. It's about keeping the right balance of electrolytes on fluids during life's most demanding season that matters even more than ever. So, for example, if you are pregnant or postpartum, your body is going through massive changes. Blood volume, hormone shifts, breastfeeding demand, I don't know, crying kids, all of it. And this is a place where you need electrolytes, like sodium, magnesium, potassium, element was formulated to replenish what you actually use without sugar, fillers, or junk. It's a clean, effective way to stay hydrated. For example, through pregnancy, postpartum and for men, hey, this isn't just for ladies. It's not just about hydration. It is about performance, recovery, mental clarity, and yes, energy, whether you are hitting the gym, chasing your kids or grinding through another workday, dehydration can quietly sabotage your focus. Element helps you stay sharp, strong, and ready. We use element because it works and it tastes great. You can get a free sample back with any purchase. That's eight flavors, go to drink DRINK LMNT.com slash Dr. Lyon. That's drink LMNT.com slash Dr. Lyon. Stay hydrated, stay strong. The biggest challenge is, well, are you having a hypermobile? Symptom day, or are you having a mass cell symptom day? Because there's different symptoms for each one of these. So it can be challenging, but I know my client's body so well, or I'm like, all right, it's a hypermobile day. I stop, and something I need to mention because it's your podcast of all people is that one of the most important things we can do as hypermobile people is build muscle. Because we do not have the structural stability from our connective tissue. Some things got to hold us together. Right? Muscle will put those bricks. Those building blocks in your body to hold you together and get that proper blood flow. Because there's the severance of this brain blood flow connection that happens in hypermobility and you have to have muscle to re-establish it and to structurally hold you together. It is the only, like, it is the most important thing we can do. What I'm hearing you say is that muscle is the organ of longevity. Yeah. The most important structure in our body. I really have to say it. It absolutely is and it's 100% the thing we can control. It helps with pots. It helps with hypermobility. And because it has this anti-inflammatory effect, it also helps with MCAS. This makes me think about a sport injury. For example, I'm not sure the amount of muscles that live in any portion of the tissue. For example, in your connective tissue, your tendons. Do they live in tendons and ligaments as well? Just connective tissue. Just connective tissue. If someone injures their connective tissue in some kind of sporting injury, would that cause a cascade of muscle activation? 100%. Absolutely. Yes, especially because it's in your joints too. And there's, you know, there's kind of this echo reaction that happens. Our entire body is so intricately connected. We like to think that if we have anxiety, it's in our head. We like to think if we have an injury in our leg. There's systemic communication between injury and also injuries going to simulate your immune system as well. So absolutely. The sauna and cold plunge, I've been trying to get you to do that. I use those all the time. The mass health activation, obviously, there's different phenotypes for lack of a better word, whether you are a muscle activation with small intestinal bacteria overgrowth, whether you have pots and muscle activation or you have L or Stanlaus and Mass Activation, are there adjunct therapies that are more beneficial for one group than the other? Absolutely. I think cold therapy in ways of cold compresses on your neck is really powerful for pots, again, like vagus nerve support. So we talked about step one and step two with MCAS. What do we do? Stabilized histamine, stabilize the nervous system? Well, what's the rest? What do we get to what fund do we get to have after? Once you have your immune system and your nervous system stabilized, that's when you get to have fun. Because that's when you can say, let's go for a moldy tox. Let's use infrared sauna. That's how you're defining fun. We can't wait a second. That's how you define fun. Are you kidding me? I can't hear the visit your family. I was rocking. But for you, more intense exercise is fun and it's true because then you can start to dig at the root cause after. So you can do all of those root cause things. It just takes more time. You have to stabilize first. So infrared is tremendously supportive from a detoxification perspective, from a nervous system perspective. In you know, innumerable ways that Dr. Lexus Cowan had told us about so many times, but it really can be so helpful for those with MCAS and it can be really soothing for people as well. But infrared is a huge bucket filler for MCAS in the beginning. So when you are still stabilizing customers or stabilizing your nervous system, we cannot push detoxification and we cannot push heat changes because much like exercise intolerance, heat intolerance and cold intolerance and temperature changes can can trigger these symptoms. Okay, I cannot validate some of these items on here, but I want to talk about them. Okay, and that is a histamine estrogen connection. Women with histamine issues from what I'm reading often feel sick, days 6 to 11 days 19 to 21 rather than when they have menstruation in its own. Is this validated? Yes. Okay, yes. Totally validated. histamine estrogen have a direct relationship. It's a well known and well-established relationship. So when you have clients coming to you, any of us have clients coming to us with regular PMS symptoms, PMDD, there's a very targeted window that we assume that symptoms are going to happen. They're going to happen the week before someone's period comes. In those with histamine issues or pots, their symptoms generally start about day 7 of their cycle. It could even be as early as day 6 and then up until ovulation. So when estrogen starts getting released, that's when the histamine reaction starts. So it's not even at the peak necessarily that people experience it, but on the way to ovulation. And then there's a second estrogen spike in the middle of our luteal phase and people will notice around 19 to 21, another set of histamine symptoms. This was one of the hardest things personally for me to figure out. I was on reddit. Like, why feel sick when period end? Like, what where are you getting that information? Like, to establish this connection and it's so exciting for me to talk about because just knowing information about histamines can be healing. And that's not the same for leaky god. That's not the same for other conditions. Understanding, okay, I need to maybe slow it down in ways of like my vinegar and take during days, you know, 6 to 14 and just be mindful of that or I need to take my anti histamines on those days. Because you can then understand what is going on your body. Imagine just feel really weird every day 7 of your cycle. Like, no, everyone's like, what is this? So it's a clear and established connection. And it gives people a lot of relief to understand why their body might be operating on a different system. Another thing that I'm reading here is that increase in estrogen increases histamine release. What about those on, for example, an estrogen patch? I have, but in our practice, it's strong medical. I have very rarely seen patients go on an estrogen patch and say they feel maybe they don't notice it. Is there, is this truth? Is something that you see, but they're also on a progesterone. We never give unopposed estrogen and maybe it's the progesterone that helps regulate it. The ratio is important as well of estrogen to progesterone. So I would say in all of my clients who are on HRT and have Mcast, they do notice a reaction with estrogen. They also notice reaction with progesterone, even though progesterone is actually massel stabilizing. It can create issues because progesterone causes laxity in our joints. So that can cause hypermobile symptoms for people. So it's like a catch-22 a little bit. However, if someone needs hormone replacement therapy, we have to find a way to reduce the symptomology to have them tolerate the medication that's essential for them. Do you find similar symptoms? For example, someone who is using an estrogen patch and the subsequent histamine release? Yes, I do. What do you think? So it's the same reaction. Whatever their, I say, massels show you the symptom you want the least. For me, I hate insomnia, I hate dizziness. So that's I might find it funny. My nervous system gets reactive, versus someone else. They hate having cold symptoms or a rash that scares them. It's like histamines will get your attention in the way they need to. So depending on what your symptoms are, digestive, nervous system, urinary, rashes, or otherwise, that's what will show up for you and your flare state. Also, reflexes not just systemic issue. Often a histereen response. Absolutely. Would that happen in general or just after being perboiled, meaning after they ingest something? So it can be that you just have this hyper activation and this, the parietal cells releasing too much stomach acid and being signaled again because they each to receptor. So it can be that someone with mass-altivation syndrome just has a lot of acid reflux and this is a really little hack. Is that baking soda both stabilizes mass cells and helps with acid reflux. It's like a really aethy-thed-tee-spoon-in-water, like little hack that people can do, especially if they don't tolerate the repapsed. But I don't use pepsid for acid reflux, by the way. I use it for histamine issues, which is really funny because that's how people usually think of it. Thank you. You use baking soda for acid reflux? Yeah, exactly. It's like totally flipped, exactly. And we will say a taste disgusting. It's horrible, it's salty. It's not salty in a fun element way. It's like a salty in a bad way. Yeah, it's bad. Not that I taste armpits, but I will say. And there's also tri-salt which can be really helpful for people as well. But a lot of reflux, what I'm focusing on is how do we soothe? So it might be slippery, or marshmallow root, herbs that can be supportive. But a lot of the reducing the inflammatory histamine response is also just about reducing that inflammation, not only reducing the acid output. Are there supplements that could be beneficial, meaning fish oil, or other items that seem to taper it, that we haven't really talked about? For Hits for MCAS specifica? Yeah, I think Resvera Troll is incredible. Quaracetan, Perilla Extract, PEA. So I think most people with histamine issues have a major omega-3 issue, but most do not tolerate fish oil. Still too reactive. They take it and then they might get itchy or whatever their histamine reaction is. And also people with, because in Elers, Danlos syndrome, you're going to have junctions and joints and flaps that are going to move slower. Your digestive tract is going to move slower. Things are looser along the way. You're going to have a different slew of digestive issues. So a lot of people who take fish oil may experience bile reflux and reflux as it's harder to digest things. Really interestingly, a feature of digestion that actually links pots and hypermovility together is that people feel really dizzy after they eat when they have pots. And this because blood pools in your digestion away from your brain. So I will have people literally wear a little abdominal binder like an asepandage around their waist when they're eating and the dizziness goes away. That, I mean, I don't think I've ever heard that before, but it makes sense is an individual hopeful for a full recovery? Or is this something that they live with always? If you are not hopeful for a full recovery, you're not going to recover in my opinion. So absolutely, I would say that like for myself for instance, I took an antihistime because I've got an airplane to come down here with who. Other than that, I go months without taking them. I can eat every food except for pickles. I can exercise in my way. Dr. Gabriel Exactly. But absolutely. And I think the language around all this is that you can never, these are mass-ultivation syndrome and pots or syndromes, right? They are not intended to necessarily be lifelong conditions. Is it something that people may have to manage? Yes, do I have hope for almost every single person that they can live a life without having to think about it? And kind of live a life that's really customary cares, then? Absolutely. And because our mass cells and our nervous system are so related and because pots is a condition of our nervous system, you must think like that. That is the number one difference between those who heal and those who don't, is they believe they can heal. I couldn't agree more. I typically, when we see patients, it's if those patients believe and it does sound, I don't want to say woo woo, but they're four years. I know. Something like that, but there is something in the inherent belief of a person who gets better. Your right versus a patient who doesn't. This is what makes these conditions so unique is that they are nervous system related disorder. So it's it is directly responsible for the symptoms you have. Now, how do I look at someone and say you have to find a way to not react to these symptoms? Because I'd say half of the symptoms we see are from the actual reaction itself and then half are from how our mental state reacts to those. You must find a way. So story about myself is that after that chiropractic incident, the insomnia was so profound, I could not move my head and inch and I more importantly could not sit up. So I was still seeing clients and I would prop myself up against the wall and I'm like, do you want to see me like this or you want to wait three weeks? And they're like, no, no, I'll take you like this. It's fine. I'm just going to keep seeing, I'm going to a talk in the city. Oh my god, the Uber to that talk. I wore a neck phrase, a back phrase. I held on. Basically any movement was triggering my heart rate to go up really high. Is that what someone with pots would experience? Yes. Some with pots and upper cervical instability combined. Basically, how long did it take you to get diagnosed? So with, I ran a genetic test for hypermobile, I'll understand those syndrome. And so yourself. You can get that even order them yourself online. But I had an ND and MD and I reviewed them. So pots? But I guess what I'm getting at is that's very forward thinking. I had to figure a lot of it out myself. It's hard. It's true. So Mcast, my serum histamine serum triptace were exceptionally high. And that was with a functional medicine doctor. And that was like four years ago. So that was the first hint. And they ran that and that really helped me to understand the connection. Potts and pots when I was in the ER and the doctor was, didn't even have to do a tilt table test. He was like, stand up again. Sit down again. And I said, I have no, I'm just telling you, my heart rate is normally very low. My blood pressure is normally very low. And I'm telling you that because this is abnormal. And that's really important when people go because often doctors will say, you have high blood pressure. That's what's going on here. You have high heart rate. And I was like, I need you to know this is a typical. But the doctor was like, stand up, sit down. And he was like, okay, you need to look into pots and you need to see someone for pots. And you went to the cardiologist. I went to an interventional cardiologist who is someone who can diagnose pots did the tilt table test and got that diagnosis. And then I ran the genetic testing and had it reviewed by an ND for L.A.S. Danlos syndrome. And all along the way was trying to figure this all out because I'm telling you it was me, a neck brace and read it. And I was like, why leave Cairo Praktor can't walk? Like, what? I was like, did he, did he sever something? Like, what had? It was so frightening. The anxiety was so excruciating. The symptoms were so intense all the time. And I just, I remember, I had to literally, it's so embarrassing. I don't care. But I had, it's like, I just, you know, me, I'll literally say anything. But I would, I had to lift myself up by my arms and push myself onto a computer chair to go to the bathroom because if I put my feet on the ground, my heart rate was 160. And that, I'm like, I don't want to do a three hour episode now where I feel sick for three hours. I'm going to throw up and dizzy and fainting and all of this. So I'm like, I would just lift myself up as long as my feet didn't touch the ground, wheel myself to the bathroom. And I remember there was one time I was in my neck brace looking in the mirror, just made it to the bathroom. And I just said, you know what, Michelle, I just, I don't think you're going to make it out of this. And then some other part of me was like, you better never say that again. Because if you're nervous system and your limbic system, believe that you're not going to heal, you truly, this is one of the only conditions where it is tangible that you won't heal. So you have to find that, I don't know that dog and you got to find that doctor Gabriel line and you, you got to find that Shane and you and you have to find a way to believe you can heal. And you know, I had a very serious conversation with the client the other day who she's bedbound with some dums. And she was talking about her health history. She was talking about the different co-infections she had. And I said, I love you so much. And I just heard you say, I felt good for a couple days, but it always happened like that. And it's not going to happen again. And I said, you can't even say that aloud. I said, your body is listening to you. Don't even think it. Don't even say it. It's that precious. And that important. The mindset, the resilience piece, which you, you've changed my life in so many ways in that department too. I mean, everyone's lives, but personally too, like you have to find that dog and you. I don't know what's that you have to find it. Well Michelle Shapiro, I'm so grateful that you came from, is it New Jersey now? It's so hard for I'm Queens, New York City. I just didn't know if we're calling it for it. We're not. But you are a wealth of information. And just, again, for those of you guys who don't know Michelle Shapiro, watch for her. She is a superstar. I have been telling her this and telling everybody I know for a really long time. And I believe that you are the person who watched. Thank you. You, you are the person I want. And that we all love. Thank you. I love you. I'm really going to take compliments. But that's okay. Michelle Shapiro, thank you again for really getting into the dark and dirty and shedding some light on MCAS, POTS, L. or Stamlers. You know, you've been through a lot. And I would say that those individuals are the best providers. Absolutely. Yeah, the word you use is right, shedding the light on it because the light, the information is the tool here. The knowledge is the tool and the resilience is the tool. I could talk about anti-Histamines, the low-Histamine diet, but you have to shine the light on yourself. And I'm telling anyone who's listening, who's dealing with, I don't care how far those symptoms are. There's always a way back from them. I have more hope for this community that I've ever had in my entire life. Well, I'll say, well, I'll say my friend. I love you so much. Thank you. Thanks for tuning in to another episode of the Dr. Gabrielle Lyon Show. Remember, healing is possible. It's about improving your baseline, regaining function and cultivating resilience. When equipped with education and the right approach, these conditions don't have to define your life. If today's episode resonated with you, please share it with someone who needs to hear it and don't forget to subscribe and leave a review. It helps us reach more people who need answers and hope. Until next time friends, stay strong, stay informed, and remember, you are in control of your own health.

If you were to say some of the biggest roadblocks, problems, mistakes that people make for the goal of losing body fat, what are your top three mistakes? Oh God, top three. Okay, I can give you top two. You want top five? Top three. Top three. That loss mistakes. One would be non-understanding what's really going into their body. We're going to side, let me just explain. So, I eat healthy. Well what do you eat? For practice I have three egg whites and I have a piece of toast. Okay. What do you have from lunch? I have a salad and a piece of fish. How big is a fish? This big. For dinner. What do you like? It's not like, even though they might be consuming foods that are nutritious, they are under calorie, they're under protein. So I think not understanding what's actually going into their body. That protein piece massive. They don't understand. They just think they're choosing good foods. They're grazing all day. They're eating little things like nuts. Oh, I nuts and fruit. I'm going to get nuts and fruit ten times. Your fat is probably over 100 grams and you weigh a hundred pounds. Because you're so full, you're not able to get enough protein in. Not understanding what's really going in your body. I think is a huge problem. That checks a lot of boxes. Resistance training. I think we got to prioritize this a little bit more. I want to burn fat. I'm just going to start with cardio. I'll get in the resistance training. I'm like, do both. I love cardio. I enjoy cardio. I just do. It's like the sweat, I like the mindlessness of it. I like the, you know, it's quick. It can be quick. But do that with your resistance training. If we have more muscle, ladies, I don't mean we're getting bigger. But when I train. I train right. But I train Blakely. I train Emily Blunt. I train Andy Hathaway. These are very feminine athletic physiques. They are strong women. And that is important. So understanding the importance of resistance training. But also coupling that with, with cardio, and the third. Third biggest fat loss mistake. So we had food. We had resistance training. Oh, God, you know what? It's got to be this. That, that, that rest component is so underlucked. I just, I think I'll call Paul check. It's the best fat burner in its free. I've had people who even crease sleep quality over weeks. And they've lost significance amount of fat loss. When you are under resting, you are not repairing your hormones and you're not repairing your body. And you're not going to have that energy. And your body is not going to move and burn. Really simple. Like so what do we just say? Nutrition, training, and rest and sleep. It's like those are the three things. That's on us, not cold plunges. If you get your training, you get your nutrition, and you get your rest and recovery to like 80% being really, really solid, like at least, you're going to see some pretty dramatic results. And I just think it's not that simple. Most people really underestimate rest and sleep. And it's in the data, actually, that individuals that are not sleeping, pulling night shifts, they're, like glucose is worse, blood pressure is worse, insulin. All of their metabolic markers seem to be worse. I've seen people put on significance amount of body fat who have private chefs who are training six days a week. And they're like, why am I getting weight? I'm like, you're sleeping three hours a night. Well, my doctor said that's like the rarity. And I'm the one that's adequate. I'm like, no, it's not. I mean, it disagree with your doctor. But this is not working for you. You need to train. Well, I can't go to bed early. You need to train sleep. Well, I'm not hungry for breakfast. Well, you got a train. You got a train to be hungry. When I say that, it's like starting incorporating some proteins, start getting some amino acids in your body early on. Maybe a piece of fruit will build that. Right, sleep. I sleep three hours a night. What time do you go to bed two in the morning? Can you make it 130? Yeah, I can't, how do I do that? Well, let's start winding down earlier. The next thing you know, John Abacoco, I could talk about him, getting a bed every night, three to four in the morning. Now it's 10, 11 at night. It's like, that is, how big is that? There's a reason why the guy's down 120 plus pounds. And we're going to lose another, you know, he's 491 pounds now. So our goals to get him down in that 250 range. He's got to have surgeries. He's got to have specific things. But getting his BMI down right now is something we have to do before we explore any of that stuff. So, yes, sleep, huge. Where do you think the industry is going? The fitness industry. Where do you think that there's any new training technology that you're, again, you've been in the fitness industry. You've seen really, I mean, you've been in it for 25 years. You've seen multiple iterations of different things. Yeah. I've been working with TechFour over God for as long as I've been in the business. I mean, readiness devices that weren't, you know, wearables. That were, I remember laying on a megawave and laying on a floor for three minutes with a head sensor, a chest strap, a palm sensor, like, you know, and having to keep your eyes closed and measuring, you know, HRV, you know, this was, I don't know how long ago. So, it's, I think we're as it going. I think our access to research is becoming better and better. I think the right research out there is becoming pretty awesome because it's pointing us in a direction to be able to make really good decisions. I think a lot of these readiness trackers and a lot of these tech pieces are getting better and better. And I think it's giving us information to be able to make good decisions. But I also think, you know, with a lot of this stuff, comes excuses. And well, the research says I don't need to do two sets. Well, that's a very good point. Yeah, it's starting to hear people say, oh, but resistance training, that's, I don't need to do that much. Yeah, like I only need a set and I'm like, well, yeah. I'm watching some of these biohackers now that, exactly. To be honest, like, they're not like, some of them are really impressive and some of them just aren't, they're like, they're coming in and they're posting their training. And they're like, well, I just did this on the light press. And I'm like, your range of emotions terrible. That might be a poor choice of exercise. And your intensity is not where you think it is for you to receive the benefits. Like, when you see someone do a max effort set, it's scary. Yeah. It's, I've been there. It's, it's not pleasant. I've squatted three, 15 for 30 on my back and almost had a brain aneurysm. Like, I had to land the floor for like a half an hour. Like, it's not something that most people, and I'm not saying that to be proud. That was a style of training that when you're going in a high intensity training, it is like someone's holding a gun to your head and they're like, you better get this right now or there's like, frightening stuff's gonna happen to you. So I think we take a lot of this research and I think we just, we kind of skew it and we make it into what we want to make it to be. And at the end of the day, you still got to work hard. You still got to put effort in. You still got to meal prep. You still got to get to bed early. It's, it's sometimes I'm watching a TV show and my wife has a joke with me. We never finished a show together. Because 839 of Clark County, I'm feeling I'm gonna bed. Look, what type of life is? I love my life. Like I have two beautiful kids, beautiful home. I live a great lifestyle. I could do what I want. I could work from where I want. And I'm building the businesses and I'm having a lot of fun doing it. So allowing me to go to bed early just means that I'm able to get up and I'm able to attack my day. So that's important to me. That's what I want to do. Do I have those nights where we go out? We party or we go out. We're out late. Yes, we do. Very once in a blue mood. Very once in a blue mood. And when I do it, I enjoy it. And I say, all right, you know what? Big deal, you'll catch up at a few days and you'll move on. And that's how I approach that stuff. But I think we're getting such good access. But I think people are forgetting the fact that you still gotta go in there and you still gotta put that work in. And it still needs to be challenging. And you know, if sometimes it gets frustrating and someone's been doing this as long as I have when someone starts every conversation, it's like, well, the research states and I'm like, okay, I get it. We're trying to make good decisions here. But this person needs just to get off the couch. This person just needs to move. Example, do I like spin bikes? They're fine. Do I like someone sitting down and training all the time? The answer is no, especially when that person's been in their desk 10 hours a day. Do I want them on a bike? No, if someone is gonna turn around say, I love spinning. It got me off the couch. I am in better shape. My blood's are better. My body composition's better. I feel better. I better sex drive. I sleep better. Yada, yada, yada. Am I gonna turn around and say, I don't like spin. I'm just like, great. I said, but can we do things to kind of compliment you being in this position? Yeah. Can we do things to maybe open you up a little bit? Can we focus on getting those glutes to get a little stronger? Can we focus on that thoracic extension, that thoracic rotation, that shoulder mobility? These things that maybe five, six days a week are gonna destroy you at being able to do. That's where as a coach, I'm gonna come in. I'm gonna assess the individual and I'm gonna help them become great at what they love to do. You, again, I've actually trained for many years. Yep. How important I'm always seeing you do something different. You're always adding in something different or trying a new fun movement or something. It's not fluffy, but it's fun. I like doing different things. I really challenge again. I've trained with you whether it's a rotation slam, broad jump, all these other things. How important is it for new skill acquisition? Like newbies are just developing new skill. For example, my training age is like 300, not just getting. So if you've had your great shape, you're a great shape. I don't believe them.

Welcome to the Dr. Gabriel Lineshow. In this episode, I sit down with Dr. Madeline Novich, a PhD in criminal justice and a professor at the Manhattan College. In this episode, we talk all about an elite identity. What does it mean and how you can have one? What are the components of an elite identity? And I give you actionable items for you to implement immediately into your life. As always, if you enjoy this episode, take a moment to rate, subscribe, share with a friend. Remember, as you'll learn in this podcast, it's all about community. And you should have yours. That's exactly why I created the forever strong community. You can find information all about this on the website, Dr. GabrielLine.com. Now, without a moment to lose, let's dive into the episode. Dr. Madeline Novich, welcome to the podcast. Not only are you a PhD a professor in criminology, but you're also my sister. Hi. Thank you for having me. Welcome to the podcast. I'm very excited to be here. Before we get into what it means to have an elite identity, tell us a little bit about your background. Well, I am a criminal justice professor in New York City. I teach M&M college. I am also a mom of three, and I live in New York City. It really quite incredible. You also did your undergraduate at Penn. I did my undergraduate and masters at Penn. That's right. I majored in Chinese and political science, and my masters is in criminology. And then went on for a fully funded bride to read career school of criminal justice. Really extraordinary. And you're also very well published. I am. I have a number of publications on policing and their interactions with communities of color. And I've done a lot of work in this space. Yes. And today, we're going to talk about a lot of things. Yes. I really wanted to bring you on for a number of reasons. Number one, because you're brilliant, capable and extraordinary in many ways. The listener is going to get a lot of value. The listener and the viewer is going to get really a lot of value. We're going to talk about something called, as you mentioned, in an identity. And one of the things that we are going to discuss is, how to be successful in this idea of having different identities. And this is going to tie into some of your work. So please help us out. Okay. So yes, I've done a little bit of work on how we navigate different identities. We, as people, have identities in terms of personal identity. We have a relationship identity who we are in relation to other people. And who we are as a collective identity. But we really want to be successful in these different concentric circles, right, in our professional life, in our familiar life, in our personal life. And it can be really overwhelming to have these different identities if we don't really hone them. And how just for the sake of the conversation, how are we going to identify and define identity? Well, I think we can define and identify identity by looking at the three different types of identity. We have this personal identity, which is attributes that we identify as elements of our personality, our race, our gender. We can have relational identity who we define ourselves in relation to our people around us, like where mothers and where fathers and our collective identity, who we identify as part of larger groups, the military or sports teams. So I think that can serve as a premise of our conversation. And when we think about, you know, everybody listening, and I think everybody for the most part wants to really be the best version of themselves. And in order to get there, we have to put in a framework for thinking about things and a framework for taking action. Absolutely. And that's why I really loved this conversation of identity. Personal identity, relational identity, and collective identity. And the transitions that we all go through, absolutely. There's life transitions going from being a medical student to a doctor or a resident and an doctor, obviously they're both the same thing, from being a military member to the civilian civilian. Yeah. Being a non-parent to then a parent. Absolutely going from unemployed or from college to employed. So we are making identities shifts all over the time. And it can be very challenging to know how to best navigate those new spaces. And I would say that if you don't, those are really the points of weakness. If you're unable to navigate these transition points, then these are the times where people really go off track. Absolutely. And it's easy to, right? It's easy to not put in best practices because when you don't necessarily know what they are, luckily there's research and evidence to support some of these decisions. But also I think it's really important that it's never too late to change your best practices. And I think as a criminal justice professor or something that we learn as we see the age crime curve, people sort of maximize or commit their most amount of crime before the age of 25. Because as research has shown, your prefrontal cortex and your make the lid don't finish developing them. And what's interesting is that's what's involved in decision making and impulse control. Right? And so like it's very easy to get off track when your impulse control and your ability to make really good decisions just hasn't been fully formed yet. So like it's not your fault, right? So if you're coming at this and you're like, I'm late to game. It's not your fault. They promise. That that's really enlightening. The brain is so most crimes happen early on. Well, it's not that most crimes are happened early on. It's just the bulk of offending or the vast majority of offenders will do so before their the age of 25. Why? Because of this prefrontal cortex, the ability for the amygdala to finish forming for that impulse control. So you know, crime takes a variety of different forms. Of course, you know, you have drug related crime, you have addiction driven crime, you have all these different kinds of crime. And it's very interesting to watch a person who's involved in crime, their trajectory really caps out often if they're what's called an adolescent limited meaning it's really limited to their adolescents than they stop offending because they're bringing finishes forming and also other life events, right? They get married. They go through these identity shifts. They go back to college or they, you know, they go any number of places they could be incarcerated right? Big life changes happen and all of a sudden their opportunity or their decision to engage and crime goes down. Is there on the flip side? And I know that you speak and write about criminology and policing. Do you think that there's a positive flip side for these identity changes? 100%. I think that when we, you know, I think it's important that we base our identity, sort of in this health and wellness, right? I think that's part of it too. Is that people can come from a place of unhappiness or big life changes and really lose their way and it can be very challenging. But to refocus these positive mechanisms and really come back to good decision making and a good development of an identity is so critical. And, you know, I think we can both agree that this elite identity, one that is successful in a different spaces and different changes is going to be one that's based in health and strength, both physically and mentally. And it's like, how do we get there? Tell me how, do you have the answer? I would like to know, how do we become elites in our identity from a personal perspective? So, you know, I don't have all the answers. You have a lot, you're a mammoth tree. I am a sister and I usually call you for everything so. Well, I think we can look at the way that we transition from, you know, motherhood I think is a really interesting transition, right? To go from a non-mother or non-parent to a mother and trying to navigate this new space and this new identity. And I think this is an interesting way because we do get lost. I think mothers, particularly, can get lost in the, you know, the new demands, the lack of sleep, the energy loss. So, I mean, I do have some ideas, but I don't want to hear them. I can't wait to hear them. Again, we both agree that the baseline of an elite identity is both grounded in strength and health and wellness, which is exactly why I wanted to bring you on for a number of reasons. But especially as we begin to think about these three primary areas of life, we talk about family, which is arguably the most important. And it's very easy when we get wrapped up into an identity as I'm an entrepreneur or I'm a professor or I'm a professional and one would, I think that that then challenges the family dynamic and this family identity. You had put some statistics in here as we were pre-propping for the podcast, 69% of Americans, have kids, 15% don't have kids, but want and a large proportion of the people have kids. So, there's a lot of people that are going to go through this identity shift from a singular person as you point out to a mother or caretaker or a father or caretaker. Absolutely. And I think these are huge transitional changes. As we look at someone who's going from only worrying about themselves, you're thinking about themselves and parenthood is this what we call this relational identity. They are now defining themselves who they are in relation to somebody else. And it's their child often, right? And it is enormous amount of change. And I think we, you know, you, you, you, you want to have both parents. You have two kids. I have three kids. You know, what challenges did you face as a mother? This episode is brought to you by Maui, Newy, Venison. Maui, Newy, Venison is one of the best, finest tasting red meats on the planet. Maui, Newy, Venison is a mission-based food company. We love it. My kids love it, especially their little jerkeys. By the way, not only do they use them as swords, but as snacks and listen. That is a hard sell. Getting your kids to eat healthy, Maui, Newy, Venison does an amazing job. It is high in protein and low in fat, which again, depending on your macros, is amazing. And high in B vitamins, iron, all of the micronutrients, vitamins and minerals that we need. Not only that, you don't have to go anywhere. It will come straight to your door. That's right. Go to Maui, Newy, Venison.com. For your first order, you will get 20% off. Amazing. Who doesn't like to save money. And the product is extraordinary. Go to Maui, Newy, Venison.com slash lion or not that kind, LY-O-N. And try it. You will love it. All right. Do you want to know what I drink in the morning that is a little bit salty and gives me a huge pick me up? Well, I'm going to tell you. And that is element, chocolate element that's LMNT in my coffee. I brew a black cup of coffee with a shot of espresso and then I put a scoop of collagen and a little bit of MCT oil in it. And one fourth packet of element chocolate. Sometimes I use chocolate mince. I've also saved chocolate caramel. It's kind of this like chocolatey caramel. Amazing. So I get my caffeine. I get some collagen for, of course, here's going to nails. And I get electrolytes in my coffee. Sodium, potassium, magnesium, all amazing. I have now created my own supercharged drink, which you can to. And by the way, this is a different way to take element. That's a little packet of electrolytes. If you get headaches, maybe you get headaches with your caffeine because you dehydrate yourself or maybe you get headaches because you sweat a lot while training or maybe you just live in Texas where it's hot. And so you definitely sweat a lot. You definitely get headaches. And this is why I love to add electrolytes to what I'm drinking. And it can be coffee, it can be water. lately it's been coffee and it tastes amazing. You can get yours at drink element. That's drinklmnt.com. You'll get a free sample pack when you use the code a doctor lion. And by the way, if you don't like it, it's totally risk free. You'll get your money back. No questions asked. I love this stuff. You will too. Back to the show. My question to you is you are a professor. A mother of three, your husband is in tech. He's working all kinds of hours. What give us an example of the challenges that you have faced? I think I have faced a huge change in how I spend my time. Right? I used to wake up and have my caffeine. It was very leisurely. I'd get dressed. I'd go to work. My mornings now are you wake up. You have one hour to get three kids dressed. Get them to school, feed them, pack their back packs. You are just, there is so much going on now all the time. My afters work. I pick my kids up. I take them to the park. I take them to gymnastics. My time is no longer my own. And so I think part of this identity, it's very easy to get lost in this identity of you all. You hear that all the time? Yes, absolutely. Apparently a parent or a mom and I'm more than a mom. You see women really struggle with this. Yes, and this is something the first thing to go is the time for themselves because they're giving their time away. So a question I always get is like, when do you have time to work out or when do you have time to cook meals? Because you are exhausted and you are depleted and you don't have that time anymore. And so I think when we want to think about action items, about how we empower caretakers and mothers to reclaim that time for themselves, I think it's really interesting. Actually, can I talk a little bit about some research I did? I can't wait. So I actually published a research article like co-authored called Strategies for Balance how parents of color navigate the work in life in the academy. And really what we found is that the mother specifically have different demands on them. So we know that men become parents and fathers and women become mothers. But we know those both result in a number of changes. And life changes, challenges, taking time and all of these things. But we have to account that these life changes are not the same across all the genders. And the women do face actually increasingly more or more difficult challenges when it comes to navigating this like work life balance. And I think what's really profound is in the study that I conducted that mothers more so far more so than their male counterparts the fathers expressed the guilt, the guilt of leaving their children going to work. And so instead of going to say professional networking activities after work, they would go home. And so you see them being systematically excluded from these professional building elements. And so when we think about identity, right, we think about the mother, how we can be successful as mothers, how we can be successful as professionals, how we can be successful in our personal life. And so we have our systematically disadvantaged in part by this guilt that they feel in part of the demands, right, the demands on the children to the mothers to the fathers are different. I don't know about your house behind us, but my kids are always asking for me. Like daddy will literally be on the couch next to all three of my children. I will be downstairs in my bedroom and they will come down and ask me for the glass and water, right? And that's just an example. So I think it's important to understand that there are gender differences and how we can best support people as they navigate that. And are there other challenges that you have faced? There's the time, the boundary challenges. Did you experience that? 100%. Right? I give a lot to my kid into a point where it's very hard to see when I need to take time for myself. And so I don't take time for myself or I didn't for a very long time. Is it guilt or you just don't want to miss a moment? I know you, obviously, as my sister and I also know you as a mother. And one of the things that you do so well is you're very much always living in the moment. I don't like to miss out on things. I have foam on. I have foam all the time, right? I don't want to miss out on that. She's called her kids at least 27 and half times in the last hour. All kidding aside. I think it's part of it as I don't want to miss out. I definitely experience some of the guilt and also becomes pattern after three kids. I've been a mother for 10 years. I don't remember when it's my turn. I don't think to take my turn. And of course there's logistical challenges of getting child care, the appropriate child care. And you know, it just sometimes it's easier to just keep in the moment than it is to set up the things that I know I need. In your, in the study that you looked at, do you find, again, if women are a system radically being deselected or self-diselecting from things like networking events, from things like education to going to conferences because they are the primary caretaker, how does that in an overall pattern affect the workplace, the women in terms of growing their careers? Have you thought about that? Was that one of the pieces in the study? Absolutely. Well, you can imagine if you are systematically excluded from networking, you're not going to meet researchers, right? In my academic field, collaboration is huge. You want to meet other people who are working on interesting things and to do collaborative studies and research. If you don't have the time to go to the conferences and to the workshops, right, we have these multi-week workshops for academics, but it's very hard for mothers, especially if they're recently, new mothers, right, if they're still nursing, like you can imagine those kinds of innate physical barriers, but also the guilt keeps them home. Why do you think that, do you think the guilt is something that's taught or is it something, do you think there's a biological mechanism in place could be? I think there's certainly, that's possible, but I also think we have a culture that, you know, we still put women in the home, right? Or it's very unusual to see the female be the primary breadwinner stall. And I think that that is a narrative shift that should happen. What do you think are some of the solutions to that? Such a good question. If I'm a study on that, I don't have a study on that, but I do think that there are number of strategies that people can take to really elevate their elite identity. And one I think is you need to make time to prioritize yourself. And this is really important. And we need to shed the guilt, we need to combat that narrative, and we need to take time to work out. We need to take time to make that meal, to be healthy, to go out with our friends, to separate ourselves, to reclaim our identity. Have you found that when that's done over and over again, that the guilt dissipates, or do you believe that the guilt always remains? So I don't have any research or empirical support to support my opinion on this, but I think the more you do it, the more you realize your children are okay. When you go off to that conferencing network and you come back. And I think they're okay. And I think I can dissipate with just some practice. Yeah. And you're really also talking about two things here. You're talking about the individual, the mother, the parent, going to do these things, and actually understanding and mitigating their own personal guilt. And then on the flip side, where I think that we can shift the way that we think about it is, and I was an event, and Dr. Chris Palmer was there, and he is a psychiatrist from Harvard. He talks a lot about the brain metabolism and ketosis and ketones in the metabolic health. But all that aside, he said, you know, it's really wonderful that you go and you speak. And it's also really wonderful when you bring the children. And I said, well, you know, why? Because I feel so guilty with everything that I'm trying to do for the world. And he said to me, you are providing them with an opportunity to know that they can function without you constantly being there. And it actually makes them stronger, more capable, more durable. And when you bring them, it allows them to work through feelings of boredom or work through their own experiences. And he said to me, you shouldn't remove that from them. That changed things for me. Yeah, that's really great advice. Yeah, I really felt that when you think about it in terms of with this whole mom guilt in this identity of being a mom, or, you know, any even parents. So for example, Shane, who works 120 hours a week, if not more, he feels really guilty. He feels as if he's missing everything. And those are pretty rough hours. Yeah, for sure. But the time that is spent is very precious. And he still has to work and build his own life. And the world doesn't necessarily, and some listeners may or may not agree, revolve solely around the children. Totally. It's a full dynamic. Absolutely. And I think what you bring up before, which I want to reference, there is a study that came out that's showed that working mothers are actually really important role models for their daughters, right? Because you are setting the example that you can go out and be hugely successful and a mother at the same time. And you can be good at both. And that changes the narrative that they have to stay home when they have kids. Yeah. Yeah. It is certainly challenging. I think that if there are mothers listening here, I'm sure you've all experienced it. And I'll just from a very practical standpoint, women that I take care of and throughout the years, they say, well, I don't have time to work out because I'm going to miss this baseball game or I want to have breakfast with my kids. There is a treat off. That's true. Absolutely. For example, there are three days a week that I train in the morning no matter what. Some of those times the kids will come with me. I always encourage them to come with me the other time they don't. And I miss that morning of sitting down and having breakfast with them. I don't miss the time because we get time together. But if I didn't do that, my effectiveness as a mom goes down because I'm resentful. Right. I think that there's a resentment that comes in when you are constantly giving. And I wonder how we can reframe the way that we think about things from the identity standpoint of how can we be good teammates, good parents, and still do the things that we need to do. I think that's a really good point. I think there's a strategy that actually works well in my household and I can share with your listeners, maybe it'll help with them. As I think you can use data and to inform your responsibilities, to inform your daily schedule and your weekly schedule, you know, and I encourage people to map out their week, just write down everything you're doing for seven days. Every time block, see where you can, cut time, create efficiencies like, today we were out working out and when you brought your kids, you were both spending time with your kids and you were working out. And so, you know, I think that it's really important to use data to look at how you can invest schedule your week. Like, what can you, what efficiencies can you carve out? But you can't just like, you can't just make it up. You actually need to take time to record what you're doing every day and where, you know, and look analytically at your week. That's helpful. I don't know if you remember this, but again, I've known you for a really long time. You know, way back then. But I would call you sporadically. Any of my friends at Nome, you know, that I will call sporadically. I'm a very social person. It is my nature. But I would call you and you would not pick up you send me a text and say, hey, I have 35 minutes. I am deep and focused. I'll call you later. Correct. You've done that throughout your life. Right. And I learned a lot in as I became because here's the thing at the time I didn't have kids. Right. And I think to myself, come on, it's not that busy. She can't really pick up the phone or she can really pick up the phone or what do you mean I'm going to talk to you at 10 30 on Thursday. Now, having two children, I recognize that having a structure and Cal Newport talks a lot about this. He's written many great books. But I learned that from you and not only that, you're incredibly efficient with your time. And the first recommendation that you're giving is map out what your week is like. Yes. And how you're spending your time. Exactly. Were there places that when you did that that you cut the fat? Yes, absolutely. And actually this is something. You know, I do a lot. So for those of you who have seen my account, I have these cargo bikes. Okay. So you guys said, let's take a pause. I was like, do not talk about the cargo bike. But please give her a follow at cargo bike mama m o m m a. My sister is extraordinary. And she's not just extraordinary because I'm biased. I mean, this is a mother of three, a full professor of criminology went to pen and you're amazing. And side note, okay, back to efficiency. So the reason I bring up these bikes is because no one knows what a cargo bike is a very bad. That might map my producer over here. Yeah. I showed them. So these are very common in Europe. And then the Netherlands, you see them all over the place. Basically they are bikes where you can carry a ton of stuff, including kids on the front of the back. I have a few of them. And so the listener doesn't know at all what these cargo bikes are. They are huge. A bicycle with this massive box on the mine. I like front loaders. They're these huge boxes on the front. And you can literally load 400 pounds in these bikes. Like they're designed to carry way. They're designed to be like a car replacement. And so what else do anything else I need to comment about these bikes? Oh, they're just think about how Dorothy had the basket for the Wizard of Oz. Think about that times 500 the size of this. So you're talking about efficiency. And this brings you to cargo bikes. Exactly. And the whole reason why I even got these bikes because I didn't bike. I don't know if you know this. I literally didn't. We don't drive. So you have to keep some. I used to drive. But in New York. I live in New York City. And traffic is awful. Traffic parking is all awful. We take the subway, which is great. But like being a full-time working mama three, I have very little time to spare. I just don't have that time to spare. And so what I found is when we had spent the summer in the Netherlands that by getting myself and my children and my groceries and everything around by bike, I would shave hours. I would just reclaim those hours back so that I could do something more meaningful. Instead of spending the time commuting. And so we got these bikes. And you know from, for example, from my home to my kids doctor's appointment by subway, or by bus, it would take 45 minutes in these bikes. It's 15 minutes. And I can park in front. Right. So you know, you can't do that with a car in New York City. You can't do that in the subway in New York City. So that was like one of the things. And then of course the bikes became this way of being really efficient. I can, I work out research shows that even with my e-bike enabled, it's a matter of work out. I am spending time with my children and I'm commuting. I am doing three things in one and I'm getting to my destination faster than I would. So I think again, I went through my schedule. I identified where I was wasting time and most of my time was wasted and transit. What do you think other people could do? Let's say they don't have access to a cargo bike. One of the things I'm hearing you say is it seems like commuting is a big problem for many people. Yes. Would you say number one mitigate that time that I can find a different way? Totally, possibly work part-time from home maybe. And if you couldn't, how if you had to commute, are there strategies that you would use that time for? So I think that commuting can be viewed as an opportunity to be spending time with the people that you love. You can call people. You can listen to podcasts. You can talk and connect with your children. Again, I use my commuting time as this multimodal way of engaging with my kids as getting exercise and all these things. I do think that one thing about transitioning from a car to a car light or using these bikes as a mechanism is it doesn't have to be 100%. Most people's travel is within one to three miles of their home. Something that can be done easily, you could take a walk by bike very easily. So I think is identifying again, you're not going to know any of this until you start recording your own data. Yeah, it's so helpful. Yeah. What else, again, prioritizing yourself and by doing that, I think a lot of people don't know how to spend time with themselves. I would say that I'm probably guilty of that if you were to say what are the things that you do to prioritize yourself. I'm not sure I can give you an answer. Any ideas? I do get a massage and I have an amazing massage therapist, Kathy, Kissinger, and she'll come to my house, but I was terrible at actually scheduling the massage. She was wonderful. She actually forced herself to say, I am coming over at this time. You better be there. I was like, this is amazing. I mean, I made that. That might sound like a luxury. And it certainly is. I'm so grateful that she does it. I would say that that's probably the only thing if I, and that's, I must get better at that. Because I don't really even think about training as prioritizing oneself, but it is. Right. For people who do it more passively or maybe it's not as central to their existence. It's a really important thing to prioritize. And it can be very easy. The more responsibilities you have, the more identities you have, what do you mean by that? The more identities you have. Like if you go from being a person to like a single person to being a mother and being a professional and being safe, you do any sports or anything like that, you're taking a multiple identities, right? You're navigating these different spaces and the more things that you take on, the more responsibilities or activities that you do because you want to have this enriched life. The less time you have, and it can be really hard to do these things well. And so how do you say no? How do you say no? That's really a ball. Yes, I was at this great. I went to this great talk by these three email CEOs and they said, listen, all you have to do when someone asks you to do something and you don't want to do it, you say, I'm as scheduled as I prefer to be right now. I am as scheduled as I prefer to be right now. I'm going to start using that. I think it's great. I'm trying. You're just saying, I'm respectfully declining because I don't want to do it anymore. Thank you to thesis for sponsoring this episode of the show. thesis is the world's first customized Neutrophic company. I've mentioned this in the past. I only promote products that I use. These have been a game changer for me. Neutrophics are nutrients found in nature or the human body. They enhance cognitive function. Who doesn't want more focus, more energy or a better mood? I don't know one person who doesn't want more of those things. Many companies take a one size fits all approach. What I love about thesis, not only are there blends exceptional, but you can go to their website, which is takethesis.com. You'll take a quiz. They will then send you a starter kit with four different blend recommendations to try over the course of a month. This is personalized. thesis also offers, are you ready for this? Three consultations with a wellness coach to optimize your experience and dial in on your favorite formulas. These products have absolutely been life changing for me. These blends are blends you have never seen before. Go to takethesis.com slash doctor lion and you'll get 10% off your first box. Takethesis.com slash doctor lion. Take the quiz and you are on your way to more energy and more focus. Where can people also make up inefficiencies? I think they can make up inefficiencies by finding a mentor too. They don't have to reinvent the wheel and I guarantee you somebody else has done something along the line or they have faced similar challenges. I did a little bit of research as well on this shifting identities from student veterans. Right? Former military who left the military to become civilians, to become students. One of the key takeaways was that they found that they felt very lost without having that mentor. I think that's a takeaway we can apply to most places in our lives. To clarify what you're saying, transitions from the identity of being a active military individual, correct? Transitioning to then being a civilian. Transitions are the rockiest times. Transitioned from job to job, transitioning from non-parent to parent. Those transition points take people off track. And by the way, they are fully predictable. Transition points you guys are fully predictable. You know that there are going to be moments in life that you change. And these individuals will experience it as stressful. It is certainly unfamiliar. I think unfamiliarity breeds stress. I love the recommendation to link up with a mentor. I have a mentor, I mentor, a handful of people. The other thing, and I'd love to hear your take from your research, is that the community, community of other individuals going through similar things, or again, someone that has done it, community matters. Absolutely. You aren't alone, right? If can feel transitions can be feel very scary and very isolating. And they're new for you, even though they're predictable like you said, right? We all go through them. What's great is there are people who have done this and done it successfully. And so I think finding a community because you need also that support. Right? They're going to be days where you are feeling awesome and they're going to be days where you feel really badly. And so you just want to find someone who can lift you up and elevate you. And I think that's a really important thing. It's to surround yourself with people who really elevate you. To help you craft that elite identity. That's wonderful advice. This again, we none of us succeed alone. Correct. We all have people in our lives that hold us to a higher standard. When you think about elite identity, it again, we can talk about health and wellness in its own domain. And then we can talk about it separately. But the reality is this idea of living a very globally successful life is truly the point that you are making about having an elite identity. I have a note here that you had said separation of health and self. Do you want to explain to us what that is? Well, I think it's really important to come up with strategies to prioritize your health. And sometimes that can mean taking away the, you know, to not sacrifice but to make decisions that I'm not going to do certain things today because I want to prioritize my health. And I want to prioritize my mental health. And so I think that was something that was very important for me to consider is that I need to prioritize my health because without having a healthy identity, all of your other identities are going to be impacted as well as your concentric circles of family professional life and familial life. But if you are not healthy, the people of Brown, you aren't going to be healthy and you're not going to make healthy decisions. So I just think it's really important to prioritize and separate that what you're doing every day, sometimes needs to be not sacrificed but shifted so that you can focus on a really sets of foundation. What do you mean by concentric circles? So I view the different elements of our lives as concentric circles. We have our professional circle. We have our family circle and we have our personal circle and they're all interrelated because how you do in one and the identity you form in one will absolutely impact the identity forms in the other and how successful you can be in these other identities. You can be an example of some work. I mean, a motherhood is an amazing example, right? My family life, if I am very busy and I can't disentangle my motherhood identity, then I won't go to that networking of that. And that's going to impact my professional identity. The other, again, we talked about these three types of identity. We've covered personal identity, tell me about relational identity and what roles is that play? I think that is really important role. And again, this relational identity is one where you identify yourself in relation to other people. So as a mother, right? You are defining yourself in relation to your children. So I think it's very important that we recognize that other people around us impact how we view ourselves and how we act on a day to day basis. Do you think it's meaningful to change the language? Let me give you an example. Earlier in our conversation, I said, I'm a very social person. I'm identifying myself as a very social person. Do you think having words and frameworks like that can hinder the way in which I navigate the way in which I think about things or as long as it's something positive, it's irrelevant. I think having a clearly fleshed out identity is important. So we want to use positive language. But negative, there are elements of our identity that can be negative too, right? You can feel down, you can feel depressed. You can have those parts of your identity. And they create you as a whole. No person is wholly a positive person, right? We have dark corner. I don't know, Matt, Matt's pretty good over there. So I think having a realistic narrative is what's most important, a realistic narrative. And do you have solutions for ways in which an individual could navigate the relational identity? Do you think that there's pitfalls or downfalls that people should look out for? Healthy boundaries, absolutely. Like again, how we identify as a partner, as a spouse, is also really important. We want to make sure that we are having a healthy relationship. Again, this all goes back to this health and wellness. We want to have these healthy relationships. We want to have these healthy interaction. And you're talking about health from two sides of the same point. Right? Mental. What you're really talking about here is there's a physical health. So what I'm hearing you say is you're actually talking about the mental health component to it. Absolutely. Do you think that there are ways in which someone could identify that they potentially are not living up to a certain standard from a relational standpoint? It's a really good question. I think so. I think we can see that in relationships that aren't fulfilling or where we feel like we're needing more or we're not prioritizing elements of ourselves or we lose our identity with that other person. I haven't done research firsthand, but I've done a lot of studying about domestic violence. And so when you identify the signs of domestic violence, it can be really important. I'm really glad that you brought that up. One of the courses that you teach as a professor is ethics. I teach criminal justice ethics, but I also teach gender crime and justice. So I think it's very important to identify that we have morality and we have, I mean, morality is really interesting. The idea of, would you define that as how you do right and wrong? Yes. How you do right and wrong? And that can be innate. It can also be learned and it can be cultivated. And the reason I brought that up, the ethics component, because when you talk about relationship identity, again, what we really are, the goal of this podcast is twofold. Number one, to really think about how do we raise ourselves to the standard of an elite identity? Yeah, what we've covered so far is primarily the personal identity and where there may be pitfalls of that. Again, you and I are speaking on behalf of motherhood and mothers. I can't tell you how many women that I interface with that say some of the things that you brought up, even my own self, I have a ton of mom guilt. There's lots of things that I've had to work through. And then the second component, so there's that component is this elite identity. The other part of this podcast is I do want to talk about childhood raising healthy children. Yes. And again, I think it all ties into how we can be the best version of oneself. But the relational identity, the reason I brought up ethics is because we have to think, how do we interface with other people? Are we a honorable spouse? Are we doing things that are disingenuine to how we treat a friend? And how that all falls into suboptimal behavior, suboptimal performance and really kind of erodes the best version of oneself. Where else in terms of relationship identity? By the way, do we know when these identities form? No, I don't know. Actually, it must start really, really early. I imagine. Are there other things that you would say how someone could really foster a healthy relational identity? You talked about boundaries? Yes. Give me some examples of that. So it's actually funny. I want to talk about something else because I just thought about it. So my husband and I, we have a really amazing and healthy relationship. And I realize we do things that might be a little different or kind of strange when we think about relational identity, but we basically have alignment meetings. So my husband and I have alignment meetings. So we'll talk about different things. That didn't even need that. And alignment meeting where we DDC. We debate. What is a DDC? So we go through these. So one thing that I think is really important is when you're building these relational identities and you want to have the best version of yourself, it's communication and alignment with your spouse is like number one. And so one of the things that we do is we, we DDC, we debate. We decide together and we commit to that decision. So he can't go back. I can't go back on him and be like, well, we made this decision. You made this decision and I'm mad at you. It was like, no, we debated it. We decided together and we committed to the outcome no matter whether it's a good outcome or bad outcome. DDC. It did. It did. Decide. Commitment. Friends, we should all be doing this. And then you have alignment meetings with your partner. What happens there? Well, if you are misaligned on really fundamental things like how you manage money or how you choose to transfer, you know, go about transportation or how you choose to spend your summers or what if big, critical things in your lives with your partner should be done through alignment meetings. Amazing. Bad, best podcast ever alignment meetings. DDC. What would DDC do? Do you have anything else there? Because that's great. And I don't think it gets better than an alignment meeting because now we're thinking about these three interlocking circles of personal identity, relational where you show up in a relationship. What about these boundaries that you talk about? I think boundaries are really important to carving out time for yourself. Identifying where you can be focusing on yourself and your career. And again, letting go of this shedding this guilt that you can't do it all. As you can set boundaries and it's really healthy to do so. Where I, again, I take care of patients. And while we talk about blood work, we talk about a number of things. Being a physician is a sacred privilege. And I don't know, any 1800s probably before that. It was the physician wasn't just about your blood. It wasn't transactional. They were advisors. They were confidence. They were someone who was critical in that person's life. And one of the things that I think really becomes important is that, you know, I hear a lot of behind the scenes, things that happen to people because how they show up in the world and what they're going through from a relationship standpoint affects their health. Period end of story. And there in a new loving relationship, you better believe that I am telling you trends over time, I see improvements in blood work. Patience leads way. Their blood pressure is better. It's extraordinary. The other counter to that is when someone doesn't set up a healthy boundary, I have seen that derail and unravel humans. Case in point. I have a particular patient who was really in love with this girl. And instead of being honest and upfront about who he really was, for example, he is extraordinarily social. He loves to hang out with his friends. He likes to put his phone away and he loves to hang out with his friends. He also has a lot of friends and generals, some are male, some are female. He didn't set the boundary that I am the kind of person that really likes to go out once a week, put my phone away, hang out with my friends. I am also the kind of person that has female friends. And they text me, they call me. And he was so in love with this girl that he put that aside and wasn't upfront about it. And because he wasn't upfront about it, that whole relational identity that he had built for a refacing that was actually different from who he was. Created a self-employed relationship. That makes a lot of sense. Yeah, makes a lot of sense. The way that I see it when you set up a healthy relationship identity or relational identity is definitely knowing who you are and putting that forward so that it's not confusing for the person and then the other person. Agreed. And this is where I think about love languages. Yes. You guys might think that I'm being silly, but love languages. We should actually take the word love out of it and it should be relational language. Agreed. How do you feel safe and connected? Are you someone who is an act of service person? Are you a quality time? Are you a physical contact person? I'll be weird if you're not. You're like, are we talking your friends? So maybe that maybe we will keep it as the love language or but you know, very tactile, etc. And that becomes important to know how you feel supported. Absolutely. Absolutely. The third type of identity is this collective identity. Yes. I would love to hear and I think that you have a lot of gems to share, especially because of social media, people are or gangs. Tell me about a collective identity and how it can help you become an elite performer or how it can derail you. I think that's, I mean, I can talk certainly on the devrailing. Right? We know that. Right? I mean, I guess, you know, as a gang scholar, really, that's my area of specialty. Wait, pause as a gang scholar. A gang scholar. I do the vast majority of my research examines the experiences of gang members and how we can interact, how we interface with gangs, how they respond, how they interact with people, how they interact with police, how we can, how we can reduce gang membership. So I do have a lot of, you know, research and I've done certainly some research about how gang activity and this is certainly a collective identity can create, you know, increased likelihood of the link ones say, right? So when you're talking about gang scholarship or you're talking about gang behavior, we study, you know, young men and young women and we compare them to non-gang counterparts, right? The young men of the same similar backgrounds and the same pages and whether they're in a gang and if they're not like their levels of the link ones say. And gangs as a collective identity, it significantly increased not only the likelihood, sort of a group think, right? The likelihood of delinquent behavior or the increased likelihood of delinquancy, victimization, all these number of things, really negative things that can happen when you're a part of a gang. So, you know, that certainly is the pitfalls of a collective identity, of a collective identity that's surrounded around crime and delinquancy, right? Although, you know, we have to humanize the gangs, right? The gangs come out of environments that are very harsh where there are not great alternatives, you know, young women in particular, join gangs because more than likely statistically speaking, they come from homes and violence in neglect. And the gangs become a safer, what they view as safer, whether it's actually safer is a different story, but they view it as a better alternative than being at home. That's fascinating. It really sounds as if the personal identity, the relational identity and the collective identity, all feed one another, 100% are interrelated. And the collective identity, is this somewhat of the concept that you are, the five people that you were surround yourself with or is this more of a, you know, I am thinking about things in the way, and I'm just going to give an example. I am thinking about things the way a carnivore. So if it's a nutrition group, a carnivore or keto collective identity or even whether you are Republican or Democratic are these examples of all big things. Yes, absolutely. And they're collective identities. You know, one thing that's really interesting is when you have groups of people together, the way in value structures can shift and change because you are reinforcing, you know, and re establishing these value structures, then what can happen, especially in like subculture, is they change, right? You, what you view as acceptable behavior can shift from the normative or what you maybe were grown up to believe was the right behavior. Give me an example. I mean, I can think about this in terms of gang behaviors. So like, let's say you have someone who is knocking involved necessarily, but, you know, is exposure to gangs and it's up to joining a gang and originally, you know, wasn't interested in say drug deal, right, which is a very common activity that can be part of a gang. What I'm hearing that so fascinating is that the behaviors that would be considered just outlandish for some people, there is a normalization. Yeah, exactly that happens, exactly. And so drug dealing can be very common in very normative or funny thing. Okay, what did you do today? Well, I sold a whole bunch of weed, I sold a whole bunch of stuff. Yeah. Totally normal, how much money did you make? Like, that's what I care about, right? So I think it's very interesting too when you think about these value structure shifting, same with violence, right? Gang members value, like their value is in strength and shows a force and beating people up and like, you know, they don't do it all the time. But like showing that they can hold their own NF fight. That's a very different normal value structure from, you know, non gang involved people. Let's talk about protein, specifically first forms natural way protein, formula one. People ask me all the time, what kind of protein powder I use, what kind of protein powder I recommend. Formula one makes many different kinds of protein powders, different flavors. Natural one, you pick it, it mixes amazing. It makes it extremely easy to get your protein in. And really, it's a way protein isolate. So you're getting the majority of your calories from protein in the shake. Taste great, super easy to travel with, great breakfast, dinner, maybe even lunch. Whatever you need, it's got you covered and it has all the amino acids necessary. It will help improve body composition, muscle mass, all the things that protein does. And by the way, when do you need protein? Well, you need it every day. And that's why I love first forms, protein powder, their formula one, go to firstform.com slash doctor lion. That's firstform.com slash doctor lion. Have you done your blood work? If you haven't, I've a solution for you. And that is one of the sponsors of the show inside tracker. Why is blood work so important? Well, you know, I use inside tracker, my friends use inside tracker. Also, my parents use inside tracker. Inside tracker makes getting blood work very easy and user friendly. They have an amazing interface. You can check it out on your phone. You can check it out on the desktop, which, you know, hopefully you're using a small one. Inside tracker allows you to look at really important biomarkers like hormones, iron, thyroid, insulin. The list goes on. ApoB, it never stops. And by the way, if you are a professional and you have clients inside tracker also has a pro platform, amazing. I really feel that inside tracker has revolutionized healthcare and listen blood work can be expensive, but it doesn't have to be. Inside tracker is offering my listeners 10% off, 10% off. Anything on the store in the store, anything as it relates to subscriptions, 10% off, go to inside tracker.com, like inside tracking your body, use the code doctor lion. And do not wait if you are due for your blood work, give this a shot. It's extremely valuable back to the show. Do you think that people, are there certain personalities? I know this isn't exactly what we're talking about and you might not know the answer to this. But again, the goal of the conversation is in the lead identity. Is that how can you then shift from the, I'll use the term weaker or less optimized identity to something that truly is something that you can strive for and be proud of. Are there certain personalities or certain character traits or certain environments growing up that would leave someone vulnerable to collective think in general? Or is it human nature to buy into a group thing? So I think that's a multi-faceted question. I think there's certainly for some people. There is resources to show that there is biological behaviors like anti-social personality disorder, right? Things like that where you may be more inclined to join again. But a lot of it too is the environment, right? So like there are not everybody starting at the same playing field, right? So you have people who come from violence and neglectful homes and they're just not at the same starting point as someone who comes from, you know, affluence. And we can't treat everybody the same, right? It's not fair to them. So I think that's a really important element of crafting an identity. How can someone optimize this idea of collective think? Where do you see the benefit, how could someone, if they were just evaluating their time, evaluating their network, evaluating the space and the domains in which they live in, how could someone optimize this collective identity? I think by joining groups that share the values that you want to have, right? So I think, you know, maybe a terrible example is my son's competitive chess player. He does his best when he is with his chess playing friends, right? They are thinking analytically, they are leveling each other up. So I think for, you can really harness if you join networks or groups that really level you up. And you might have some good examples or some ideas of some of those groups. That's why we actually created the community. We created a forever strong community for exactly that. And I haven't actually released it, but I created a creed for them. But are you sharing that creed? I'm not going to share it yet, but we created a creed that, again, holds people to a high standard within themselves, just we have five main pillars. And that's actually why I created the forever strong community. It's amazing. I mean, because I wanted to create an atmosphere that cultivates people and ways of thinking about things that are ultimately beneficial, that are supportive, that are positive, that value hard work, that value discipline, that's amazing. And allowing people to do it collectively and can anyone join? Yeah, yes, in fact I'll put you in the group. Amazing. So I think like a group like that would be amazing, especially for people who have lost their way. Or feel like they really need to surround themselves with people who can push them to the next level. And I think that that brings up a really good point. People have to know where they're vulnerable. Yeah, and if you are in the points of vulnerability are always big transitions. Yeah, if you are someone who, and positive and negative, for example, someone who has lost a hundred pounds and is now in a new body, they are at a transition point because they are in a different body, a different frame of being before people will react differently to them. Yeah, it is. And they have to feel comfortable in that new physicality, absolutely. And any points of transition and that is one of the things why we see a high recidivism rate, which is a high relapse rate of weak gain, people will often say it's because they went off their nutrition plan and that's very black and white thinking. The other reason is they don't necessarily feel comfortable getting all the attention or they don't feel comfortable in this new body type. And that's again, points of vulnerability are really important places to get community and to step into community, absolutely. Especially when you feel that need, right? When you are about to relax or recidivate. Yeah, that is a very good point. Yes, in fact, I'm going to put you in the group. This is again our forever strong community. You guys can find it online on my website and I would love actually for you to come on as a guest. I would love to. For the community, it would be wonderful. So far, we've talked about identities, personal, relational, collective, and I'm just going to recap some of the highlights. And then if you have a little bit more time for me, I would love to chat about childhood nutrition, parenting, making good choices. Again, you are a professional mother. Personal identity, that is really questioning where you are and recognizing if there are outside narratives that are influencing that. For example, mothers and mom guilt. There are many other examples of that, but again, personal identity of a big thing. Taking time for yourself, doing the things that matter and really managing your health and wellness. Absolutely. The second thing is relational identity and that comes into play, having a very good dynamic. And the big takeaway that I got was structure, DDC, decide, debate. I'm sorry, debate, decide, and commit. Yeah. And what that does is it places a structure and a way in which you can then relate to the other person, with certain rules, for example, you can't go back and fight about it. Right? And also, actually with personal identity, there's one more thing is that looking at your schedule. We talked about health and wellness, but you have to look at your schedule to then deploy these tactics. Relational identity is creating a framework for the zone of operation within a household, within a friendship. The other point to relationship, identity is understanding boundaries. Absolutely. Being truthful and upfront with who you are, so that people can know what to expect. And then the other component to that is understanding the, what love language. The communication language. Yes. What do we call it? The relationship language, whether you are active service, quality time. I forgot gifts. I like gifts. And then the third piece is the collective identity. The collective identity is understanding where you fit into group think. And really what I'm hearing the big part of that is getting support is finding a group and identifying with a larger group that holds to your standard and your values. And that is supportive. That's a beautiful way of recapping it. Yeah. And that there's action items for each of those. Yes. I agree. Now, I would like to just spend maybe 10 minutes talking about children, childhood nutrition and doing things that are very valuable at the home front. Because again, this is some of the questions that I get asked all the time and where you really specialize and are very attuned to is behavior patterns. You had mentioned early on that the prefrontal cortex is not fully formed. That a large portion of crime happens before the age of 25. This makes me think that we can do things from a very young age to instill good habits and instill good nutrition. I'd love to hear some of your thoughts on that. Absolutely. Well, I think the number one thing for parents is to model the behavior they want their children to have. There is learning theory happening all the time around people around you, around, you know, your kids are watching you. What you eat is what they eat. You know, what you do is what they do, right? I was watching you this afternoon, sister, you were working out and your kids were working out, right? So I think the really, like, the number one action item for helping families establish good and healthy behavior patterns is for the parents to do with themselves. How do you become an elite family? Yeah. Have good habits. Have great habits. And that includes physical fitness, it includes eating habits, it includes the conversation habits. I was explaining, we do kind of a DDC around the table every night in my family. We do the rows and thorn, right? And so my kids have come to expect that I am going to be checking in with the best thing that happened to them in the day and the worst thing that happened with them in the day. And that's just a mechanism of communication and establishing what that does is establishes open lines of communication very early. That's very valuable. Yes. What about nutrition? And I just want to highlight this because I'm kind of setting this up. But for example, Omega 3 fatty acids. Yes. Very important, I think, for child development brains. My son has ADHD and we found after doing research that Omega 3s could help with that. And so we do a high protein diet, take the lion protocol, I'm not going to lie. And we also grew up, I mean, these are things that, yeah, I we grew up like this. Absolutely. We grew up in a very healthy household and there were things that both our parents modeled. Absolutely. Healthy eating, mama always worked out, grandma worked out, our dad was really fit. It was just something we mimicked as well. We weren't ever in the type to just sit around and eat a bag of cookies or whatever. Like that just wasn't our, wasn't what we saw, wasn't what we knew. From the research that you have done on ADHD and children, you found that Omega 3 fatty acids influence that. I think it could help with brain function. And there's a lot, there's actually some criminal justice research that also talks about this, which was they gave Omega 3s to inmates in Pennsylvania, a doctorator in rain out of the University of Pennsylvania was one of my faculty members. And he started giving Omega 3s to prisoners, they did a randomized control trial, where they would give some inmates the diet as normal and they gave some inmates Omega 3 supplements and they found it decline in impulsivity. They were calmer. He wasn't, he wasn't huge huge, but it was a statistically significant difference in behavior. And so when we were doing research for ADHD medication and it was during a time when we couldn't get medication, there was an oral white shortage and it was really difficult. We looked at every alternative we could. And so we did the Omega 3s. Are there any other nutritional tips or advice or anything that you've come across in your research again with brain function and impacting behavior that you would care too much in? I don't think so. I think just focus on trying to limit, you know, refined sugars, have a lot of Omega 3s in your diet, fish, that kind of thing. Well, Dr. Madeline Novich, thank you so much for being here. Yes, this is a very enlightening and meaningful conversation. Where can people find you? Well, they can find me of course on Instagram at CargoBikeMama.momme. And I have a newsletter www.cargobikemama.com where I send out recipes and all kinds of different ways of maximizing your life. Thank you so much for being a guest. We will link all of those below and well done. Thank you so much for having me sister.

And when you diagnose the particularly with type 1 diabetes suddenly you're like thrust into disease land. Like you may never have thought about this disease in your life unless some relative or friend had it. Now you've got to learn everything about it as fast as you can and you have no preconceptions. So, as Dr. explains from look, you know, you don't make enough insulin, your pink race is going to run out of insulin and you need the insulin to metabolize these carbohydrates without them, your blood sugar will be too high and you have all these chronic complications. So, we wanted to continue eating the carbohydrates but you're going to measure the amount that every meal and snack and then we can dose the insulin to that. And, you know, then we're going to get a diabetes educator teach you all about this. And he says to the doctor, wait a minute, what you're telling me is that because of this disease carbohydrates are not toxic to me. And in someone who's the antidote and you want me to eat the toxin and take the antidote. Why don't I just not eat the toxin? And the doctor is like stunned by this. He's never thought about that and then he starts giving all kinds of mouth. That's really hard to do. You're never going to be able to keep it up. Nobody complies. But that's always been the sort of alternative therapy. This is a disorder that only manifests itself in response to the carbohydrates in the diet. We don't need the carbohydrates. We know from the last 20 years, clinical trials and not eating them is safe. It's not the healthiest way to eat depending on how you want to interpret those trials. And we now know that if patients with type 2 diabetes don't eat the carbohydrates, they will most of them will go into remission and not need drugs. So why don't we at least tell patients that that's a viable option. And in order to do that, we need the doctors to understand it. So that's gets back to your question. The challenge and the reason I wrote this book is to get the physicians and the diabetes educators and the diabetes associations to rethink the title, rethinking the diabetes they look. A lot of people are just going to want drugs. We all love a good drug. But if given the choice between being on the you think okay, I'm going to start with one drug with the other message you get is this is a chronic progressive disease. It's going to get worse. So people who start with one drug, would used to be called monotherapy and 10 years are going to be on two or three drugs. If their blood pressure goes up, they're going to be on blood pressure lowering drugs. If their LDL goes up or even if it doesn't, they're going to be on statins. They've gained weight. They're going to be NGOP1 and agonists. They're a lot of people and all these drugs have side effects and complications. So maybe some people just want to do the naughty, the carbohydrate thing, which means they're basically on a ketogenic diet or a carnivore diet or you can do it as a vegan diet, a difficult. And being healthy is a better option than slowing the progression of the disease. And if I can get the physician community to understand that, then they have to do their homework. They have to go down the rabbit hole and understand these diets. And now there's, you know, a gazillion books. People are written them that help them understand that. And then when their next patient is diagnosed, they could say we have these two options. So convention away, the ADA way is, well, hopefully the ADA may be saying, you know, we're going to give you this drug. And we're going to ask you to control your carbon take and this other option is you're going to do this keto thing. Not eat the carbs and you're probably lose 50 pounds and be feel better and we won't ever have, we may never have to go to drug therapy. And then let the patients decide, but the doctors have to be able to give them informed advice. And that's tough because again, just the nature of medical care is not, I say it's not treatment based, but it's not root cause based. I guess it's a better way to put it. It's there's an issue. What's the fastest way to treatment in an ideal world. What you would like to see is, and I'm just putting words in your mouth is that you would see a carbohydrate restricted diet and you said there's many ways to make it work, whether it's keto, carnivore. Vegan if they could do it with low carbohydrate, which seems pretty challenging, but. In an ideal world, this would be an option is basically what I'm hearing you say and that we need to get healthcare providers. We need to get wise consumers and individuals that because 100% of people eat and getting it done in that. Yeah, and that's I mean, none of this. Every time there's a new drug. It makes it harder to get this message across, but the drugs are always treating symptoms. We have not invented the drug yet that cures this disease or cures obesity. The. Yeah, it's just we. And it kind of be tested, by the way. I mean, verta health and San Francisco, let's go. And the book did it. But I think is a pretty compelling trial showing that this diet can put diabetes and formation. It didn't show whether it was better than any other diet, but it did show that this one works and works in a way that nobody actually ever thought was possible. So yeah, that's that's the challenge now is and that's what the book was written to try and help not jellong because. I recognize I'm not going to get rid of skepticism, even the. One percent or zero point one percent of physicians who would make the effort to read a book like mine when they're done are not going to move their skepticism. But hopefully they will say to themselves, this is interesting. Like let me try it. I gave I remember giving a talk to a Cleveland clinic conference. I was at there Las Vegas base and I was talking right after lunch and I ate before my talk and then I got to watch all the. Cardiologist at the meeting walk up to get the very nice lunch that was all you know salmon and skinless chicken breasts and vegetables and. And I was watching them walk down they definitely look like the sort of typical distribution of. Overweight no obesity among the public has significant amount of them are struggling. So try it yourself learn what you can about it. Understand that enough that you could communicate. I mean the problem is if you're seeing a page for 15 minutes. It's easier to write a prescription. Take this drug. I'll see you in a month move on to the next patient. That's always going to be a problem. But then we have diabetes educators. The nutrition and this and dietitians. I mean it's crazy because this way of eating is now had more clinical trials testing it than any diet and history. And even the American diabetes association agrees it's better tested and more effective than any other diet that they promote. So they're coming around slowly as humanly possible because not in especially a health association doesn't want to say. We made a mistake or phrase anything in such a way that somebody else might go away to mentally different from what you were saying 10 years ago.

Welcome to the Dr. Gabriel Lancho. In this episode, I sit down with Dr. Alexis Count. She's a PhD from Princeton. She did a postdoc at University of Pennsylvania. She's an expert in metabolism. On this podcast, we talk about things related to health and wellness and movement, but do we talk about how our environment impacts our metabolism, our environment impacting our overall health and wellness? Well, today we do. You're going to learn everything about light and the impact of light on your overall wellbeing. And as always, if you like this episode, please take a moment to share, subscribe. If you want more information, if you are interested in the data and the studies and the guests that are coming out, please take a moment to subscribe to my free newsletter, go to my website, Dr. Gabriel Lancho.com and please enter your email. We will not spam you. We will give you free information to make you forever strong. Dr. Alexis Count, welcome to the show. You are a re-peat guest. I am hopefully people who just like a meal. We're going to be talking about new things today, though, so I think it'll be exciting. Yes, no one could ever get sick of you. And I just want to give people a little bit of background as to our friendship. So you and I met through Dr. Tracy Anthony and Dr. Josh Anthony, both of whom are incredible scientists and trained under Dr. Donald Lamin as well. And you and I met while you were still finishing your P.C. President. Yeah. And then went on to do a postdoc at Penn. Yep. You and I collaborate on many projects. I'm so grateful. And today you are bringing us light, mitochondria, and something you can't bioharminizing. I did. Yes. I mean, the term biohacking is common, but I prefer the term bioharminizing because we're not trying to hack our biology. We're trying to find out how our biology is working and work with that instead of trying to cut corners. Let's say. I love that. Yeah. And you and I, again, you and I are friends. We talk all the time. I ask you, what is new? What are you really interested? And you said light and light biology. That's right. Why? And by the way, you have been, I guess, who is staying in our house. I find you in the morning outside, sitting on grass, seemingly very productive. This is my favorite time of day. The best way to start your day. Why light? Great question. So I went down the rabbit hole in light about 14 months ago. After hearing a podcast with recruitment and Jack Cruz, who's like a quantum biologist, light biologist, also a neurosurgeon and Andrew Haberman was also in that conversation. It was on Rick's podcast last year. And as Jack was explaining this story and kind of unfolding it, I was just having, I mean, ironically, lightbulbs are going off in my head. Like, I can't believe I missed this. Like, this is crucial because prior to that, I was really thinking a lot about the gut and the microbiome. And I was like, this is the most important thing. This is what I need to focus on. And then right when I started hearing this story unfold, I was like, basically back to the drawing board, because I realized that this was actually the most foundational piece that almost everybody is missing and nobody's talking about, that if we can get it right, it's going to improve our health in literally every arena of health and every organ system and our cognition and our mood and our relationship quality and our ability to critically think. It's so fundamental that I'm just like, all about it now and I just can't stop talking about it. And it's interesting to hear you say that you had a lightbulb moment because you're a very well trained PhD, which is why. At number one, why I have you on the show, but also I really appreciate the way in which your brain works as a friend and as a human. Do you remember the moment? Do you remember the moment where, and again, you had been focusing a lot on gut, gut muscle access, you and I talk about that frequently, but why the light, there had to have been something. I can appreciate the conversation, but again, you are trained at Princeton and Postdoc at Penn, there must have been something. Yeah, well, I mean, circadian biology was on my radar when I was in grad school and in my postdoc, but I didn't really occur to me. I thought, you know, it's important, but I didn't realize how important it was and how that interfaces, those processes interface with light, until after hearing this podcast and then doing my own deep dyes into the research and understanding the science behind this. And so, I mean, the biggest moment for me was probably just reflecting on the differences between the ancestral environment and the modern environment. So a lot of people will think, you know, it's the food, reading a lot of process foods, or maybe, you know, it's living outside of an actual environment, maybe, you know, we're living indoors, that's kind of a new thing for our species. But, you know, light isn't something that people think a lot about just because, at least for all generations alive now, we all grew up with just having artificial light in our lives and also being propagandized with information about the sun being toxic and bad. And so it's something that kind of just gets ingrained from a very young age and doesn't really elicit a second thought. But I started thinking twice about it. I started thinking twice about it and going into the research and understanding just how nuanced and how specific different wavelengths of light have these differential effects on our biology and what they're doing to regulate or might a conjure function and regulate our neurochemistry and our hormonal milieu. And once I started going into that research, I, it became very apparent to me that this is a crucial piece that almost everybody is getting wrong because we just don't even have, this is even on our radar as like a culture. Do you think that it's that we're getting it wrong or is it that? So I think about my dad, my dad lives in Ecuador, he spends most of the time outside. You've met my dad, he is pretty unusual and unique in his behavior of patterns. Spend a lot of time outside, walks if it is going to take three hours or let's help walk it. But I wonder from what you're saying is it, is it that being outside would not necessarily be optimization, but would be almost standard operating procedure for the body versus being deficient. So for example, does my dad have better health because he's outside? Maybe do people that are outside working the field or if this is part of their life, do they have better health because they're moving there doing those things or on the flip side, is it the deficiency of light that's the problem? So this is why I really like thinking about light as the specific wavelengths of light as like essential nutrients because we think about it in that way we can very clearly see that depending on how we're living our lives we may be very deficient in certain wavelengths of light and we may have an excess of other other kinds of light and the three wavelengths of light that I really like to focus on in this conversation as it relates to regulating our biology, our red and end thread light, which is a very long wavelength light, blue light which is a shorter wavelength light and UV light which is perhaps the most important of the three and yet also the most demonized and so those are kind of the three pillars of light that I like to think about because if we're seeing an indoor artificial light environment we're virtually getting zero red and in thread light because all energy efficient modern light sources including our device screens fluorescent LED bulbs they're highly enriched in blue light and completely devoid of red and in thread light and that's because like their energy efficient quote unquote infrared light is just another word for heat and so if a bulb gives off heat gives off heat it's thought to be like a waste of energy meanwhile there's a disconnect between not understanding that that heat that infrared light is actually and really important let's say nutrient for ourselves and so by eliminating it from artificial light sources we're actually doing our biology a disservice even though it's you know more energy efficient when it comes to like the electrical bills let's say so there's a major disconnect there with regards to tech development and like pushing technology forward and at the same time not building tech that actually respects the way that human biology functions and where would someone say there's red a blue and UV light where would someone in nature get red and infrared light naturally with that be from the sun yep great question so I mean if you think about it in the ancestral environment we weren't really living indoors we were primarily living an outdoor lifestyle and we would have encountered sun throughout different times of the day so if you're outside around sunrise you're encountering primarily red and infrared light um that's why it looks like a redish hue on the horizon it's because sunlight the horizon has to pass through more atmosphere and that means the shorter wavelengths of light are basically being scattered because they're not able to penetrate through the atmosphere so the red and infrared light gets through along with you know maybe some yellow or in should et cetera so then as the sun rises up towards the center of the sky we're getting more penetrance of the short wavelength light which includes the blue UVA and UVB which maxes out around solar noon and then as the sun settles towards the west we're starting to again reenrich that red and infrared light and kind of depleted out the blue and UV light and but importantly though midday sunlight is still over 50% red and infrared light and that's actually the reason why sun fills warm on your skin it's the infrared light that's literally vibrating your tissues to generate heat so the sun itself is actually you know if it doesn't interact with matter it's not gonna fill warm it's the interaction between sunlight the infrared light and matter that actually generates heat through by vibration that's really interesting how long so it their sunrise sunset does the length of time do you think that there's a natural cadence with our biology the length of time that it takes for sun to rise meaning again I don't know this answer that it is sunrise red infrared and then eventually that light source changes from what I'm hearing you say the time it takes from rise what that might be what 10 minutes so it's actually a really interesting question and also it's highly dependent on the latitude at which you're living so if you live really close to the equator there's a very short window of time of about 15 minutes let's say like as you come towards the summer months it's pretty like a stable there throughout the year but um a 15 minute window where you're gonna get primarily red and infrared light in the sunrise time but then very quickly the UVA light starts penetrating and so if you download this app called the circadian app you can look at the UVA and UVB rise for your latitude and so it will tell you so this time of your new jersey where I'm living and I'm just visiting here in Houston 24 north latitude I'm coming from a 40 north latitude how does she know that what's it called the circadian app we guys try that okay now we guys try that the circadian app we're on it okay so in New Jersey if I look at my app you know sunrise is around 630 let's say by seven o'clock UVA is already starting to enter into the wavelength wavelengths of light that are present there UVB doesn't come up until roughly 45 minutes to an hour later because UVA is slightly longer wavelength than UVB so it's able to penetrate more efficiently earlier in the day and it's actually really interesting because we have specific photo receptors on our surfaces on our eyes, our skin and actually deeper in our body too which we can get into what about muscle so actually that's a good question I'm not sure if these receptors are present on muscle we'll have to look into it but there's three receptors maybe four that we could get into one's called melatonin it's a blue light detector it's present on the skin it's present on the cornea and it's also present in the retina and it's job is essentially to relay information about the blue light in your environment to the master clock in your brain the superchized medic nucleus for the SCN which is the master circadian clock and so blue light is the primary input that's regulating our bodies interpretation of what time of day it is so you know if you think about this in the context of the modern environment it can become a bunitly clear why being under artificial lights on an appropriate times of day is detrimental because we're putting in the signal that it's the middle of the day roughly because blue light is highest around solar noon even if it's you know the evening time and we're just working you know out of sync with natural light rhythms because we're you know productive modern humans one would argue though that maybe that would make us more productive well so it does increase alertness on a weakness but the problem with that is that when your body is out of sync with natures rhythms now you know it's kind of you know I think that is this regulated maybe yeah it's highly just regulated and I think you know our bodies as it relates to nature as like a part of nature we're not separate from it although our frontal lobes make us think that we are that we're somehow above it when we extract ourselves from nature I think we see the consequences of that in the modern day with just the incredible rise in chronic disease and we can also see and as we'll explore with the different wavelengths of light and Heather interacting with our biology to let's say save off some of these diseases including diabetes, obesity including high blood pressure and cardiovascular disease including depression and mental health problems and multiple types of cancers as well all through just optimizing the light environment and so we can impact some mechanisms of that but just to circle back to the photos that really quick so we talked about melanopsin we also have neuropson so neuropson is a UVA light detector that's present on the skin and the eyes the cornea and so in that morning light you know your outside you're getting your red and in front light that red and in front light is actually penetrating into your body it can penetrate multiple centimeters into the body and it directly stimulates mitochondrial function it interacts with cytochrome coxidase which is complex four of the electron transport chain directly stimulating ATP production and improving mitochondrial function so the way that I kind of think about this is that we don't need receptors for long wavelength light because it's able to just penetrate in but with the short wavelength light the UV in the blue it's not able to penetrate very deeply and so we need receptors on our surface in order to actually relay that information to you know deeper parts of our systems and that's UVA light that's able to penetrate directly no you so red and infrared compendentry directly UVA is interacting with their opson which is a light detector on our surfaces so we have the melanopsin we have neuropson we also have one called encephal opson which is another blue light sensor it's also called penopsin so we have a couple you know different ways for our bodies to sense short wavelength light environment which you know as Jack Kruse says like doesn't nature make mistakes if we have receptors for these wavelengths of light clearly they're really important for regulating some aspect of our bodies and it's our job to figure out what it's doing and there is an abundance of research that actually is unpacking this and I'm I'm guessing that you would say spend as much time as you can outside so yeah maybe not I would say as much time as you can that doesn't mean you have to be in direct on the whole time so depending on your skin type you know some people have more or less melanin is kind of dictating where your ancestors came from right so for me like I'm mixed my dad's side is black my mom's side is Scandinavian so my mitochondrial genes my maternal genes are from Scandinavia so I'm used to getting essentially you know mitochondrally speaking cold in the winter and then better quality sun in the summer versus somebody who has maternal mitochondrial genes from more equatorial regions will be more accustomed to getting high quality sun year round and that's why they also is associated with more darker skin because you have to be able to assimilate that light so that it's not actually damaging your skin and so that's really the purpose of melanin is to help absorb that especially short wavelength light so that it's not creating DNA damage and other things but even pale skin fits Patrick type 1 skin individuals can make melanin it is a human birthright but there's a lot of things that we're doing as a species in the modern day that's going to block melanin production which is problematic if we're trying to you know prevent sunburn and skin cancers as an example actually you mentioned something earlier about outdoor workers and like you know whether they're more healthy there's actually really cool research showing that if you're an outdoor worker you're less prone to developing melanoma than indoor workers and I think we should at some point talk about melanoma because I think there's a lot of propaganda around it yeah and is it I definitely want to come back to that because I'm curious is are they just more diligent? Are they seeing more covered up? Could that be the reason that they're more resistant as opposed to just overall exposure? Yeah so I mean one really important aspect for melanoma that we need to address head on is that low vitamin D status is highly associated with melanoma. Now vitamin D we didn't supplement with vitamin D in our ancestry you know and then tick-wiety we we're getting primarily our vitamin D from UVB light exposure specifically UVB light when it interacts with 70 out dehydro cholesterol in the skin produces pre-vitamin D3 that gets processed in the liver and the kidneys to the final active form the the 125 hydroxy vitamin D. Obviously you know today we have access to vitamin D supplements but the research actually suggests the vitamin D supplementation has next to no benefit for health other than preventing or reversing records so at the very very low deficient status of vitamin D you can improve and like protect against records or reverse records but outside of that you're not getting any improvements on cancer incidents for example or diabetes which are linked with vitamin D status so but we would say that there is so there are vitamin D receptors on skeletal muscle and we would say that those with low vitamin D status are at fall risk it seems that those individuals suffer more from falls so potentially vitamin D supplementation if you are very low that definitely would impact that so this is this is a really important point and I want to really now frame vitamin D as a biomarker for your time spent outside and so if you're thinking about vitamin D is like it's low I just need to supplement it's gonna solve my problems I don't think that's true I think especially once we unpack all the other benefits of UVB light it's gonna become increasingly apparent that supplementing with vitamin D is gonna be a very very myopic way to approach the problem and I think that a lot of the interactions and associations we see with low vitamin D status are really a reflection of not being an outdoor environment not encountering UVB light regularly routinely because think about it people are going outside they're putting on sunscreen they think that's what they're supposed to do to protect themselves they think you know that they're going to get melanoma if they don't put sunscreen on but it's actually really there's really striking evidence to show that yes sun exposure might increase your risk of squamous seller basal cell carcinomas that is a link that's shown but the mortality rate of these cancers is extremely low meanwhile there's evidence on the same token that vitamin D and and sun exposure actually can decrease your risk of a whole host of other cancers that have a much higher mortality including colorectal prostate and breast cancers there's actually some quotes I'd like to read at some point yeah I would love because I'm curious you know when we're talking about cancer our dear friend Dr Joe's on dial you guys should definitely give him a follow he will always question me and say okay well if you think that what's what's the mechanism so what would be the mechanism behind vitamin D and sun exposure helping with colorectal cancer great question what do you got some uh you got some quotes for us I'll talk okay yeah I'll just read the quotes really quick so here's a quote from uh study there's like p.m.id we can link in the show notes of people interested so it says studies in the past decade indicate that insufficient sun exposure may be responsible for 340,000 deaths in the US and 480,000 deaths in Europe per year and an increased incidence of breast cancer colorectal cancer hypertension cardiovascular disease metabolic syndrome multiple sclerosis Alzheimer's disease autism asthma type 1 diabetes and myopia I actually thought all those things were due for uh to read me oh I know right that's what you would be glad to think in this in this culture right uh we also have another quote here frequent regular sun exposure acts to cause cancers that I have a 0.3% death rate with 2000 US fatalities per year this is the SEC and the BCC skin cancers I mentioned and acts to prevent cancers that have death rates from 20 to 65% with 138,000 US fatalities per year that's the breast colon and blood cancers primarily and my understanding is the reason that you're pointing this out is because we've been told a lot to say out of the sun we do spend a ton of time indoors I'm curious as to what the numbers are and potentially that is doing us a tremendous amount of harm and so then we are told to go outside put sunscreen and I can appreciate what you're saying from that perspective that we are not getting enough sunlight but it's more complicated than that isn't it? Well so I would really as as a really some mechanisms of like cancer and sun exposure I'd like to unpack another part of the story maybe briefly to wrap up the vitamin D side of the story when UVB light hits your skin it's not only that pre-vitamin D that's made there's also over a dozen other vitamin D like molecules that are made in response to UVB light so if you're supplementing with vitamin D you're not you're missing out you're getting a very narrow spectrum result but if someone couldn't get outside let's say they're institutionalized or in the hospital they have eliminated exposure to sunlight what could someone do with after-changer light bulbs what would be an opportunity for change so I mean I think this is one reason why this story has not really been popularized because there's a lot of implications as to actually how we're living our lives how people are being led to think in a certain type of way and actually an inability to critically think due to a lack of sunlight which we will talk about very soon but you know if you can't get access to sunlight there are light devices that you can use indoors so for example red and infrared light devices they can that can re-engineer that red and infrared that long wave length light back into your indoor life which is largely not present due to modern light sources there's also UVB lights available so spurty is a brand that makes UVB panels they also make UVA panels and we use that actually for skin for eczema, psoriasis it's use for eczema and then the red light we use bond charge I'll put a link there for you guys yep yep so red panels can be great if you're not accessing outdoor light and you want to re-engineer some of that light back into your indoor life style you can absolutely do that the UVB panels are great I would just recommend that people try to time the use of them at the right time like to make it so that it's kind of concordant with when you would have those exposures outside so if you're going to be having UVB and UVA light that should probably more around like solar noon time like middle of the day because those receptors special like the neurops and it's going to be telling your body like this is the signal coming in that means it's midday. Thank you to Ned for sponsoring this episode of the show let's talk about mellow magnesium mellow magnesium is a three four magnesium with 70 different trace elements in it and by the way it comes in four amazing flavors like lavender berry and pomegranate make it if you want it plain but let me tell you about this mellow magnesium is a three four magnesium with elthianine gabba whole bunch of other things in it in a tiny little pack that you can take with you and why do you need this 75% of Americans are deficient in magnesium magnesium is a critical mineral for bodily function and that means three out of four of you are actually deficient in it here's when I take my mellow magnesium I take it later on in the day like around four or five and oftentimes I will take it before bed it is an amazing product if you google it you will see over 5,000 five star reviews that's not schlovey that is an amazing product go to hello Ned that's he ll o and ed dot com use the code doctor lion for 20% off that's right 20% off your order hello Ned dot com use the code doctor lion this episode is brought to you by timeline nutrition might appear the product that I wish I had developed but didn't so I've teamed up with timeline nutrition to bring you one of my ultimate favorite products and that's my dopiero might appear is a science backed url if an a you're a liven a sounds like a species of something or other what it is it's a post biotic and 30 to 40% of you humans cannot make it why is it important it's important because it's one of the first gut muscle access connection might appear helps the muscle and all mitochondria when you take it you can take it in pill form you can take it in powder form I recommend trying the starter kit they have ginger and berry I put some in my yogurt it's amazing here's what it does for you it will improve your potentially your energy your strength your endurance again might appear helps with mitochondria and the name might appear it helps with the regeneration and cleaning out old mitochondria and if you remember anything about I don't know fifth grade science mitochondria they are the powerhouse of the cell so you have to have good mitochondria to have good energy and one of the hallmarks of aging is a decline in this mitochondria so if it sounds like you need more energy more strength more endurance and something that tastes great might appear as a way to go go to timelinenutrition.com slash doctor lion that's timelinenutrition dot com slash doctor lion and you'll get 10% off your first order I recommend either the starter pack or the pills try it I know that you're gonna feel great back to the episode you'd mentioned that there are skin receptors does someone need to sit in front of the light naked do they have to not wear glasses what what what should they be doing and for how long okay so really important by the way doctor lexas said our house we walked down where why are you making front of the right pedal now that did not actually happen but it was close I know right I mean hey I was trying to wear crop top outside of mosa crop tops shorts are for how long and in what kind of capacity yes so there's another really important part of the story that we didn't mention that's also related to UVB light and that is a molecule there's a pro hormone called pro opium alana cortin or pomsy so pomsy is produced in the skin and in the brain in response to UVB light and pomsy is cleaved into 10 distinct hormonal products three of those are alphabeda and gamma msh or melanocyte stimulating hormone so if you're not getting alphabeda and gamma msh stimulated in your skin and in your brain you're not going to effectively tan in response to UVB light you're going to burn so this becomes you know becomes very clear let if you're wearing contacts sunglasses or prescription glasses outside and you're blocking the ability of UVB light to get into your eyes that doesn't mean stare at the sun it just means getting ambient light into your eyes you're not going to effectively stimulate your melanocyte to make melanin which is tanning same with your skin if you're blocking that UVB light with sunscreen you're not going to be able to generate that melanin and melanin is really interesting actually because melanin is to mammals as chlorophyll is to plants which something a lot of people don't know but chlorophyll light comes in interacts with chlorophyll chlorophyll can split water molecules into molecular hydrogen molecular oxygen and two free electrons melan actually does the same thing and the papers that show this are quite old this has been known for quite some time and so when we're developing melanin our skin and interacting with sunlight we're actually able to cultivate more free energy so it's a way of actually eating by just being outside it's a way of cultivating and releasing liberating electrons into our system same with ground it where what do you mean eating do you mean we're just leveraging ATP utilization ATP utilization is happening because we're not actually eating food per se well I'm glad you're asked because I think it's really important to think about a light diet and a food diet as being you guys heard it here first this is very fringe ask map my producer is laughing but you have to understand before ideas come into the mainstream they typically come from very intelligent people that are thinking about things that are very well steeped in the literature so this is what my listeners are experiencing from you so it's amazing it will make perfect sense in just about one minute as I know 10 years you guys will get this in 10 years is along with myself when you eat food you're not you're might a country it don't see carbohydrates fats and proteins mine do they see electrons no no my my definitely like this was steak I know right it's ground beef steak salmon good stuff but so when you're extracting you're when you're breaking down a simulating nutrients the whole purpose of eating is to extract electrons from macronutrients so that those electrons can enter into the electron transport chain and support ATP production in mitochondria so anywhere that you get electrons is food technically so you can get free electrons from eating so by extracting those electrons from food that's powering your mitochondria ATP production you can also get free electrons from grounding so getting your bare feet on the earth gives you free electrons from the earth there's plenty of research to show this also to show that grounding you know reduces inflammatory response and inflammation within the body which is related to mitochondrial function we also get free electrons from having sun interacting with melons so they're all different ways of getting access to electrons you're mitochondria to access with electrons they're all equally important and they're all equally accessed within the ancestral environment too we would always encounter all of those things we weren't wearing rubber sole shoes outside we're in contact with the earth we were getting sun on our skin if we weren't getting high quality sun on our skin we were getting cold because that's just how nature works if you don't have high quality sun you're around you're gonna get cold in the winter that's interesting pause there I I'd love to hear more about that basically what you're saying is there's an interface if it is warm you're gonna have less close on that I think that is speaking you're gonna be outside that makes a lot of sense but if it's not we would if it was cold we would obviously be covered and I mean that's just I've never thought about that I might have you thought about that if you are so it's almost like that that's shown naked in afraid but different the more the less exposure on your skin to sun the colder you should be is that is that what you're saying yeah because cold actually has a lot of reciprocal effects on the body that sun does so if you're I mean think about it in ancestral environment if you live in a northern latitude you're encountering high quality sun for part of the air in the other part of the year it's winter time you're getting poor quality sun there's not much UV light the earth tilted away from the sun and you're getting cold because you know it's winter time so that cold is very very potent medicine for a mitochondria upregulates mitochondrial biogenesis that increases mitochondrial ATP production mitochondrial density mitochondrial function in general also increases mitochondrial light production so we know you know we make infrared light we make heat in our bodies if you look at you know somebody on an infrared camera you can see them because they're literally making light in their mitochondria um there's actually also some evidence that mitochondria can make their own UV light as well it stems back to the 1920s you that must have blown your mind and you probably couldn't sleep that night yeah absolutely and I mean it's really important too because UV and infrared light they're outside the visual spectrum so we can't see it with our eyes I think that's probably by design I think nature probably didn't want us to see it because then we would muck around and like mess it up it's probably quantized to our system meaning that like we need infrared and UV light in order to actually function internally and we can either get it from outside in or we can make it internally so it has to come from one direction the other and we see you know basically all chronic disease are rooted in dysfunction of mitochondria and I think that's honestly rooted at a failure to produce light that's actually regulating so many of the biological functions in our tissues in ourselves and you would say that if they weren't able to get light they may they have to spend a lot of time being cold yeah exactly this this does really bring up major challenges for living in an environment that is going to support what I'm hearing you say mitochondria and I'm sure that there are other lifestyle factors that one could layer on like exercise yeah a robotic exercise resisted training why did you care about the mitochondria it's kind of the connection between light and mitochondria yeah I mean mitochondria is something I've thought a lot about for a long time you know my PhD was in Rebina What's Lab at Princeton very metabolicly centered lab and I'm sorry you guys listening so I know these answers to the questions that I'm asking about her but I want you all to get a perspective of where her training comes from Rebina what's his a world renowned PhD and researcher yeah and actually I'm dying to go back and give a talk on this topic to them because I know it's not on the radar right now maybe the somebody in the light listen to this podcast and be like yep this is really cool we need to study this but there's no my dream is actually to make a sunlight research lab do you think that it changes it it has changed the outcome of results because of the light that the the studies in mitochondria are under yes exactly there's no doctor jackruse talks about this a lot there's no light controls in our our translational research so on one hand that is kind of consistent with the modern environment because everybody's under blue light artificial light all the time and I make some feel better that's true but on the other hand we're not actually understanding how biology's working because we're looking at it in a in a weekend state due to artificial light being the predominant light source and I also as a little bit of an aside I really think it's funny that if so when I was at Princeton I was working a lot with rodents and if you wanted to go into the mouse room at night you it was pitch black you had to go in you had to turn on the red lights you could go inside it was only red light because they know that red light is going to be far less disruptive to circadian biology and to you know how that mouse's biology is happening and then you know I do whatever after doing the mouse room at night red light and I go back to my lab it's blasted with fluorescent lights and we're just totally not putting the pieces together that on one hand we understand the role of light in you know regulating the mouse physiology metabolism and we're being sure to not disrupt that and that's because in all fairness they're not turn on creatures it's not because of that so I mean if you they're on different lights like also yes they're not turn on but we're as dire no mammals we require light to regulate our physiology they're sleeping during the day they still have a requirement for light exposure but at nighttime they become active and they know that it's time to become active when the light goes away we are no we know how to become active when the light comes out but if we're never in sufficiently bright light so also if you look at into lighting it's very very dim compared to the power of the sun and bright light is also important for stimulating alertness cognition focus and then of course the blue light component the UV light component that comes out midday is also serving to stimulate those circadian pathways to tell your body it's the middle of the day so you know if you're getting artificial light in your eyes during middle of the day it's not the end of the world because you're supposed to be getting some of that blue stimulus so I would argue that it's problematic because the blue light that's coming from these you know lamps let's say or whatever lights you're exposed to is devoid of red and in for light and we talked about the power of red and in for light to support mitochondria blue light actually has the opposite effect on cytocrimcy oxidase it actually inhibits cytocrimcy oxidase on our surfaces our eyes proxmal brain regions on our skin so if we're encountering blue light in the absence of red and in for light we're actually going to be harming our mitochondria because we're not encountering that balancing force of the long wavelength red light my question is these lights all exist together red light infrared light blue light and there's a third light UV UV light we are supposed to have them together and they we they are just going to be in different ratios yes and that is the way in which we were designed to experience light now we've come into a very unnatural environment whereas the ratios are different the amount if any especially now because how often are people even outside yeah and what you're saying is these have these situations have significant impact on our overall health and what we've heard you say so far is everything and anything related to mitochondria I would love for us to for you to teach us all the wavelengths that we should be looking at if we had to design a life around modern living yes we want to be outside as much as possible but what are the wavelengths that we're looking for what are the things that we're going to do I use a red light easily three times a week actually probably more we were sitting here working we're working on again we have a few projects coming up we were sitting here working and being exposed to the red light I'm not sure if that's going to balance these overhead blue lights yeah so I would love for you to take us through that yeah so depending on the time of day I will preface this by saying if you can get outside that is the best solution for how long so for some okay let me also contextualize this it would depend on your health status if you're very sick you need to kind of go all out because your biology is very disregulated at that point if you have cancer if you have diabetes if you're very very sick you have auto immunity you want to kind of go go go home but if you're well and you just want to stay that way you can get away with maybe 15 minutes rising with the sun trying to see the sunrise because then you're getting that red infrared and then you're also getting the rise of UVA which stimulates that neuropson it kind of turns your circadian biology on not to the full extent because the blue light needs to come up as well so you're getting some blue and UV that's rising as the sun rises that's going to help turn your brain on turn your bodily functions on there's over 3000 genes regulated by an acircadian fashion is that also in the acute immediate yeah yeah I would say so I mean the acute immediate is primarily like an endocrine story but there are knock on effects of course to the right like the regulation of gene expression as well and actually that reminds me to circle back to pomsy at some point if you want to bring us back there there's many other important things we need to talk about there as it relates to obesity and also what we have to talk about light and body composition yes that's going to come into that story wonderful okay yes so if you're you know trying to re-engine your light into your life and a more circadian fashion you want to get red in the morning then you can add some UVA you can get UVA bulbs for your room UVA light is actually extremely important it's a major liberator of nitric oxide in your well it forms in your skin and then it can actually diffuse into your blood vessels so nitric oxide is what's required for regulation of blood pressure it's required for vasodilation for reaching of blood vessels into tissues to deliver nutrients and oxygen and one of the major problems with modern living is we're not really getting UVA light if we're living indoors we're not getting it and so we're gonna have higher blood pressure we're gonna have issues with hypoxia too because we're not getting that proper perfusion into the tissues so obviously there's other things that impact that as well like like is our gene you guys need to get enough dietary proteins you can make an arginine nasal breathing so big one if you're breathing through a mouth a lot not only is gonna push you into a more sympathetic state but you're also not gonna be producing nitric oxide which you can get through nasal breathing and friends it will make sure that you remain single if you've ever seen a mouth breather so reason that's an insult mouth breather so take me back to you before we move on red light wavelength wavelengths what again we use bond charge you have a company that you love how do we there's so many red light devices that are sold for skin for hair what are the wavelengths that people are looking for yeah so there's been research on a handful of them in contrast if you think about sunlight you're getting a full spectrum because if you look at the curve of sunlight spectrum it's like it peaks somewhere kind of closer to the red side and then it kind of goes down but it's like a full curve so you're getting every wavelength in between and you get some foreign thread too which you kind of like goes down at the IRA near infrared and then it comes back up in the foreign thread around 3,000 nanometers but you're basically getting all the wavelengths in between it in the devices we're getting kind of these targeted wavelengths so we have like 630 we have 660 or 670 we also have like closer to a thousand which would be like the near infrared some wavelengths in there and each of them are kind of gonna have a little bit of a different effect on my contra and I think that's why it's oh that's interesting yeah basically what you're saying is there a lot more different wavelengths that we have access to oh yeah so it would almost be the equivalent of taking vitamin D but there are so many different forms or you know metabolites yeah is that is that am I understanding that right yeah I actually posted a meme on my Instagram a couple of weeks ago that was like I don't know if you're seeing like the very intricately drawn part and then it goes to a definitely not see the figure head of a horse and that's like the vitamin D supplement and the beautifully drawn other side of the horse like the sunlight at it exposure but basically it's like a shant like a facsimile kind of got it it's not gonna be a perfect representation but the recent there was research of course conducted to understand like okay which wavelengths of light are interacting the most with cytokrimcy oxidase for example so 670 nanometer lights are really good one 630s also good those are like in the deep red part of the spectrum and actually there was a paper that came out I believe in January that showed that if you get about 15 minutes of this deep red light exposure 45 minutes before a meal well they didn't or a glucose tolerance test but you could kind of translate that to like a carbohydrate rich meal that your total glucose spike over you know the course of processing that carbohydrate input was about 30% less so that's just showing the power of when you support your mitochondria you're gonna be able to clear those nutrients from your system better because you're gonna have higher flux state or higher clearance rate of those nutrients within mitochondria so if you just take your meals outside if that's possible you don't have to buy a red light device you can just you know eat your lunch or breakfast or someone could or someone could even try it again this is kind of complicated because in order to figure out an exact reproducible steady state it would require you to have a consistent diet before but if someone wanted to try it they could try themselves you could eat watcher um blood sugar eat the same you know get on the same track for a week eat the same meal outside and I mean that would be awesome yeah I mean you could easily you could easily wear a continuous glucose monitor eat your meal inside under artificial lights on your device screen and then do the same meal the next day outside under the sun and see the difference you can see for yourself um I personally have done that and I know it works for me and there's research now showing that it also works for other people too so I would I would encourage people to try themselves too an individual who can't get outside can use artificial quote red light if they need it near infrared if you know um you carry devices you use devices what wavelength are you looking for or do you yes I'm looking for at least a couple red and a couple near infrared to have somewhat of a full it's like a broad spectrum not a full spectrum um so the device I brought on the plane I was eating steak at the airport before I came here with my red light on me and enjoying myself everybody probably thought it was crazy yeah definitely not how long would someone want to use a red light 20 minutes a day yeah so um the counter balance I guess what I'm asking is how do we create an environment where we can counter balance to give ourselves the best opportunity to get in this flow of proper light because we do have to talk about performance and weight management and sleep as it relates to light yes absolutely so I mean first of all you can get full spectrum bulbs that have red infrared in them that's probably your best option for the house everyone should get full spectrum bulbs yep so if you come to my house we have full spectrum bulbs inside but we also have red bulbs so if you come to my house around sunset everything is red every room is red there's no white light in my house we have we filter all of our screens our computers we use like this iris program called iris filters out flicker filters out blue light why do you care about flicker flicker is very active in its sympathetic nervous system it's also completely unnatural there's no flicker give me the flicker I'm gonna develop a flicker special oh yeah gonna be cracked out like me on coffee right now okay that's a great practical thing for someone to do is to just get full spectrum like is there a brand that you like do you get so chroma makes a sky portal which is cool because it's essentially clamps onto your desk and then it kind of comes up pretty high and angles down at you and it has a knob that you can turn depending on the time of day so you can have it on the full white that's also has red infrared and you can gradually turn it to being almost entirely red and infrared by the night time and it's also coming from the upper angle down which tends to be more stimulating to the central nervous system so if you need to focus more during the day in your office having that light that white light that's coming down at you from above is gonna be more supportive to your cognition and focus whether it be any negative to running a red light all day long so I would say from a therapeutic standpoint you would want to be in front of the right bright in front of the red light as if it's having it coming down or on the right yeah so for like the red light panels those are really meant to interface directly with your body and so you want to reduce your distance from them in order to get the biggest dose essentially for inches how yeah I would say within a foot do you do you remember who Charles Pollock when was yeah okay so Charles was a mentor of mine before he passed away and this was prior he was always talking about athletes he was talking about these Olympians that he was training and he was so excited when the red light first came out he would get these huge panels and put these athletes in this in this spot where they were surrounded by Beth I knew it was like Gary O. you won't believe this is it's almost too good to even share with the world anyhow anyone that knows Charles are new Charles he's a little wacky but brilliant and amazing in so many ways and now we're seeing a lot more of it yeah so I mean if you want to use red light therapeutically I would stand right in front of it but I also if I if I have to work in it you don't have to actually because the long wave length like compensator you're clothing you will get a higher dose if your skin is directly exposed and dose also decreases as you move farther away so you want to get closer and have more skin exposed if you need a higher dose for you know whatever you're dealing with you're trying to improve your skin quality or rehab an injury or reduce inflammation you probably want to maximize your dose and I would say maybe you could do a 20 minutes you could do it once or twice a day but just for increasing the red and infrared light and your ambient environment throughout the day I like to run my red and infrared light panel just in the background so it's kind of just in my sphere but it's not like directly in front of me or like right next to me because I don't necessarily want the therapeutic dose I really just want like the ambient light to be more balanced. I'm going to make sense. and the mechanism of that are that's a whole host I mean you named three light receptors is there more especially when it comes to mitochondria? Yeah I mean I'm sure there is I think this field is in its impenciant a little bit. So I think as I mean hopefully this conversation stimulates some bright minds out there to want to look into these things more I don't think there's red and infrared light receptors in our body like I mentioned earlier I think because the long wave length like compensator and we don't need to sense it on the outside we can just directly interface with it in our you know in our deeper parts of our body but I'm you know I would not be surprised whatsoever if there's other light receptors out there that are playing an important role in regulating our physiology and metabolism response to the light environment. Pomsy tell me about that you know because again what are practical things that people can think about leveraging so that they can be combed or and why. Yes so this is like one of my favorite parts of the story so Pomsy we talked about earlier it cleaves in a 10 different products three of those were alphabet and gamma MSH melanocytes stimulating hormone. Now outside of stimulating melanin alpha and beta MSH specifically the alpha we'll talk about first is one of the most tightly associated gene products with obesity. We know alpha MSH is dysregulated in obesity and as it turns out both alpha and beta MSH directly suppress appetite they work in the hypothalamus they suppress appetite and they increase energy expenditure. So imagine how powerful that is if let's say you know you're trying to the holy grail is being able to eat less and just burn more calories at rest which it's like the opposite of what happens if you're dieting and you're not leveraging the system. As you diet and restrict calories your basin metabolic rate goes down because your body's trying to be thrifty and hold on to what it has because it thinks it's going into like some sort of starvation mode. The leptin story also comes into this and we can come back to that. But just by exposing your skin and your eyes to UVB light specifically you're going to get activation and synthesis of this pomsy molecule and cleave in where is it where is the pomsy located. The pomsy is going to well it's made in a lot of different types of cells made in immune cells it's made in the skin. It's made in the brain different parts of the brain region different parts of the hypothalamus and basically that's going to influence your brain chemistry largely to not only help to suppress appetite and increase your basin metabolic rate there's also influences on lipolosis so being able to liberate more fatty acids from out of post tissue and also a link to your muscles ability to burn fat as well this pomsy cleavage these cleavage products also influence that ability to burn fat in my to conjure of muscle. Someone sees light they view light they get light exposure light exposure activates pomsy in various locations and then it cleaves to alpha and beta subunits of MSH that what you're saying is that can become dysregulated. Yeah absolutely if you're not exposing yourself to this light you're not going to so you can access pomsy in certain brain regions in response to leptin but you you will never produce pomsy in your skin unless you're exposed to UVB light and we're meant to in the ancestral environment and counter UVB light on our eyes and our skin simultaneously and together that's like a concerted force that's going to enhance the response on our bodies. So simply by leveraging that UVB light and getting more of it in your life you can dramatically you know suppress your appetite and especially if you're highly dysregulated and have leptin resistance that's a real problem because your body is not your fat isn't properly communicating with your brain about how much of it there is so you're kind of your brain's always kind of thinking is running on empty so it's constantly trying to fill up it's constantly trying to you know have you eat more because it can't sense how much fat is actually present. That's happening with data on that. Yeah so that's what Jeffrey Friedman's lab in New York I don't remember what universities I have a friend that was doing a postlock there but he discovered leptin back in the 90s and they are largely working on leptin resistance now and the mechanism for light for light so I'm curious about for obesity do we know that those that do better with light exposure are going to lose more weight and you do some more studies we haven't done that we haven't done them we haven't done them we know axiomatically that this is the cascade that happens anecdobly I mean I think a lot of people will test you if you're outside let's say you're on the beach all day you don't tend to feel hungry you kind of just feel fine and that one one hand that's because you're getting like maximal grounding effect you're getting electrons from the earth because salt water is basically like a soup of electrons and you're getting direct access with you know sand water salt that's kind of supercharging the grounding effect plus the sun it's like a perfect marriage of inputs so all those inputs are basically telling your system like we're good we don't need to eat food we have electrons coming from elsewhere and yeah I think ultimately my dream is to build a sunlight research lab so that I can answer these questions definitively that I already know to be true for myself I want to provide the evidence that's going to convince everybody in the field and in science that this is actually really important and that and I think it's also very hopeful too because it's not like we just can't use technology and we can't live modern lives we can just do it in a more thoughtful and thoughtful way that's going to be more coherent with our biology you know I think it has to be like world ending it's just going to be shifting the paradigm in which we're building new technology do you think that we could give people recommendations there would be a minimum amount of time that they should be outside would it be four hours yeah I love this question and this is why I love thinking about vitamin D as a biomarker because we know at minimum you need about 40 nanograms per mill of vitamin D in order to fully suppress parathyroid hormone which is the hormone that kind of kicks on a response to insufficient vitamin D so minimum 40 nanograms per mill from the sun if we're doing it from supplementation we're not going to be able to see how much we're actually making from the sun which is the most important thing because then we're going to be activating pumpsy cascade we're going to be activating vitamin D and all the other vitamin D like the pumpsy is not activated by vitamin D alone new both are activated and synthesize in response to UVB light that's what they share in common thank you to Apollo Nura for sponsoring this episode of the show I have been using the Apollo wearable for quite some time you might see me in my stories where a tiny little square device sometimes I wear it on my wrist sometimes I wear it on my ankle and here's why I love the Apollo number one it is a tiny little device that sends small vibrations throughout my body so I put on my wrist it almost is like a tiny little tapping and you can adjust the intensity and duration there are multiple different programs and here's why I think just you try it it helps regulate your nervous system there is a lot coming at us whether it's our phones or demands and the Apollo wearable allows me to almost I don't know reset my nervous system I think that there's a lot of great science behind it it is a safe effective non stimulant non medication way to manage your nervous system it helps with my heart rate variability it can help me with sleep it helps people with anxiety it was created by a psychiatrist with whom I trust Dave would love to have you on the show it's really amazing and if you are going to add one thing to your regimen that is non supplement I highly recommend that it's this go to Apollo Nero dot com that's Apollo Nero dot com use the code doctor lion for 15% off that's doctor lion for 15% off now back to the show so if we're using vitamin D as a biomarker for our sonic exposure then it becomes really easy to dose our unique requirements for sun so 40 nanograms for mill minimum but we know if you're leading a more outdoor lifestyle and also trying to optimize health that you're going to be closer to 60 nanograms for mill maybe even a little bit higher and so if you're able to do that track your vitamin D in response to sonic exposure that's going to be the best way for you to dose your individual sun needs and that's going to take into account how melanated your skin is because if you have more melanin your skin you need more sun if you have less you need less that would be interesting for people to do stop I listen I'm not your doctor for some of you I am but if you were to stop your vitamin D supplementation see where you're at give it how long would you give it three months how long for like a wash out yeah yeah I would say I'm probably at least six weeks maybe wash out and then I mean obviously don't avoid going out in the sun during that time but just stop maybe you know see sticking this up in my go outside get some of that midday sun we'll talk about strategies to prevent sun burning too because it's really important in order to like fully harness UVB light without the drawbacks and then you know track your vitamin D maybe check it again three months later after you've been in the sun the summers coming up and you're going to have access to high quality sun do we know how fast it changes I mean vitamin D yeah I don't know actually it's going to somewhat depend on probably polymorphisms in the genes that are responsible for making the enzymes and the kidneys and liver that actually make that conversion I know some individuals also if you maybe your kidney function or liver function is impaired in some way your body's not going to prioritize that conversion also nutrient deficiencies and things like boron and magnesium also affect that conversion efficiency so there will be some variability what we do know is that when you be light hit your skin that conversion to 70 hydro cholesterol assuming that that's present in the skin I think there's some evidence to suggest that if you're very if you're living like a city environment you have a lot of non-native EMFs in your environment that could be a non-version EMF so naturally EMFs would be like sunlight like the human resonance which is like the magnetic field of the earth 7.83 Hertz non-native EMFs would be things that are powered by the AC power grid essentially the alternating current power grid which was insepted at the you know world's fair in 1893 before that we did not have electricity indoors people didn't have light bulbs they were using fire if they wanted to have light a night but 1893 everything changed within you know 10 15 years the power grid was up and going and people were you know increasing their productivity they were working at times that they never worked before we had you know the industrialization happening factories and all of these things were happening that were pushing us away from our routes as a species and so I mean if you think about that it's only been you know less than 150 years that our species has made encountering this and AC power grid it runs on alternating current which is not congruent with the kind of power that our bodies use our bodies use a DC power direct current or mitochondria essentially our biobatteries they make energy through separating charge they separate protons from electrons then when those protons come back into the inner part of the mitochondria that powers ATP production so our mitochondria literally batteries that are creating DC power they're creating direct current power AC power grids that's not that's completely something different at you the EMFs that come from these things you know for plugging anything into a wall and going into the grid that's running on AC power it gives off EMFs also our things like Bluetooth WiFi 5G 4G 3G all these things that we're encountering in the past let's say like 20 years or so 30 years are novel they're running on frequencies that are part of the electromagnetic spectrum but they're not frequencies that we encounter here on earth because our atmosphere blocks almost all of them so the radio frequencies for example and would you say being outside helps mitigate some of these effects? absolutely it makes your biology so much more resilient also because melanin we talked about earlier melanin's really cool a conspelt water melanin also absorbs all parts of the electromagnetic spectrum including MFs so if you are building melanin on your surfaces on your skin that means you're going to be mitigating the exposure of your tissues to these frequencies because your melanin's able to actually absorb it instead would you say that people should be tending? yeah absolutely you just shouldn't be burning think that's the problem and maybe this is a good segue to talking about how to avoid burning yes and I just made a post on this yesterday I'm answering and people want to check it out so number one would be to not wear sunglasses because if we're not making the alpha beta and gamma MSH in our brains we're not going to be effectively stimulating melanin production or skin so we need to expose both our skin and our eyes to sign in order to effectively tan wait a second that means that if you're at the beach wearing sunglasses you're more likely to burn yeah if you weren't wearing sunglasses yes but what if your eyes were just closing you were sleeping that's fine you can close your eyes I mean you're still getting penetration of light through eyes obviously I'm the lid yeah through the lid not through the glasses well yes the glasses are blocking UV light specifically some blue light they're going to be blocking some red light as well if your you know your eyes are closed you're getting red light and then for a light but do you think that's fair to say that someone would if they had glasses on they would burn more yeah and honestly if you want to hear my really hot take I think the right you I'm putting Matt Matt is going to now sit outside with sunglasses let's just see if you burns Matt for the first time listeners my producer we're gonna work on getting him a camera and I'm my cassie's just hilarious my really hot take yeah that the rise in skin cancers is largely due to sunglasses contacts and prescription lenses being worn outside constantly we're never exposing our eyes to you what okay all right well we can't say that that is convincingly science but that is Dr. like somebody not to study eventually I'm like do well no we need you for muscle studies things okay how does someone not burn so don't work don't work glasses don't and you guys probably don't stare at this on don't stare at direct with yeah no my guys no you need to do that you can get just ambient light in your eyes no need to it's going to harm you right now if you do that so don't do this outside of that the foods we influence our our burning risk tell me more so in ancestral environment we were eating a ratio of omega 3 to omega 6 let's say 6 to 3 of about 1 to 1 to 3 to 1 ratio of omega 6 to omega 3 the modern day in sex what that is tell us omega 6 versus omega 3 where we're finding omega 6 versus omega 3 so omega 6 y was that ratio like that so largely the omega 6 ratio which is now 20 to 1 to omega 3 has increased because of the industrialization of food production so we're using a lot of processed oils we're using the corn so we're some flour you know all of these oils are very enriching omega 6 and just like kind of devoid in omega 3s any omega 3s that are in these oils like let's say flacks or chia seeds or something like that isn't the ALA form it's not in the form that our bodies actually use to support you know function and anti-inflammation we need the EPA and specifically we need the DHI which is the longest chain omega 3 in order to actually facilitate anti-inflammation and convey actually one of the major roles of DHAs in the eye and it's used to actually help penetrate light into our brains it is a conductor of electrons essentially and so DHIN EPA can only get from animal foods you can take like an algal oil but there's actually research to suggest that the vegan algal oil sources of these EPA and DHA omega 3s are less bio-available because they have their double bonds at the wrong position and that will probably go in line with the conversion of plant sources of ALA yeah exactly and well another problem of consuming your omega 3s in ALA form is that so let's say you're consuming only ALA you're only going to convert about 5 to 10% of that to EPA about 0 to 5% of that to DHI so very low conversion rate on top of that the machinery that's used to convert omega 6 um one of ALA and ALA which is alpha one of ALA, I said, or that for the listener, alpha one of ALA, gas it is the plant form of omega 3 the same machinery is used to elongate both of them and so if you're consuming a lot of omega 6s and not so much of omega 3s you're going to be out competing that machinery and you're going to be preferentially converting the the ALA they'll make a 6s into the longer chains and one of those longer chain fats is a rackadonic acid which is an inflammatory precursor um that our immune system uses to essentially incite inflammation um so if we're consuming a lot of omega 6s relative to omega 3s we're going to be more prone to an inflammatory response in general that's also true at the level of the skin um the skin barrier can be weakened the skin will be more prone to burning with the consumption of an unbalanced omega 6 to 3 ratio where in the blood work would you like to yeah so that's like the omega quant test will tell you the ratios between them I think that's a good way to go about checking and I would shoot personally for a more ancestral ratio of about a 4 to 1 max I would say that would be a good goal to have and if you're getting your omega 3s in I would try to get those from fatty fish or shellfish that's going to be the most bio available the most concentrated sources and of course if you can use a can supplement I don't need a ton of fish I just don't really like the way it tastes yeah so I end up supplementing what about other foods that are rich in beta-carotene for burning things of that nature or certain polyphenols yeah so as the Sam's and we'll probably be the most validated antioxidant to use to help prevent burning basically just helps to also absorb some of that light that melanin will also do so I don't think that's about approach at all I think that's a pretty good way to go about it with regards to burning I'm trying to think actually let me just check what my post said because I was very thorough here so we have okay Dr. Jack Cruise talks about building a solar callus which basically means you want to gradually increase your sun exposure you don't want to just go zero to 100 so that means midday sun maybe start with just 10 minutes see how your skin responds gradually increase over time if it's a summer months you know you may want to gradually increase even more slowly depending on how pale your skin is but you can make melanin even if you're super pale it is possible for you it's just going to take a little bit more time to adjust and by the way have you ever looked into any the peptides for example melanin yeah so yes but I personally subscribe to the notion that if possible we shouldn't exogenously take something that we can indulge in asely produce because it tends to decouple the system and like the regulation that's in place so obviously there's a place for like hormone replacement therapy things like this maybe even vitamin D supplementation if you're very deficient but if you or if you're my patient not just the thing but what you think makes a lot of sense yeah if you don't again if you can do it naturally then I would leverage that first because then your natural regulatory mechanisms will be in place to make sure that system is running as smoothly as it can we mentioned the sunglasses but that's also relevant for the contacts prescription lenses and sunscreen because all of those are going to be blocking UV light UV be light what about if someone is driving in front of a window what kind of light penetration do we have yeah so we're basically getting everything but the UV we're going we're going to get some about 40% of red light will be blocked and infrared a light will be blocked by the window so it is creating like this alien sunscreen before behind a window even if you're in your home you have good natural light it's not actually natural light unless you open up that window because the glass itself is going to be filtering the light and making it let's say unnatural or alien to our biology there is actually type of glass that will allow UV light to penetrate through it's called quartz glass which is very expensive not practical at this point but hey maybe this podcast will also inspire somebody to go make a glass company quartz glass windows not about idea what about body composition and sunlight and training outside and suns effect on skeletal muscle you and I have talked again my interest is in skeletal muscle about muscle clock jeans we certainly don't have to talk about that here but I am curious as to the interface between training outside and does that make muscle more efficient more effective does it allow us to increase power or strength maybe doesn't even work on those domains please yeah so I love this question I also think there's just a Darth of research in this area we need more research in Syria but having said that just on first principles like axiomatic pre-suffices to understanding this light interaction with biology we know red and in Fred light can penetrate into the body and support mitochondria so doesn't it just make perfect sense that if you're working outside you are demanding energy production from your muscles while what better way to support that than actually getting red and in Fred light on your skin penetrating into your body that's going to support that muscles energy production capabilities so I mean I personally have noticed that doing my workouts outside I'm virtually not sore at all and actually I had a gym membership that was frozen unfrozen like a month ago I went to the gym now thought it's fog now I went and I did my normal you know it wasn't anything crazy I was like crippled for four days after that workout and prior to that I had been almost exclusively working outside or if I was working at indoors I had my red and Fred light panels on why do you think that is yeah so I think it's you're putting more stress on your muscle and it's not in like an adaptive way necessarily either it's just in a way that like your muscles not able to to optimally respond to the signals that you're demanding from it through like sustained contraction or you know weight let whether it's weight lifting or cardiovascular size your muscles need to produce energy obviously if you're doing like very like a litigated exercise like you know let's say sprints are lifting there's less of a role for mitochondria but there is still a role for sure because even the most glycolytic muscles still has mitochondria it's just not as dense as some of the more red muscles and do you think that that definitely played a role in your recovery in soreness I personally feel that and I think it would be an easy enough question to ask scientifically we can easily do this so again something I would love to study personally what about behaviors and time frames of doing things training in the morning training late in the afternoon do you believe that there's a certain time frame to do various activities yeah so I would say based on my understanding of the current state of the research and and these biology interactions that probably a more intense workout is better to do let's say in the late afternoon I think if you're doing it too early in the morning it may compound the stress response that you just naturally get when you're waking up obviously for those of you don't know cortisol spikes in the morning actually in accordance with bright light so that's why it's really important to get ideally natural light into your eyes as soon as possible after waking up it helps to optimize that quarter of solar response which is actually really important for mobilizing fat and glucose so that your tissues and your brain have energy to be able to kind of turn on for the day and get you going for the day so we want to be able to optimize that quarter of the response but if we're also like mainlining caffeine and exercising first thing I think that creates an excess of stress that's not necessary like we could just simply if it's possible retime that exercise to be at a point in the day that's maybe more slow for us so typically in the like the mid to late afternoon people gonna get that slump part of that is because their light environments not optimized and their kind of their cognitions kind of declining because maybe you know the eta carb rich lunch and they're getting us sugarcrash whatever it is but part of that is also a natural rhythm of a biology kind of getting more co-assent during that time of day so if you want to work out during that time of day it could be a good idea because you can like kind of turn your system back on and combat that slump that some people will experience during that time. Have you looked at any data regarding female specific information, female fertility as it relates to some I know that that's a very odd question but we definitely see more rise and more rates of infertility we see more challenges with peri postmen of puzzle experiences for people where do you think light and some of this bioharminy plays role regarding environment? So something that a lot of people might not know is that leptin is actually responsible for initiating puberty and girls so that leptin system goes far beyond just you know a thermostat for how much body fat we have it's tightly regulated with the pituitary gland the interaction between the hypothermists and the pituitary gland we know there's like the HPT and HPA axes they're all communicating with each other and so the leptin story is very far reaching and it's implications with regards to fertility and hormone production and regulation of hormone production ready to infrared lighter actually they help to turn on sex hormone production and that's also why it's really cool. It's through the leptin melana-courtin pathway so leptin interacts with we talked about the alpha beta and gamma msh these are involved in the melana-courtin pathway as well these interactions between leptin and the brain is also very tightly tied in with this light story and again I think we need more targeted research on these questions too that are frankly very easy to answer which haven't been asking the right questions with regards to this topic but at the same time there's also some research suggests that UV light actually will turn down sex hormone production and that's not necessarily a bad thing it's just about a timing mechanism like there's certain times of day where you should be producing your sex hormones and largely that's going to be in the morning and in the evening which is when you encounter sunrise and sunset light that's red and infrared dominant and so I think those those are probably the rhythms that nature kind of intended for our hormone pulses to occur and we're not really encountering that written in Fred light in modern day modern lifestyles and I think we're paying in the price for that in a lot of different ways and one of them I think is the fertility problem obviously there's things like undercurrent disruptors and you know we'll talk about sleep because that has major implications with the hormonal system and brain function and neurochemistry and all these things as a really sister-cating biology but there's lots of inputs that are affecting these phenomena these you know these crises of infertility and hormone disturbances but I think light is certainly one of them where we first of all that's fascinating to think that light has any role in sex hormones and any role in relation to when puberty starts when it doesn't again these may not be direct relationships but certainly with the influence of left-in that's fascinating I have to say I don't know much about that but I'm sure we're going to start to hear more about it as we become increasingly aware of the environment and the environment's impact on us from a health and tyroidestiam point you mentioned sleep how important is light to sleep the most important you know it's funny you and I've known each other for years and I've watched you think about a lot of different aspects and you're always increasing the layers to the depth of your knowledge and it's fascinating that light has become such an interest because again your background is in human metabolism nutrition exercise and now you're getting involved in the more external environment which is is just fascinating it creates a much bigger picture we all know that sleep is important I could do a lot better job at it personally so I'm not telling you guys to do anything that I don't do because I don't sleep much unfortunately how wood one who wants to be able to get to sleep early feel energized leverage light so you can probably test this I used to be a night owl I know it's terrible I won't go up with the sun today this is just awful it's awful because unfortunately for me I seem to work close to around the clock now you are no longer available at 11 30 at night when I'm asking you a question about mortality and whatever it is terrible yeah well see this is the power because when I started delving into this I realized how much I was personally doing that was out of alignment with just biological constraints and I started seeing changes immediately so I'd always been a night owl I'd never really pay attention much to like blue light at night or light at night or like not watching TV and better whatever like that and as soon as I started learning all this stuff I was like I've got to change everything that I'm doing but it's also pretty small stuff it's not like life altering things it's pretty small changes so for example using red light at night if you can that's a really simple change that you can make that's not going to provide that blue light signal it's telling your body it's the middle of the day that's going to allow your system to naturally produce meltonin we know that red light red light pretty small time or this is suppression of blue light allows for the absence of blue light allows meltonin to come up we know that blue light specifically is what's called melanopic light it suppresses meltonin's secretion bad a quick question wouldn't it make more sense to just not have light because would the red light stimulate my no conjury yeah should we just be actually sitting in a dark room so ideally yeah but in some cases that's just not going to be possible whatever definitely not whatever responsibilities people have so there's kind of two features of light that are that could be disruptive to meltonin it's both blue light content and brightness so if you're going to use light ideally make it dim red light or like a dim amber light that's going to be the best case scenario outside of not having a light on it all that candle light yeah you can do candle light or that the color of it doesn't matter for from that perspective so I would say candle light is still going to be somewhat disruptive but it is pretty dim okay and it's more on the red side of the spectrum so it's going to be less far less disruptive than having a white LED or fluorescent bulb on those are highly suppressive to meltonin secretion and we need that rise of meltonin order to trigger sleepiness reduce sleep latency the you know enhance the ability of you to fall asleep quicker and also stay asleep and then naturally you know meltonin's going to start waning throughout the night and once it reaches like a nater then cortisol starts rising up and we naturally wake up and that's the cycle that our body requires and both cortisol and meltonin are circadian are circadian regulated I like to call them like circadian biosensors so they're both regulated in accordance with light I will also mention here that light and dark are equally important for human biology and I would argue for like my million biology in general light isn't itself the most important thing both light and dark are equal importance and we need both of them we need light bright light from the sun ideally and dark darkness daily at the right times in order to have a regulated physiology that's pretty profound it people might think well goodness that makes sense but how many of us really sleep in pitch black rooms and also wake up to the sun or bright right yes nobody yeah and I mean this is one of those things that like you don't think about until you see it and then it's like you can't unsee it I agree why did someone have to get up and get outside I'm just thinking from a practical standpoint my kids they get up and I try to get them ready for school I should probably get them up and we should all get ready outside for school how important is that time frame so it's important in the sense that if you're rising with the sun you're going to access that redness in the morning helps to regulate the hormonal milieu helps to turn on your mitochondrial function helps to regulate that cortisol response and then you're also encountering some of that morning UVA that's rising shortly after sunrise depending on your latitude that's going to also start to engage that circadian mechanism through the neuropson sensing option molecule and so yeah if you can you know what I like to say and what I personally do is like whatever I'm going to do inside I just try to do it outside if I can obviously you know whether permitting but what I've done a lot in my life is like I stopped spending my money on supplements and I started spending my money on making like a beautiful outdoor environment for myself that I can just enjoy being in have like a nice patio with an umbrella if I need to get some shade or if it's raining I can go under there still encountering natural light and just making a space that's enjoyable and that's going to be I mean in my opinion far money that's far better spent than on like some dubious supplements so we have no idea if it's working or not and it's like makes some bold claims but we know that light is so important that why you know let's spend our money in doing what we can to optimize that light environment and you'll see the benefits immediately like without and you and to be fair you live in New Jersey which it gets really cold in the winter how does one begin to think about balancing the light and the cold if you are inside more do you need more cold exposure if so how do we think about everything about cold plunge thinking about being outside and so framing up for us is to what someone would do and how they can think about it yeah so I would say the beautiful part about this is that you you don't have to be cold all day in the winter it's your body doesn't require that much of a dose to be functioning well um so what you can do is if you're using cold water immersion that's going to be the most effective way to actually get the adaptive responses to cold exposure because water has what's called a very high specific heat capacity which means it can hold a lot of heat which means that if you're doing cold water immersion that heat is whipped away from your body very quickly and then you get that adaptive might a conjugal activating response and the increase of brown fat activation and beige fat production that helps to produce metabolic heat in a short period of time versus going for a walk in like shorts and a t-shirt outside in the cold you will still get a benefit but it's like let's say you can do five minutes of cold water immersion or you can do like 45 minutes of a walk outside it's just a much more effective and efficient way to get that cold exposure adaptive response and how cold does it have to be so for the metabolic benefits the research was suggests between 15 and 55 degrees water would be optimal or ideal or sufficient let's say to get those metabolic adaptations um talk to Tom Seeger who's a professor in Arizona he talks about for the psychological benefits that it may be good to go colder because you actually need to a real challenge to kind of like develop grit and this may be particularly true for man I think women's physiology tends to be a bit more delicate with regards to the stressors that we experience we tend to get a bit more disregulated from intense stress and strain on the on our physiology but I think you know women can probably even benefit from this too if it's like one to three minutes three would be like a max like 37 degrees like that's cold that's like you know ice bath status and um but that's when you can really develop like more psychological resilience and response to cold so depending on your goals I think most people or a lot of people would just really want the metabolic benefits um so if you're leveraging the cold in that way you can do 55 degree water and get a lot of those benefits um you may need to go for a little bit longer as you get more adapted it depends on how robust your mitochondria responding how much brown fat and beige fat you have um as you become more adapted you kind of need to increase your time spent similar to the melanin story as you have more melanin you need more sun to get the benefit same with cold if you have more of that adaptive response already in place you need more cold um have you thought much about the interface between all of them the light and the cold particularly and how they work together yeah absolutely I mean I think um with regards to like doing cold exposure in the sun for example so yesterday we did exactly what I was thinking about yeah we did our cold plans and you opened up the garage and the sun was at the perfect angle that was just like beating down on your while you're in the cold and I was like by the way I was still very cold and we actually had it set again we will never hit the end of winter hell week it was set at 54 degrees but um I thought that was that's plenty cold it was good it was plenty cold um yeah so what is the interplay between light and cold I'd actually never thought about that prior to are having a discussion yeah so I mean if you think about what we talked about regards to their infrared and red light stimulating mitochondria we know we need a stimulant mitochondria in order to make metabolic heat so the metabolic heat is what's happening when our mitochondria responding to cold and so if you're stimulating your mitochondria with red and red light while simultaneously getting cold you're going to get a better more robust response to that cold exposure you're going to be able to tolerate you know potentially longer periods of time you're going to have a more adaptive response it's just going to be far more supportive and like health fortifying experience versus let's say doing a cold plunge being blasted with blue light for example which is not going to give you that same benefit I love that and again that's one of the reasons that we use plunge which um Ryan if you're listening to this Dr. Alexis Cowan she needs a plunge because it is my absolute favorite but we try to plunge you know in natural light it just seems to feel better um I'm also going to say anic data so this is anic doodle data my own data it feels less stressful quite frankly when I'm almost outside doing it versus in a contained environment yeah I mean if you think about that in nature we would encounter cold bodies of water in nature and pretty sure nobody in nature would willingly go into a cold plunge or a cold sure they did that bathing and rivers and things like that oh yeah I guess they would have to never thought about that yeah I actually never thought about that yeah I think there's even cold bodies of water near the equator too just you know from all the flow depending if it's coming up from down from a mountain think about it those that live in warm environments like my dad would never be exposed to cold water I think there's still some cold bodies of water if there's like you know rivers or streams coming down from a higher altitude could still be on the colder side maybe not in the 30s but it could be in the high 50s let's say um I mean we know the Pacific Ocean is like in the 50s right so it doesn't get very warm just due to like the way the the water currents are occurring in the like the ocean system um so I think it's safe to say that even if you're in more equatorial regions you still might encounter some cool water and that that would be natural to encounter in the presence of more intense sunlight as well and that they actually synergize very nicely let's talk about protein specifically first forms natural way protein formula one people ask me all the time what kind of protein powder I use what kind of protein powder I recommend formula one makes many different kinds of protein powders different flavors a natural one you pick it it mixes amazing it makes it extremely easy to get your protein in and really there it's a way protein isolate so you're getting the majority of your calories from protein in the shake tastes great super easy to travel with great breakfast dinner maybe even lunch whatever you need it's got you covered and it has all the amino acids necessary will help improve body composition muscle mass all the things that protein does and by the way when do you need protein well you need it every day and that's why I love first forms protein powder their formula one go to firstform dot com slash doctor lion that's first form dot com slash doctor lion have you done your blood work if you haven't I have a solution for you and that is one of the sponsors of the show inside tracker wise blood work so important well you know i use inside tracker my friends use inside tracker also my parents use inside tracker inside tracker makes getting blood work very easy and use are friendly they have an amazing interface you can check it out on your phone you can check it out on the desktop which you know hopefully you're using a small one inside tracker allows you to look at really important biomarkers like hormones iron thyroid insulin the list goes on apob it never stops and by the way if you are a professional and you have clients inside tracker also has a pro platform amazing I really feel that inside tracker has revolutionized health care and listen blood work can be expensive but it doesn't have to be inside tracker is offering my listeners 10% off 10% off anything on the store in the store anything as it relates to subscriptions 10% off go to inside tracker dot com like inside tracking your body use the code doctor lion and do not wait if you are due for your blood work give this a shot it's extremely valuable back to the show so we do i think that that's all brilliant and i have to ask you our five questions which by the way they're different for everybody okay and your answer has to be yes or no okay and because you're talking about cold equator you know equatorial type environments i'm gonna choose some of those questions so skinny dipping yes or no yeah strength training inside yes or no this is a hard one i know so normally she would say yes a year ago you would have said yes or what of absolutely i mean okay i'll be pretty i'm gonna be providing sure I'm gonna be so doctor to the right genophrio okay said sure i asked them a question and he said sure diet soda no hello hello um sleeping with an i mask yeah so that was a sure yeah sure if you have no other option sure um wax earplugs because we actually didn't talk about sound stimulation but i'm just gonna leave it as wax earplugs sure i never thought about it either i mean obviously sound can wake you if you're sleeping um if you had to have control of your environment very well then yeah could be good for earplugs fasting for mitochondrial health uh this is a hard one Gabrielle i know uh generally speaking i'm gonna say no i would i would also say no so we've been talking about pomce beta msh of msh there are other downstream components but we're gonna say byproducts of pomce what are they yeah so among those ten cleavage products three of the other ones are alpha beta and gamut and dorken and these are huge you may have heard of endorphins in the context of like mood or even an exercise never heard it well yeah amazing okay tell me yeah so these molecules make us feel great not only that they reduce anxiety they improve our baseline feeling of well being they actually also increase our ability to think well and they enhance our baseline dopamine levels which is huge and if you think about this like so many people in modern society are going through life with really just burned out dopamine systems because they're constantly seeking for these quick hits because we're not getting that baseline elevation from UVB light exposure that facilitates in dorken production so if your so dopamine system is kind of shot because you're never getting that in elevation of baseline you're gonna constantly reach for the junk food for the junk media for the you know alcohol for the drugs whatever it is to get that hit because you're not operating from a place of fullness you're operating from a deficit you're always looking for your next quick fix to that problem and your sing sunlight would help balance that yeah because you're getting the production of the alpha beta and gamut and dorkens which release dopamine in the brain they help to just increase your your mood your felt sense of well being also your ability to critically think because if your dopamine system is shot you're also not going to be able to think in a way that's more curious and open-minded you're going to naturally be more dogmatic and myopic in your view of life also this ties into the blue light story too because blue light also pushes you into more sympathetic state in a sympathetic state you have blinders on you're like very focused on what's in front of you you're not able to see the bigger picture both literally and figuratively like it literally shuts off your peripheral vision but it also doesn't allow you to think in a more holistic connected way that's connecting disparate pieces together to actually critically think effectively so there's so many implications with the light environment as it relates to your ability to think properly which obviously has knock on effects to everything like your ability to have high quality relationships your ability to navigate challenge in your life your your reaching for vices like the urge to even do that is largely rooted in this operating from like a deficit that it it's a really good point these are the tips that you've given us that you continue to give us our clear and easy things that we can do to leverage our environment give me your top five give me three to five things that you wish you had known that you think everybody should implement daily great love this question so number one would be the sunlight specifically is I would say in it's an invaluable aspect of our environment that's regulating our bodies so the more that you can leverage the sun directly the better off you're going to be and the more you can be outside in natural environments the more synced up your biology is going to be with nature which means that it's just going to be a better fit for you your body's going to be able to be more adaptive to your specific environment so leveraging sunlight would be number one number two would be that figure out where your mitochondrial genes come from so this basically means find out where your mom side of the family came from because you inherit all your mitochondria from mom if your mom side of the family comes from more equatorial regions you know let's say they have darker skin you don't need to do your genetic testing you can just see their skin tone and see you know where about they might have come from they have darker skin they probably came from equatorial regions without a doubt what that means then is if they come from these regions you have a more coupled mitochondrial haplotype which means that your mitochondria are really good at making energy but they require a lot of sun year round because equatorial regions have an abundance of sunlight coming in year round they're not having a seasonality if on the other hand your mitochondria come from more northern regions so for example my mom side of the family from Scandinavia that means my mitochondria are Scandinavian and that means that they're exhibiting what's called an uncappled phenotype or haplotype the uncappled haplotype is really good at dissociating energy production from the flow of electrons which means that you're able to generate more heat from your mitochondria if you have an uncappled mitochondrial haplotype if you have an uncappled mitochondria that means that you're going to be really good at getting cold and you may lose some of that ability if you're never getting cold but you will adapt to it relatively quickly because you have this built-in mechanism in place already interestingly if you have an uncappled haplotype it's actually advantageous because if you even move to a more equatorial region your mitochondria can actually kind of shape shift into a more coupled haplotype and then if you go back to more northern region it has more let's say adaptability and I think this is also one reason why a lot of equatorial communities in the United States are suffering health wise like we see black people we see Latinos and Latina as we see cultures that come from more equatorial regions they're individuals here in this country have very poor health outcomes and part of that is certainly socioeconomic but part of it's also they're not getting sufficient sunlight for their specific mitochondrial genetic needs so I think understanding that aspect is huge when it comes to optimizing your health understand where your mitochondrial genes came from so that you can better optimize your lifestyle to suit them number three would be to definitely block or avoid blue light at night so that means either you know switching all your light bulbs to red or amber and if you can't do that at at least popping out of pair of blue blocking glasses that will block a hundred percent of blue light bond charge cells great ones I love theirs I use them I carry them when we all the time there's also daytime blue blocking glasses that block about sixty percent that you can use if you're gonna be under blue light like in excess during the day obviously we need some blue light during the day to tell our body it's the middle of the day but if we're getting an excess it can be very draining to our nervousness what do you mean excess how we're someone now if they are getting excess blue light so if you're under LED and fluorescent lights all day and you're also on screens all day that aren't being filtered of blue light you're gonna be in an excess that's a lot yeah unless you're actively balancing with a red and infrared light panel for example so that's one way could balance if you can't do that then where paired daytime blue blocking glasses take frequent as frequent as you can breaks to get some natural light outdoors that would be my tip there number four I would say the more electrons you can scavenge from the earth the better off so if you can ground you know even 15 minutes a day getting your bare feet on some natural surfaces concrete also works but grass is great too the optimal would be like a beach sand and salt water and sun simultaneously but getting some grounding in daily is a great way to support your mitochondria reduce inflammatory burden and overall just support your systems ability to make energy an effective way so I think those would be some of my top tips that maybe the last thing I would say is just not to fear UV light knowing that we need to work with it but that if we can harness the power of UV light from full spectrum sunlight we have immense potential to facilitate healing process facilitate our ability to critically think support our mood support our appetite regulation and and basal metabolic rate and then also of course the red light part of the story too supporting your mitochondria directly all of these things synergized together to help create a system that's more resilient and robust to its environment those are great tips thank you so much for coming on and you guys listening or watching Dr. Alex Alex is how and will be on frequently as she is and she typically brings due and innovative ideas thank you as always and we will link where to find you thank you so much thank you so much this was so fun you

I'm Dr. Gabrielle Lyon and I work with elite performers, military operators, and high achievers who want more than just inspiration, they want measurable results. And yet, I've never seen a tool more misunderstood than HRV, which is heart rate variability. That's why today's guest is Joel Jamison. It's a world-class performance coach to combat athletes, special operations, and pro sports teams. He's the creator of Morpheus I. HRV guided training system built on over 20 years of data. We dive into what HRV really measures. How it changes with age, how stress impacts it, and even if you're sleeping fine and why most people are training in the dark. If you're waking up tired, it's not because you're lazy, it's because your body is already at a gas before the day even starts. People think it's just the training that makes them stronger, but the reality is if you don't understand your nervous system, you're basically just guessing through health and fitness. Think you're recovering, think again. Think your fitness tracker is helping, maybe, maybe not. And if you're training hard every day without understanding this one signal, you might actually be getting worse. Maybe everything you thought you knew about recovery, performance, and stress is wrong. Joel Jamison, welcome to the show. This is actually a long time coming, and really grateful to have you here. You have been a coach for two decades. Yeah, a little over that, a little over that, a new of coach world-class athletes, Olympians, fighters, you name it. I know that you know our mutual friend Rob Wolf, right in the beginning of the CrossFit days. Yeah, a long time ago. And you have some very innovative ways of thinking about training and recovery, which is quite frankly why I would love to have this conversation, and I'm grateful that you're here. So welcome. Yeah, thanks for having me. I'm happy to talk to you and your audience, and like says, been two decades of coaching and learning and planting us out, and any opportunity to share whatever you've learned over the years is a really important one to me. That's very valuable. There's a lot of discussion around evidence-based medicine and evidence-based practices, and part of evidence-based practice is yes, the science, but also it is the clinicians or the providers or the coaches experience. Yeah, it's funny because we live in an age of social media, obviously, and you know, I post stuff that I've done with athletes, that I'm working on, and you'll get people respond. That doesn't work. There's no evidence to support that. The world champion that trained last year did that and worked just fine for him, or, you know, her or whatever the case may be. So yeah, we always have to keep in mind of what the science tells us, but I think we have to be aware of there are real limitations to the science, a lot of areas, and there's a lot of things that science tells us now work that we've been using for a long time that we've known works in the commission community. So there's always this combination of looking at the science, the data, but then also what works in real world. So I've always tried to bridge that gap and understand both sides of it. And that's really valuable. One of the things that the athletic community seems to have a leg up on is you guys do a lot of things, and like you said, the science comes out a bit later. You'll see, you know, you look at the body building type diets, or just the ways in which they have utilized certain behaviors. And over time, you'll say, okay, well, that's why that worked. And I think that, you know, I think that the same is probably true for things like HRV and some of the recovery modalities that you have been using. And I'm curious, tell me a little bit about your coaching career. Just a brief background. Yeah, so like a lot of coaches, I was a failed athlete and some levels. I tried to play coach football in last too long at that, but I always really loved the training side thing. So my senior year in college, I went down the weight room. There was a fantastic strength coach down there named Bill Gillespie, who people in the power of the world were probably no, but others may not. I said, she said, hey, Bill, I'd love to learn from you and to work with you and be part of the program here if I can. And he said, sure, come on down. And at the time, I had been just reading the Russian, old Russian manuals, the Soviet cell training, you're a very fresh shansky, kind of all these older power lefty and weight lefty. Textbooks and Bill was a, I would have put it the most focused power lefty rep ever seen. So he wanted to bench press more than anything in the world. And he focused period on that. And so Bill now is, I don't want to overage Bill, but I think Bill's 70 or late 60s. He's bench press 1000 pounds. I mean, just some insane number. He's broken, who knows how many world records. So anyway, I went down there, we just started chatting all the time. And the biggest thing I learned from Bill is he was open to me at 21, whatever I was giving him ideas. And he'd been doing this for decades. But I would say, hey, I read this in this manual. What do you think about this technique? And he's like, let's try it. And so we formed this partnership where I would dig in the science and look these old Russian manuals and delved.gale, let's try it and see what would happen. And so that was really the start of trying to bridge that gap between the scientific side of things and these old Russian manuals and Bill's power lefty and clean the strength of the initiative. And after about a year, he went to University of Arsay, went to CLC Hawks. I followed him there as an intern, worked there in Kent, Johnston, dancing, Kent had been in the field for four decades, the time three decades, whatever it was, worked at Green Bay, Tampa Bay, Z-Hawks, and same thing. These guys were just so open to ideas and trying things and discussion and it really just sparked a love of this idea of performance and training to help athletes get better and help people reach their goals. But I decided I didn't want to be a collegiate or professional strength coach because you have no job to carry. You're moving around the country all the time. It's like musical chairs, every time the coach you're working for gets fired. Now you're looking for a job. I didn't want to play that game. So, 20-thier's old, I decided to open a gym and looking back and I was very naive about what that would take. But I did, I opened it in a place called Kirk and Washington, which was just outside of Seattle. And fortunately for me, I opened it next to a gym called AMC Pencreation. I wish I could say this was planned, but I had no idea that AMC Pencreation was really the best mixed martial arts gym in the world and the coach they're mat-humed without question, the best mixed martial arts arts coach of all time. And so, very quickly, I had these high-level combat athletes coming over and saying, hey can you change me for a fight? And I was like, yeah, yeah, sure. And I was like, what fight? Like K1? And I was like, what's K1? And then Google that? All right, I really had only worked primarily with football, on strength and power, and that side of things. And so, my first approach was, let's treat them like, I treat everyone else, I do assessment. I'm like, these guys are weak, right? They could do like two pull-ups, something can do, can they do a pull-ups? A bug in my mind. You know, they couldn't squat their body weight, compared to the athletes, and the pro-level, I like, man, these guys are just really underpowered and undermuscle, I'm just going to make them really strong, and they're going to go kill everybody. I'm genius. But it took about 30 seconds of train with myself and gasing out and getting destroyed, despite being significantly stronger than them to realize, maybe I don't know what I thought I knew about conditioning, maybe. There's a whole other side of this that I've not dug into, and so that's where this fascination with conditioning, and getting people in shape from a, you know, not just lifts weights and college-good standpoint, and really kind of around the same time, I started with the Seahawks, I was also introduced to our variability, my an old Russian coach and sports science team. So, as I was trying to understand, how do I help these fighters become better fighters? I was also looking at high rate variability way before most people knew what it was, I was using this expensive Russian system, we had to pro-electrods on people, and it was super invasive. But I was looking at real numbers, I was looking at the athletes performing, and in team sports, it's really hard to say, like, oh, I helped the team win. There's lots of variables, right? There's multiple players in the field, there's all kind of stuff going on, but combat sports, like that athlete gets in the cage of the ring, it's one on one. They gas out, and your job was to help them prevent that happening by getting them in shape, you know, you got to look yourself in the mirror, and so I took my job here, seriously, if making sure I learned everything I could about conditioning, making sure these guys are going into the fight, recover it and able to perform, and, you know, over time, I just kept learning and kept trying things and worked with Matt, who had been in their field for a long, long time, and that really was where the whole conditioning HRB intersected, and really set my course on that career. And then, keep a long story, a little bit shorter. You know, as I've aged, as the people around me have aged, I've had a shift focus a bit towards how do we now look at conditioning and fitness from a longevity standpoint, not just, you know, I want to knock somebody out or knock it knock down myself or how do I look at using the same types of tools like HRB and recovery and conditioning, but rather, then again, performance to live a longer healthier life and, you know, taking that path as well. So that's the shortest version of the academic only pressure career. I think it's really, it's a really fascinating. It sounds like Russia had a leg up on us and terms of being very innovative. Yeah, the Russians, you know, I would never want to live in a communist regime, personally, but I will say what they had is massive structure and massive organization that the United States never had that came from the top down. So, you know, they would have sports groups by type of sport, but they have a very clear hierarchy of coaches at top or coaches bottom. They would get together and have conferences. They were doing blood testing back in the 80s. Yeah, we were. And they were, so the athletes I've talked to in the coaches said they would get blood tests every week based looking for different blood markers. If I'm in mineral panels, they would have customized supplementation and pharmaceuticals, all that stuff. Was literally customized as far back as the 80s and they were using HIV back in the 80s to try to figure out how to use it because they had actually created it. They created per se, but they took a very, very building use it with the space program and the cosmonauts to see what happens when you send someone to space. So they'd been using technology to mean a way for a long, long time. And so when you got to a communist regime where they could focus everything in a very organized structured and in quite frankly, maybe on fairway, using a lot of performance-tanting drugs, you know, you saw a lot of it come out of it and you know, were they better stronger athletes? They were better stronger athletes now, but I will say what's funny is after one of them that started the HIV system came to US. Who was it? I think it's Ballon said can. So he was a decathlete himself and he was a track coach and then did some other stuff and started to make wear the first HIV company. He went to Oregon of all places and he was telling me like in Russia for a while he'd been a selector, meaning he would go to the schools and he would select which athletes were brought into the program to be trained. And that's the other thing they had is like they would select out the youth and like sixth grade or beyond, but below. And they would train them systematically all the way until they'd probably break world record. So that's the other thing they had is a huge organized junior program that would train athletes. I was who, China hasn't now, I can tell you crazy stories about China. Do you think the US will ever have that? I don't think so. We have a different system that I think is broken in a lot of ways. I think we abuse kids because they just get thrown into, I mean I've taught train a lot of you athletes, they go from club sports to team sports and their school almost year round. They're just trained, math to the mountains with no real coordination. The one thing that the Russian did have is they had that coordinated system right, it had a long-term plan and you have well-meant parents putting their kids in 12 months straight of training. So we had youth athletes 13, 14, 15 with major ACL, reconstructive surgeries. And I was coaching those athletes and just low-back problems and shoulder problems because just massive overuse you take these 13, 14-year-old girls in training 12 months year round. It was crazy. The Russians, so it's where much more cognizant of we need to keep these athletes healthy because going back to the story, when Val was selecting he said he would go into elementary school or middle school and he would select between like three and ten athletes based on their athletic ability which is crazy. They're trying out right? Very, and also very young. Very young. Yeah and he would watch a move, he would look in mechanics, a coordination skill set and he would select the athletes to come in the program for given sports. And they would actually, oh you're going to be this, you're going to be that. It would select you and then put you in a sport. He said when he started coaching in Oregon he went into elementary school and he said I would select a 20% and the difference is we have massive genetic diversity here. They only had Russians. Right? So if you, you know, not to put the, you know, the game if you took out all of the races and the U.S. except for Europeans, you'd have a whole at less athletic performance in the real world and they didn't have that genetic diversity in gene pool. So we have significantly better genetics and significantly bigger gene pool to draw for them than I think that's so it's ever did, which is why he was like look, we had to take our athletes and be mindful of recovery and we couldn't burn them out. I think we have so many talent to athletes that are just more room for error for us. You're way more room for error. And you train young, you train kids now. I'm not anymore now. I had a long story when COVID hit my gym got taken over by Google at the same time so Google shut my, but I mean, I trained, oh, yeah, 15 years. So long ago, so it's 2003 until 2020 basically. I, you know, I'm obviously a parent. I don't know if you knew this, but I before in five year old and I have one child who is extraordinary, extraordinary, Lee athletic, tons of coordination and just seems like a lot of capacity. And I think about genetically if we train her up well and she loves it. And then I think about exactly what you were saying. I have friends that their kids are in basketball, track all year around. Yeah, all year. And I wonder for parents listening, thinking about how they want to develop their children. Do you have a suggestion for how we can develop our children into lifelong athletes? Because now in your, dare I say 40s? Yeah, I mean, 40s. Yeah, 40s. Yeah. You're beginning to think about what that looks like from a long cavity. Of course. I mean, look, I think first of all, it's taking a long-term view as you mentioned. The problem with, I think our system is, we have some of the kids have so much pressure to make the varsity team in middle school, then they have to make a very good club team in high school, and then they have to get selected for college and try to get scholarship. So there's a tremendous pressure from early on to make these teams. And in the short run, yeah, you spend more time playing your sport, you're more likely to develop the skill to make those teams. But you're also risking burnout and overuse injuries to, you know, if you're in high school and you're senior year and you blow out your shoulder or your back or something as an athlete, you're not going to get a college scholarship or something a lot, a lot harder. So much harder. So I think the biggest thing is just maintaining that idea of like we're not developing the athlete for your son or daughter. The short term, it's the long term. I mean, going back to that the most fascinating thing that the Russians told me, several of them, is they said, when we would select an athlete at some point in the career, we'd make a decision. Is this an athlete that we think can make it to the national level or is just an athlete we think can make it to the international or an Olympic level? And they would put them on different tracks because they believed that peak performance for Olympic athletes need to be delayed actually because for most sports and other sports or it's not the case, they thought that most sports they would peak some of the mid 20s, late mid late 20s, whether optimal window of performance was and so they would actually slow down the training Olympic athletes versus they thought were the international or the national level athletes. They would peak them earlier and they would intense by the training earlier because they thought they had a shorter window to perform. So if they said, look, this is a special athlete rather than accelerating their training, they would actually try to delay it and draw it out so that they had a longer career and they could get to that point. It's kind of the opposite of the way. We do it's optimal, you think. Now, I also had a chance to go to China several times and China takes almost a Russian approach but without this mindfulness of we need to maintain these athletes, right? They have a single population of Chinese, they want to get to the highest level possible, they do a lot of recruiting, I went to work for the judo school, for the Chinese national games and they train like I've never seen. So I get to this school and outside Beijing one time and they wanted me to help train their athletes for upcoming competitions. How did they find you? Where did it go? Yeah, where did it go? There's a company that brings over US coaches over there. And so I show up in day one and they're like, we want you to train our athletes and like, okay, I need to see where athletes do, right? First and so I watch about two and a half hours. Three hour judo practice, it's intense. These kids are going hard from the start. How old were they? Anywhere from like, I think 12, 11, 12 was the youngest up to 18, these were your youth athletes. And so I'm like, okay, I watch them and then they're like, okay, they're going to have lunch and then we want you to do a program with a train program. I would like to do an evaluation for a, maybe like, understand what you know, like, see what's going on. Yeah, so they're like, no, we want you to train them and so I'm like, okay, like, you know, let me see what you can do here and so I just kind of put them through a standard strength train athlete type program for combat sports, just to kind of see whether at see what they were doing. Takes about 90 minutes. Like, we want to give you our best athletes first. These are the most important. Takes 90 minutes and they come back and they say, well, what's going on? I'm like, well, we're done. We're going to do a cool down. They're like, well, no, can you do that again? And I was like, do that again. We're even do that again. And like, well, you have three hours. We have to train them for three hours. Can you just go to the workout again? I don't believe I've lost. I was like, no, I can't go to workout again. The funny thing was, they had a second judo practice session later and evening the same day. I mean, so they do these athletes burn out faster. Of course. Of course. Like, we find you had it. It's just a meat grinder, unfortunately. You know, we finally got, like, finally got some access to like how many injuries they dealt with. We found that 70% of the youth athlete had at least one major reconstruction surgery. 70%. 70%. At least one major reconstruction surgery. While we were there, one of the girls blow the ACL out like four or five days before the competition. And we're like, you need to get an MRI and see what they're like, why would we do that? She's got compete five days. Like, why would we why would we look at imaging? She's got compete. You know, it makes me think about as you're building, you know, as we talk about heart rate variability and recovery. One of the things that I was thinking about is that is it the athletes, let's say you select them young. Is it their innate capacity that you build upon or are they better at recovering? I think it's full, right? And so after working a lot of throughout the toe of the years, one of the big things, obviously, is their skill. Like, they just, they have a better, a kinesthetic awareness, they have better coordination. Like, they just have a gift that they turn to skill and they're sport through lots of practice. The other is they are just recovery machines. And that was the first thing that struck me when I first started with them. They are, they're not. They are. They're just they're just work capacity, recovery monster is least most of them. So when I first started measuring HIV, you know, I was mostly using it myself and then I started working with the T-hawks and looking at their data. And I was like, that's why these guys are in the NFL and I'm not. Because he would watch and they'd go out to a practice and they would come back in practice. We'd measure him because they're doing two days in training camp and you're like, these guys look like they just got a bad, like they're perfectly fine. Like, that two-hour training session would have just obliterated most people and myself included. It did nothing to them. They were, they were prepared for it. They had the work capacity. And so you see this tremendous difference between the elite athletes the world and everybody else. The regular, right? They can just recover their HIV is always higher. They just have a capacity to recover faster than anybody else because part of it's because they've done their whole lives and they just, you know, are used to that. But part of it's just they genetically are superior to human beings and they would argue, you know, it's kind of like the military operators. They would argue and say, no, we just are focused on training. But there has to be some baseline genetic biology. There is. And I'll give you a little secret here. When I was with the C-Hox, one of the the running backs, trying to Alexander, one the NFL MVP for Russian test sounds or Southern Rescord for Russian touchdowns and one, I think the NFL MVP that year. This episode is brought to you by Piori and thank goodness because let's be honest. Most of us think we're doing enough healthy eating. But the truth is we're still falling short, especially when it comes to Omega 3 fatty acids. I don't know about you, but I do not eat salmon every day. But Omega 3 fatty acids are critical for human health. This is backed by science. It supports heart health, reduce inflammation and improve brain function the list goes on. It might help with mood and depression. Now, when I was in my fellowship of Omega 3 fatty acids, we're always on the short list of foundational recommendations. And today, I still recommend and use fish oil as one of the supplements that I always take. But I don't use just any. I use ones that are the highest quality. And to me, that is why I trust Piori's O3 ultra-pure fish oil. It's third party tested and certified by both the Clean Label Project and IFOS, so that you know what you're putting in your body is safe, pure, and effective. Every single batch is tested for more than 200 contaminants. And Piori publishes all of the results online. That's what I call transparency. I trusted so much that I give it to my kids. And it is important for developing brains. I have teamed up with Piori to get you an amazing offer. That's 20% off, site-wide even on the already discounted subscriptions, which means you can save nearly one third of these high quality supplements. Just go to piori.com slash doctor lion and use the code doctor lion at checkout. That's pu-o-r-i.com slash doctor lion and don't forget to use the promo code doctor lion at checkout. That could be wrong. Anyway, Sean hated the lift weight hated train. Just didn't do it. I never saw that guy lift weight. Just didn't do it. But he was didn't matter. He was still able to set the NFL records. For Russian touchdowns, just did not lift. He hated lifting. Go run and had a running coach and did some running stuff. But like dad didn't want to touch away. Ken grippy junior legendary baseball player like his joke was the recliner and the clubhouse was a gym because he just laid back and recliner everyone worked out. I hate to break it to people, but there's a lot more than people think of pro athletes who can succeed despite their training. I mean, have a team of people who have a team of people. They just are genetically gifted team of beings that can do things that nobody else can do. Yes. Even despite genetics, we're going to cover this heart rate variability. I have a definition here. I would love to hear because you, again, have been looking at this for 20 years. And then I want to tell you a story about my sister, which she's going to be embarrassed. But I don't think she'll listen to the podcast. It's okay. Heart rate variability is so it's a non-invasive marker of the autonomic nervous system, right? And it is measuring the balance between sympathetic and parasympathetic input into the heart. Is that right? And it's the if there is 60 seconds in a minute. It's the space between beats. Yeah, it's mostly right. So please correct me. Yeah, it goes back to what you talked about is this balance between the sympathetic and the parasympathetic. So for people aren't familiar. You have these two branches on non-invasive system. Right? You have what we call a sympathetic, the fighter flight. And then we have the parasympathetic with think of this rest and digestive recovery. I don't necessarily love those definitions because then people think it's like a switch that you turn on or off. Like you think like, oh my, I'm fire flight my system. My sympathetic turns on and turns off. No, it's not quite that simple. Or we think that like the rest and digestive turns on. It's these two systems are more like dials. I think is the best way to think of them. Because they can turn up and turn down and they can both be modified independently of one another. So when we're looking at heart rate variability, we're looking really at how the vagus, the parasympathetic is impact in heart itself. And the more that system is impact in heart and given time, the more variability there is in heart meaning if I was to measure your heart rate at 60 beats per minute, you might think, oh, what's very evenly distributed that every one second, you're going to heart beat, but you're not. And that's because the parasympathetic system is active and it's pulsing in a way that's in a rhythm with our respiratory respiration. And that input causes this variability. So the greater the input of that parasympathetic system, the greater that level of variability into the heart. And so we see a different pattern of the heart rate when we see higher parasympathetic system input, then when we see lower parasympathetic input, we're not really measuring the sympathetic system itself directly through heart rate variability, we're measuring that resting level of the parasympathetic system. And so like you imagine, it does meant that it does give us a picture of that balance of what is the body doing right now? How is the body regulating itself in response to the world around it? And to me, that's what comes back to it's understanding that we have a lot of stress in the world, mental stress, physical stress, environmental stress. And our body has to always cope with that and react to that. And the way that it does that is reflected in HRV. And when someone is measuring their HRV, how and there's a lot of you know it's interesting, it seems based on our research. It seems as if is that it is pretty well established as a marker. It's been around for 70 years. Right, but certainly not establishes the only marker. Right, there's HRV, there's respiratory raiders, all of these other inputs that would maybe determine readiness. But from an HRV standpoint, what are the things that, or I suppose, first of all, what is a healthy HRV look like? And what should our HRV? Do we have a sense of, for example, what my HRV should be versus yours or math? Yeah, sure. So the tricky part with all of this is if you think of blood pressure, for example, like we know how to measure that. We're very standardized measurements. We're not going to use two different devices and get totally different numbers for blood pressure. We know, hey, here's a good blood pressure. Here's not so good blood pressure. We measure it in heart rate. We know, okay, we're measuring beats per minute. It's better and more accurate to think about HRV as if this framework to measure this variability. But there are many different ways to calculate the final number. And there are many different devices that can measure it differently. A chest strap, for example, measure it by using a flexible activity. That's the number. That's the number one. Yeah, chest strap is always most accurate. But the P-P-G, the risk-based devices can do it as well. They use a different technique. It gives you slight different numbers to some extent. And then you can end up, like I said, with different calculations that are used. There's what's called time domain. It's what's called frequency domain. There's nonlinear dynamics. There's different calculations to give you heart rate variability. So it's really difficult to say you should be this and I should be this and he should be that because the number you're getting depends on what measurement you're using, what device you're using, when you're measuring, right? There's measuring overnight, which a lot of devices are doing the background. There's the more standardized way to do it, which I believe in, which is measuring it first thing in the morning. And those are all going to give you different numbers. So it's really hard to say you should be this and he should be that because there's just different ways of looking at this and the other one. So yeah, I would say that the most common thing you're going to see is what's called RMSSD. That's the most common measurement technique that devices are using for most part. Nowadays, it helps that does not apply to Apple Watch. The Apple Watch using what's called SD and then you cannot compare the Apple Watch to or any other device that's good to know. Friends, if you use the Apple Watch versus or ring or whoop or something else or Morpheus, you should know that they're different. Yeah, and Morpheus actually is a bit different too. We use RMSSD, the problem with RMSSD. And what is RMSSD? Yeah, so it's just a calculation method where we take the time between each beat. We do some math called the root mean successive square differences, which is just a mathematical model. And that gives us a number in terms of milliseconds, since the average variability in that heartbeat over time. So higher number means there's greater variability. And you want greater variability in general over so in general over the long term you want higher numbers, higher numbers correlate with higher electric fitness and B02, longevity. Because this is a good point and I think I understand mostly what we're trying to achieve in my mind is resilience. How do you define resilient? The ability to cope with stress the world around this in a positive way, I would say. Because again, comes back to where exposed to stress our whole life's physical stress, mental stress, and environmental stress, nutrition. You name it, stress is acting upon us. And it's our autonomic nervous system's job to respond to that stress. So let's give an example. Let's say I'm going to go do a workout. Okay, well in a workout scenario I need more energy than I do a rest, right? So what happens are fire flight system dial turns up so we can create more energy. And at the same time our pair of sympathetic system turns down a bit because we don't need rest and digest and we're out training. We need energy now. Simply way to think about this is anabolic catabolic, some extent. The sympathetic biter flight is mobilized energy. It's more catabolic. The rest digest, pair of sympathetic is more than anabolic side. So with I go work out, my sympathetic system turns on more. My pair of sympathetic system turns down more and now it create a whole lot of energy so I can go out and train. What happens afterwards? This is where we get into resilience and recovery. First thing we have to do is say, we don't need that energy anymore, right? We don't need this big influx. I have big production of energy. Now the sympathetic system has to turn back down. That dial has to come back down to where it was and then simultaneously or in conjunction that pair of sympathetic system has to start to come back up so it can facilitate energy storage and recovery and the endabolic things that follow that, right? The faster and the more efficiently we can do that, the better results and the more adaptful we are because we have to be able to take that workout stress and turn into something positive. Be it better. My locality of function are for rubically stronger muscles from a strength standpoint, more efficient movement. All these things have to happen through those processes of recovery and after the workout. So we don't get stronger in the middle of a workout, right? We get stronger by adapting to that workout afterwards and that happens through that pair of sympathetic system, driving energy into recovery and growth and repair, rather than that sympathetic system, driving energy into dealing with that workout right now. And how that happens over time is what dictates a lot of how our body functions because the more stress we impose on ourselves, the more we have to be able to deal with that stress. If we can't deal with it a positive way, that's where we get negative adaptations, it's an overtraining and overuse injuries. But along Jevys Dam point, it's also where we get chronic inflammation. That's where we get also a hormonal dysfunction. Where we get mitochondrial dysfunction. All these sorts of things happen if our body cannot cope with the stress the world is imposing on us. And part of this is just that inflammatory cascade. St sympathetic system, more pro inflammatory, parasympathetic system, anti-inflammatory. It turns off the inflammation that was created during that sympathetic process. When those two systems get a balance and we start to lose that ability to turn off inflammation, which starts to lose ability to cope with the world around us. This is where aging accelerates. And we know if you look at mitochondrial dysfunction and all these sorts of things, you see how much it is related to all kinds of aging. That is a very big part of where we see this connection between HIV and longevity because we know that HIV is closely related to mitochondrial function, erobic function, this anti-inflammatory reflex, all these sorts of things. So there's a really big connection between all of it. And HIV from your perspective is not a single unit measurement. For example, let's say I wake up. Again, I have two little kids that keep me up. I'm sure the HIV is pretty terrible, totally in the tank. And that might just be a season of life, right? Because I don't get good sleep. It's not that moment to moment or day to day. It's probably, and I suppose I should ask you, it's over a, over seasons, over years, right? It's both, right? So as a, so we look at two to two standpoints. We look at where you are in a day to day basis to understand how the world around us is having impact. And what I mean by that is, if we see these big fluctuations in your, your HIV from day to day, that's the body reacting to a lot of stress, right? Even though we, it might be out of our conscious awareness. Sure, 100% like a lot of times you feel the effects of stress after it's already had an impact on you. And sometimes you see much different results in HIV and you expect. By an a daily basis, we're looking at how much it might change in. And if it's again, it's a big fluctuations from one day to the next, it means your body is coping with a lot of stress. If we see over time, that number going up or going down, that indicates how your overall resilience, how your overall, what fitness is changing. So over time, we want it, we'd like to see increases up to healthy levels, right, through a robot fitness training and all these things that can be boosted HIV from lifestyle standpoint. What's the biggest one? A robot fitness by far. A robot fitness, so we go to 100%. So you have to understand the recovery system. It's driven by aerobic metabolism, right? When you say recovery system. Well, I mean, when the pair is from the system driving energy into ourselves for growth and a pair, we're functioning aerobically in that case. It's driven by mitochondrial function. And it's driven by the mitochondria, giving the right amount of energy to the cells that need it. So we have 30 plus trillion cells in our body, which is a lot of cells. And the all need energy, the question is which cells could energy, which cells could how much energy and when that's with the odd non-nuclear systems figuring out. It's saying, hey, your muscles have to produce more energy, your brain needs to function higher level, your heart has to function boom, put energy into those cells so they can go to their job. Then it's saying, oh, that work out stressful. When you rebuild those muscles to use it, got damage. We need to restock their glygogen stores. We need to do all these things from up rows, put energy into those cells. And so the autonomic nervous system is communicating and using our mitochondria to derive energy into these different tissues that need it when they need it. More effectively, we can do that. The more effectively you're going to live a healthier, longer life. And that comes down to the real excited equation because the robotic system is what's deriving the energy in 99% of our life. We're really only using an anaerobic energy. It's necessary to do things are higher force and higher power. But the aerobic system turns on where it is there for one more life and as soon as we don't have oxygen in the energy, we're dead within a few minutes. So it's so fundamental and we see this connection between heart rate of variability and robust fitness across the board. It's just the way it is. And the way to improve and I want to say increase or decrease because you point out that somewhat relative to the person. If we recognize HRV as a marker of readiness, is that fair to say or longevity or... Yeah, I mean, I was, again, I would say it's a marker of resilience in terms of your at... So I would say this, we see your average baseline HRV. That is a marker of how influential and how effective your perish-impact system is. Your recovery system, the more effective that system is, the higher that baseline level, that's what we're measuring, the baseline level of HRV. The more you're able to turn off the stress is, it comes at you and adapt to it. So basically, if I have higher HRV on average, it just means in general I'm better at dealing with stress. And that has a lot of benefits. If it's lower on average, it has a lot of detriment because I can't deal stress as effectively. And that's also why she athletes, the high-level, a very high HRV, because they are just machines. And it makes me think of the individuals that I suppose that we're running a marathon if we were to put the two together, those with greater aerobic fitness might be more resilient. Of course. Which, again, I think is fascinating. Is there a minimum dose response to improve HRV? For example, we have the recommendation for 150 minutes of moderate to bigger effectiveness. Do we know if that input is enough to improve HRV in any meaningful way? I mean, yeah, depends on where your stardings are going to go. So if you just substitute the word like aerobic fitness, for HRV, you're probably going to get the answer, which is, yeah, of course, if someone is fairly unfit, they start training. But I also, what I mean, starting to interrupt, but you've seen thousands of people over time. And so, I mean, and also to be fair, you're taking care of very highly trained individuals. But I'm sure not all of them were aerobically fit because it just depends on what their sport of choices. So I'm curious as to what you see as a, and it's difficult, right, because a global, the idea of a global foundational program is probably impossible because a specialization. And someone doing due to it's a versus someone playing football versus someone who's like Justin Gattlin or a track star. But is there, say, a minimum input that you see just somewhat across the board for a similarly to, I know that I would never recommend less than 100 grams of dietary protein. Sure. Yeah, I would say at a bare minimum, maybe three days a week of some sort of physical or aerobically driven activity, probably 80% of that in the lower end of the spectrum, there's only two type cardio and, you know, 20-ish percent on higher intensity. If you get three days in, you're going to improve your HRV at a baseline level. That's, that's going to diminish as you get higher and higher with fitness. But I would just say, starting out, you need three days a week of doing something physical. And again, someone who's just now the couch can still make progress with, like my producer. Yeah. Yeah, well, some people see that if you get it every day. The lower you're at, the bigger your room improvement, the factor is going to happen with less work. And that changes over time, obviously. I like that you're saying that it changes over time. And one of the things I think you're now very interested is in this idea of longevity. How do we maintain a healthy HRV over time? Does that mean we need to continuously increase the stimulus to improve HRV over time? Yeah, I mean two things here. One is there's a genetic component to HRV, which I want to point out. Just like, is it 50 percent or? I mean, the papers you read are all over the map. Yeah. It's hard to put that as a true number. I don't think we have a great answer. And that I would say it's, I don't know, 40 percent somewhere in that range. And I've seen this all the time. But you'll all have people walking out the street. They're clearly not in good aerobic physical condition. They have worked out maybe in years, maybe the neighborhood of all accounts looks poor. And you'll test rates are being good. And it's good. It's very good. The same thing. You see people are, yeah, but you see it. I'm sure you see people that come in, maybe they don't look at it, but they're healthy. They're carrying more fat. They should be. They're diets terrible. And then you test them. They look great. They're just that in the genetic spectrum. And then you see the opposite. And I even put myself in this category. Which I would love to hear you mention a little bit about this stuff that we were talking about because it's just so important. Yeah. So genetically, I've always had low-rater v, then I should. So what I mean by that is if I look at some of the aerobic fitness, there'll be a two-max, a rest-in-heart rate, other markers of actual aerobic performance, you can kind of assume roughly where you think they should be, or from an age-urvy standpoint. Because there's a very broad correlation, like, say, between B.O.2 and HRV. I've always been the much lower end of that. Maybe it's because early in my life, I did a lot more of female weights for a long time than I focused on a condition side. Maybe it's because it's genetically, you know, my family has low-rater v, which I've seen now. But there are multiple reasons for it. And so when I looked at my own HRV relative to where it should have been, it was always on the lower end. And I took that, you know, it's kind of ironic. Right? That's ironic. It is, you know. But it was just a reinforcement of, like, this is a genetic thing. I've always been a strength and power athlete. I was, you know, I've squatted five and five hundred, spent some of the four hundred draw. Same. You know, perfect. You know, when I was younger, that's what I love to do is lift weights. And, you know, that's what I did. And it really wasn't until my 20s, I started to take the condition side more seriously as I trained his athletes. But regardless, you know, I've always seen that in my family who has a very bad history of cardiac problems. I think we were talking about this. So my mom had a stroke when she was 61. She had severe cardiovascular disease, needed three stents. She then had sarcadosias at the lungs. And that she had breast cancer. And so it was a series of things, obviously. I got to see very clearly what happens when you lose your mobility, what happens when you lose your ability to get up and do the things you want to do. Because it's so energetically demanding for you and so hard. She started by hundred and ten pounds. She ended up in the 90 pounds. So severe sarcabinia bone density was terrible, obviously. And it was just a very heartbreaking thing to watch. And her, you know, go through life for the last ten, twelve years of life and it's such a miserable state. It's very difficult to see. Very difficult to see. And you realize, I think at that point, your ability to do the things you love to. And as you age, it's so important. I'm not someone who has a perfectly structured morning routine. My days are full. And like most of you, I need something that supports my focus clarity and energy without wrecking my nervous system. And that's where our sponsor, Mudwater, comes in. It's not coffee. It's something that I feel is a little bit better for me midday. Mudwater is made with functional mushrooms, adoptogens, and organic ingredients like cacao and turmeric. It has no sugar, no artificial junk, just clean, focused energy. It gives me a mental lift without making me feel like I'm going to jump out of my skin. I used to use coffee, but switched to this mid afternoon. And I love it. It supports mood, immunity, and focus. But what I really appreciate is how it helps me stay even. Again, no jitters, no midday energy dip, just steady, grounded, focus. And if you are someone who's been thinking about cutting back your caffeine or just want something a little different. I highly recommend you give Mudwater a try. Go to mudwater that's MUD, WTR.com, slash doctor lion, and use the coder lion to get up to you heard this right. 43% off your starter kit. That's mudwater.com, slash doctor lion, and use the coder doctor lion. And I'd go to retirement community with her and I'd watch these people. And you see a mix. You see people who were just kind of resigned to their fate. They weren't trying that hard. They were just kind of waiting to die as sad as that as to say. And then you see people who are the opposite. She had this friend named Peggy. Peggy was 94 and she had this little walker and she would go to my mom's room and she would drag my mom to every field trip that they ever had. And she would just sit there and say, you have to do everything that you can, dear, you have to do everything that you can. And she had the most positive spirit I've seen and Peggy made it to 95 like that. Like she went on a field trip and then the next issue was gone. But till the very end, I love that. She was active and doing the thing that she loved. I think that's how we all want to live our lives. But I saw the opposite of that in my mom's spirit just slowly sucked away from her in that scene. But kind of back to the story. So I was aware that genetically I had a, you know, not cardiovascular disease. So my dad, a heart attack at 62. No, sorry. He had a heart attack in his late 50s and then had a trip quadruple double bypass early 60s and died a year later. My brother at my age now 45 had three two stents put in and both grandpa's died in the early different heart attacks. I knew I had the bat in the stick as far as the next guy was for it. Yeah, yeah. It was coming for me. And so, you know, and knowing the nature he was lower was also a symptom, right? It was, it was, it was a clear indicator that there was probably something there. What about your, just out of curiosity, your resting heart rate? Low 50s. Your, oh God. Okay, because some people I think genetically no matter how much. But it's taken me a lot. So I would say it takes me a lot to get the Marius and Hartman low 50s. It takes me a lot more cardiovascular work. And I have to cut back my strength training to hate to say it. But if it was after me, I would lift weights five days a week and do his middle of cardiovascular. But it doesn't work. So that's informing your decisions. 100%. Uh, that's bad news for me. Unfortunately. So I'll keep telling story and we can, we can get there. But so again, I was aware of all this sort of thing. And my pre-sposition was towards lifting weights being strong, feeling heavy, you know, feeling muscle. I used to be 230 to 35. Really? How much you know? 205 to 10. So as I got more and more aware of this, when I was taking my mom to the cardiologist, I would say, hey, what do I need to do to prevent being in the situation, right? I'm in the health space. Like I wanted to do everything I can to prevent this. So in my 20s, like 20, I started getting blood work every six months. Life extension, I would do an MR lipoprophile, it looks like some cholesterol. I would do CRP, I would do, you know, mix of things depending on the look my hormones, testosterone, like everything CRP was shown in a love, but something super fast, when I would lift weights and measure CRP the next day, it would be like six, which is very high. What about your liver enzymes? On normal all-perfect. They always stayed normal. Yeah, what's fascinating is I took two different biological age test markers that also that was between 10 and 12 years younger, both of them, set out between 10 and 12 years younger, biologically than I am. Now, great. Great, right? So I'm thinking, oh, I'm good. And cholesterol was never bad. So my cholesterol was like 100 to 110. I think the worst ever size was 120 different holidays. All my metabolic panel numbers look good, passing glucose. And for those who are listening, you are a very trim, lean. You know, sometimes there's a creasing in the ear for cardiovascular disease. Have you seen that sound? You don't have that. I mean, my skin does not show me your contacts is looking great. Yeah, perfect. So yeah. All my metabolic numbers looked healthy, basically. They did not signal like, oh, this person's at risk for things. But your glycerides are always in the 50s and 60s. Wow. And for people listening, we like to see it less than 100. Yeah. I mean, all those numbers basically, all these things. It's interesting. It's interesting. It's interesting. It's always the top of the chart. So as I was seeing this cardiologist, we're going to my mom to him. He was like, look, all your numbers are great. You've clearly exercise, like all signs are good. Like, I'm not worried about you. You know, come back in your 40 and we can do some more testing. So that was very hardening, right? Like, I'm thinking, okay, I'm doing the right things. All my numbers look good. And I continue to test every six months, I have years, I've years of my blood work. And I wasn't testing the little aid back then, but I have since then. So regardless, 40 comes around and COVID hits and I'm 40. So, you know, the odds of me going back in there to get prevented screening were not high. I tried to actually call and they wouldn't even like, no, you can't get it. Because you had no abnormal. Yeah, no occurs. It was not emergency, right? So long story short, you know, I'm just kind of resting the fact like, hey, my my my my my VO2 max is in low 50s, not like marathon runner by any stretch, but for 45, that's not too bad. Where do someone want their VO2 max? I mean, higher for long jeopardy scenes, we better at 50s at my age is in the top probably 10, 20%. So all numbers again, look like I'm on the right track. And so last year, I'm like finally make the point, get back to the same cardiologist and he does the EKG, listen, my heart like, looks my numbers again. He's like, oh, you're doing great. The EKG was normal. Totally normal. But could you have looked at a heart rate variability with the EKG? Like, you couldn't, but there's this and it's not really designed to do it. It's interesting because I as I was prepping for your podcast nearly everyone gets an EKG, try to reach it. But you could tack it on as a biomarker and then we would have a tremendous amount of data. Of course. So like additional data. The first HRV system I use, like I mentioned, we actually had to do a full 60 D.C.J. EKG. So we were doing that. So yeah, of course, in the hospital, setting, they could get that. They just aren't trying to bring it. But it would be interesting. So we would be very cautious that we're listening to this. 100% fascinating. It would probably just be another algorithm in which we would put it out. It would be another biomarker pay attention to. Okay. So long story short, he's like, no, you're not me. He does another blood panel. It's like your numbers are great. Dessie KG, everything sounds great. Like you're on your good track. I keep it up. And in the back of my mind, I'm thinking like, let's do something more than this because, you know, I want to make 100% sure that I'm doing the right things and things are in the right direction. So I'm like, what about going to CT and you're Graham? It's something Peter Tia talked about. I like just meant through his book and he mentioned CT and you Graham. And I'd heard about it before, you know, five years ago, but it wasn't super common. And he's like, we said, yeah, you could do that. You could do calcium score, CTA, like it wouldn't hurt, you know, like everything looks great. But if you want to do it, you know, it's 1500 bucks on a pocket, biomeans view what? Did you do a CT and your Graham or did you do it clearly? Hard and anti-blad. I did the CT and your Graham gets soft and hard plaque. Clearly it's just the AI algorithm that tried to quantify that, right? So I found a radiologist who's great in my area. She just out of pocket CT and your Graham. She reads soft plaque as well. Oh yeah. Yeah. That's the fault. So just for your listeners, you get a calcium score. That's just the hard plaque. And that's like 200 bucks, right? Doesn't tell you anything you're expected to be zero. You expected to be zero. Or you can get the full CT and your Graham, which is just the same process. But they put contrast dye to the soft plaque. Right. And then the clearly is an algorithm that looks at the results of the CT and your Graham and then tries to quantify the percentages of soft plaque. And this is the cardiologist, are the radiologists I worked with used to sign off on the clearly reports. So what they do is they have the CT and your Graham spits out the imaging and then clearly doesn't out rhythm. And then I really all just reviews it and signs off on it. And she said that she was finding discrepancies 15, 20% of time from what clearly would save or so what she saw really radiographically. And so she stopped signing off on them, but she still thinks there's some value to it. So just that I curiosity me to remove on because I do think hard and soft plaque. And you are an example of why measuring hard and soft plaque is important. How does she or how do you, how does one recommend making sure that you're getting? Well that's the fault you see in the end of the game. So the fault CT and your Graham is like said it's usually like 1200 to 1600 dollars. They put you at the CT, they put you back out, they put in contrast and they put you back in. If you're doing that process, you know because you're paying for it. It's a lot more expensive. And you feel like you're paying down your legs. Yeah exactly. Yeah, it's a little weird. Yeah. But if you're getting that done, you're getting hard and soft plaque. Right. For instance, just a CT. Yeah, if you're paying 200 bucks, you're probably just going to single calcium score or maybe calcium scores are the different corning arteries. But you're not going to contrast die. That's the biggest difference. The biggest thing is the end state is that hard plaque, but the soft plaque is what calcified into the hard plaque. And if you don't see the soft plaque, you could potentially have a zero calcium score, but still have a fair amount of soft plaque. That's right. Hidden. And that's the problem. Is that what happened to you? No, I have pulled unfortunately. So I get the CT and G Graham. And again, there was 1500 bucks out of pocket. And I say this because for most people, that's not a small amount of money. Right. But it's your life is on a line here. How many times you spend 15 bucks on cars and far less important things? So I get the CT and G Graham. And it completely unbeknownst to me, my good friend from high schools, his wife, his the lab tech and I had no idea that she was working there was complete random coincidence. And so I get done the CT. She's running it. And I get done them. Oh, I'm great, right? And she kind of like looks at me and doesn't say much. I'm like, uh, this can't be good. It's can't be good. And so she's like kind of like, you know, giving me a look, but she can't say anything because she's the lab tech. She's not the radiologist. And so sure enough, I mean, he's readologist. And she's like, um, yeah, you've got some significant blockages here. You know, my calcium score is 1,300 and you want zero at my age. 1,300 is very high. Very high. Now, part of that could be because one of the things the the cardiologist did tell me to do is take a live, uh, read rice yeast, which has a natural current level stat in it. And statins, calcify soft plaques. So that could be why my score was much higher than it would have been if I hadn't taken one. That was one take on it. But regardless, I had a 50% blockage in the LED, which is what I make, or which is considerable. Um, and for the for listeners, we don't make errors typically when people when you hear someone having a massive heart attack and don't. Yeah, that's why they call it one to have video. So we don't want to have them with black. Yeah, well, you're aware. What can I say? Yeah. So, you know, obviously I'm shocked. I went into this thinking I was going to get the thing done to validate. I was doing all the right things. And I come out with a pretty, you know, shocking diagnosis of a blockage. So I go back to cardiologists and kind of like, what, you know, why did you do that? Like, I kind of frustrated because I really wish I had been told to do this earlier. It would have tricked something out and I was not, and I just reminder, you have to look at your health and your own hands. Yeah, you're on your own hands. Yeah, yeah, I should, I mean, I did in the sense that he didn't even tell me to go get the CTN degree. I'm going to ask, I was a hate should I go do this? Well, to be fair, all of your markers were normal, but the difference is, and I'm sure you're a radiologist friend, would agree, is that you had a significant family history? Yes. Of cardiovascular disease. I was there with my mom. Yes. So that's unusual. And we, you know, we have a full medical practice still to this day. A shout out to you guys, your best Dr. Lisa and team. We typically always recommend individuals get and listen at your age or a little bit younger late 30s early 40s. People are very resistant. They will say, listen, all of my markers look good. Just like you don't, L. P. L. L. L. L. L. L. L. S. 25, A. B. B. All of it, total cholesterol, triglycerides, and people will not want to do that. Yeah, I mean, I have friends now. I'm, so I've been, so every since I had done, I've been training convince my friends. I have high risk to go get it done because why not, right? And when you define high risk, you mean, I'm looking at cardiovascular, I'm going to cardiovascular disease history above all else at this point and talking to the radiologists, genetics, right? So anyone that I know is most likely to fit in the space and they're in my mind's frame, instead of, oh, I'm fit, like I'm probably fine. But if I, you know, talking to them, hey, do you have cardiovascular fit in a history? All the ones that have it, I'm like, you need to go get this check. And friends, all the ones that don't. If you do not know your family history, you, I would strongly encourage you to either get with our practice or get with a practice that is willing to order it. Yep, because that's really good. You can get the calcium score. If you don't want to spend the fishing or a box, I understand that. The 200-hour calcium test is sometimes insurance covers that 200 bucks, you're getting at least some, and you're getting a good marker. It's not as- Or advanced cardiovascular lab markers, which is unusual. So the big question is, then you start on medication, right? Yeah. So yeah, well, actually, the first thing I do to stress echo. And so I think this is least somewhat reaffirming our reassuring. He did the stress echo, miserable tests. I do the Bruce Pericles test, which is an incline and speed up by the V8. I'm surprised you say it's a miserable test. It's not just hearing how fat you do. I'm going to finish the test. But the Bruce Pericles, who's talking about busted crops is you're on a incline, they're pushing you up to your max, max effort. Yeah. I finished the test. I finished the test. Twenty-one minutes. Which they really see. It's terrible. It's easy until you get to like, I think it's like 15 percent incline at like six miles an hour. We don't have a break. We're all number one. And you had to have your hand on the treadmill, which is another problem. But again, it wasn't in the world. I finished it. He looks at everything. He's like, look, you have no waschemia. Your heart looks great. Everything's functioning really well. So that was reaffirming. And again, the fact of my brother, my age, who didn't work out, who had much higher stress life, style than I did, he died of probably more cyclical accident. Unfortunately, he's when he would have been. It's terrible. But in his 40s, my age, he had to have a strength put in. He had to have strength and I did not. So if you had not, this is there's three things. Number one, I'm sorry. You lost your brother. Number two, had you not been doing the behaviors that you have been. That's worse. Probably much worse. Number three, if you have a family history, someone, whether your blood markers are good, you should be evaluated. 100%. When you went through treatment and for everyone listening, you were doing all the cardiovascular, all the weightlifting, although you were telling me that last weightlifting, more cardio now, did it change a heart rate variability? So here's a long story. I mean, no. No, it does. Actually, but what's fascinating to me is that statins have been pecking HIV in a positive way, yeah? Positive way. But interesting way. But going back to that. So when I did, so once I got diagnosed, I need to understand this more. I did a bunch of genetic testing on everything. I just sterile testing and I'm basically a hybrid. Who did it? What? sterile testing. Oh, yeah. I'm a hybrid producer. Well done. Yeah, I'm a hybrid cholesterol producer, which also tells me that because my cholesterol was not super high, it tells me that my diet was poor. It probably would have been super high, which would have spiked things even more. Right? So I think there's clear indications that things I was doing and still do was massively helpful. Then I looked at a bunch of genetic markers as well, and I have a, they call the heart attack gene quote unquote. It's endothelial dysfunction. And basically, the vascular smooth muscle cells tend to be hyper-prolifitive and those smooth muscle cells can proliferate become part of the plaque themselves. And it causes basically, you know, and feel dysfunction as I said, which makes you more prone to inflammation. So it's possible, you know, maybe years of heavy lifting exacerbated some of that was just, I don't know about that. It's possible. Endothelial dysfunction. So if you, how are you measuring that? Milo proxities and I've never been measured your tests. I'm just going to connect like we had. I'd be hard pressed to believe you're training resistance training if you were covering well would. Yeah, you wouldn't think so, but I would say the interesting thing to me is like I said, I've now sent seven different people into the spirit garden in the Goga CT Anger Grams and six of them have had blockages that were in high calcium scores that are ages. And they're all lifelong athletes and lifters. Also, if you look at there was two papers, the Mark 1 and Mark 2, M.A.R.C., which is measuring athletes risk of cardiovascular disease. They found that lifelong athletes, often had a higher calcium score. It's internal public and more marks. Interesting. That's interesting. Well, have to look at those. So that could be, that would be interesting if you're producing more reactive oxygen species. Yeah, and there's, I mean, I personally think most things have U-shaped curves, right? Like, more is, some is good, more is better until it's not in this worse. If you look at some of the papers on longevity, we discussed where I stand over and they looked at dose response of strength training. And you do see that about three sessions a week of strength training is where we tend to be the most benefit associated with that. Can't prove causation. But you do see that the five, six days a week people seem to have risk of the wrong direction in these multiple studies and trials. Again, I'm not saying that strength training itself is inherently bad, but I will tell you in my experience what happens is if we do lots of high-plush or high blood pressure work, those arterial walls become thicker. There's no question about that. And your HRV is lower. I can tell you that for decades of looking at HRV that chronic weightlifting, heavy weightlifting, power lifters, strength athletes, they have lower HRV because they have less cardiac output and they have much more thick and cardiovascular system in general, right? The vascular smooth muscle cells become thicker, the walls become more dense and more fibrosovertime, your left-endial thickens in the way that can handle high blood pressures. It's just a response to high blood pressure, right? The body gets better at deal high blood pressure. It's a way it does that is by the vascular system adapting by becoming thicker and more rigid. That's not a great thing in the long run. And it's the opposite we see in the Roboxide where we're training elasticity and the vascular system more or less. So I'm not blaming my condition by any stretch on, if you wait, I'm not saying that by anything. But I do think genetically, you know, you have to be aware of where your strength that weakness is are and probably for me, focusing on the Robox system in my entire life would probably have been you know, a benefit versus focusing on not telling anything. I think that's valuable in the way that HRV could direct and inform. Links or missing links to what is potentially personalized training. Right? There's this desire to be big and strong, but perhaps there's something else that can inform the direction from a long-density sample. Yeah, I think the problem is we like to do what we're good at. I was always strong and the Robox side was never my strong point. And so I like to revert back to when I get at most people do. I love lifting weights. I saw great. But I progress, building Robox system was always harder for me. It was not the easiest thing in the world. So I did less of it just and apparently, right? So it's a good reminder. It's often more effective to be attacking a weak points and just reinforcing what you're already good at. And especially if it's on longevity side, we know how important the Robox system is. We know how important V02 and do you care how one gets to improve the V02 Max as a coach? For example, do you know Martin Gabala? Yeah, out of McMaster University. He's been on the show. We'll be seeing him here shortly. Do you think that it matters how someone improves their V02 Max from a heart rate variability for example? Could you do high intensity intervals and improve your V02 Max? And then thus have a positive influence on your heart rate variability or does one need to do slow steady state and then that also improves V02 Max. But the means to the end of the improvement in V02 Max is still the same metric. But the input to get there was different. Do does either, hopefully I'm I'm making that clear and does either input change the heart rate variability more or less? Well, I think if we look at a long picture, long-term picture and just my own anecdotal experience, we build a foundation for a higher V02 ceiling through the lower intensity work. Joel and I have been talking all about heart rate variability and recovery. And if you've been following me for a while, you know I take light exposure seriously. Why? Because it impacts your sleep hormones, mood and even your ability to recover and focus. That's why I use one of the sponsors, which is bond charge. bond charge creates science back tools to help you live in better alignment with your biology, especially in a world that is overloaded with artificial light. Their blue light blocking glasses are a staple in our house. They help me wind down my nervous system and protect circadian rhythms, especially after a heavy screen day. I also use their infrared mats with my kids just laying out chilling. It is amazing. It also helps me feel relaxed towards the end of the day. And if you've never tried red light therapy, let's face it. You know you're missing something. Their devices are some of the best quality that I have ever seen. Great for skin, mitochondrial health, supporting overall resilience. And if you care about optimizing your sleep and recovery or just reducing your relationship with stress and your environment, bond charge is the place to start. Head to bondcharge.com slash doctor lion and use the code doctor lion to get 15% off your entire order. That's BONCHARGE.com. It's simple, proven, designed beautifully and effective to help you leverage your biology not fight against it. And there's two reasons for that. One, we want to increase two things to build the well, the biggest thing to raise BO2 in the long run is heart size. And we see this in a bunch of research. A bigger heart can pump out more blood and more oxygen. And at the end of the day, that's what's going to limit BO2 is how big your heart is. And that's where a lot of the next comes into it. If you have a bigger heart, you have higher capacity for cardiac output, you have more stroke volume. You can have a higher VO2. We know that lower intensity training causes the heart to dilate more. You get a bigger left ventricle and you get more antigenesis. You get more advanced development. And those things happen through lower intensity training. We also know we get more fat oxidation. We're going to slow cardio because we're focusing on brain fat, Brazil's high intensity training. So I think it's pretty well, and instead at least an endurance world. And I think mostly now starting to populate down to the rest of the world. The lower intensity you do more of that. You do the more you set the ceiling for a higher VO2. So somebody could say in the six week period, I did a bunch of high intensity. And I got better results from a VO2 than if I just did lower intensity. Sure, you probably did because you just put your bargaret in a more load. But I think your ceiling will be less high. We lower than if you would spent the time doing the lower intensity work. So I think the answer depends on what's the ultimate goal? Is that ultimate goal to raise your VO2 for next six weeks? Or is ultimate goal to raise your VO2 to the highest levels over next six, 10, 20 years? And if all you do is high intensity training, you will ultimately limit your ceiling and where that VO2 can get to. And that's just, I mean, we see a research. If you look at even if the infamous Tabata study, right, they had seven people in each of those groups. The high intensity group that the Tabata intervals increased their VO2 slightly more over the course of the study. But in the second half, the second three weeks, it basically stayed flat versus the endurance group that did the lower intensity, it increased fairly uniformly across the full six weeks. So that's fascinating. Yeah, I think that are we the problem with research in this context? Specifically in, and look at, look at, we're just looking at training research of like, okay, very challenging. It's very challenging. If we say, hey, is high intensity, a lower intensity better? If we have six weeks, which is what a lot of studies are, 10 weeks, eight weeks, whatever, high intensity will win. It's just a, it's a greater stimulus in the body. It's like saying, if we have two people lifting weights, one did a bunch of three rep, five rep maxes, and the other group did like 10 to 12 reps. Yeah, the three to five rep maxes and get better three to five rep maxes and be stronger. But does that mean every athlete should just do nothing but lift three to five reps every time? No, you need to build muscle, you need to build a pound. It's the same. I would say it's the same exact concept actually. If you said, hey, I want to get as strong as possible, and I just did a bunch of heavy lifting, I would maximize my neurological component, and I would eventually hit a peak where I couldn't get any stronger unless I built more muscle. Right? It's the same thing. If I just do high intensity, I will maximize the cardiovascular adaptations I have to get to the highest B2, then capable of with that physiology. But if I want to develop a higher B2 that increases over time, I have to build a physiological foundation. That's where the lower intensity work comes in. It builds that process of change within the body within the vascular system, within the cardiac capacity itself, to raise the potential for how much V02 I can deliver down the road. It's a very similar process. That's a really good point. I will say that I typically dismiss a slow steady state, and I might have to reconsider that. Yeah, I just think about it. But here's the caveat to all of this. Yeah. There's a lot of genetics in that. So if a person has a high genetic B02, they can probably get away with doing less of it because they already have that higher genetic potential. Anyway, they already have a bigger heart to start with. They already have better cardiovascular lungs or bigger. They just have that innate capacity. Those people will build it faster. I would also say people that spent a youth doing team sports or doing endurance sports. They build a foundation from a youth perspective that probably will make it much easier for them to do it later in life. In my case, I can tell you that looking at athletes who are lifelong strength athletes, they have a much harder time. Building high VO2 without that foundation. The worst part is I hate it. Like they don't like doing. I don't love doing low intensity cardio. But do you do it? Do you think that's a new one? Do you think that's a new one? I mean, I hate to use this generic answer, but you need to have a much to take to get better. I mean, it's tough because training stimulus and the conversation around training and longevity is much more complicated from a biometric standpoint of heart rate variability, blood pressure, the inputs and the training inputs are so much more challenging than say is a physician who studies nutritional sciences. That's so much easier. I mean, I mean, everything's modified by what you did before. And I think yeah, that's the other thing you realize with HIV. We can talk a lot about is what you aid for breakfast, how your sleep was, what you work at was yesterday, where you're at in different cycles, all of those things will modify the response that work out to HIV. It'll change response that work out. And the biggest thing people failed to understand is HIV is this aggregate. It's the total picture of stress response. And that's the total picture of how your body is coping the world around you. It's not just, hey, you work out. HIV does this. Hey, you do eat this food. HIV does that. Like it's just nowhere near that simple because the body is now responding to just one thing. It's responding to literally everything that's making choices based on the whole picture of your life. But how can that inform that would be challenging them to have it in form decisions because if we know that the biggest driver would be say a robeck fitness. Then if someone has a poor HRV, you add in a robeck activity. Now their HRV is improved, but not necessarily because maybe they're not sleeping or they are having a high cognitive load or it's cold outside. Yeah, I mean, that's the sneeze that I don't know. So that's that's a difference between what I would say daily changes in HRV, which reflect those things and long-term changes in your baseline HRV. So yeah, in daily basis, if I get a pornoist sleep or I have a bunch of alcohol or whatever, like, yeah, that's going to probably tank my HRV for that day. But over the long-term, if I'm building your robeck fitness and doing things takes to build the robeck side, that average will go up over time. And that's what we're looking for. I would say the single thing that you can do to stop over and laser HRV is just look at it in a weekly and a monthly basis. A weekly basis. Oh, absolutely. A weekly basis. I'm looking at weekly basis more than looking at daily these days because it's very informative of two things. Am I trending a certain direction over that week? And how much variability is there in that? I love that. Most people will say, look at a daily, right? My, a lot of my friends are wearing all these different devices and they're like, oh my HRV is, or I'll get calls from patients. My HRV is terrible. I'm getting sick and yeah, I mean, like daily basis can be informative, but it's just one data point. Then like, rate of picture. And it is dependent on you measure an accurately at the same time of day or, you know, using a device very consistently and making sure that you're getting good accurate data. But that single day is just one single day. It's just telling you what you're, what your body's doing. Right. Now it's like being example would be if I woke up in the morning, I was a pound heavily on what's yesterday. Am I going to throw out my entire diet because I was maybe a pound heavy on the I was going to be or make it, oh, maybe I ate a little bit too much yesterday. My hydration's off or whatever. What else really impacts HRV units? That's something really interesting. You define resilience as the ability to withstand stress around you. How much of HRV is? And then you spoke about the woman was turning pegi. Yeah, pegi. Pegi sound like she had a really positive outlook. How do we know the influence of mood on HRV? Huge. I mean, look, when we are stressed out about something, it is a physiological response. Our heart rate is higher. Our rest in HRV at that point is lower because we are, by definition, turning out say we have to kind of define stress. Me stress is anything that turns that sympathetic dial up. And so stress is not like a on-off switch or yesterday, it's a degree how much stress are we under. It's how much is that sympathetic system activating. So if we sit here and we look at social media and we look at politics and we watch the news, it's very easy for us to be sympathetically dominant or driven because it would stress out, right? There's stock markets going all over. Like this life around us is very stressful. And to me, that is, and after years looking this as as much or probably more of a player in your HRV on a daily basis than you work out, is the final thing because- That's fascinating. When it comes down to is the workout to hour a day, right? Maybe nine minutes, maybe two hours. The rest of your life is a rest of your in China and you're in a two-to-a-chrain. So there were seven hours in that. No, as more it was at least that they would do five workouts and they told me there were company workout in the morning for injured athletes, wasn't there? Recovery session I walked it was a workout, there were plyometrics. Yeah, but the big picture of your life is it's twenty-friars a day, it doesn't stop when you end your workout. It's where the recovery process starts, right? So mental stress is a huge, huge component of this and I can give you endless examples. I had this pretty early on actually my, you know, using HRV. I had this guy from Microsoft. He was an executive, he was in his 40s and he was a volleyball player, recreational. He's like, I want to increase my vertical jump. Well, the biggest problem he's missing one of his big toes, which is not the best recipe for the vertical jump. He's totally fine. But he was like a really wanting to increase my vertical jump and I also keep full of my ankle. And so I said, okay, let's get to work. And he never done much training other than play volleyball. So I've measured his HRV come to twice a week and back then we didn't have mobile apps. I had to put my whole system on him and I could only measure we came in the evening. So I only saw him twice a week. First 46 weeks his vertical jump goes up and everything's going great and then it platoes. I start to increase load and then it starts going back down. And it's I'm like, why is this happening because when he's coming in this twice a week, like he looks pretty good. Like his recovery looks okay. And so I'm like, okay, I'm clearly not seeing the big picture here. And so I said, look, if you really want to get your vote up, what you've cleared you do, we're going to have to look at more probably bigger picture here and look at your lifestyle outside just two days a week. So first thing I do is have to do a dialogue. He's drinking 25 cans of that coke a day because he worked Microsoft and it's right next to the refrigerator. So that was problem number one. But problem number was it the caffeine or just the I think it's just stimulus? Yeah, it was just it was caffeine. It shouldn't all be long and there's something wrong with that. Matt, we are in trouble. The caffeine lower your HRB a lot of it. But it also is going to be dependent on whether how you synthesize it. You know, I'm T right if you have a, if you're fast and tablazer if you're much less of a, I'm a fast, I'm a fast, I'm a tough one. What's interesting for me personally is I've always I'm a fast metabolizer and I've always been able to have caffeine pretty late in the day and not effectively sleep until now it does in my 40s. Something changed and now it affects me more. It's changing the working out. It didn't use to affect me night. I could work out night, no problem. Now impact me asleep greatly. So we change over time. Anyway, the second problem is when I had him start coming in and measuring HRB every day and early in a day so I could see his bigger picture when it found out was he was playing video games until like four o'clock the morning on three nights a week. Well, he does did work at Microsoft. Yeah, and he was up late. And so that was absolutely killing his recovery. I just couldn't see it and looking at twice. He was asleep or the stimulus. It was both. It was both. They're a little bit, they're linked. And so very quickly I'm like, oh, this is why you're not improving, right? Because three nights a week your sleep is trash and you're mentally stressed out of your mind playing this video game on that long. And still he'll be fixed that. He's a vertical jump on up two inches just just by making a change in his lifestyle. Same thing. Oh, another example. We had a college, my old, HR system called BioForce. We had a college team. There was a collegiate soccer team and we had a year of data and we started looking at all these different patterns and I was like, what is that? Like, what does it go on here? Because it was this period where the team was under just insane stress and it was the highest point of stress I could find it was when they were finding it. Yes, it was finals week finals week is way more stressful than their tournament than their, any other tournament, what I traveling played multiple games a week and coming back, that was less stressful than finals week to them. And you see this time and time again, it's the lifestyle is the single biggest driver of stress, not the workout, because of the time component workouts and hour and nine minutes, whatever it is unless you're in China. The lifestyle is the whole rest of your day, right? It's how you eat, how you function with then your social group, the stress of just being in the world. Speaking of social group, I want to ask you about heart rate coherence. Heart rate coherence is something that I found when I was in my first, second in my second residency because I could not regulate my nervous system when I was on call. We would be, you know, as it had in turn, your on call, you're supposed to be running the codes, your nervous system, at least for me, maybe not other people, but my nervous system was totally out of the way. So I, you have support, but you have to be able to run if someone is, you have to run a cardiac arrest code. I could not get my nervous system to come down. It wasn't measuring heart rate variability, but I was just, I bet you would have seen that it would have been a terrible would have been sympathetic, she shifted. Terrible. So I found something called heart rate coherence. And it's this heart math institute. Yeah, I read a lot. What? Been a long time. Yeah, forever. And basically it was, and I started doing their meditations had like an ear clip. Yeah. And it was this idea of this harmonious interaction between the heart rate and the nervous system. And it was supposed to balance this efficient state of physical and mental well-being and that it would smooth out again, this heart rate variability signal. Yeah. So I was curious as to if something like that. Sure. If you've seen that have impact and they also talked a lot about breathing. Yeah. One of the things to improve the heart coherence heart rate coherence was now and I think about it, someone of a tactical breath. Yep. Yeah. So there's what's called respiratory science over the media. And that just means there's this influence on our breathing, both our rate and our, you know, exhale pattern on our heart rate variability because as we're exhaling, that's when the pericim sick system is essentially turned on and put to amplified. And when we're inhaling the opposite happening and that's happening for a whole lot of physiological reasons. But heart rate coherence is essentially this technique of trying to maximize the way that we're breathing in a way that can influence heart rate variability to be at as high as point. And that's usually around six, eight best per minute depends like an individual and it's all supposed to optimize which called barra reflex and and train the barra reflex to manage blood pressure effectively. I think there's something there's a good amount of research showing that when you do breathe in this pattern that you do maximize HRV in that moment. And I think there's a huge benefit to people learning how to turn that pericim to the system off. I'll show you that simple system down I mean and taking time out of your day to breathe. I think honestly this is the foundation to me in yoga and meditation. Any of these sort of breath work things, they're doing this in one form or another. They're developing a pattern breath that's focused more on the exhale and slowing your respiratory rate down which just does increase the pericimthec function. It's turning down the symptoms that exist them and it's turning up the pericimthec system. Whether or not you need to have a clip on your ear and have a specific exact ratio of inhale exhale. I think it's less important than the fact that people are just doing it. So I've seen a ton of benefit. I think there's a lot of reasons why people do like meditation and you know these sorts of things because they're calming their sympathetic system down. Whether it's following this exact pattern in the app or it's just taking time in their day to relax and meditate those things are hugely beneficial because they break that cycle. They break that sympathetic stress driven cycle and doing that I think has a huge amount of benefit. And you've seen individuals taking on breathing or meditation improve our area. Absolutely. Yeah there's real research on it. There's research showing mindfulness in yoga and meditation all these things that get you to stop that sympathetically driven cycle of urine and take even five minutes out of your day can break that process and shift you back into more balanced state where that pericimthec system is doing what needs to do. So yeah absolutely. What about the influence of things that seem to increase your sympathetic nervous system that we think about for recovery like cold plunge? Yeah so the I would put recovery strategies in two buckets. One would I would call them relaxation strategies and that's where breath work massage deep water floating like things like this where we're just trying to actively turn that sympathetic system down. That's relaxation of regenerative type recovery strategy. The other one is what I'd call stimulative and it's under the same guys of train. It's a hermitic effect. So if we do a cold plunge or we do contrast therapy or we do some sort of load and train or train the symptoms that system on briefly with a pericimthec rebound afterwards. So a cold plunge is going to be sympathetic because you hit the water but after you get out your body is going to have to regulate temperature back and everything's going to have to be put back and there's a recovery response. So we're trying to trigger that recovery response by a small stimulus. Now the biggest thing I would say about all those things is those sort of stimulative type methods the body adapts to them. That's what people don't understand. If you do the same stimulatory thing every day, cold plunge or contrast or many other things, you body adapts to it. It doesn't have the same effect. It's like anything else. The body gets better at dealing with it and it's going to have less impact on recovery. You can't expect the exact same workout to have the exact same effect and you can't expect the exact same recovery modality to have the same effect over time. The other thing is cold plunge is immediately after workouts can dampen the response of the workout because they're turning off the inflammation. It's part of the signaling process but I would say in general it's a very individualized thing and it needs to be varied. You need to find something that you can do in cycles. You shouldn't do the same recovery modality every single time and you really probably shouldn't have to rely on an overuse of recovery method. You're programming in your life. Tell should be working with you. If you're having a constant rely, it's one thing if you're a team for athlete and you're in season or you're doing a particular particular stress or period. If you have to try to recover every single workout, maybe your workout should be adjusted down. Do you know Jordan Chalo? I don't think so. I think he's also a good friend of me, our mutual friend, Luca. But he always talks about the best form of recovery is better planning. Yeah, it's true. It's better programming. Yeah, and I want to say to you the other thing here is if you don't like the things or you're like, oh I want to do cold plunges but if you hate doing cold punches just that mental I hate to say the mental stress and the mental load up doing that is actually more likely to have a negative impact. Like when it's funny and going back to China I had all these kids and I could tell these kids were just beat down and so something we didn't combat sports was swimming a lot because it's very low impact. We could work on breath hold which has some capacity to different things and so I was like oh let's take can we take the kids to a pool and do a recovery session and she's the head coach like hmm and I don't know and so they looked into it like yeah we can do it. So the next day they bring a bus and we drive like 30 Chinese kids, Judo kids to this public pool and I could see their eyes as wide because they just like we're out of here like they lived in the camp. These kids live in the school where they train that's all they do and so all that we hear we're doing nice easy recovery session we're going to do some water treading some deep water floating and some last swimming and so like okay again the pool is kids all jump in the pool and it dawns me in the first 10 seconds the can't swim. Oh my god. None of them could swim so I'm looking like they're half drowning the kids jumped in the shallow end refined the kids are having a deep end we're literally drowning and you got fired. And I didn't get by it so the funniest part is I'm like oh this is not going to be so recovery driven and I try to give them the shallow end and we got through a bunch of exercise but they're just dying because they don't know how to swim. The funniest thing to be get back in the coaches like oh I heard it was very difficult I was like you didn't tell me the kids can't swim but how crazy they were willing to jump in. Oh they were 100% no no questions asked that's the mentality. But the funniest part was hey coach was like I heard it's very hard oh yeah because they can't swim. She's like we're doing it again tomorrow. I'm like like how incredible is that? Because that was the mindset right like oh it's hard it must be effective. Like no it was supposed to be recovery. I don't know I think that we're probably missing a lot of that here not that kids should jump in pools of the can't swim and but that is really. Oh yeah they did they did whatever they were told. No no no no questions asked no questions asked there was no like maybe they didn't think they could drown I don't know but I'm literally running around throwing noodles and stuff in the pool to keep this kids in drowning because then I might have gotten fired. What what populations are or is heart rate variability not good for? Would you expect you know I've looked at some of the data and it seems that older people get the last robust or you know the heart rate variability is not as good but then I've seen other data that really it's more about lifestyle. Yeah so we do naturally decline with HIV's age women tend to be higher until they hit menopause after that it tends to decline during menopause and stabilize but yeah it declines as we age but there's no reason not to try to improve it and we went look at the more of the data which is which is my HIV out we found that basically the top 10% in each age group had the HIV of a 30 year younger group on average so if you took someone in there 60s it took the top 10% that would like to average as someone in 30s so you can have you know some of that genetics like we talked about there's no doubt to get the 10% you probably have some genetic component to that. Amra is a classroom that I really think is on the cutting edge and I'm always looking for easy and meaningful ways to support my health whether it's gut health, muscle health, you name it but good health definitely begins in the gut and that's why I've added one of the sponsors to the show and that's Amra classroom to my ice coffee in the morning it's a whole food supplement packed with over 400 bioactive nutrients has antibodies protective antibodies, pre-botics, peptides that all help the body function and move towards optimal performance. Amra uses a unique technology to preserve these nutrients in their pureest most bio-available form which is why this product really stands out and I also love that they are third party tested which means you can trust what they say that is listed on their label is actually listed and we've got a special offer just for my audience get 15% off your first order at tri Amra that's TRY, ARMRA.com slash Dr. Lyon and use the code Dr. Lyon at checkout. But you can increase your robust fitness throughout your age there's no point where you can't increase your robust fitness and where that's not going to have a beneficial effect so I wouldn't say for older populations you shouldn't do you absolutely should I would say that challenging ones are people that have beta blockers or people have aridmias that can be interesting. Make it impossible if you get an accurate meaning if you've got different types of rhythm you sometimes you just can't get like aphib or just some kind of abnormal normal side effects. There's a bunch of them there's so many different ones some of impact HIV and so many different. So in general pregnancy is interesting one you do see that number one you're producing way more energy right like your metabolism rifts up and you have more blood volume because you're delivering nutrients to produce a baby. So you tend to see HIV decline across the pregnancy and it seems to be the lowest in the third trimester as you were just getting ready to get birth but how that declines and how much declines is so variable and I think that's another really big takeaway here as you can't always say blank statement HIV is going to do X, Y, or Z at this time because there's so much individual variation like let's say somebody never works out and they have a bad lifestyle and then this person gets pregnant and she thinks herself oh I really want to start improving myself care because I want to make sure I'm doing the best for my baby you know she starts working out more she gets folks as her sleeves she just always it could go up like it could go up if some making really important lifestyle changes and building fitness even though you know you would say that it's going to decline over the course of pregnancy for that individual person it could go up during that period and because they improve their fitness so it's really just never one thing or how powerful that thing may be even pregnancy it's a very powerful thing it still has multiple influences that can dictate what happens you know looking back at your career do you ever think man heart rate variability was only one part of it or I wish that I had thought about X, Y, or Z again because you've had a 20 year career and do you have any thoughts like that or any insights yeah I mean I think we always the more I've looked at this the more it comes to I think the biggest thing is performance at the end of the day in terms of what are the end point changes we're trying to move is it be a two max is it's strength is it muscle mass to me those the most important factors and what we're trying to do is use HRV to get those things to where we want them to be and so I think early on when I started to use HRV it's really easy to overcoach right by it and become a set to you know obsessive some extent with that one number moving the way you want to move and trying to over and I why do this what I just doing that like this frustrating how many years did you spend like that five same with with um protein metabolism for us the same thing and then all of a sudden you're like I got to get every single blood work and every single this and this is the input that it has to be and then everything get everyone needs this hormone and then no others later you're like nah yeah it's just it's a big thing yeah I think we have to use as much information to make the best decisions we can that's what HRV is hopefully doing isn't forming us to make decisions about how to adjust training and lifestyle variables to get the outcome so what happened after five years you just kind of realize like chasing that needle is not moving the needle right like at the end of the day you realize the big but I really want to stress the people is the big picture is what matters the most and you look at people's lifestyles you're like wait a minute I can make a much bigger change by improving their sleep a little bit or getting their diet a little bit more dialed in that's going to much bigger impact and trying to micro manage three sets versus four sets or 12 reps versus 15 reps right you can micro manage the workout all you want but those things usually have very small changes relative to these bigger lifestyle variables and the bigger picture of their their workout so the more you can look at the big picture and stop worrying about these little my new changes and details like the body's just dynamic and you can't outcast it you just have to look at the data and make your decisions was there any point in your career where HRV just failed where you thought to yourself man I totally did not see this coming or this athlete completely tanked on x y or z um not necessarily I think the biggest thing is when you have athletes they really competitive it's really hard to get them to measure HRV accurately why's that some because they just don't want to do it to be honest with you like there there was a big push for a while in the pro sport realm to get athletes to measure all these data points like there was we just work project the 49ers for a while just stuff the Philadelphia Eagles and we looked at a bunch of data athlete in general resist data at that level because they don't want the coaches to use against them and so trying to get them to wake up the morning measure a data point share that the data point in the coaches it's really really difficult and there was actually a lot of push back in the NFL player association across different sports leagues now about what athletes can or can't be required to to use and so a lot of athletes to psychologically also believe like oh if I see a number turning down or going down it's going to it's going to you know impact me physiologically and so yeah I think in those scenarios HRV is a really tough market to use and you work the athletes that want to do it and then you use it and well the doctor don't you can't force upon them because they're not going to measure it accurately anyway like we had a we built this program with a friend of mine the going the 49ers when they were supposed to measure HRV every morning and then they were supposed to be part of this big thing in your chip Kelly where you're going to look at like readiness self evaluation and hydration and body you're looking all of these markers and I went in there and they were like on their phones measuring HRV and they were like talking to each other and so they're drinking whatever you mean like they just didn't want to do it and they didn't care about doing accurately and so the data was ultimately totally worthless and so you have to always be a way of data integrity matters if the data's worthless then chunk you know garbage and garbage out you don't want to use that and HRV algorithms and those things are really challenging anyway they are yeah so the one thing I'll say is the biggest challenge HRV is its sensitive which is also its attribute because it's sensitivity picks up a lot of things but it tends to be means if I'm sitting there in the morning taking the measurement or if I'm measuring overnight which we can talk about a difference is and I'm stressed out the morning for some reason that measurement is going to be very effective of that stress in the moment that's not really reflective of where is my true resting HRV at because again we can turn that sympathetic stress response on cognitively functionally by thinking about something stressful and to see this look at your heart rate and thinking about something stressful your heart we go it's because you've activated that sympathetic system you've turned your HRV down and if you want to measure HRV accurately what does that look like is that over a 24 hour period always is it in the morning is it a evening and also for example some people have an increase in cortisol if you are healthy and normal that cortisol increases in the morning also blood sugar might increase absolutely so historically there's been a few different use cases but what has the most research is these shorter term measurements of like two to five minutes generating the morning because that gives us a window into where you are at the each 24 hour period there's also research they looked at 24 hours that usually uses the S.E.N.N or different types of markers because when in twenty-fri basis your average HRV is just going to reflect your activity right because as I get up and move around it we're going to do stuff like my stupidity system tire majorbies lower so if I'm really active majorbies going to be lower than if I'm less active it's not super informative other than just like oh how mobile was this person throughout the day the biggest thing now do you kind of see two different divergent camps and I would say my at more pieces and one that only ones down this one but the two biggest camps are overnight measurements where you wear a wearable overnight and then it just gives you an average across that sleeping period and then two is what I do now with mine which is we wake up each morning and we take a morning measurement they did vanish to that in my mind it's a chest strap we said a wrist band you can you bring it on no but I can get you the biggest advantage to that is we can see where you are at the end of that sleep recovery cycle because the way I approach this is each day it's own stress recovery cycle right and we just repeat this process I get up I go my day I live my life I do some work I already don't want to deal stress I go to sleep my body tries to repair itself each and the rate and then I start that day and over and over again I want to see where I'm at in the morning and what that process looks like at the end of it so I can make informed decisions and see where I'm at in a comparatively same context every day and that's where historically most research has been done in nature of these standpoint the overnight measurements before these current formal wearables were done with EKG and in hospitals and in sleep studies and things where they were using accurate EKG leads and they were doing this you know in that sort of context these overnight wearables looking at average overnight is a very new thing and most research has been done on them has been done by the companies that are shown them to be honest not that there's not utility in that but in my mind and now looking at data myself and other people you're looking at something different right you're looking at an average cross a period is different then an instantaneous of where are you right now and the biggest thing is if I'm looking at average over eight hours sleep the things that did close to that sleep period of huge influence if you work out in the evening that's going to influence your average tremendously because you're going to spend the first part of your hour to sleep in a different state than if you didn't work out if you had a couple glass of the wine before you would to bed that's going to be massive impact on your average across the sleep period it's the same thing and some respect not exactly but like let's say I want to lose weight if I measure myself an average across multiple times a day that's different than measuring myself each time the morning in a fast and state the past is states seem to be more data and more accurate data I would say to figure out am I losing or am I gaining measure my average rather day is reflective of what I ate and when I ate it and how much they drank and all the sorts of things so I think when we look at overnight we're looking at the influence of sleep very specifically we're looking at what you did in the hours sleep up to your sleep all those sorts of things will change your numbers pretty significantly and I think just anecdotally if you measure overnight I would take those daily changes with much less of I don't want to say with the grand sol but I'd be putting much less weight in daily changes I would still look at long-term trends I think those are valuable but if you measure it first in the morning like I do with more fears I think that gives you just a better picture of where I'm am right now after that full 24 hour period and I can use that information to make more informed decisions moving forward and it's really fascinating I was thinking about what are some things that would be surprising that affect HRV and it looks like and you might not find the surprising maybe the listener is doesn't or the viewer doesn't find the surprising but exposure to natural sunlight is a way it says to promote this natural circadian rhythm and improve HRV there's also an interesting paper here it looks at the effects of post awakening light exposure on heart rate variability this was just in healthy healthy men and it was talking about their the LED light of different spectrum compositions and that red light decreases the LF HRV ratio what is that? So going back to there's lots of ways to measure which every one of them is called spectral analysis where they essentially take the heart rate and they break into frequencies and they break into high frequency low frequency and some other frequencies and that ratio that ratio you just mentioned tends to be the balance that the pair of sympathetic so it's just a different way of quantifying HRV basically do you want to lower or higher? higher frequency is more per sympathetic okay and it's said the blue light LF HF ratio consistently increased across 40 minutes of light exposure yeah I mean I think in general anything that's going to improve either a your mood b your circadian rhythm is going to have a beneficial impact in HRV it's pretty much there are certain things are always going to have beneficial effects and that's one of them but I think it also informs us to make better decisions in our life the idea that light exposure although we would think about light exposure as yes it would improve your mood but we still live in highly industrialized worlds and again it's just fascinating to think that we could improve longevity not even take out exercise and diet just by our environment of course I'm really thinking that I think if you step out of the fitness realm for a second and we look at the you know the octogenarians the people centenarians like most of them were living in places where they're not training their ass off every day like they're just living a very positive community they have good genetics that eat healthy whole foods their stress is way lower their industrialized world and they live longer there was just a paper came out not too long ago looking at a tribe in Amazon called a tsunami tribe I but you know they say it but they went in there and they measured calcium scores and they had the lowest calcium scores they had I can't remember numbers up my head but they had the lowest calcium scores and it came to the best cardiovascular health of any tribe group that ever measured across the board period and they're this living in the Amazon they're exposed all kinds of pathogens like they're not exactly living you know in clean sanctuary conditions and despite having hired and CRP the normal they still had almost no at the grossest whatsoever across the board across all ages and they eat like 70% carb and like 15% protein 10% fat whatever it was but they're just living such a different lifestyle than we could ever possibly live I'll also say it's fast-aing so I lived in Hawaii for four winters what island oh oh no sure so I live in the north shore which is where the surfing is I live there a lot of the way reason because Washington is a very depressing state and they win their months and Hawaii is the polar opposite right what was fast-aing to me it's just the pace of life is so much slower but you see a lot of Hawaiians who are unhealthy looking to be frank but they have the highest life expectancy in the US they do yes which is super fast-aing that I thought that no really yeah which is so look if you want to like look at the picture of health you don't look up Hawaiian food no you don't because it's not exactly oh it's not a lot of spam and super super and and call it's a live on quiet yeah so you get it so yeah looking north shore for they said four years and you you just realize it's a different style of life it's a more relaxed pace which sometimes is frustrating when you want to get something done but you just kind of realize like they have a very strong feeling you want to drive anywhere yeah yeah exactly and that's probably north shores are massive traffic and also other problems but you realize like outwardly like their diet doesn't look awesome like they they don't look like you're metabolic healthy but looking at them they're certainly something that work out but a lot more surfing and doing things outside but they're outside and they have a very strong sense of community and you know that translates into something and I'm sure to net component to it but you would not look at the Hawaiian population like oh that's the healthiest part of the US but if you look at life expectancy there it is right so I think if we look at again I think lifestyle matters tremendously our fitness matters tremendously the fitness if we look at markers of these different papers you can talk about you see people's fitness levels like reduced risk anywhere from like 10% in a low end to like 40% on the high and mid 40% for in terms of all cost mortality that's a huge percentage right but lifestyle matters more right it's the big picture of our genetic and their actual environment and their lifestyle all these things are tremendously important so we can't forget you can be fit but if you're in unhealthy lifestyle you know you're still gonna pay the price over time speaking of that was or anything surprising in over two decades of looking at this that didn't have an impact on HIV that you were sure was going to um yeah I think just in general looking at like different supplements I think it's really hard to find supplements that move the needle like I was a big supplement guy I worked with a supplement store when I was in college and I had you have this idea like all these supplements are like and do all these things and then you start testing different supplements and different dosages and like it's really really hard to use supplementation to move the needle not I'm not saying that they can't they never do but I think the dietary pictures is so much bigger from nutritional standpoint with the eating then you take some sets of supplements it's really rare to find the supplements that really moves much the needle in terms of HIV so that was something I probably early on spend a lot of time trying to figure out these different supplement combinations and you just don't see it that often beyond the end or like you mentioned earlier like you have this idea that cool plan yeah cool punch will do it right and you see for some people like yeah it proves a little while and then does anything after that or some people like it exacerbates their recovery or slow down makes it worse so you just kind of realize over time there's no one size fits all up pro which there's no magic bullet there's no universal truth for most these things that are always going to work for everybody it's fascinating it really is fascinating what about alcohol or drugs generally speaking alcohol is a similar sympathetic stimulant you're going to see HIV go down it's pretty rare you see benefit of that as well it's the other thing I would say is there's always reassured it's like oh maybe two glass of wine and I really could for you and maybe there's these things in the wine that are beneficial but now I think that would get more and more recent saying like hmm probably not right like maybe it's not the best thing for you so I would say it tends to lower sleep quality for what I've seen in those people and that in itself has an impact I'm not saying it's the end of the world I'm not saying everyone's sedatives are sedatives don't move the needle no usually I mean I look the thing the biggest thing moves needle is just getting gets the quality because your overall day is less stressful and your workout is made in some more effectively do you think that that would be your early indication of for example sleep afnia sure if someone is they have a poor HRV but they don't snore they're not overweigh their hemoglobin or malachrids not yeah yeah it's one more indicator that's just a more likely to it and you even see what's like arthritis and rheumatoid arthritis there's some research like you would see or five merialgia you would see that the stymotex system would be more dominant and those stymotex are to flare up more because they're connected so you see any sort of inflammatory type thing which I'm not saying sleep apnea is basically more inflammatory tech conditions exacerbated by a lower HRV because it means that stymotex system is a heightened state in the HRV is not turning it other parisumptics systems not turning it down the way that should be is there a way to measure it naturally do people always have to have a wearin that unfortunately not so you have to measure so in order to measure HRV you have to get basically the time between one heartbeat to the next so the way that's doing with chest strap and measuring the peak of the the R wave RR interval and you have to do that with him plus or minus a couple milliseconds which is very very accurately and it looks at the left leg no and this is the this is the point and it measures a distance between heartbeat the filter is out what are called at topic beats don't rise in the same area and there's signal processing so no I mean I would say if you aren't going to measure HRV resting heart rate is not really a proxy in terms of like daily stress per save but it's also getting a cater of general risk fitness so you could look at trends in resting heart rate and say oh my resting heart rate declining chances of your resting heart rate is declining significantly chances are your HRV is probably going up at the same time that always or probably and that's something you can measure a lot easier without having to get you know without having to measure HRV but now you can't just like put your finger on your pulse and measure it on 4chanely unless you're superhuman unless you do you do you do too yeah right do you think that there is a way to or do you see in the future for example an individual will be able to predict a thyroid imbalance or something that drives so for example thyroid hormone in from my perspective probably drives sympathetic tone right this is someone that's stimulant right it is what I'm saying you take thyroid you're going to see degree you know you won't feel it um do you think that if we collect more data or is there a world where we say okay your space between beats is X we see this group from I don't know just make up the number of from 30 to 40 with a thyroid dysfunction or again that's really specific yeah sure but I mean there's probably imprints or just like I don't know some kind of tracking that would indicate a pattern yeah I would say that again because the stress response is generalized in nature it's the sympathetic system reacts with so many things it'd be really hard to say oh your HRV is low therefore you probably have X Y or Z but you can say oh your HRV is low this means you're probably more likely to have you know this set of things that you're you mentioned I don't think we can ever necessarily say oh it's your HRV's low so this is probably the problem and it have to be in conjunction with other metrics and other monitor or other blood work but I think we could get there you could definitely correlation for sure I was I was sure you could come up with a set of things and say oh if HV is low or it has this pattern you also might be at serious risk for these other variables you know anything that inflammatory and torrent like I mentioned is probably going to be at higher risk for it hormonally you can be at higher risk for it because that can influence things you know and that's also where there's all sorts of variants right people have very different hormone profiles when different birth controls like all these things influence your HRV's. It does right what is what does oral contraceptives do we know what that's. It depends on what you're taking the same dose of what type of a gesterone, for gesterone, general is more sympathetic depends on which one you're taking it depends on whether you want to change dose throughout the cycle or if you want to study depends on your own response to it I mean we have that's the other thing I'll say is that we have very different responses to drugs right so it shouldn't surprise us we have very different responses to everything we we have different responses across the board because we're different individuals so I can't say you're on this birth control it's going to affect you the same as this person same birth control like you can't you know it's same thing with most drugs like statins or you know none of my statin next dimension earlier with the interesting is it's seemed to have raised my baseline HIV but also makes them were volatile and that would make sense when the drug wears off. No it makes more I think so I think it's got for a long half of it I'm going to reduce that and I think it's because we see greater muscle damage in people with high levels of our high statin dose because it exacerbates that somehow and on the mechanism. Probably depends HMG co-ase. Yeah I'm sure if it depends on if it's a fat soluble or so. Yeah so when I went and got diagnosed the first thing the doctor gives me 40 milligrams of cholesterol which I didn't want because I did not really want to maximize the dose of that because you get a lot of response from much lower doses but the only way to get approved from insurance for a path that which is the injectable that works differently those were listening I had to do that and then see if it worked and it did provide my HIV lower that one after did by a startgame stop tissue injuries like the gym may start a game weird injuries walking down street I pull a quad I rolled an ankle I rolled an ankle like in 20 years like I just had always weird soft tissue things so I really and I know what normal is for me and so that 40 milligrams dose did not sit well with me did not work well and I cut it down to 10 milligrams and now I got the repath of prescription and I haven't had any injuries my HIV is actually up as an average back in a more of a normal range which should be relative to my age and a VO2 and you know we'll find out when I do the CTA game what's known to my actual plaque and my cholesterol numbers are super low now so hopefully that will have the impact I want but you know other people could have a different response on that that's that inverse of another stat and right everyone responds differently I think so that's an interesting way to see that is oh like a high dose of this stat and had a lot of negative effects in me low dose seems to be pretty beneficial and then raise HIV so so it's kind of like people may have kind of swung to over quantifying their life of it and it's really there is an art to training there is just an art to medicine where do you think the future is going with HIV or just in general performance and recovery metrics look I think it's a highest levels of sport and performance like they're getting really good at building this really complex models to take into account huge amount of variables so they're looking at saliva for different things looking harmonia profiles in some sports but again some sports are also resisting that they're trying to build models I think the question is how do we build models with taking as many data points as possible to give us the best possible you know guidance more or less and I think those will continue to evolve and improve as we get more data from more different types of devices and more types of measurements so we can use the live and measure more stuff and there's less there's less invasiveness involved in all this so we'll get more and more data and hopefully we'll be able to use you know AI's the talk of the town these days I'm sure AI will do a good job at some point of story and all this stuff out and give us guidance but I think the bigger challenge honestly is influencing people do the right things because I don't care how good the data is if the person doesn't change their behavior because of it it doesn't matter you know like I had a guy named David Tenney and he was the performance coach the Seattle Sounders when I was first starting use HIV very progressive guy and he said oh I want to come in and have a certain number of players measure HIV to see if it's useful for our team and this is back in 2005 or 2006 really early on somewhere around there so he brings in a bunch of players which has been like six months measuring data he's looking up on field metrics he seems to be valuable long story short they get their own HIV system they get catapult GPS they start getting a whole bunch of data metrics and they bring a guy from Microsoft to build a big machine learning platform and at this time this again is like 15 years ago is very advanced probably the most advanced sport metrics system the time outside of Europe and so he builds his big modeling predicts risk of injury and it's like takes all this data and says hey this player he does two things he models game load by training so he says hey this practice was you know 102% of game load or this practice was 80% of game load which is super valuable for coaches to know like how hard is that practice relative to a game anyway he comes up this really advanced model and he's able to predict injury risk you know within a certain percentage so he would say like oh this person that's increased in your risk by 10% or this athlete is 20% increased risk of injury and so he's working with always people develop this model and the coach listening to him is making decisions and then you know data says oh this athlete is a 25% increased risk like this guy is really at high risk which means he's 75% not right still so what happens is the guy goes out has a game of life scores like three goals so what's the coach say oh you data model sucks right oh my god and just kind of disregards it because that's the problem is like if if the person making the decisions decides that data is not what they want to make decision on then the whole things kind of shot and so days models again it said like 20% risk or whatever so I'm going to 80% chance he wasn't going to get injured but the coaches mind because David said oh this player like the injured he went out and performed really well the coach was like oh your data doesn't work and it was I mean that's not the case it's just it comes back to I think we can come up with all the data analysis in the world we want all the tools you want you can use more of you as always things but ultimately you have to figure out how to use that information to make better decisions better choices and that's the hard part right like I think the one good thing I would say I'm not that one but one of the things where it was have done is make people more aware of all these things they make people more aware that sleep matters that you know food choices matter that train intensity and frequency matter and that more is not always better I think it's brought awareness to that and I see that in the more pissed data and we see people email me all the time and saying hey I didn't realize how much sleep is killing my progress or I didn't realize how much I was doing way too much you know then I should have been doing and so awareness I think is the first step and then you know talking about it is really important thing because it wasn't that long ago where recovery was like what do you mean you recovery like shut up get back to work that was the mindset right there was just all intent to the all the time kill yourself or you're not making progress like it was that was the mindset of the fitness community I think we've seen a pushback because people got beat to help doing that yeah and you're not in your using and you across bit took a take a while to figure that out but you know in general the community has to say recovery is important it matters we need to focus on it and I think that's ultimately what the data help can help drive so I don't know that more tech is the solution I think more I think that's right more discussion more more discussion more coaching more reckons is like recognizing this paradigm shift into train and recover and lifestyle and training are intertwined they're not separate entities you know all these things will hopefully help people make better decisions but the data's there you know like we have good data HRB works we have other markers which still have people measure HRB. Oh yeah absolutely of course when we've got thousands of users and more fias we look at all the data that's so I mean one thing we're able to do that's really cool is we we said okay can we figure out how much volume intensity people use on average they're using more fias that see their HRB increase over time versus people that don't see their HRB increase over time so we have thousands of thousands of data points you know millions of people doing work out are millions of workouts and so we segmented people by their average resting heart rate and their average HRB in the low medium and high so basically people that were low fitness people are moder fitness and people are high fitness and then we ran some computer machine learning stuff to look at over 12-week periods how much time they spent at high intensity moderate intensity and low intensity so we're looking at volume intensity in these three groups and we found particularly in the low and moderate groups the people that did the higher amounts of vitamin intensity got worse or got no better the people that did lower it dirt and lower amounts of it got better so it just it just meant that like the people in the low to moderate fitness categories were overestimate how much they could do they weren't recovering and we found that people that were somewhere between 18-85% recovery and our system at least across a week were much more likely to see improvements in the HRB and resting higher than people who were below 80 percent so I was just showed a real world data analysis picture showed us that hey people in lower to modest fitness categories they do more and more and more they're not seeing the result for a reason and I think that's the biggest thing I would tell people that say I need to train hard every day I'm like but are you improving like I love that? I like it's pretty pretty straightforward like are you getting better or not and if you're not getting better maybe try and less would be an approach to start with? Well Joel Jamison this has been a fascinating conversation I learned a tremendous amount and you know the big takeaway for me is and I'm I'm curious as to what the listener or viewer sees is that understanding where you are and you might not be able to feel your heart rate variability you would think that you would out if you're crappy maybe it's this but there's a lot of influence that goes into it whether it's asleep or external dynamics but also over time if you are not improving then it can absolutely help direct your training whether it's a aerobic capacity versus strength and that is a very meaningful data point or data points especially if we want longevity. Yeah I think the biggest lesson I've learned over my whole career is that we're all unique we're all individuals and rather than spending your time looking on TikTok or Twitter or Instagram or whatever actually ever it is to find out what other people are doing focus on what you were doing and what you can do better and I think you can use other people's experiences to help give you ideas but we're too fast-named with copying whether people are doing and unless you are them you're not going to choose what's they are. I don't really care what it pro athletes doing because I'm not a pro athlete. I don't care what someone's doing on Instagram because I'm not them and I've got my own things to deal with so I think that's where HIV can separate itself is it can help you as an individual make informed decisions about you as an individual and over the long run I think that's what creates a sustainable fitness and sustainable change finding what works for you and understanding how your body changed over time that is the path to success the path to failure is constantly trying things that you see online and just jumping for something in next and never really know what's working and what's not and never really finding that path so I think if your goals longevity and sustainability you know HIV and that's sort of data and learning about your own your own path your own body your own genetics your own life think that's the most important thing. Very well said thank you so much for coming on the show. No problem we've got to be here.

The thing that's so interesting here is we talk about healthy lifestyle. How do we get people there and erectile dysfunction is a huge problem? You publish this paper that looked at the effect of a aerobic exercise on erectile dysfunction. Without medication. Right. Yes. Realize it, healthier people tend to be more sexually active. This study shows that lifestyle modification, diet exercise alone can significantly reverse erectile dysfunction. Reverse. Reverse. Right. That's really important. That's really important because most people say, just give me the pill. I say, fine, I can give you the pill. But let me tell you something that you can do to actually truly reverse erectile function. See, remember that ED is a progressive disease. So what happens if I give a man biagre today, it works fine. But eventually it's going to stop working and that patient will then go on to an injectable for penal injections. Eventually that stops working and then they go on to pay me a penal prosthesis. So there's a spectrum here. How common is that? So ED affects 52% of the amount of days of 40. It's very common. I think another way to look at this is 40% of men at 40 have erectile dysfunction. 50% of 50% of 50, 60, 60, you live long enough. You're going to get erectile dysfunction. So but it's reversible. ED is reversible and typically with lifestyle modification. If you improve your lifestyle, it's significant improve your erectile function. Most men say, just give me the pill. I say, fine, I'll give you the pill. But you understand that that pill is going to eventually stop working and we'll have to go to a stronger pill. And then we have to go to a penal implant. And so if you work with me, we can prevent ED from occurring. Remember that ED is the first sign of a heart attack or stroke that is really important. So if a man gets ED today, 15% of them will have a cardiovascular event within seven years. That is really important. That's about seven. There's our big say that again. That's our big numbers. Yeah, this is the prostate cancer prevention trial. If a man develops ED today, 15% of them will have a cardiovascular event within seven years. That's important because ED is the first sign of heart attack. And there's a mechanism. Is it how can you explain this? The penal arteries are one to two millimeters. They're very tiny. The coronary arteries are three to four millimeters. The crotted artery can be six millimeters. So remember from physiology, if you get occlusion, 50% of an artery, you start seeing end organ damage. So what are you going to include first? You include the penal artery first. Then you'll include the coronary artery. Then you'll include the crotted. So ED typically is the first sign that something else is going to happen. So that's very important to realize that. So we take ED as a first sign of a cardiovascular event. If a man comes to me and he has ED and two cardiovascular risk factors, we send them for cardiovascular evaluation. Just to make sure there's not a cult cardiovascular disease. I think that's really important that man out there, particularly young men, if you have ED and there's no other cause, should be thinking, is there something going on with my heart that could be causing this condition? Do you typically screen, you know, when we think about the blood panels, I know that you get astrodiol testosterone, free testosterone, SHG, hemoglobin, hematocrit, PSM is the same. So you still could have PSA? Do you also look at say, A-B-E? Absolutely. So A-B-E is much better than all the other ones. Right? So A-B-E, L-P, L-A, and L-P, L-A is a non-modifiable risk factor. It is what it is. But A-B-E can be modified. Typically, like to keep the A-B-E below 100, you can say 1-30 or 100. But these are great gauges to let you know what is going to happen in terms of a cardiovascular risk. I like the way you're going with this because I think it's very important to realize that the first sign of a heart attack in men could be his erectile dysfunction. And that's been shown, as I mentioned earlier, 15% will have a heart attack with stroke within seven years. If a man presents to you with ED and he appears relatively healthy, if it's not psychogenic, you should ask yourself, is this the first sign of cardiovascular disease? And we take it very, very seriously. Also, do you, there's a whole push for these weight loss drugs? Do you also look at glucose, insulin, humoglobin A1C? Because what I love about the way you practice and the way you think is it is not just unidimensional. We're talking about erectile dysfunction, but you have your forepilers. You are discussing things on a broader scale and really more holistic. Right. The impact of these weight loss drugs, those empathic, some appetite, as appetite. What are your thoughts on them and how could those affect infertility, sexual function? So we're studying those right now. And I think you're going to have a positive effect. So remember, what does fat do? Fat contains something called aromatase. It eats up the testosterone and converts it into estrogen. So the more fat cells you have, the less testosterone you have, the more estrogen you have. So basically, we like to look at these levels. Losing weight, I believe, will help with fertility. I think it will make a big difference. I think losing weight will help with sexual function. And so we have a trial right now. Looking at that, giving these medications like semi-glutide to reduce the fat, to see if I see improvements in fertility and sexual function. I think it's going to make a difference. Let's be honest, health, survival of the fetus, Darwinism, healthier people tend to be more fertile. Right. So healthier people tend to be more fertile. I want you to think of this in two ways. There's two ways to play this. There's offense and defense. Right. Offence and defense. And when you talk about offense, I say, okay, I'm going to focus on the four pillars. Diet, exercise, sleep, and stress reduction. I'm going to do things to improve my body. But defense is looking at what we call the forehensionment. I got this impurity. You know, looking at, if you're going to something bad, it's going to happen. See if there can be cardiovascular disease. It's going to be either diabetes, metabolic syndrome. It can be a cancer, right? It can be neurodegenerative. There's other ways that can get you. So what's we do something very silly? We wait till we get the problem. And then we treat it. I said, I have a heart attack. And now I'm going to go ahead and figure out how I'm going to improve my cardiovascular health. Right. I'll be to wait till I get diabetes. And then I'm going to try to improve my diabetes. No. The name of the game is prevention. So prevention on the over here. And then also on this side, trying to go offense and defense at the same time. Very important. And so we go hard on the patients. You know, we look at cardiovascular risk. We look at apob. We could help you a little a. We look at their cholesterol levels. I look at apoe for neurodegenerative. So you can look at that as well. Right. You can look at insulin levels in these patients. So we go very hard on cancer screens as well. I like using the grill as well. It helps me understand what else this patient could have. I was I would, you know, we had lunch other day. My husband was there. It was great. We were talking about what you were doing in your practice. You mentioned the grill, which is fantastic. And also scans, whether it was a nervous scan or CT. Yeah. You are the first neurologist that I've ever heard doing this. I think it's important, right? Because the name of the game is prevention. Right. If I can catch something today, why would I? I would only do what I do for myself. I sew a scan so you can get an MRI full body scan. I'll let it sometimes hard to get. You can get a CAT scan. But some type of imaging, again, this is not standard to cure. It's something that I think I offer my patients. It's progressive and it's as you say offense. It's offense, right? I want to know what's going on before it happens. And I think that that's very important. So we use the grill as well. I think it's very helpful to tell it's 50 cancers that you may be missing that you can pick up today. So these are all things I can do for cancer prevention, right? So focusing on the cancer, the cardiovascular, the metabolic, the neurodegenerative, those are the four categories. Because again, if you are going to die, those are the four ways that can get you besides having a car wreck or a plane crash. But these are the four. If you know that, you would go heavy on those four and preventing those four from happening. And that to me is more the defense. For event, find the way to prevent the offense is die exercise sleep, and stress reduction. And when you put it together, you got a great program.

men with more muscle mass have better erections. Men with less muscle mass have horrible erections have low libido of lower testosterone. You just got the attention of every male listener on the planet. 150 minutes of exercise per week decreased the rate of rectal dysfunction by 20% 300 minutes by essentially 40%. A rectal dysfunction is one of the earliest signs of heart disease. What do you mean by that? If the penis is failing, you should assume you're gonna have problems with your heart soon until proven otherwise. Anything that is good for the ticker, the heart is good for the penis and vice versa. We know that men who don't get erections commonly get penal shortly. So you lose like the penis. How rapid and how much? If you've got a consistent lack of erections for three months, you lose a certain amount of centimeters of length. That's a lot. Sixth of again. The best overall marker for overall health in men is erectal function. Why? Because you have to have excellent vascare integrity, excellent overall health, and the penis recross normal mental health. There are many men who have never had an oral erection entirely. Dr. Tobias Kohler, welcome to the show. Real honor to be here. You are a professor of yourology at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester. You have treated patients with your logical problems for over 20 years. A woman could go to a plastic surgeon. Say you live in Houston, you could go to Chrissy Hamilton and say I want a bee cup. Can a man go to a neurologist and say, I would like this penis size? Well, no, unfortunately. If we could change penis size, I think it'd be busy operating currently. But what we can do with penal implants is guarantee erection every time. With no worries, no anxiety, no pills, shots or anything. It's a great surgical solution to a problem that's been around for a really long time. How long have penal implants been on the table for people? Most people are really surprised. I know that's 50 years, 5, 0. We just had 50 years anniversary last year. This treatment for rectal dysfunction actually preceded pills, shots, vacuum devices. But what's anything else? And that's one of the reasons I'll actually why it's covered by insurance because it's the oldest. Wow. I'm fascinated. You have to break this down. A rectal dysfunction is a huge problem. Yes. Dr. Moqara, our very good friend, says 40% of men at the age or over the age of 40. Yep. Have it. 50% of men have it at 50. And so on. So a rectal dysfunction is a major problem. Absolutely. Probably the first line solution isn't surgical. Is that course? The first line solution is to prevent it from happening in the first place. And that of course is based on foundational pillars of health, diet, exercise, sleep, stress mitigation. Those are the core tennis that are going to keep your penis healthy for a long time. But sometimes in life we get, I don't know, prostate cancer or whatever we need a surgery, and you get a collateral damage. And so it's from that collateral damage that often men will develop problems or directions that no longer are at response with the pills. And once that happens, you can make the decision to fix it definitively with a surgery. Can you walk me through just on a very high level? How does that work? How is that surgical procedure implemented? Well, I guess the first thing to understand is that in order to get a good erection, you have to have blood flowing into the penis. And that blood has to be trapped there. Right? So when you look at why the erection is stop working, the most common cause is a vascular problem. So nearing of the blood vessels going into the penis, so you have a blood flow in problem. Those can be often mitigated or addressed with pills or shots. And even exercise, right? So if you exercise, you get better blood flow to the area. You can fix these problems. That's one set of reasons why the penis feels. The other one is the blood is in trap there appropriately. So you have to develop, but the surgery is trying to do is mimic mother nature. And instead of blood flowing into the penis, we put a kind of aligning inside the penis. I've crossed thesis where men will pump normal sand or salt water into the device. And when they pump the device, the fluid is transferred from a holding tank or reservoir, which is typically hidden next to the bladder or somewhere in the abdomen. And so they'll pump the fluid into the penis. And they'll keep the erection, for as long as I leave the fluid in there. Right? So you know, you can have an erection for four hours. 15 minutes, it doesn't make a difference. And then when you're done, you hit it to flight button. And then normal sailing goes back to the holding tank. So as a surgeon, when I do an implant, I put in three, four ounces of fluid, 100 milliliters or so of sailing. And that same sailing powers the device for the next many, many years. The average device. We've the same sailing that it's recycled. Exactly. So it's essentially when the fluids in the reservoir are not in the penis, the penis looks normal, flasso. Nobody can tell you how to. No one could tell. What about the pump? It's like a third testicle, but hidden. Wow. So most men who are single who have it implant, their partner has no idea. Holy cow. Yep. So it's completely hidden. It's completely locked and improved. The joke is of course if you leave it inflated all the time. I just got that last time. It's not so, you know, not so hidden. But you can decide when and when and where it's going to happen. And so it takes away all the anxiety and problems that people have when they're thinking about having problems with sex. So and on average these devices last half of them last 20 years. Right. So they tend to outlive most other prosthetics. They outlive breast implants, pacemakers, hip implants. These kind of things. It's amazing because they have functional parts. But at five years, 5% break, a 10 years about 10 to 15% willopro, can 15 years, 30% break. So they have a really long longevity. And most guys who get an implant will die with it working. The average age of implantations around 7 years of age or so. But wait, what's the average age of implantation? The average age of implantations is about 68 around 70. But would if someone came in who is younger? Yeah. Would there be any issue of let's say someone has major performance anxiety and their 50. Yeah. The strength of the implant is that it works really well every time. One of the weaknesses is that if other stuff still works, then you don't want to do an implant because that other stuff won't work anymore. I see. So it's a surgical decision. And once pills fail, that's the decision point. Do I want to try shots or do I want to do surgery? As a very reasonable look at the surgery if you don't like needles. It's covered like I said covered by insurance, completely invisible, very spontaneous. And the other thing which people always ask me is like, well, those are feel the same. The answer is yes. So both parties. Yes. Yes. Again, the partner doesn't know you have a plot prosthesis unless they're like in the medical profession. Or very, very observant for the man who gets the implant a sensation is essentially unchanged. Does it change the size of the penis? Great question. Like everybody else asks, can you add an intro to doc? Right? And again, like the answer is no. Essentially, Mother Nature gives you a certain length. And then you're kind of stuck with that. Now, there is debate as to whether or not when you get the implant, whether or not you lose a little bit of length. When we actually do good studies, the answer is no. But patients do have this perception because they tend to remember the majesty of their erection when they're 18. Compared to now when they have an head sex for 10 years, some men have this perception that means somewhat shorter. So you have really have to counsel about that. So as a surgeon, it's all about risk benefits ratios. And if a patient comes to me and says, doc, I want to have a consistent erection without having to use pills or shots without fear, but not working, they're going to be happy. Right? If they just want to penetrate an intercourse with their partner, if they come into the expectation that they're going to be enhanced, somehow in terms of lengthwise, they're going to be disappointed. So you really have to do a good job as a surgeon to make sure that the patient's understand that. And anybody, considering this type of surgery, really need to educate yourself as to the risks and benefits of any procedure. And then you'll end up happy. Love it when people are happy, both parties, mental health and erections definitely seem to be tied. You say, and you've said this before, that erectile dysfunction is one of the earliest signs of heart disease. What do you mean by that? Problems of the erections is like the check engine light, sign going off, or if the patient's failing, you should assume you're going to have problems with your heart soon until proven otherwise. Let me explain that. So we talked about earlier how blood flow into the penis is essential to get a good erection. The blood vessels going to the penis are one to two millimeters, the main ones. And the blood vessels in the heart are three to four millimeters. The blood vessels in the crudders, some day in the millimeter. So as athscroast this happens, this kind of endothelial plaque, the crud that grows inside the vessels as we age. And if we don't take care of ourselves especially, you get narrowing of those vessels. And as those vessels narrow, the small vessels will have dangerous signs first. So if you have ascorotic disease, according to many, many studies has been repeated several times, first problems of the erections happen. And then if you don't do anything and the disease progresses, the first heart attack typically occurs three, five years later. And then the first stroke a couple years after that. And then finally people have pain with walking, or something called clodication, because you start to get narrow into the femoral vessels, which are gigantic. But even those can manifest with pain and problems of blood flow as they narrow down. So because this narrowing typically follows this pathway, if you have problems with erections, it can predict heart attacks very reliably. And so the number one kind of risk factor in young men, and even older men, to predict heart disease, that doesn't have any other warning signs, it's the pain. And the beauty of this is that anything that is good for the ticker, the heart is good for the penis and vice versa. Right? So if you want to have better erections exercise, lose weight, eat right, get good sleep, mitigate stress. That will have positive effects on erections as powerfully as many pills do, if not better. And at the same time you're going to be on the right side of the grass, long her, because you're much less likely to have hard time. It makes me think as physicians screening, early detection screening. I wanted to take a moment to let you know about something new, we've created, it's called Forever Strong Insider. And it's the premium subscription to the Dr. Gabriel Lion Show. As a forever strong insider every week, you'll get ad free episodes, written summaries with key takeaways to help you retain the most important insights from the show, a community Q&A segment where you can submit your own questions for upcoming guests. We're going to call this the Strong Sea and behind the scenes content, a closer look at how I prepare, train, travel, and navigate daily life. Go to foreverstrong.supercast.com. Let's keep getting stronger together. How would someone know that they qualify for having a rectal dysfunction? Yeah, so the definition is a persistent problem with getting and maintaining erections adequate for intercourse for greater than three months? So let me be clear, many young men will have a bad night. Okay, maybe there's some alcohol involved or some other chemicals, maybe your nervous because you're with a new partner for the first time. Most men in their lifetime will have a couple episodes of performers anxiety. And so if it goes back to normal, after you kind of get your confidence back and often we have to give pills to make that happen, to get confidence back, then it's not a true warning sign for cardiac disease. But if it's a persistent problem, then indeed you should be at least screened for cardiac disease. And so recently there was a panel that I was involved with called a P4 Consensus Panel. And we basically wrote in this document that if men have problems with erections, you do an assessment of cardiac risk. And if they qualify which is most men, you should get a corner of calcium score. It's a CT scan of the heart which looks for for calcifications. And that's a really good also predictor of future heart events. In these recent guidelines, we know the evidence is so strong that the pain is a predictive of cardiac problems that we've also instituted this additional testing based on the diagnosis. It makes me also think about when you go to your physician for a regular annual physical. They might do an EKG, obviously blood pressure in office, glucose tick, maybe, a handful of things, listen your heart, listen your lungs. Do you think that if blood flow to the penis is an indicator of health? What it makes sense that we do a normal Doppler screening. Just like someone does, I don't know, an echocardiogram. Getting a peole Doppler is a very smart thing to do if you're worried. But frankly the easiest thing to do for the physicians to ask to you have problems with sex. That's the screen. And if the answer is yes, then that leads to more questions. And then let's turn around from a patient perspective. As a patient, you have to take responsibility for your own health. If you go to the doctor without a plan, a lot of things that you want to get addressed won't get addressed. If you have problems with sexual function as a man or woman, there are many, many good treatments available. But you have to ask, right, you have to be bold, you have to be courageous, you have to say, hey, I've been struggling with this. What do you think this means? And if you do that, you know, there's many benefits that will come from that question. And as physicians, we didn't need to do much better job of asking what to leave about this. The first time I ask a patient, they may be embarrassed, they may be shy. But then the second time that asked them, or the third time, now it becomes normalized. And now maybe they'll reveal this part of their life, or there hasn't to talk about the other thing that often happens in modern-day medicine. It is patients will come and they won't ask the question to the last 30 seconds. The hand, the verbal hand on the door knob question, right? So, if it's set them on a time with your physician in modern-day medicine, and as the doctors leaving, say, oh, by the way, there's this as well. No, do that. Because your short change, the ability to ask for their questions to get good treatment, ask the importance of first. That makes a ton of sense. And people come to you as a yearologist at Mayo Clinic, who is an expert in sexual health. They are coming to you. They might come and talk about their dog and all these other things. But at the end of the day, they are probably there and very motivated. Are you seeing a rectile dysfunction increase in our youth? In general, as our society gets less healthy, clearly erectile dysfunction rates will go up. All right. Again, if you look at metabolic disease disorders, diabetes, obesity, cardiac disease, these are all increasing with their society. And as these go up, problems with erections will occur as well. And if you think about it, the body has a primary job of protecting the brain and everything that supports the brain function. And as we become unhealthy, it makes intuitive sense that the body is willing to sacrifice a few of the organ systems here or there, whether it's fertility or erections, which aren't essential to keep you alive in that moment. And so, as an example of a patient has cancer, they'll often have a low sperm count, right? Because the body is diverting resources to take care of the primary problems. It doesn't have time to nurture the penis and keep that part healthy. So it makes intuitive sense that as we become an healthier problem of erections also occur. The other thing is, you know, psychogenic eddy. So psychogenic means like performance anxiety. Now, 50 years ago, a masher isn't Johnson started doing grombying research on sex. They said 90% of problems with erections is in the man's head. Okay, and 10% is organic. We know that to be completely opposite wrong. So 90% of erections are vascular or of, you know, true organic arts. And only 10% are purely psychogenic or from anxiety or depression. And so, what does that mean? That means that, you know, we need to screen for it. And if it is truly psychogenic, often we can support patients by increasing confidence. But again, as we get on healthier, problems with erections will get higher and higher. What role does alcohol and or cannabis use play in erectile dysfunction? But at while trying to have sex, alcohol and cannabis can have this kind of strange role. Sometimes it can make erections more difficult to achieve. Because again, the body is busy metabolizing alcohol, erectile performances often impaired. That is the most common scenario where somebody drinks too much and then tries to have sex and doesn't work. And then next time they try to have sex, they think about the last time it didn't work. And so this is literally the thought going through ahead. It's not going to work. It's not going to work. It's not going to work. So, you know, it's very interesting why that makes the penis fail. So, if you're running from a bear as a man, right? It clearly does not make sense to have a strong erection. Right? You want to death vest, resources away from the penis. The blood flow goes to your brain. So you can think clearly, run and then like make a good decision as to which direction to run. You want to shut blood towards the muscles. So you can escape and run faster. But obviously the penis is, you know, not a good thing to put energy into at that time. And so that's why when you're worried about erection, who try to have sex, it never works. Because your adrenal glands kick in, you make a little adrenaline. Adrenaline is the most powerful and interactive chemical that we have. Is it an account? Yeah. So adrenaline, the most powerful, anti-correctile chemical we have. If somebody has a privacy, what's a privacy when you have an unwanted erection, greater than a few hours where your penis really starts to hurt, it isn't subtle. You have to go to the restroom, go to the hurts so bad. We inject adrenaline directly into the penis and the erection goes away within seconds. The joke is you show the patient the needle and you use a giant needle. I'm going to stick this in there and then all of a sudden erection goes away. Your trigger, this natural adrenaline rush, which is what we use to make your go away. I did not know that. To be fair, I've never had to treat a privacy. Is that common? Prypism is most commonly occurs after men get a prescription for penal injections, a medicine that we give to create erections. And then occasionally we have patients that don't need these dividrucks, use them because I think it's going to be awesome. But what kind of medications are we talking about? Yeah, so these are every amount over there. And my previous response to take care. Yeah, so penal injections are various chemicals. We're just actually there are main jobist of phasodiality at the blood vessels in the penis that blood flows in. And so they go under the branded drugs like edex. But most men will use compounded agents, something called trimax, or it has a series of different chemicals all playing different roles to help improve blood flow. But it's safe and men who have problems with erections. But it can be a little sketchy if you don't have problems. So don't go for a good time. Yeah, it's not a good idea. And I guess the public service announcement part of this is like if you haven't ever have an erection that doesn't go away. First of all, it's not subtle. If you have to ask me if you think it's a preposum, you don't have preposum. It's like literally getting a lightning bolt to the penis. The penis would be going to be a scamic. There's no blood flow. Because essentially blood flows in, but can't flow out. So then you have oxygen deprivation. So it starts to hurt and it starts to hurt more and this is like 11 out of 10 erection. And if that happens, if you go to the emergency room and we take care of it right away, no problem. Then you'll learn your lesson. Never do that thing again that you just did. However, if you wait because you're embarrassed. And after 24 or after 36 hours of private room, it's broken forever. And what happens? Well, you get a scamic. So all the smooth muscle on the penis does. So it's like a heart attack of the penis. And that's one reason why men sometimes need a penal implants. Because once you have this devastating loss of a penal function, nothing except surgery with potentially fix it. Don't wait. Don't delay care. How big of an impact? You know, from a family practice or geriatric perspective, we use trasodone, firstly, at times. And not at high doses. There is a little black box warning that says this could cause privacy. I've never seen it. I don't know any physician that has seen it or any of the physicians in our practice. Is that something common or is that just a another black box warning that just has not died yet? Well, I think you're going to do great on the test because I always ask that question. But, you know, I have seen it before. And so a lot of this psychotropic medications that can be used that have central effects actually can cause privacy. And there's a really long drug list. Cannabis is not a really big one. That's prepistic. I mean, you can cause privacy. So we're seeing increasing rates of privacy in our mercy rooms now because it gives a legalization. And the social acceptance of cannabis. So this is another public service announcement. I think it's a great public service announcement because people believe many people believe that these drugs are benign, including cannabis. I personally don't think so. I think that the data would also suggest otherwise in various domains of health and wellness. Yeah, I think both alcohol and cannabis really disturbed REM sleep. REM sleep is critical for kind of the brain self healing for psychiatric wellness and for the production of hormones. So the vast majority of sex hormones are produced during REM sleep. So if you want to sabotage that, sleep lousy and you do a good job, you feel lousy as well. I'd like to acknowledge one of the sponsors of the show. And that is Puri. This podcast has allowed me to speak to extraordinary experts and they have one unifying message. There are only a few core compounds that we need in the diet. And one of those is Omega 3 fatty acids. Puri's O3 Ultra Pure Fish Oil, which is third party tested and certified by both the Clean Label Project and IFOS. So you know what you're putting in your body. It is safe, pure effective. It is tested for 200 contaminants and Puri publishes all their results online. I've teamed up with Puri to get you an amazing offer. 20% off site wide, even on already discounted subscriptions, which means you can save nearly a third off. All you have to do is go to peorepu-o-r-i.com slash doctor lion and use the code doctor lion at checkout. You mentioned exercise. Pinile Vascular Health. This is the first time I have probably ever said those words together. I'll just say I'm again, Pinile Vascular Health. Exercise increases blood flow. Absolutely. Are there things like I saw Austin Powers and he has the penis pump? It would also make sense if we exercise our muscle that perhaps something like that would also work. You know the guys may take advantage of the statement, but the penis is illusory or use it or lose it organ. When the penis goes in the garage, for an extended amount of time, meaning no erections like no sex, no physiological erections that normally occur in the middle night, why would that happen? You just had a prostate surgery and you had to stun the nerve, you have a significant diabetes. You basically just got into the point where the erections aren't happening very often. We know that men who don't get erections commonly get penal shortening. You lose length of the penis. Everybody wants to know how rapid and how much? Yeah, so on average, if you've got a consistent lack of erections for three months, you lose one to two centimeters of length, which is a half inch to an inch in length and every millimeter, guys fight for. That's a lot. It's significant. It's an even actually early in my career as I was a neurologist at the VA and we were doing prostate and surgeons. The patients would say after the prostate surgery is a doc. I think my penis is shorter. I'm like, no, no, you're just a little bit fat, or you're a bit more, and then they kept saying it. That was one of the first studies I ever did and we actually measured and it's true. Guys lost peanut length. The good news is that if you exercise the penis with a vacuum reaction device, you can regain that length back. So it's not about like physically shorting the penis, is about having scar tissue in the penis and if you have a uniform scar with a reaction that penis looks shorter. If you have a non-uniform scar, you get this curvature. That's one of these. Corrosisies is loss of elasticity on one side or one part of the penis and like a balloon, if you put a piece of tape on a balloon, you inflate it. The balloon's going to curve where that piece of tape is. That's a part of its disease. And again, that's something that's very common in men, about 10% of men, about age 50. 10% of men above age 50. You do support the use of what do you call it? The peanut and enhancement device? What are they? Yeah, so the vacuum reaction device. That's a vacuum reaction device. It's adjunctive tool to help men kind of rehab the penis. We often have men use it prior to surgery, to optimize length, to facilitate and ease your surgery through those areas to support that. Again, it's a user-lose at organs. So as a long-term treatment for synchiping problems, the vacuum reaction device is not awesome. You can imagine it was a partner and you're like carrying this thing around. Going through a TSA, going without TSA, for each other. Right. But we do have better treatments that are more subtle, more hideable, less embarrassing, surgery being one of them, pills being another. But yeah, I think vacuum devices play an important role. The other thing about vacuum devices that mentioned is that there's you can get blood to flow into the penis with this negative pressure, right? But then you take the cylinder off and the reaction goes away within 10 seconds. Right. So you have to somehow trap the blood. And trapping the blood we talked about in the beginning is a sense for keeping reactions. So as the veins become as they malfunction as we age, or if there's more scar tissue around the veins after fibrosis from surgery, for example, those veins no longer could be compress that, quickly. So what happens is blood flows in, but the veins don't get compressed like they should. So blood flows out at the same rate. Very similar to like a tire with a bunch of holes in it. Okay. So you can hook up an air compressor to the tire. It'll look like it'll get hard. But then it seems to start to drive on it goes flat. That happens with in men too. And so if men describe to me, hey, I can get a reaction, but then I lose it. When I start to try to have sex or when I, you know, with intermission, then I'll know that's probably Venus leak. And that Venus leak can be treated best with surgery. But the other thing you can try are these construction bands. We're essentially trying to crush the vessels from the outside. Never use a metal band on the penis. But also sounds really pained. Yeah, no. As you're all just to know, we've, I've had cases where I had to call in, use like a neurosurgical drill. We have the fire department, you know, try to cut off these metal rings. I had one gentleman using titanium ring. That is not a good plan. He's a good stuck. So if you're going to use a ring or a band to support a reaction, which is a reasonable thing to try, use something that is, you know, elastic. Yeah, there you go. That would make much more sense than something that doesn't expand. Thank you, Jay. One of the sponsors, the one in the only cozy earth. If your sheets feel like a paper towel from a gas station bathroom, life is too short. It's time to upgrade. I've been obsessed with cozy earth bamboo sheets. They're temperature regulating. Guaranteed to give you a comfortable night's sleep. Made from viscous from bamboo, holy cow. They're incredible. I just like to stay wrapped up. They help me sleep several degrees cooler. Cooler temperatures facilitate the body's natural, droving or temperature, which leads to faster sleep onset. And hey, if you are a woman who is experiencing night sweats, then these are your go-to sheets. And we've partnered with cozy earth to bring you a hundred night sleep trial. You can try these sheets during the hottest nights of the year. Well, I guess hopefully all your nights are hot. If you know what I mean, and if you don't love them, you can return them. Hascle free, but trust me, you won't want to. They have a 10 year warranty on all-betting products. Go to cozy earth.com and use the code Dr. Lyon Probtu, 40% off, best selling temperature regulating sheets, apparel, and more trust me. You'll feel the difference. Let's talk about drugs. And I have, and when I say drugs, I'm talking about PDE5 inhibitors, Viagra, Siallas. There was a massive review of 1.26 million people found that regular Siallas used reduced major cardiac events by 22% and lowered all cause mortality by 30%. Do you think there is a place for people that are healthy to be on these types of medications like Siallas? Yeah, if you ask me if there's data to support that for all patients, not yet, from a personal standpoint, I believe so. Like my read on the data is these are preventative drugs that can prevent significant disease. Do you know the story of Viagra? It's an interesting one. So Viagra was initially a drug developed and they were tested in England. And so it was initially a drug designed to treat angina chest pain. So you get all these men who have a history of chest pain, you give them Viagra. Say, okay, when you get the chest pain, take the drug, see what happens. Turns out, lousy drug for chest pain, like doesn't work. And so that's what Nitroglocentus, right? It reduces pain with lack of blood flow to the heart. And then the people who do in the study are like back to the drawing board and I'm like, son of the drugs back. And like they weren't getting a back. Like what is happening? Patients never keep these drugs. And so of course the patients noted that their penis was working better on these drugs. That's how Viagra was born. It was initially a heart drug for angina, but then we developed into a penis drug. And Siallas had a similar history. And so it's not that surprising as we look back at the data, which has been in front of us now for 20 to 25 years. The men who take these drugs consistently seem to have a much lower risk of heart disease. The mechanism is unclear. It probably has to do with endothelial health, the inner lining of the blood vessels, being healthy, has to do with maybe decreasing clotting in the major blood vessels. You get drugs like Viagra and Siallas still don't have felt to Dalafil, or the names if you take them not only do they help erection. We also discover that Tidalafil, which is a drug that stays in your bloodstream for 24 hours. Used to be called the weakender. It actually helps with urinary symptoms as well. And then now it helps with these urgency, frequency, getting up in the middle of the night type symptoms. So Tidalafil has an FDA indication for urinary symptoms or lots lower urinary tract symptoms. And so I write for these drugs a lot. Because I find every excuse I can to get them to men whether they have problems with erections or they have problems with urinary urination or and then they get this likely benefit of cardiac protection. So it's like this triple threat drug, which by the way is like 25 cents a pill. You can get a prescription through Mark Cuban's Pharmacy or GoeterX.com literally three months for 30 bucks. So even if insurance doesn't pay for it, it's worth it. And so we're retaining you use these drugs and they're massively effective, restore confidence, probably good for you overall, help with urination. I mean, it's great. There are downsides any pill, but you know, they're relatively low with this class of drugs 1 in 33 men will stop because of the side effects. 1 in 33 that can include headache, facial flushing, maybe worsened reflex disease, but 32 out of 33 men are like, I'm good. I'm going to take the re-flux, give me extra flushing and this is Cialis. 5 Miller, is it? Do you prescribe 5 milligrams of Cialis daily? We do too. And so Nick. That's going to be the most effective because it's in your bloodstream constantly. So if you if you believe the data that it's a cardiovascular protective and make sense, you need to have it in your bloodstream the whole day, as opposed to like a window which by Agar or Sudenofl, which you can give you a four hour window of efficacy, whereas Cialis is 24 You only see men to be fair, right? For the most part, yeah, especially where I am now my job and primarily men's health, you see a lot of women for stones when I was in Springfield, Illinois, stones are very, very common for your all the time. Yes, did you at that time use Cialis in women? This is a study that clearly needs to be done for a variety of reasons. Number one, you are overactive bladder. This is symptoms where people have to piece so often that negatively affects their life. And like 40% of all humans above age 50 have overactive bladder. And this really, 40%? It's super, super common. You know, my dad's always saying, I have BPH, I'm being a hunter times an eye. It gives, let's me meditate. I love to dive into that because there's a lot of misconceptions about the prostate being at fault for everything. But when we get older, we get physiologic changes in the bladder. So like the bladder capacity goes down and our sense of urgency and the sense of stretch is increased. So we end up being more often at lower volumes. There's like many things as we get older, things tend to get worse. As you when you're a baby when you're born, the bladder squeeze is one of one of one of one's two. And then age four or five, the bladder takes commands from the brain. Says, no, no, you can't squeeze now. I'm in public. I can't pee my pants. And so you learn this confidence. But as we age like many things, the bladder kind of goes rogue and just ignores the brain's advice and just squeeze the one who wants to. So patients thought they'll put keys in the door, they'll hear running water and optionally get this crazy urge you go the bathroom. And if you're lucky, you make it in time. If you're unlucky, you don't have a bathroom there, you're more likely to have accidents. And so women, like one of the main reasons women visit your knowledge is for urinary incontinence. Not only stress incontinence, from when you cough or sneeze you do's urine, but this urgent incontinence. You know, this is very, very common, but men also have urgent incontinence. And so this can be treated by addressing bladder health. And so that's why I think a study is long long overdue for women to see if C.L.S. will help with these erected bladder symptoms like they do in men because they do. And then is a carded protective in women. These are questions that need to be answered with a randomized controlled trial. If a woman was taking C.L.S. in the indication would not be, I suppose it would be off-label for overactive blatters. Yep. Yep. Because we still get indication to be off-label. But off-label doesn't mean wrong. Totally. Right. And a lot of patients will think, you know, this is off-label. This is running out. Off-label means as a physician, I have to tell you the risk is about a pit of this therapy and then you decide if it's right for you, just like many other things in life. So yeah, it's a study that needs to be done. And there have been studies to look at sexual function and these classo drugs. And it does increase blood flow to the genitalia. Sexual function and orgasm and women is a lot more complicated, sophisticated, a lot of other things have to happen to orgasm to occur. There isn't this obvious yes, no penis heart penis soft kind of thing in women. And so these drugs have been disappointing for sexual function in women. However, it doesn't mean they they might not help. Thanks to one of the sponsors of the show, bond charge band. If you're a mom out there and you've been carrying a whole team, I got a different form of therapy for you. And that is red light therapy. And listen, good light impacts sleep hormones mood and even your ability to recover and focus. Bond charge has created science back tools to help me live in better alignment with my circadian biology. Artificial light is overloading us. They have blue light blocking glasses that are staple in our house. They have red light, they have red light light bulbs. They also have infrared pmf mats to help chill my body relax my muscles and support full body recovery. If you've never tried red light therapy, this is the time to do it. They have some of the best devices that I've ever seen great for skin, might have control health and overall resilience. If you care about your skin, if you care about your sleep, if you care about your body and want to try something new, check out bondcharge.com slash doctor lion, use the code doctor line to get 15% off your entire order. Simple, proven, designed, do support your biology. I want to hear about the bladder. You brought it up. I think it's a great topic. Now, I have heard you say that one in seven men who see a urologist already have irreversible bladder damage. It's crazy, but we did a big study where we looked at men visiting urologist. We tested them and they tested in this zone where we called, you know, the bladder was no longer squeezing, like it can. The bladder is a big old pump. Over men's lifetime, the bladder has to empty through the middle of the prostate and out of the urethra. As women go over, get older, they don't have problems with the pump getting weak because their urethra is relatively short, and they don't have this prostate which can get bigger with time. But men, they have a prostate which gets bigger as we age. So, very similar to problems with the erections. So, 50% of 50 year olds will have in a large prostate, 80% of 80 year olds so on and so forth, and of the men with a large prostate have to be symptomatic. So, if you have this pump which is struggling to empty because it's trying to squeeze urine through the middle of this donut, which is the prostate, the bladder gets tired after a while. It's a pump that fails. And if men allow that to progress, one in seven come to me and that the pump's already got, what does that mean for them? Well, either they'll need to catharize the rest of the life to get the urine out, either in and out or have a catheter in, or they'll need a very aggressive surgery in the hopes that they'll be able to pee on their own by what we call credaewoining bearing down. They're basically just pushing the urine out. So, it can be avoided if when men get symptoms, they go to the doctor relatively early and either they get a surgery early because that's the best way to preserve the pump. What would the symptom be that they are just getting what it'd be urinary retention or this feeling where they're having to go a lot but they can't go and feeling like there is urine still that they still have to pee? Yeah, it's the former. It's pushing or straining to go. Men who can't empty their bladder effectively. Right, so one test we'll do is we'll have guys pee in the machine. We'll measure how strong the stream is. We'll give them a score and then that can be predictive of the need for surgery, et cetera. But more importantly, we measure how much the left behind after they go. And if that number is zero, you're good. However, if that number starts climbing, you pee out 400, you leave a 100 behind. You wait another year, you pee out 300, you leave 200 behind. Pretty soon, the ratio is nothing comes out and you leave everything behind. So that is the best way to kind of predict this loss of bladder function is by seeing how much is left over. Other signs can include annoying or not emptying so that can suddenly lead to frequency getting infections. Right? Yeah, because your infection infection infections because our number one defense against infection is peeing out the bacteria. And if you are not into your bladder well, basically there's like a little swamp in there or the bacteria like swim around having a field day and then manifesting with infections. How would a woman know that she has the equipment? Women will very rarely have these obstructive symptoms because they don't have the hardware to cause the bladder to malfunction. But the important lesson here is that the bladder causes this mischief. It wants to squeeze all the time and there are many lifestyle factors that lead to more bladder mischief and make me have to be more often and make you miserable. But and so sometimes a man will come to your doctor. My prostate is horrible and no they have the same thing that women have this overactive bladder. Yourologist's job is to separate like what the problem is. But for men that have struggling the urine, you have to rule out the pump problem because if you don't, you're going to have to get a catheter life long and that's not what you want to believe me. In terms of what can we do about the overactive bladder, this kind of irritative symptom type of thing, not pushing or straining but having to go off and running to the bathroom, having to get up the millenight, like basically having accidents when you don't want to. These are bladder behaviors. So not not prostate behaviors. That's that's we have talked about this. We need to clarify this. You have also said which I thought was brilliant. How many times you pee in the middle of the night can predict the likely hood of death? So big men analysis. I think from 2015, men analysis when you take all the best literature you combine it and you try to come up with conclusions. So this has been an analysis of that men who have nocturia that's greater than two times at night. They get up three times a pair or more or 30% more likely to die of all causes. Hard attacks, this kind of thinks. Now does that mean that if you pee three times in the middle of the night you're doomed? Of course not. This is not a causal relationship. It's a correlating relationship. Meaning the answer probably is that if you're getting up three times a millenight to pee you've got other stuff going on. One, do you have sleep apnea where you can't sleep soundly and that's making it pee more often. Two, do you have a demon in your legs because you have heart failure? You get to pee more off in the middle of the night. Three, you have metabolic abnormalities. You have diabetes, you have to make sure you pee more often. All these kind of potential risk factors will make you pee more. So it's the fact that your pee tells me you're unhealthy. If you again, if you mitigate that on healthiness, if you lose weight, you start to exercise, you reverse your diabetes. Guess what? You won't pee as often. A lot of these things are reversible life with human bodies amazing. If we treat it right. Is there a normal amount of time someone gets up? Again, I'm thinking about my dad shout out to Nate in Ecuador, probably embarrassed. He often says, okay, while I'm waking up in the middle of the night, two, three, again, he lost me at three to go to the bathroom. Yeah, he is 74. Would that be prostate? Would that be bladder? Would it be impossible to tell? Yeah, so it's typically unusual to have to get up in the middle of the night, less than age 50. Once fine. But once you're starting to get more and more off and we know as we get older, again, the bladder loses capacity. As we get older, we tend to make less hormones that prevent us from being in the middle of the night, specifically we make less 88. If you have sleep apnea, the body perceives this lack of breathing as high blood pressure to the chest. And so it sends out Nate, your Adriatic peptide, which makes us spill salt into the urine which pulls food with it. So again, these other medical comorbidities will make us have more nocturia. So I'd say if you're getting up more than three times at night, you first should look at lifestyle factors. And then obviously look to improve the other metabolic components that we just discussed. But yeah, you're at risk for other things because that's a warning sign that's going on. It's really interesting because just again, it's a practicing physician training in safety on the medicine and even geriatric sort of being here some flow max. See you next time. It's a very dangerous approach. One, you're making the assumption that it's the prostate, it could be bladder. It could be the fact that this person's drinking eight liters a day and we can talk about bladder, it's in some sort of different way. We definitely talk about bladder engines because you just killed half the list. I just see. The other thing though is that flow max is a drug that, you know, it's tampsoles and there's all the other drugs which will improve the strength of the stream. But it doesn't protect the pump. So actually the worst thing you can do for guys with obstructive symptoms is to give them flow max because then you won't seem again for another 10 years. But by the time that's come back, now the bladder has had the damage that's unreversible, irreversible. So flow max is not a drug that will protect you long term. So if you have true prostate enlargement, I'm an enthusiast for early intervention that is doing procedures that will help take away some of the resistance of the process. So men, p-better and they protect their long term bladder function. You can use medications to have this effect as well and these drugs are typically favorize the ones that actually physically shrink the size of the prostate, kind of a chemical surgery if you will. These drugs will prevent the need to go to the emergency room because you can't pay the need for surgery in the future. But if you just give somebody full max and say, you know, see when I see you're at high risk for having that person have long term bladder damage. It's a really important message. I do think that it is very common where people think it is, again, and part of that is media which is also another reason I'm so excited to have you on and that you speak all the time, but to have you on to podcast is huge and you're able to reach a lot of people just by having the conversation. I was very disappointed to see your lifestyle changes for urinary frequency notes extremely disappointed. I'm going to share this list. I just want to let you know that you have ruined my Wednesday. Not even going to be drinking anymore carbonation. Right down there, the seeds of urinary frequency consumption caffeine, constipation, cocktails, coke zero, you just hurt my heart, citrus, also hurt my heart, carbonation, cigarettes, I don't smoke couch potato, not doing that. Cap Cason, spicy foods, we're not friends any longer. Talk to me about this. Yeah, so if you're having your own frequency that bothers them to you, the big three are how much you can write the money. Are of it? Yeah. The more you drink, the more you pee. This is just simple math. Obviously we need to drink a certain amount to be healthy, but you know, the person who said you need to drink a glass of water per day may have been selling water. So everything is about responses. And if you are miserable because you're paying all the time, try to cut fluids to some of the green seed that helps. The second biggest thing we see is caffeine. So caffeine acts as a diuretic and also makes us pee in small amounts so inefficiently. And the higher dose, the more it affects us. So if you're going frequently, if you have several cups of coffee, you'll notice that the frequency always is around the time you drink coffee, coffee or caffeine. Constipation is a huge one. So the bottle and the bladder share real estate. And if you're really conspating, you struggle with that, not only are there probably neural pathways or nerve relations between the two organ systems, if the rectal vault is filled with gas and stool, it's literally squishing the bladder. Your bladder capacity is decreased and you have to go more often. So a lot of guys that's joggle are in guys and gals struggle with urinary free because you get constipation under control. They're better. Same with little kids, right? Little kids when they have accidents at school, when they have accidents at midnight, it's almost always constipation. You fix that, like it's better. That's a great parenting tip. I didn't know that. And some of the other ones, which you mentioned, they can be more of a risk for some individuals than others. Right? So humans are genetically variable for some people of the spicy foods that's capsized and they'll have to be every 15 minutes. Some people are really sensitive to carbonation. Some people are more sensitive to artificial sweeteners like those in Coke Zero. So I have problems remembering stuff. So I basically try to put the letter C in front of everything to remember what things can trigger bladder over activity. Speaking of bladder, let's suppose I should get this right. Move up. I better get this right considering I'm married to a urology resident, kidney stones. Who gets them? And how frequent is it? Is it men versus women? Is there prejudesosing factors? Let's talk about it. Can you spell this in fact about 10% of all humans? There's predominance and men over women, slight predominance. The main risk factors for forming stones is lack of food consumption. So this is the other end of the scale. We just talked about overconsumption. Underconsumptions of fluids is the number one risk factor for stones. Right? And when you form stones, like all the time in Texas because it's always hot here. So in your sweating. I almost burst into flames when my plane landed here as I got off. Yeah, very hot here in human. But basically, if you're dehydrated chronically, you're at risk for stones. The other things that are very important are salt consumption, an excessive artificial sugars or true sugars they tend to form more stones. The bottom line is also there's a strong genetic predisposition. So if you have somebody who, you know, had a dad or a brother was still and you're more likely to get them. And they're very, very common. If you drink more, you can prevent them. And if you think about this, I tell my patients this analogy. Like, if you're constantly flooding the kidney with all this extra fluid, there's no way a stone can start to form in the kidney and then eventually pass and caution addings. So if you're like, if you're in a like, in Minnesota, we, we like, well, it's never hot. Where it's really hot. It's really hot. It's really cold for another nine months. Sometimes people will go down a river in an inter tube. And so I say it to patients like you're going down the river in the inter tube. Imagine you're a small particle at the bottom of that lazy river and how, as every second goes by calcium or different mineral start to add to the size of the stone. But now if you switch to a white water rafting part, which we don't have in a sort of, by the way, but we don't. No, no, not that exciting in terms of a state for that kind of activity. There's no way of a stone conform. So the inside of the kidney is like that lazy river, if you don't drink enough, but if you consume enough fluid, you're very unlikely to form stones. As simple as that, would there be certain things that could predispose people to stones? For example, I've heard very high dose vitamin C. Does it seem to be different for every person? Again, because you had said, some people artificial sweeteners might be an irritant to one person versus somebody else. Yep, biological variability applies to everyone. But high dose vitamin C can be a risk factor excess calcium. So both too much calcium and too little calcium. Dietary calcium or bad to recalcine me, okay. You know, your gut has to reabsorb calcium and if there's too much in the gut, it spills over into the blood. So actually the recommendity amount, allowance of calcium, it's probably the right amount. The extremes of either end are stone promoting. But again, the number one way to prevent stones is to drink more fluid. Real lemon juice added to fluids, also actually prevents stones through some citrate metabolism, some ways that we get away. Guys and gals who form recurrence stones will often be put on a potassium citrate, a pill that alkalizes the urine and thus prevents stones. The bottom line is if you form a kidney stone, you gotta figure out why if you form a second kidney stone, you need extensive testing and figure out what medication you should get prevent them. From what I hear, they're very painful. Yep. Yep. I've seen many tough individuals, be not so tough because of the pain I don't wish that on anybody. There is something I do wish on people and that is muscle mass. $3,000, $3, wait, is that number right? I spent more money on skincare. My pores should be taxed deductible, maybe even have their own trust fund. And thank goodness that I found one skin. Because one skin, it doesn't just make empty promises, it's research driven, minimalistic and tested for beauty, skin health and longevity. One skin is the first topical skincare backed by peptide science that targets skin aging at the molecular level. I slather this on all day. They have a peptide that is designed to reduce the accumulation of dead cells or zombie cells that drive inflammation tissue breakdown as we age. Now, this isn't about cosmetic quick fixes. It's about changing the biology of your skin. Strengthening the barrier, improving firmness, hydration, elasticity with clinically tested ingredients. So, if you are focused on aging well from the inside out, it's time also to think about your skin. It should get the same level of care. Go to 1skin.co for 15% off use the co-doctor line. It is amazing and it will break the bank. You gave an amazing presentation at the hydrogen society and just recently at Baylor because I heard from the residents. There is a connection between muscle mass, sarcopenia and sexual function. Absolutely. Muscle mass is imperative for longevity. If you want to live a long time, you have to move iron, you've got to be strong. You've got to keep it that way. We have this age related sarcopenia where you will lose muscle as you get older, relate to hormone production. But if you fight to be elite in our age now, I'm going to put us as young. We'll be fine when we're 90. So, that's my paradigm. We're right now we're in preparation for a geriatric to catholons. This is Peter T. Scott said it's amazing. So, you've got to be really healthy now. So, muscles does so many things in your book forever strong. Talks about the metabolic capacity as one of the biggest organs humans have to control insulin sensitivity to control inflammation and it's not surprising at all. Then when you look at well-done studies, men with more muscle mass have better erections. Men with less muscle mass have horrible erections have low libido of lower testosterone. It's all about overall health. Again, think to the paradigm about how the body is willing to give away its erectile function, even as to sacrifice something, but it's going to keep brain function. And as we get sicker and unwell, the penis is the first to go. So, don't get on well. Stay strong. So, when men train, when men lose weight, when men gain muscle erections get better, aerobic activity is as powerful as P5 inhibitors. The drugs like siallas that we talked about earlier in helping with erections, a modest 10% decrease in body weight is as powerful as pills in helping with erections. Not only all the other benefits of keeping on the right side of the grass. So, again, if you take good care of your body, your body will take good care of you. Anything you do for penis health is good for cardiac health. So, it is not surprising at all. There's a direct correlation between muscle mass, strength, grip strength and erectile quality. You just got the attention of every male listener. The planet. Yeah. Good. Or at least, uh, because we're listening to the show because who doesn't want better erectile function and better penis health. And you know, just to jump in, we use the penis as a fault group for behavior change. It is very difficult for the average man to change your behavior if you tell them listen, your blood pressure is 8.2 high. But if you tell them listen, if you lose a little bit of weight, if you start exercising, just minimal gains, 150 minutes, a week of exercise, 30 minutes, five times a day. You'll see tremendous improvement. And so we can use this as a fault group to get guys to be healthier. In Canada, the cigarette packages have like this flacid cigarette on the side. And it basically says smoking is bad for your erections. So, we should lean into this fact and get people to be healthier because yes, sexual function is very sensitive to oral health. And we should use it as a way to get people to is there a dose? You said 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous activity. Is there a known specific dose that is good for penis health or bascular health primarily? I mean, I know that we're talking about bascular health in general. But again, as a urologist, I thought that we would focus on your organ of longevity, the urologist organ of longevity versus my definition. Do we know as a reduce study by Jang and all, I think from last year, 2024, they looked at the enhanced data, which is like a community cohort database from like the early 2000s and basically have found that 150 minutes of exercise per week decrease the rate of rectal dysfunction by 20 percent, 300 minutes by essentially 40 percent. Something very close to that. So, you know, intense the duration as it gets higher, you get improvements. There is eventually a plateau, it's like if you do a thousand minutes or not, you can get perfect erections. But even a modest amount of exercise really moves the needle. And then if you're really exercising three or two minutes a week, that's an hour, five days a week, which is a good great goal. You'll see a 40 percent improvement in erections. I'm going to just lay out a handful of other statistics and numbers because I think they're so powerful. Studies showing men who maintain muscle mastering are 66 percent less likely to report multiple sexual issues. Older men, this was fascinating but not surprising. Sarcopina was linked to 2.7 times greater risk of moderate to severe ED. Both of studies are, you know, excellent in that, you know, a lot of them are self-reported studies and where the people are quantifying their own strength. The one study about the muscle mass, that's from like a bunch of Scandinavian patients and the people who reported that they still were had awesome erections. The people who said, yeah, I feel a little bit weaker than when I was 10 years ago, they had lousy erections and lousy libido too. What is the role of testosterone and erectile function? It testosterone is essential to a certain point. So if you have normal testosterone and you give more testosterone, testosterone, there typically isn't added benefit. So a mistake you'll make is like assuming if somebody comes over the normal, you check their T, it's normal, but they approms the erections. Again, the testosterone is typically doesn't fix the problem. Remember the main eology of erectile dysfunction is probably the aculor blood flow problem. So you got to fix the blood flow. If testosterone is very low, then penis ain't going to work. How would you define very low? Well, you know, if you want to use the scientific definition, a repeated measurement of testosterone less than 300 or free testosterone less than 5. So if it's low, if you give testosterone back to those men, they typically will see a better better erections, especially when they're trying to use pills. Cialis, biogur, they rely on testosterone for nitric oxide, synthet synthetase or the chemicals that are required for erections. If your T is low and you give T back, the pills work better. Again, I just can't stress enough though. If you take your carrier self, your T will stay normal. There's data where, you know, people who are lucky and there's 70s and 80s, the testosterone is way higher than people who look unwell. My dad's been really low. Yeah. My let's just throw nit dog on to the bus again. We ran his labs and I'm looking at this testosterone of over 700. No, that's amazing. And I would argue that the best single blood test for overall health and men is testosterone. And women maybe, but maybe there's a ratio we need to look at and then along those same same lines, the best overall marker for overall health and men is erectile function. Why? Because you have to have excellent vasculine integrity, excellent overall health. And the penis requires normal mental health. If you're anxious, if you're depressed, the penis ain't going to work. So you can be in great physical shape, but if you're unwell from a psychiatric perspective, whether it's depression or whatever it is, anxiety because you're having stress at work. Again, the penis ain't going to function well. So all systems have to be on full go for the erections to be awesome. So that's a really reassuring thing. If you're a 70 year old and you're getting great erections, you're probably pretty healthy. Is there a point of no return? For example, when we image the brain and we see microvascular disease of the brain, the brain is arguably a large very active organ. There is a lot of it. The brain can make a for itself meaning it's not just appendentificly in this one area, but the penis is smaller. If there is vascular damage to the penis, is there a ability to recover? Two limited extent, like many other things, but sometimes you get age-related, you know, vasculine disease, maybe it's untreated hypertension for a long time, or you have a significant atlaschorotic, a narrowing or plaque, or maybe a smoke for a long time. Sometimes the damage is so extensive that no matter how much you exercise, no matter how many pills you take and ain't going to work. Yes, there is a point of no return. Very avoidable if you never get there the first place, but that's where surgery comes in. For men who may have had a reason that their penis has failed them or maybe had appeared in their life or their own healthy, we can restore normal sexual function with surgery. Often times we can restore it with lifestyle challenge, but not always. And so take your care yourself and put them even with fails, there's no reason to give up hope. We can fix it. I have a question that I don't know if you've ever seen and I don't even know if it's a thing. Is there ever something where penis cannot get an erection, maybe it's a genetic defect, a vascular church? All the time, really? Yeah, all the time. So when I look at the age range of patients that I put in a peeling implant in, it's 18 to 98. All right. So that's, you know, if anybody out there is 100 years old, please come see me because I want to say I put an implant in a 100 year old. So then I'm here, your old did great by the way, but some people are born with this congenital venous leak, where the venous trapping just doesn't work, or some men are born with some kind of a genetic defect, or whatever it is, where they've never had a good erection at their entire life. Some had patients come to me where they're actually having pain with their erection because they've never stretched the penis before. Wow. So, but, you know, the surgery can fix it. And there are many men who have never had an erection in their entire life. Like age 16, 17, 18. We see them for the first time. It's like never had a good one. So that's fixable. That's treatable. You know, I'm really grateful that that surgery is available and can be done and can be done well. Seeing you in San Francisco, you gave a great lecture. And I have never seen a doctor, an MD, talk about moving iron, eating protein, and building muscle all in the same sentence with testosterone replacement therapy. Please tell me what some of your thoughts are regarding what people are actually after. I, when I was in Spruff, Illinois at the beginning of part of my career, I was lucky enough to meet a guy named Chad and we've actually published some works together on animal ox steroids. We've given some talks together. And so, you know, I consider myself a curious guy. And when he came to me for help, I learned a lot more from him than I could help him. And then I really kind of dove into the literature. When I asked Chad, hey, you know, tell me about super physiologic T levels, like what dose you're using and what I'm talking about, super physiologic T levels, I'm referring to consistent testosterone levels greater than a thousand. So bodybuilders, you know, they'll go for T levels of 3, 4,000 or they won't even check. They'll just go super high and just give, take more if any work. And I wanted to know what the motivations were as to why people would start. I had some intuitive thoughts, but I wanted to ask someone who was an expert. And then a huge fan of yours, I'm also a huge fan of Mike Israel as well. And the way he communicates testosterone use and working out and getting fit, I mean, I'm a huge consumer, like I've changed how I worked out because I'm now 50 because I don't want to injure myself, right? So I've taken a lot of advice to and so I wanted to know, okay, what is the main motivation for a lot of people to start, you know, super physiologic T on the two main ones, there are many, but the two main ones are athletic performance and essentially looking good or vanity, I'm going to say. Now athletic performance, I think Chad summed up pretty well is that if you need help from testosterone to perform well in high school, to be elite in high school, you're not good enough. If you need help in college to perform a really level with because of steroids, you're simply not good enough. Because by the time you ascend to the pros, like you likely get caught, you won't be able to use it and you won't be good enough. So you have to have this natural ability to become a professional athlete and you're also probably be testosterone sensitive, you have to be sensitive to a lot of the agents that people use to have the outcomes that you desire. But if you're using these drugs to be good at sports, you're never going to be a pro. That's the unfortunate reality. Not too much in the fact that you have to somehow navigate and not get injured along the way, which again, a lot of people are amazing, but then they blow out their knee or whatever, and then their career is done. The more interesting one, the more interesting one, and the one that I think needs more attention is to use these drugs for aesthetics. And I get the appeal because when you work out naturally and you do great, you're probably gain about 10 pounds of muscle in a year. If you're doing everything perfectly, you no better than I do. Your book goes over this beautifully. But if you add high dose of steroids to it, and there's a lot of science behind this, and there's a lot of data, you know, you can gain that 10 pounds of muscle in about a month. So it's just so much more efficient. And you know, there's a huge appeal there, and I'm not here to tell people, don't do this or do this, but I want people to know the true risks and benefits. The thing is, if you're chasing this aesthetic with these type of drugs, you're much more likely to look worse than better. And why do I say that? Well, because just because you take high dose testosterone,cipinator, and an antigenate, along with many other drugs, it doesn't mean you're going to be, you know, shredded. It doesn't mean you're going to have 8% body fat and look amazing with your shirt off. Most people, first of all, you have to be sensitive to the drugs, and you have to have perfect training, and perfect nutrition, which is really difficult for everybody to do. There's books about it. You know, it can be done, but it takes discipline. And so that's a baseline requirement. And then you take these drugs, and then there's the potential negative consequences. Like 50% of people get significant acne. So you're never going to want to take your shirt off if you've got horrible acne everywhere, or if you're growing hair in places that you don't want and you're balding. And so the vast majority of people who take these like appearance enhancing drugs, they'll actually look worse and not better. Not to mention that a lot of humans have this fantasy that if they look a certain way, they're going to be more attractive. But when you ask people what they find attractive, being hyper muscular or being super jacked, is not the top of us for many individuals. So if you're leaning into use, these types of agents to look better. Number one, it may not work, unless you have perfect training otherwise. And number two, there's a lot of downsides in risk. We didn't even go into the kind of negative things like subtdeth or heart problems, these depressions, who's sideality. But to use that as a lever to get to a certain look, I think is a mistake. Based on my read literature. Well, I'm looking forward to having you back on the show. Dr. Tobias Kohler, it has been an absolute pleasure. You are a gift to the world of urology and just an amazing and really fun human. Thank you so much for coming on. Thank you so much for having you. It's a huge honor. What you do here is so important. We did a recent trial or study what we looked at. Health media consumption. Like 93% of all kind of internet material related to fitness health is was rated low quality. I'm using these methods discern method that we use in this paper. I'm proud to say that you're one of the great ones. You're getting the right information out there and letting the public decide what's best for them and you're promoting positive, healthy lifestyle that ultimately is the most important lever we have to be happy and live a long time. I really appreciate that and the reason that we are great is because we have great world class guests. So thank you so much for coming on. Appreciate it.

Welcome to the Dr. Gabriel Line Show. In this episode, I sit down with Dr. Mike Isertel. He is probably most famous for being the founder of RP Strength, which is hands down one of the best strength and hypertrophy training programs out there. And that's exactly why I wanted him on the show. In this episode, we talk about how muscle, skeletal muscle, is life or death. Number two, what you need to do exactly how do you maintain hypertrophy, strength, and ultimately power. Muscle is the organ of longevity. As always, this information is free. Please take a moment to like, subscribe, share this episode with a friend, and maybe an even older friend. If you like this kind of content, go to my website, doctor, gabrielline.com, sign up for my free newsletter. We won't spam you, but what we will do is bring you the most. Up to date, evidence-based information right to your inbox. No gym required. Dr. Mike Isertel, thank you so much for coming on the show. In fact, you're a legend, so much of a legend that Dr. Pat Davidson said that you should be in person here, but we'll settle for remote because you are so epic. Oh my god, well I'm honored. And Dr. Pat Davidson is a legend in his own right, so, and he's prone to exaggerating on other people's behalf. So I promised at this point, that's one thing I can guarantee you. One of the reasons that I really want to have you on is, number one, you do such a great job at explaining all things, hypertrophy, skeletal muscle health, strength, but you do it in a way that is evidence-based and replicatable. So you have many programs, you discuss many protocols, and I appreciate that, and I know that the listener and the viewer and everybody who is aging quite frankly needs that. Thank you so much. Yeah, aging is really fun and everyone should look forward to it. Just kidding. I guess, yeah, there is a lot to say about maximizing muscle growth. Especially when you're aging, because of course, when you're 22 years old, I mean, your concerns kind of involve like where is my next alcohol binge coming from? But when you get a bit older, you start to think, well, okay, maybe I'm more concerned about my appearance and you get even older than that. You get to be concerned about, especially two things of relation to muscle, and that is your ability to ambulate and move through the world. You know, if you have low enough muscle mass, it starts to impact your strength in a way that's not like, oh, it's spare strength. You don't need it. It's like difficult to getting off the couch physically. And that's a problem. And the other part of muscular size that really helps with aging is that muscle is a huge reservoir of essentially a glucose disposal sink among other things. And what it does is it keeps you very metabolically healthy, sort of to some extent, the more that you have the better and thus for those two reasons, especially older folks. Probably could be concerned with their levels of muscularity. And they generally aren't on mass currently. And that's definitely some room for improvement there. Do you think that that is really missed among the general population and in somewhat of health and wellness for the aging trajectory? And here's where I'll frame it. It seems that in the 60s, there was this change over to recognize the importance of exercise, but it really was focused on cardiovascular and aerobic type exercise. And that became where a lot of the ACS and guidelines seem to have put their energies or these other guidelines to talk about aerobic exercise for cardiovascular health. Yeah, absolutely. And I think later on there was an evolution where strength training, phrased exactly like that, strength training, became something that was talked about more and something that was promulgated by more formal organizations such as the ACS but a lot of the benefits of strength training are actually the benefits of increase in muscularity. It would seem most of the metabolic benefits, perhaps all of them, are dependent on muscle gain to put this intellectually. If you manage to gain strength as an older individual, somehow without gaining much or any muscle metabolic benefits and the benefits to health and longevity will be minor, potentially not at all. And so my suspicion as the reason strength training was the term they used and what they pushed. The strength training seems significantly more palatable and significantly less. How do I say it best? Egoistic and predisposed with appearances. It seems like it's pretty vain to train for muscular hypertrophy. And also, I think it's a way to convince women low key to start doing the resistance training that is so beneficial especially to women, especially to Caucasian women who are older for the anti-astoeopinic and osteoporotic benefits, essentially getting stronger bones and end up snapping your femur just by standing up off of the couch. And I think women in general, on average, of course, is changing. I'd say that a moderate pace now used to be changing slowly. Women are a little bit of avers culturally or genetically or some combination of that to gaining muscle. I'm sure you've had your fair share of estimate based on your expertise and your appearance, hundreds of conversations with women that say, well, you don't want to become Ronnie Coleman by accident if I lift a pink dumbbell. We're not trying to do that. It's a terrible problem that's really besieging America, women who for the one rep of curls become an IFBD professional body builder by accident. And so a lot of females especially, it's tough to say, hey, look, you've got a train for muscle growth. Because like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, I want to be slim and trim and toned. And so if you phrase it as muscle hypertrophy, maybe that's like, scientists are kind of like, yeah, I don't worry. It's all medical and stuff and they're like, okay fine. But I think a lot of folks are more and more interested in truth and less interested in how things are couched and phrased to them. And I would say, hopefully, slash in some measure in reality, as you get older, you're kind of like more interested in the real deal. I think one thing I do say when I speak to largely older female audiences is, I do this kind of rhetorical thing. It's a little funny. I think it's funny. They usually hate it. But I say, listen, you know, like, what's the problem with putting on muscle? And they're like, well, I don't want to get like too big or whatever. I'm like, I got you. So you're still pretty exposed with your appearance just like you were when you were 17 years old. Maybe we can go to junior high school together and worry about lipstick colors. And they usually roll their eyes like, okay, I'm a mature woman. I have children. I've got grandchildren on the way. I can take the real truth. And you go, okay, Linda, you got to put on muscle and don't, you won't explode with muscle size, but it is this point bordering and critical for your health, longevity and dare I say quality of life. And I think the environment is changing. But yeah, so to your point, we went from no exercise to cardiovascular exercises, the main recommendation to strength training. Now, I think the time is coming more and more for females to embrace muscle growth training. And I think more and more females are understanding that like, well, you know, I tried muscle growth training. Interestingly enough, I did not wake up Arnold Schwarzenegger the next day. And but I did wake up in a couple of months, shape, Leiner, more able and people comment how I look younger, etc. My doctor said, my blood works the best ever. And I think that's a big deal. When do you think someone would begin to think about, you know, you mentioned this changes we get older. And you know, in the literature, there's the the younger guys eating to 25, a lot of literature is skewed towards younger, the younger population. And then over the age of 65, and there's this whole section of individuals between those two age groups, I shouldn't say, strange. But that muscle span continuum, when do you think that it becomes more challenging to put on skeletal muscle, if at all. And is a better way to frame that, is it strength and hypertrophy? How would you separate the two? And when do you think that the change happened? Yeah, I would say there's no real, there's no real good reason in a general discussion to separate the two. They sort of go very hand in hand. And so we can speak in, in grand gestures about them both as one thing for the purpose of this discussion. And what I would also say is, it's obviously a spectrum in a sliding scale. There's not like you were 39 years old and just living your best life eating whatever. He has a six pack. And as soon as you're 40th birthday hit, you woke up the next day like, in a hospital bed, weighing 600 pounds, no muscle mass, that's clearly not hot works. But I would say two things. One, for many people in their 40s, is when they'll start to notice that they look and feel different than usual. I have this idea about folks who don't exercise. And that's still the vast majority of all humans under the way. And folks that don't exercise have the situation up until they reach their 40s, usually. Some people it hits much earlier. And that situation is a grandiose taking for granted of physical ability, of health and of appearance. He's just like, my body, you know, like, you don't go to a college campus and talk to a 21 year old girl on a crop top and go, okay, Lindsey, what is your routine to stay like this? She's like, I drink alcohol three times a week. That a bit of cocaine here in there. Maybe that helps. But I do have a cheeseburger. What's that? Maybe some twinkies. Twinkies, cheeseburger, exactly. And you're like, oh, this person knows nothing, they're just riding on the assumption that their body does cool shit all the time. That assumption tends to fragment for people. It various time scales between age 20 and probably age 50. A lot of people will notice in their 40s when that happens. So that's the first thing I'll say. The second thing I'll say is in people's 60s and 70s, especially their 70s, the realization is no longer like, wow, kind of look like crap. I don't look like I'm 20 because culturally and based on how the especially the female lifespan and events in a female life work, you know, childbearing age, you have children, etc., you have a, you get married. A lot of women understandably. I don't either endorse or endorse or, you know, resist this. But a lot of women, you know, when they're 47 years old, they have a husband. They have two kids. One of them is getting married soon and there's going to be kids on a grandkids on the way. They still care about how they look. You know, like when you're 23 and your husband had to, you really care about how you look. I mean, like, oh, shit, it might be the number one thing you care about. But when you're 47 and you're married, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, I mean, like someone comes up to you to grocery store and they're like, hey, like, you look like you don't train. You look like you're not in fitness and they're like, he's just so what? I'm a grown woman, get out of my face who cares. I'm not trying to be up around in clubs and pull my shirt up. How's wrong with you? And you're like, well, yeah, point taken. So, a lot of people that begin to have these physical transformations in their 40s and 50s, well, you know, they have a higher level of body fat, they have a lower level of muscle mass. They don't quite move as athletically and fluidly. They don't recover it from injury or illness kind of quite as well as they did in their 20s and 30s. It's not this pertinent thing and you can, I don't want to say rationalize it away, but it's socioculturally sort of not controversial. It's coming up to Bill Gates and being like, how much do you banish? He's like, do you know who I am? It's insanely relevant question. Like, or judging him for not being jacked. Like, this is not a person who's specialized in being jacked. And much the same way older women and older men, they don't specialize in being jacked and lean and fit. Whereas if you're out of shape when you're 19, that's approximately a problem for you that you feel all the time. You go to fat parties and college people kind of look up and down. They walk away and you're like, well, I'm dry out here and like, well, you know, you're not look like a 19 year old. I'm sorry, and you need to go to the gym, you need to control your diet and then you'll have all the same great fun and attention everyone else is getting. Well, you're 40s and 50s. This is not the lifestyle and so people tend to kind of be like, yeah, no big deal. In their 60s and 70s, those same people reach another dropping point, another bend in the curve, so to speak. And every individual reaches this on their own time. There's lots of variation and it's usually not like a very notable right away kind of bend in the curve, but they do tend to notice, okay, it's not that I am undermuscled aesthetically. I didn't ever care about that. It's not that I have a high degree of adiposity or body fat tissue and it's bothering me like, oh, my bras don't fit the same way. Whatever. I haven't cared about that in years. My husband loves me. It doesn't just doesn't matter. It's that I am really having trouble like we went to South Florida. We tried to rent bicycles to ride around. And I could really hard to get on to the bicycle. And I honestly like my quads cramped and I gasped out after like five minutes and my whole family was with me as a family reunion. Just 25 people that are riding the trail are all the sudden. My husband has to hang back with me and we're walking our bicycles. I had to sit down and have a drink of water. It's too hot. And my god, physically unable to do activities of daily living, in some capacity. And another way people get hit with that is blood work. So you go to the doctor when you don't train and you don't really die at well. And you go in your 40s and 50s. If you're the average person that's just not growtasically over fat or just took the random shitty genetics lottery, you could be fine. You know, most people think of the fine. The doctor says, yeah, the levels look good. And you know, the doctor easily adjusted for age. So the levels look fine. It's not expecting a blood work to look like you're 20. But if you blow gross like the average, not going to die tomorrow, a 45 year old. It's not really a problem. In the 60s and 70s, some people get hit with that nasty blood work for the first time. And the doctor's like, look, like, you're prediabetic in the way that like you're going to be diabetic in a couple weeks. If we don't do anything about this, you know what? What? I want, but I eat. I'm not like grotesquely fat. I don't really have that beatings in my family. Like, the hell is going on. And it's some combination of usually having two low levels of physical activity, two high of body fat level and two low of muscle mass. And in your 60s and 70s is what insanely pertinent that you take care of this. Now, but I don't want to say it's too late. But you're starting the race when the gun went off a long time ago. And now it's serious. And what I would tell people is, if it's, I'm, I try, I'm politically libertarian. And I just think freedom is great. And I think people should do what they want as long as they're interested in paying for the consequences. Instead of really get down people's throats in the 40s and 50s about like, you got to exercise and no, soccer, cheese, said, Dividing of mind, blah, blah, whatever. F all that, right? Am I allowed to swear in a show? Do you generally have a more family show? No, you can swear. We've had lots of team guys on this. And oh, okay, sure. There are first languages, swear. So I generally don't try to press upon people and they're, you know, all the way up through their 50s about like you have to do this. But in the 60s and 70s, if people ask, of course, I'm like, this, this is really, really important. And you need to really think about this. Because now it's literally a matter of life and death. And what I'm saying here, my big, she feels sorry for ending for so long. This is a story. I'm in throats. I really. Yeah, my, my big, she feels here is, you don't want to wait until the bad blood work shows up. And until you, you can't ride the bicycle at the family reunion. You want to start. You want to ideally lift weights as a lifetime habit. But if you don't, in your 40s and 50s is really one to pick up the pace. And it's not hard. It takes, I can get into how much lift you should do. I want to hear it all. I want to. Sure. And you know, totally, we can get to that. But it's just not a ton. It's all about consistency. And if you can start your 40s and 50s, you're going to age in a way that people like see you to grocery store and they can just stop starting a conversation and blah, blah, blah. Well, I went to high school, blah, blah, and you're like, well, I went to high school and, you know, in 1970, whatever. And they're like, hold it. You're like 67 and they're like, no way. No way, you're 67. You look 45 and not growls. I do eat well. I do exercise. That's what you want to hear. You don't want to hear the doctor coming with a clip or go look Janice. You're diabetic. And this is bad. And it's, you got to get a medicine and blah, blah, blah and all that bad stuff you do not want to hear especially in your later years. Thank you to thesis for sponsoring this episode of the show. I have been using thesis as my go to nitropic for a handful of years now. In fact, thesis has been a game changer for me. I'm not going to lie. I did take clarity right before I shot this podcast episode and here's why because I went to take thesis dot com. I took the quiz. I got my first starter pack of many different formulations. And by the way, these are my three favorites. I use them routinely. Take thesis dot com. Use the code doctor lion. You'll get 10% off your first box. Here's why I need it. We all need a cognitive edge. It's just the reality. The way in which we process the world, our memory, our sharpness and thesis. These blends are blends that I have never seen before. There are multiple scientific studies backing each element in the blend and it's just extraordinary. You definitely need this edge and I certainly have been using them and really, really love them. Go to take thesis dot com enter the code doctor lion and you'll get 10% off your first box. Get some. Now back to the show. Thank you to puree for sponsoring this episode of the show. One of the reasons why I always take an omega 3 fatty acid is for overall brain health. Doesn't matter your age. Even my kids take omega 3 fatty acids. Moode. It is wonderful for moode and overall cardiovascular health and inflammation. I am bringing to you puree o3 which is a high quality, well tested. Let me tell you about this. So puree is puree o3 is third party tested and certified by clean lake projects. I'm sorry, clean label project and what it is is it makes available the testing results. No contaminants, no heavy metals. These are things that as a provider, as a mom, I'm very concerned about. I don't want to be giving a supplement that is a concentrated supplement that has a whole bunch of contaminants. Puri o3 is a world class supplement line and company. I absolutely am thrilled to bring this to you. And by the way, they are offering my audience 20% off. All you have to do is use the code doctor lion for 20% off. Puri omega 3 fish oil has a high dose of 2,000 milligrams of omega 3 fatty acids, EPA, DHA and natural triglyceride form. I personally can tell the difference. They also have products that have little packets where you can throw it in your bag. It has vitamin D in it, it has magnesium, no fishy flavor, nothing. It truly is what I think is going to be on the forefront of top products. So support your health, throw it into your regular routine, go ahead and grab your Puri o3 and that is PUORI.com slash doctor lion. That's PUORI.com slash doctor lion. And there's a few things that are extraordinarily important for the audience. And number one, this body composition issue. Lindsay, 19 in college, she might have a moderate body fat percentage. We have no idea what her skeletal muscle mass is. We don't do a great job at measuring that. Her body frame will likely stay the same depending. And that composition of body fat, skeletal muscle mean tissue. All of those will change. But she's not going to feel the loss of skeletal muscle that happens with inactivity or sedentary behavior. And that's probably one reason why people don't do anything about it. And or they think that aerobic exercise while good is a replacement for resistance training, which it's not. How much skeletal muscle do you think individuals should have? I say this cautiously in the way that probably more is better. And we don't have a great way of measuring it. I can put this into operational terms as opposed to measurement terms. Since measuring it requires that you go to a daxa and blah, blah, blah, blah, and all this other. And even that, by the way, is an extrapolation of total lean tissue, which includes bone and organs. It's not an only portion of that is skeletal muscle. So for sure, for sure. I would say that if you, in the nude, cannot tell any of your large muscle shapes apart from others, you probably could use more muscle. Is there something like your deltoids that your shoulders that look bulgey? Is there something like your deer legs look bulgey in the lower part close to the knee in a way that they don't look bulgey in the upper part? If you look like you have no muscle in the mirror, if you look at a picture of a bodybuilder and you go, oh, he's got all these freaky weird things, but I actually have all those. They're just not nearly as freaky or weird or ripped. But I'd see, like, oh, yeah, I've traps and I do have delts. I don't look like that, but I do have them. If you just can't see anything resembling muscle, if you just look like one of those like really crappy doctors who's drawing, so it's like an outline of a person, just like a silhouette. Maybe that's a concern. Another thing is if you are not able to do basic activities of daily living, maybe you don't have enough muscle mass, that's definitely a concern. And when you say daily living, you mean walking at the stairs, carrying groceries, a lot of women struggle to put their bags in overhead compartments. I would consider that a kid needs a daily living. Really, so if you can't put your bag in an overhead compartment, you probably have a problem. I would say there's actually a really easy test anyone can do to see if they're aging gracefully or aging not gracefully. Do this under the supervision of an adult of ability, if you want to do this yourself at home and you're not sure if you can. Lie down on the ground, either facing up or facing down, it doesn't much matter. And without grabbing any walls or chairs or anything else, carpeted room, carpet all around your in the middle of the room, stand up to full height, sit back down in a way that you're not falling down, but you're however you do it, lack of a slabs is a no problem, crouch down, reach your hands forward on the ground, lay back down, stand back up. If you can do 10 of those in a row and not throw up or pass out, you're good. If you can't do 10 of those in a row, you may be beginning to concern yourself with either having some combination of inadequate muscularity or excessive at a positive. I don't enough muscle too much fat. Now, to you and I, this sounds preposterous and to many of your listeners know about it sounds preposterous because they're like, do I can do a Turkish get up with 50 pounds? What are you crazy? Well, you're not the target demographic for this sort of thing, then. Well, imagine a 67 year old woman who is lying down on the floor, have you, have you, okay, actually, have what exact exact example of this? What the hell is her name? She's like a Democrat, Paul at Nancy Pelosi. Nancy Pelosi, there's a video of this, if anyone wants to go looking for us, not hard to find. She is, meet, she was kneeling during the whole George Floyd situation and like the Capitol building. They did like a take a knee for a minute situation and she's kneeling, everyone else is kneeling and then they stand up afterwards. I'll tell you this man, it was tough to watch. She had to put two of her hands on her knee and it was like a max combination decline press and deadlift at the same time to just stand up off of one knee. It took everything and she stumbled and you're like, oh my god, if she was lying down on the ground, it would be possibly difficult for her to get up. 10 times in a row out of the conversation. That is what I'm talking about. And if you can hop skip and jump and 10 times no problem, hey, great, keep training, keep doing you. If you can't do that, then you're in a bad spot. And a lot of the situation with older folks, you know that like lifeline commercial back in the, in the days where late night commercials, like I fall in and I can't get up and they pull on this cord. I do. Not being able to get up after you fall and is categorically, unless you've become injured on the way down, is categorically failing the fitness test of life. I would say. And if you can do that, if you can get up with no assistance from lying on the ground, oh, getting about up a chair is no problem, groceries are no problem, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, but if you can't get up under your own power without assisting you're grabbing anything else, yeah, it's time to put on some muscle. How are we going to do that? How and this is, this is really your wheelhouse. Aside from being a very good story, teller by the way, Chris Williamson is a friend of mine and I just loved your interview with him that I called him and he was like, no, it's true. How did this guy do? And it was just said you were phenomenal. And you are. So thank you for the story. And now tell us how to get more muscle. Because the reality is, is it is, you can always get stronger. I mean, there's data, 80, 90 year old individuals that are getting stronger. Again, whether you're trained or untrained, they're, are we still improve hypertrophy as well. I know that strength type, hypertrophy we're probably going to use in combination. What would be an approach for a, I'm going to give you two scenarios, an untrained female or male who's listening to this and going, man, I'm 40 and I've been doing marathons and now I have dad, bud, what am I going to do? I'm doing a lot of cardio. And then the second is, I am folding untrained. I know longer can wear a crop top. So the first thing I'll say is, everyone should begin lifting weights roughly the same way. The rates of progression will differ. How much interest people will develop in it. And how much more of it they want to do for extra credit will differ. The beginning is roughly the same. So I give a couple of tips on there. One is generally you want to choose body weight, barbell, dumbbell, anti-gravity exercises as the preferred method of training. That doesn't mean that's all you do, but you should be interested in doing things like bent over rows, dead lifts, squats, overhead presses, upright rows, if the good deadlift. Why does it have to because the exercises train large swaths of muscles at the same time and they're insanely economical. I could tell you isolate your delts, isolate your biceps, isolate your forearms. You'll be in the gym for an hour and be like, Jesus Christ, this is stupid. These exercises also replicate the fundamental movement patterns that humans are able to do that from which jumping and running and walking and pushing and pulling and putting your luggage up on the top compartment, all stem from, they require a lot of balance and they are easily progressive, easily loadable. They're also encouraged you to move in this sort of tip number two through a very full range of motion. If you're preparing yourself for life, life doesn't end below 90 degrees in the squat. And if you find yourself below 90 degrees in the squat and you haven't been training there, you are two things, less strong in that position, and more likely to get hurt if you have to try to really harden that position. So these compound exercises generally, some isolation work is totally fine. Freeweight exercises, another benefit is they greatly encourage the development of balance. But not balance in a circus seal kind of like, look, I can stand in a boat, who ball, no application of this whatsoever, but here I go. It's fun for TikTok, but I assume if you're in your 60s, hopefully you're not on TikTok. Maybe you are. What am I judging with the Chinese government does with it? So the compound freeweight exercises are testing your balance while you're trying really hard through a full-range motion. That transfers to activities of daily living to an immense degree. And it makes you have the kind of balance that look. If I can walk out with some amount of weight that challenges me, squat at 10 times up and down to completely full-dop thunderbolt control and racket. If I'm walking down an airplane aisle and they get some turbulence and I have to grab the seats and kind of support myself. Man, this was a geol. It's a geol. But if I can't do that, I might fall into somebody's lap, and I usually pretend to fall into people's laps on airplanes because I don't get any physical touch at home. I'm just deaf. Everybody wants to ride on their plane with. I actually have my own fleet of airplanes. I don't like to talk about how I'm a truly an air too often, but it comes up all the way. Yeah. It's annoying to count all the smarty is what I'm trying. This is terrible. But so that's some of the reasons why these kinds of exercises are preferred. Now, I'm not going to say don't do machines, but if you learn to lift with compound barbell dumbbell and bodyweight exercises and then you go and use machines, you're automatically the best at every machine, no problem. But if you learn to lift with machines, then the transfer to real world is tougher and the transfer to training that occurs in a freeweight environment is also tougher. So it's kind of like you might as well make things a little bit challenging up front and then you'll have a very, very easy time for them. So I would say those are the kinds of movements you should be prioritizing. I would say training in repetition range of sets of five to ten is a good idea. Anything less than five is super cool, but for beginners it's not enough repetitions to train their nervous system to learn the technique very well. We could if I trained you in a karate move and I said, okay, here's how it works. Practice it. You did it three times. I was like boom, you're ready. Let's go do a tournament. You're like, well hold on a second. We need a lot of reps of it. You would be more able to replicate that in real life and in future training sessions. You don't want to do too many more reps than ten to begin with for a few reasons. One is when you're learning technique and the next point is you have to get the technique very good. You should become a technique stickler technique is the basis on which everything else is built. On the basis of what you build, all of your muscle on all of your strength, and ensure that your injury risk is as minimum as possible. Anything much more than ten reps, especially more than fifteen for beginners, tend to be so fatigued and so painful that they start to just get the reps in versus worrying about quality and technique. And so sets of five to ten are enough reps to learn, but not so many reps that you start learning the technique wrong because you're practicing it wrong because after set, after rep number 12, if you like to, I'm just trying to stand up and down and even care what my back or chest position looked like in this squat. And then also, especially for Caucasian women in their later years, sets of five to ten are heavy enough to robustly build bone mass and heavy enough to robustly build a lot of the joint connective tissue integrity. Sets of 15, 20, 30, etc. definitely do those things well, but not as well. And so because of that agglomeration of factors sets of five to ten are might preferred method of training beginners. And I mean for the first several years of training compound large muscle mass exercises in sets of five to ten with a big onus on a range of motion and total control the eccentric has to be controlled. You can do the concentric of the up phase of an exercise explosively or not it doesn't much matter, but controlling the eccentric that doesn't mean going slow it just means never deactivating your muscles and just dropping into a squat for example. That's of the core. And then the blasting I would say is you should begin with the very few sets. I would arguably say begin with one set of everything when you show up to the gym. A lot of people think it's kind of comical for two reasons. One, it's embarrassing because you did one set of everything you look around and make sure no one noticed you and you fuck off. But how many days how many days of both? Yes, yes. So I'll get to the days and just the fact. Yeah, I'll make it go in and yeah, yeah. Well, so in that first workout because you just did one set of everything that was a little bit challenging for you, you just didn't feel like you really challenged yourself a ton. You're not super sore, you're not super beat up, but that's part of the plan. We don't want to get you so messed up that you're so sore that you're on train for two weeks. And then what? I don't even know what the plan of that. To your question of how many times a week, I would say very many people should begin with two time a week training. That is a training whole body. Both times a week, say Monday and Thursday, it's doing something like, you know, some close grip pressing, some rolling, some upright rolling, some shoulder pressing, some hip hinge work and some squat and lunge work. And that's it. You go home one set of each of those movements with good technique with a load that here's the rule for how much way to use a weight that is a little tough. It resists you. You can tell you're lifting. Like it's not like picking up a Coca-Cola can and going we know problem. It should be like, okay, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, I never let that poison enter my body. I actually don't consume anything corporate, but it's for another discussion. So should be challenging, but something you have to be able to do good technique with. And that is picking the weight and then if you train twice a week, just begin it twice a week. And some people will say, well, I want better results. I'm going to go more times. What I would say is this, do only twice a week lifting for the first several months. If you like it, if you really like it and you really want more, expand your program to three times a week. And then later, you're going to learn stuff. You're going to be in the social media space about how lifting works. You're going to start to understand concepts principles. You're going to go and download the RPA, purchase a app. I'm under contract to mention that in every podcast. I'm kidding. But it's a fine app. Not really for beginners. It's more for people who know some things. And then the app and other products out there, and other podcasts you listen to, you'll know what you're doing by then. But for beginners, two times a week for a while until you get the hang of it and you like it, because consistency, trumps all. And over time, during those several few months, you're going to be really meticulous about your technique. And if you notice that you can get through all of your sets in such a way that you recover for next time, no problem. And that there's no longer very challenging. Increase the weight a little bit and maybe add a set or two to your program. So that you know, you're a sore and tired for a few days before you come back the next time. And then go from there. And so over time, you're going to start with very little weight. Very few sets. I would say one set the first time you show up with everything. And then over the months and weeks and months, you increase the load considerably in such a way that it's challenging you, but you can still do good technique. And you increase a set here there. So that by the end of that, you're lifting twice a week, but it's four or five sets of a reactor size. And the weight is considerable. You're going to look different. You're going to feel different. And then you're through your very early beginner phase and the rest is a matter of my new details with them. And how fast could someone begin to put on scale to them? There are expectations. We were to say, they're listening to this because they want body composition changes or they know nothing about weightlifting. What would you tell them that they can expect? Yeah. Assuming that overall calorie consumption is adequate, dietary protein is adequate. Which demographic are we speaking to? 40, 40s. We'll say men or women. 40s. Men or women or 40s. I have two things to say about that. One is try to relieve your cognitive processes of expectation. Because statistically we have no idea what kind of responder you are. You could be a person who touches a weight and three weeks later. You're like, okay, this isn't saying I have the aims in my arms. It's crazy. You could be the kind of person that after four months of lifting, you've gained some strength, but you really just can't visually tell anything. Let's see if you're the average person just do the movement and increase the weights over time and increase the sets over time to your ability to recover for at least about three to six month before looking in the mirror with attention. I mean, you could look in the mirror all the time. Whatever. I do it every minute of every day. Actually, I have a mirror behind the camera right now. I always look at myself, but to really try to appraise how differently you look, I would say give it three to six months. And in most cases, you'll be pleasantly surprised. If you think you're going to have radical visible changes within weeks, it's possible but unlikely. If you think nothing's going to happen for years, possible but unlikely. So, it's a and the order of 36 months is when you can be like, wow, it can actually look different and I feel different. And one of the ways you know muscles getting put on is you're just completely different strength level than when you started. When you started, you remember doing bodyweight lunges and wobbling on rep number six. And now you're using the 20 pound dumbbells in each hand and doing sets of nine eight no problem. That's not someone having a bad day. It's someone who's completely different level of physical ability. Once you can demonstrate that, you probably look different too. And looking different is much easier to see when you're leaner than when you're significantly over fat. So, it's definitely a caveat to throw in there. So, for significantly over fat, you might look pretty similar, but under the hood, things are definitely happening. And the way you know the happening is your rep strength has gone up substantially. And then it's working and then you're getting all the metabolic benefits. And then after a year or two of that, maybe it's time to consider your diet and consider your bodyweight and start to trend those things in the direction of fat. What I'm hearing you say is you really do feel like it's a slower progression so that people maintain consistency for a beginner. But what about I'm going to switch gears here? What about intermedia or more advanced training individual that needs to balance volume intensity, frequency, and has been, you know, one of the things that I see you may or may not know this about me, but I trained in geriatric some trained geriatric. And it was very fascinating to see something kind of happens in their 40s, let's say an individual is a twice a week gym gore, they do the same things, they never progress their weights, they love to go on the cardiovascular elliptical machine. And then, 40, 45, like you said, there's no magic number, they start to get a tire around their bellies, you definitely begin to see these while their weight might not change, their body composition is definitely changed. Those individuals would have a higher training age. But again, this kind of circles back to how do we continue to progress and balance the an aging muscle, which by the way, an aging muscle responds like a young muscle with enough volume intensity and nutrition. Not totally the same. You just answered your own question, so one thing is, look at your relative effort in the gym. Young people can do, fuck all, barely try and grow tons of muscle. You're not young anymore, you might have to grit your teeth a little bit. And you feel like not doing any more reps, do a few more reps. That's point number one. Point number two is frequency. If you're training twice a week and your results are like, try three times a week. After a few months if your results are still not what you'd like, try four times a week. You may have to reduce other hobbies that are physical in your life, but because muscle growth is so important, if it's important to you, you will do. The other thing is nutrition. Eating a sufficient amount of daily protein, spread through at least three, but ideally four high protein meals per day. How many grams per team do you typically recommend? A gram per pound of body weight covers almost every demographic group. For young people that are beginners, it's overkill, but there's no downside other than the fact that you have to like chew on more chicken and it costs so tiny, a little bit more money. For older folks, they actually need more protein by some decent margin, but that's still almost always covered by a gram per pound. There are absolutely cases when you need more. Let's say if you're not getting the results you like, and you're at a gram per pound and you're at 40s and 50s, trading a gram and a half a pound, body weight per day. It's a lot of protein, but if you're very serious about results, give it a shot after a few months, you'll be able to tell if it's working. Generally, that's not needed, but a gram per pound is output at this way. A very different amount of protein than the average person your age is eating. It's notably different. Like my wife and I were watching a show called Super Rich in Korea, it's on Netflix. hilarious. There's a scene there where some folks are cooking meals for each other. And this one gentleman, he's young and his father's older, but they're like luxury brand owners and Italy, like her versed money, money growing money. The younger man is actually a train chef. When he cooks dinner for him and his father, in my wife and I work, I's wide open, scouring for where the fuck is the protein in this meal? Yeah, but just never happened. He had like he made like a risotto and they had a little bit of prosciutto on the side. It was an honorable mention. You ever watch how regular people eat out in the world and you look at someone's meal and you're like, where is the protein? You can't eat like that anymore if you're concerned with muscle mass and it's serious and you're older and you don't like this bear tire. Every meal has to be built around protein. We actually have an upcoming product at RP that we're going to be selling for a very low price called the Simple Science Diet. It's the simplest diet we've made and it's based on fist and finger measurements of nutrients. Every meal you have if you're serious about this should have a roughly your fist size of protein and some kind of lean protein. It has anything much less to do. Do you care about the source? Not a ton. I mean as long as if it's animal based protein, not a ton. If it's plant based, a lot of them are pretty damn good now and also not a ton. The source is something to consider as a secondary or tertiary concern that it is comical to me when people are concerned about the source when I'm like, bro, you don't eat protein. It's like a guy who's like not dating and he's like, well, like, you gotta have the right girl. Like, shut up, you don't have any girls at all. What are you talking about? Like, date some girls and then you can get like specific on who you're dating. So protein amount comes first. Most sources are totally fine. But it's got to be something that takes up a decent part of your plate and does that mean that you have to go out of your way a little bit to have some protein in some meals? Well, yeah. And that's just what it's going to take. If you're at that Italian restaurant with your extended family and you're like, hey, can I get a little bit of extra chicken breast in this pasta? The waiters, of course you can. And then people like, oh, extra chicken breast this guy. But while they say that and they sort of, you know, jokingly make fun of you, they also realize that when you stand up to go to the bathroom, you have a protruding chest in a flat stomach and kind of delts and you're 48 years old and they're like, can't frantic just look better than all of us. There's a reason for that. Frank eats protein, Frank goes to the gym. So yes, high protein is a good idea. It is it always fun. No, but it will say two things. One, you will get in the habit of it. It's not that a couple of weeks in. You'll be like, I feel like I always eat like this. I'm sure, um, doc that when you go and construct meals, wherever you are in the world, like finding a protein sources number one, right? Like the, it wears the protein here. Like if you're in a lounge flying, you know, you know, you know, going to the Delta lounge, you're like, oh, they've had a sandwich. What do they have that's protein? Most people don't build their meals like that. They just go straight for whatever it is they're feeling that day. That's a habit that's easily built after a few weeks, you're going to be like protein. Where's it at? So that's a big deal. And also, like, I could be recommending much more disgusting things to eat than protein. I mean, you've got steaks, you've got chicken, you've got fish, you've got milk products, tons of great vegan options. Eating high protein diets, fun. It's good. It's not like we're asking you to like drown yourself in protein powder. You know, if someone was like, you have to have two pounds of green veggies with every meal, you'd be like, Jesus, but that's that what we're saying. So a lot of people when they say, I'm really having trouble getting a lot of protein through the day is some combination of, like, don't worry, there's protein shakes that you can have that are totally going to help you out and or, and I mean, this mostly jokingly, she's just fucking not trying. You like, started bitching before you even tried to solve the problem. It's like, people, their computer has some kind of air message instead of reading it. They're like, I, T, I T, something's wrong. Like, read it. It says, hey, everything's fine. Just click this button. It'll go away. They're like, oh, I can do that. Same with getting on a lot of protein in your diet. You don't have to freak out about it. It's not rocket science. Do you think that there are common misconceptions out there that people maybe it stops their ability to have high-perchography or build muscle that you're seeing in the, oh my god. Yeah. And also I want to know South American where to sprinting fallen. We're talking a lot about high-perchography as someone is more, I would say I have an old older training age for someone like me. Where do we then begin to think about adding other modalities to support, say, VOT Max or other options? Yeah, flexibility, climatic, strength, explosiveness, fetuses and balance for sure. So first of all, hypertrophy training takes care of any very good way, not an ideal way, in a very good way, pretty much all of those. So I currently only train in hypertrophy training and I also train in Brazilian geogetsu. You would never roll with me and say, oh, this guy really should train for strength and not hypertrophy because his muscles are useless. Magiant fucking problem because I'm really strong because I'm a really jack. So getting jack gets you eight tenths of the way to getting as strong as you love or being in any kind of mode down. If you want to do movement pattern work, sprinting, jumping, climbing, et cetera. That's totally cool. As long as you're putting in your hypertrophy work first. And of course, the big thing about really dynamic movements, two things. One, you've got to ease into them. Do not just start sprinting. You will pull your fucking hamstring out of your femur. That's how it is. Like I did. Oh, yeah, sprinting is a high risk activity for folks not used to it. Once you're used to it, it's great. It's amazing. So it's a natural train and have a bad stride. It doesn't, it doesn't. How it seems like tendon injuries really take people out. Yes, and so to the bad stride thing, I would say have someone look at your technique if you're kind of doing this dynamic stuff and make sure that you're doing okay with it. So I think that kind of work, I would say, cattle bell work, mobility flexibility. That's cool. And you can do a lot of it and it takes care of all the hypertrophy for you. If you do a lot a lot of it, but you know, say hypertrophy works should be one of the basis of your training and the other works should come on top of it. Now, the O2 Max, I think that there is a separate set of recommendations and in fact a separate discussion we can have on cardiovascular respiratory fitness. But if you get into lifting and after a few months or a few years, you're pretty good with the basics. What you can do is start pairing your lifts in unrelated muscle group and movement fashion. For example, if you do a set of squats, after that, doing a set of machine rows really doesn't hit anything that your squats hit. So while your quads and glutes and adductors are recovering, your back and biceps and rear delts are getting hit. You don't rest between those two movements or rest several seconds just as long as it takes to transition and you do them in sets of 10 to 20 repetition and you do them back to back to back to back. Then you pick another pairing and you do another four or five sets back to back to back to back. If you can do those kind of antagonistic or unrelated pairs of compound movements, it serves again seven or eight out of 10 points for cardiovascular fitness. You will be breathing heavy. You will be insanely out of breath. You will be sweating bullets. How much load are you going to? That is going to be awesome. How heavy is the load? So if you're going to pair a lift, you're going to do squats for what? 10, 10 repetitions and then you're going to do some kind of lap pull down right with upy. Yeah, yeah, 10. So anything between 10 and 20 reps, it's a load that at the end of your set is really hard to lift. So typically when you lift, you go boom, boom, boom, boom, we've up and down, up and down, up and down. If I'm watching you lift, I have to see at least one of two things. It's a call at a good working set. One is the weight actually starts to slow down in the last few reps. That's good. Or I got to see some signs in your face and your body that you're having at that time. So maybe you've been controlling your speed the entire time and you wait, it's never slowed down. But in last couple of reps, you're like see a grimace or two, something that tells me you're trying. The weights have to push back at you. It can't be something you go through the motions for. So that is how you select your weight, anything in the 10 to 20 rep range is really good. The challenge you in that rep range. And then you start to work up and work capacity. That can be a lot of cardio metabolic fitness right there. And of course, you can also swim, you can bike, you can run, you can do all kinds of other things as a zoom button, all those, you know, no offense, white women classes that people do. And that's all really good stuff. But I would say a core of resistance training, which takes care of hypertrophy and strength is probably something to be the last thing I would ever remove from a program. Also, full range of motion resistance training takes care of essentially all of your mobility concerns because if you can do an Olympic weight lift or style deep squat set there for three seconds and come back up, yeah, 99 problems, mobility is absolutely not one. This episode is brought to you by timeline nutrition. Might appear the product that I wish I had developed, but didn't. So I've teamed up with timeline nutrition to bring you one of my ultimate favorite products. And that's my top here. My top here is a science backed Eurolythen A. Eurolythen A sounds like a species of something or other. What it is, it's a postbiotic and 30 to 40% of you humans cannot make it. Why is it important? It's important because it's one of the first muscle access connection. Might appear helps the muscle and all mitochondria when you take it. You can take it in pill form, you can take it in powder form. I recommend trying the starter kit. They have ginger and berry. I put some in my yogurt. It's amazing. Here's what it does for you. It will improve your potentially your energy, your strength, your endurance. Again, mitopure helps with mitochondria. And the name mitopure, it helps with the regeneration and cleaning out old mitochondria. And if you remember anything about, I don't know, fifth grade science, mitochondria, they are the powerhouse of the cell. So you have to have good mitochondria to have good energy. And one of the hallmarks of aging is a decline in this mitochondria. So if it sounds like you need more energy, more strength, more endurance and something that tastes great, mitopure is a way to go. Go to timelinenutrition.com slash doctor lion. That's timelinenutrition.com slash doctor lion. And you'll get 10% off your first order. I recommend either the starter pack or the pills. Try it. I know that you're going to feel great. All right. Do you want to know what I drink in the morning that is a little bit salty and gives me a huge pick me up? Well, I'm going to tell you. And that is element chocolate element that's LMNT in my coffee. I brew a black cup of coffee with a shot of espresso and then I put a scoop of collagen and a little bit of MCT oil in it. And one fourth packet of element chocolate. Sometimes I use chocolate mint. I've also saved chocolate caramel. It's kind of this like chocolatey caramel. Amazing. So I get my caffeine. I get some collagen for of course, hair skin and nails. And I get electrolytes in my coffee. Sodium, potassium, magnesium, all amazing. I have now created my own supercharged drink, which you can to and by the way, this is a different way to take element. That's a little packet of electrolytes. If you get headaches, maybe you get headaches with your caffeine because you dehydrate yourself or maybe you get headaches because you sweat a lot while training or maybe you just live in Texas where it's hot. And so you definitely sweat a lot. You definitely get headaches and this is why I love to add electrolytes to what I'm drinking. And it can be coffee, it can be water. lately it's been coffee and it tastes amazing. You can get yours at drink element. That's drink lmnt.com. You'll get a free sample pack when you use the code a doctor lion and by the way, if you don't like it, it's totally risk free. You'll get your money back. No questions asked. I love this stuff. You will too. Have you done your blood work? If you haven't, I've a solution for you. And that is one of the sponsors of the show inside tracker. Why is blood work so important? Well, you know, I use inside tracker. My friends use inside tracker. Also, my parents use inside tracker. Inside tracker makes getting blood work very easy and use are friendly. They have an amazing interface. You can check it out on your phone. You can check it out on the desktop, which you know, hopefully you're using a small one. Inside tracker allows you to look at really important biomarkers like hormones, iron, thyroid, insulin. The list goes on. ApoB, it never stops. And by the way, if you are a professional annual of clients inside tracker also has a pro platform, amazing. I really feel that inside tracker has revolutionized healthcare and listen, blood work can be expensive, but it doesn't have to be. Inside tracker is offering my listeners 10% off, 10% off anything on the store in the store. Anything as it relates to subscriptions, 10% off go to inside tracker.com like inside tracking your body, use the code doctor lion and do not wait if you are due for your blood work, give this a shot. It's extremely valuable back to the show. It's it's really fascinating because, you know, some of the the Olympic lifts and in the plyometric state, they definitely are more advanced movements. And I'll give you an example. I took my dad to the gym, my dad lives in Ecuador, he was he's visiting. And we work out, we have a great place to work out. It's called Sigma Performance Training, amazing shout out to Carlos who probably doesn't even listen this podcast, but you know, and I was watching my dad was a collegiate wrestler. He has always been in shape. He's been a very good athlete. And clearly, his body composition has changed. He is not overweight, but he is he's thinner. Not that he has that thinner and softer. Yeah, yeah, I mean, he still has muscle, but and he's still trained. But but clearly, there there are some changes and he's in his mid 70s. I tease him, he's pushing triple pushing triple digits. And I look at the exercises that he was doing and he was doing Battle Roops, which you know, I thought was impressive and was also concerned that that kind of dynamic movement, if he were to injure a ten and that's going to take him out. And watching him do some what if these plyometric jumps. I just wonder, I guess my overall question is how do we risk benefit the movements that should he be doing those type of explosive individual? Do those type of explosive movements because we know that power declines? As individuals age, how do we maintain that? Is it important? Yes, it declines, but is it important? And what can we do to train it in a way where we don't increase our risk of injury? It's a great question. The number one reason why power declines with ages loss of skeletal muscle mass, the number two reason in explaining almost all the variants between those two is a loss of strength. The number three reason is a loss of actual explosive abilities on which the job based on your muscle, which it based gives you the strength to move quickly and produce lots of power. So to your point, yes, training with explosive reactive styles like plyometric definitely has a higher marginal risk of injury, which is still very low, but for older individuals, you do have to ask the question of isn't worth it. The way I would answer the question of isn't worth it is like that. If there are activities of daily living or recreation or leisure that you regularly do, that require a substantial power component, you had better be training. What would be an example? What would be an example of that? Really advanced climbing routes where you know, your care being heard in, but you got to like jump from one part of the climbing rock to the other. I would get used to jumping under load if I was going to be doing something like that. If you are playing dynamic games such at a high pace like 10th, maybe I would consider some movements in your arsenal that are more ballistic and more rapid, something like the weightlifting movement, that might be a good idea. But if you are just a person who lives normal suburban American life and you want to be lean and more lean and more jacked and just be able to play with your kids and walk your dog, the marginal trade-off of ply metrics for injury risk is maybe not great. Probably not a huge problem. The marginal trade-off of use of your time in the gym is probably not great. My original education is in coaching athletes. For athletes, we actually have an evidence-based cutoff for when you are candidate for power focused work and ply metrics are in some sense of subcategory of power. That cutoff is are you able to squat at least roughly two times your body weight? Now like who the fuck can squat two times their body weight that's in their 60s and 70s? No one there, not no one, very few people. What we tend to find is that if your goal is to increase power and injury resiliency, gaining strength pays a higher return on investment, then specific power training for power up until you get really strong. Power training ply metrics, etc, is the icing on the cake for people that have a lot of cake. But if you don't have a lot of cake, you got a problem. So let me make a stupid analogy on the fly. My hypertrophy training is like sugar and flour. If you don't have enough of that shit, you ain't making no fucking cake. Strength training is like actually baking and molding the cake itself. You got to have a lot of it if you're going to be serving people cake. Power training ply metrics, etc, is like icing. Yeah, icing's great. But if you don't have enough sugar and flour, muscle size, and if you don't have enough actual cake baked strength, then ply metric training is a curious thing. I will say one reason why people do ply metric training and other kind of power modalities battling ropes etc. It is too fold. That kind of training tends to be generally easier and it generally tends to be more fun. And people will try to do things that are easier and more fun that have the stamp of this as fitness and health and this is good. More than they'll challenge themselves with a things that may be aren't a sexy but pay humongous dividends. People want to do the shit that's fun and easy. And they'll convince themselves of ply metric, right? That you leave athletes do this. But lead athletes need it and do that. They've earned it because they already really strong. And sometimes you eat athletes just have amazing genetics and they just get away with doing dumb shit because they're just that person that can do whatever. It doesn't matter. So I would say that hypertrophy training and strength training are going to cover so many of your bases that may be battling ropes as fun and you can do it for sure. But if battling ropes is taking the place of some of your strength in hypertrophy training, if jumping off and onto plyo boxes is taking a place of that, you've probably thought things through insufficient. That's very valuable. What you're saying is if you care about aging well, which we all do, then you really need to focus on hypertrophy training, which is essentially muscle size for many of the reasons that you mentioned. We go to disposal, you know, better blood pressure, better triglycerides. There's a whole host of reasons why one dog you could keep talking for another hour and still make valid points on this. It's that good for you. And it is. It's underappreciated. I think in overall health and wellness, which is exactly why we're a book on it. Oh yeah. Yeah, I didn't call my book marginally weak. That would have been a fun. It's made it. It's called for ever strong. It may be a best color. But just really, really thinking about ways in which individuals can take this information and implement it. It doesn't sound difficult. I know that you've developed many programs. We'll link everything when you go. Oh my gosh. Again, you're a legend, even if you even if you had maybe not David's in was here and you weren't. And we call you and call you. But I know it's the fact that I have to tend to my trillions as why I'm so difficult to far. You're private jet over here. We're in Houston. But anyway, all kidding is hiding. And that really there is a not an necessity to train for power. Again, with with aging people talk about this loss of power and force and the capacity to move. But if you train for hypertrophy, you'll get strength. You'll get these other issues. And that's what becomes most valuable. The other big takeaway is dietary protein, whether it's one gram per pound, one point five gram per pound. The higher you get in the dietary sources, it doesn't matter where it comes from. I do believe that's from a protein standpoint. I think that there's micro nutrient challenges eventually that come up whether it's in 12, 15, or yeah. We can have a whole different discussion about nutrition for health and fat loss and muscle gain. But as far as protein sources are concerned, then what I'm trying to do is speak to the greatest number of people and try to get people to major in the majors instead of majoring in the minors. Micro nutrient sourcing from protein sources is an important discussion for people who already eat protein. And if you're not eating protein, hang on, then let's say to you, it's like talking about your race car when you don't have it in the future. What we talk about, what we didn't talk about is some of this. And this is more for the individual who is now more advanced in training. And there's a lot of ways to do cardiovascular activity. My favorite is lifting weights faster, or we have the double levels of tricycle in my garage here, or I love to rock. One question that we get asked a lot is there interference with hypertrophy from doing cardiovascular activity prior or after strength training? Yes, there is. But that interference will generally not present itself in any measurable or notable way, unless you're very advanced, very lean and very jacked and trying to be a competitive body builder. So if you do your leg training, then you go run a marathon after, yes, not ideal. But if you are constrained on time and you only have one time of the day that you can work out, doing your cardio paired with your training is way better than just skipping one of the other. The interference effect is real, but for most people is very small. And for the rest of us, it's very moderate. It's not this thing where you're just cancel out of your muscle gains or lose tons of muscle. So I'd say if you can spread your cardio out and do it at a different time than you do your weights several hours apart at least, that's awesome. If you can do that in your schedule, but if you can't do that in your schedule, it just doesn't matter that much. It's like talking to someone who's about to go clubbing in a very nice club and trying to impress. If you have like a very weighing dress you can put on, yeah, you know, there are never misses. But if you just, but if you don't, you any cocktail dress will do. And you know, I'm, I don't know how into fashion you are. It looks by your current appearance. You're very into fashion. I actually am. There you go. I mean, doesn't mean I do a good job, but I have a, I can't great help. I'm actually, I don't like to talk about this often, but I'm a fashion official, not, no kind of an actor. Are you really? No. I'm really kind of off on guard. I'm a trend center. I think that's what GQ called me before. Is it with the panic? I mean, you can, I can say it sense the humor in your voice and I do not appreciate it. What are you wearing is that this is GBRS, Navy seal and special operator swag. Now to me honest, I only wear clothes because the government says you can't lock around. Wait, wait, wait. What is on your shirt? My husband, so my husband was a former seal. He's now in a second career, but he's going to want to. Yeah, yeah. So GBRS is a company that is started by DJ ship Lee and colleagues and DJ is also a very notable Navy seal. And they specialize in training up various groups of special operators to do their thing because they come from a huge background of knowledge of actually going and doing the thing. And I think their motto is be a pro, which means whatever it is you're doing, take it very seriously and do it really well. I have no idea how to do any of that stuff, but I think the great guys and we're friends, so I'm just like, okay, I just like the shirt to be honest. It's just a great shirt. And again, I wear clothes when they just come out of the hamper and they go on my body. That's the extent of my fashion. But in any case, you know, like guys, let's say you're going to the club to meet a fine gentleman. I'm not sure why you do it to the club, but let's just say you're doing that. Guys don't look at your labels of what your dress is, go to your whatever. They don't even look at color matching. They're getting to are you wearing a dress that makes you remotely sexually attractive? Go you're in. There's some fraction of guys that care, they're very, very small. So just the same way of am I eating enough protein versus am I getting the finer sources? Or am I doing too much cardio around my weight training or do I need to separate them? Is a question of do I wear that, you know, they're a weighing dress or whatever, or just do I wear any cool cocktail dress when you're starting out for most of the effect, you just put some fucking clothes on and go to the club. You'll do just fine. It's a very, very small concern. Now it's a concern, but a very, very small concern. We don't at we. I don't enjoy when people get so analytical and so neurotic about their approach, that they start to literally raise their course levels through stress concerning themselves with insanely my new things. My new things that are important for competitive athletes, but not let me ask you this. If an individual should an individual have an idea of they're going to go to the gym, they want to, I don't know, squat, right? So I'm 100 and maybe 110. Should I should my goal be that I should be thinking I should be squatting double my body weight? Or you know, there's a lot of these different charts that say you should be able to squat double your body weight, your bent press, your, you know, your body weight and a half. How relative is that or an individual or an individual? Go, you know what? My goal is to see where my baseline fitness is and is there a number in which an individual should be progressing for weight or is that just all completely relative? Well, doc, I'll tell you, I can put a very fine point on this. It's all make believe. Charts of how strong you should be are make believe. Someone just made them up. They're very arbitrary. The only kinds of charts of reference standards and make any sense are international cataloging standards for weightlifting and powerlifting. So in weightlifting, for example, there are various categories of liftor. I think from category five all the way to category one, then there's a master lifter, which means you're very strong and then there's international master of sport, which is like you're at the Olympic level. There you will have weights for your weight class that you could look to and be like holy shit. This is what it takes to get close to the Olympic Paralper caliber. Most people should have absolutely no concern for that sort of thing. So that's a looking at strength standards using in those goals for postures. The only goal you should have is, you know, every few months I should be able to look back at my RPI purgifio, has that for the fifth plug annoying plug? No, no, no, no, no, we will, look, keep it in. Otherwise, I frankly wouldn't have had John's podcast. But you know, any kind of logbook that you, every few months, you should be a little bit stronger and then you're well on your way. It's about consistency and wherever you started from and wherever you're at any point to see a little bit of progress here there. Months and years later, it adds up. That's the okay. Now, now I'm going to ask a additional question. He's my favorite. I got him trying to get off his podcast. I can be asked. Sorry, ridiculous. Intensive. How, we can measure strength clearly. We can measure VR2 Max. That seems very straightforward. How does someone measure intensity? You know, there's a lot of discussion. Oh, are you? This is your level of intensity. Seems also very subjective. I'm certainly not an expert. And I'm just going to put in there for an older individual, does a one rep max matter and should they even know that? God, no. God. I'm very glad to hear you say that. Yeah, my God. I mean, like you can try one, relaxing the marginal probability of injury is substantially higher than was set to five to ten. Again, absolutely low, but relatively higher. So if you go out into the sun and do some tanning for 20 minutes twice a week, your relative risk of skin cancer is multiplied manyfold. Your absolute risk of skin cancer barely budgets because just on average, most people do not get skin cancer in the proximate turn. So with one rep maxing, yeah, you're getting a little bit of a higher injury risk. The question is for what benefit? Perfectly fine to accept a higher risk of injury for benefit. For example, to your husband's career, former career. Oh, now he's not running your thoughts. He either way he's built like a breacher. So he is this large human, glorious ran one of the marathons with Mark Bell, but that he beat Mark. Good thing God. I'm just ran a boss in marathon, but again, wow impressive. Also, please. I believe people listen to your podcast. So you're going to have problems to someone that's a special operator. Is there a risk of going into the line of fire? Yes, but if they're American host, the just that need rescuing, it's worth the risk. There's a very easy story to tell yourself when you're in the helicopter why the fuck am I here with a loaded weapon? Very easy story. For one rep maxing when you're in your 50s, the story is beginning to be a caricature. It's not you can tell yourself it's for a good reason, but it's not. Now look, if you're competing in powerlifting, yeah, yeah, when our max bread and butter, but if you're not, there's nothing you're going to gain dipping below five repetitions per set on the grand analysis that you wouldn't get from sets of five to ten repetitions. What about intensity? You will gain a marginal probability of injury and really just not. I agree. I agree. I agree. I'm glad to hear you say that just because I've been looking in a lot of the literature, that's what I like to do in my spare time. Ball rams is read and you know, I just keep thinking all of the, you know, they take these protocols which are necessary and then discuss it as if that could translate out to the general population based on these one rep max, you know, one rep max isn't and it doesn't really. Yeah, I can, I can, I can tell exactly why they do one of the access and research literature is a very easy way to metric strength. So you test people with the first week of eight weeks and I'm one rep max gets a pretty unequivocal test of your abilities and then you test them eight weeks later and if the one rep max went up, you can categorically say strength went on. The measurement tool is not something you train with. It's, it's like assuming that you need to build a dexus scan the size of your gym so that it can scan you while you're training. What, the dexus has nothing to do with actually getting a jack. It's the lifting that does. One rep max is a great for testing strength but there by no means remotely the best way to build in muscle for sure. And then what about intensity? What about measuring intensity? So there are several different kinds of intensity. You're already alluded to one based on one rep addition max. There's absolute intensity which is technically speaking how much force you're producing which will when our max is in the most you can produce. There's relative intensity which is some percent of that maximum and then there's probably the most pertinent for one of intensity which is actually not called intensity is called effort relative effort relative effort is how hard you're pushing yourself in any capacity based on your max and ability to push yourself. So someone who's training for marathons can do a 20 mile run and you can say what was your ultimate effort? And I like yes, I don't know like 90 percent. You know I was pushing it but not pushing it super hard. We're off someone you know runs the Boston Marathon you can say what was your relative effort? I don't know 102.5 percent I think I lost a lag back there somewhere. So relative effort is difficult to measure because it involves large degree of psychological there's a kind of a psychological gateway in there somewhere as what you're actually capable of and what your brain will let you do in any one point what you have interest in as far as pushing yourself hard there's always a distance between those for folks like Navy Seals that distance is nominal they're just be like hey try your hardest until you pass out they're like you got it but for most of the fraction of what's that comes for the comes to the dishes. You've got to phrase it like a garden country kind of matter like there are dishes at the bottom of this pile but need a restaurant. Yeah, so most people won't try their hardest and thus it is difficult to measure their actual relative effort. So when they tell you have two reps in the tank maybe it's two maybe it's four maybe it's 18 reps in the tank beginners generally on average don't tend to try as hard as they think they can put an intermediate and advanced lifters have been tested multiple times on multiple studies and when they say I'm two reps in reserve they're probably at worst four ups in reserve and sometimes they're actually at one or zero ups in reserve they're just lying in the opposite direction. So relative effort is difficult to measure but I say there are proxy variables to it and there's one really good way to get yourself out of the entire discussion and solve the problem. Proxy variables include slowing down of the bar or implement to whatever it is you're doing if someone runs a marathon and they're running at the exact same speed the entire time they probably didn't try their hardest unless they're really good at pacing if they decline and speed over time especially towards the end you know they're really trying to push it same idea with barbells so you can tell through that method you can tell through the method of are there's it look like they're trying in their faith and in their sweating and in their breathing if someone racks a barbell squat and they don't breathe heavy and their face never grannest there's a possibility that they tried really hard but it's a very very remote. So it ends up being a guessing game and we can be okay a guessing there's nothing wrong with a dedicated guys let's say the best way to ovate the question entirely is whatever it is they did today let's say they did eight reps with 85 pounds in the squat. Next week when they come in and it's 90 pounds on the bar it's eight reps again. The week after that it's 95 it's eight reps again and if they're pushing to try to match their PR every single time with a little bit more weight eventually one of two things will happen. They will underperform and it will be because they just stopped trying really hard or they're going to push really close to their limits and as people do this with themselves and that's how most good training goes it just go harder over time take a break come back harder over time take break most people would get better at pushing themselves because they care about still meeting their goal. When I did 90 pounds last week in the squat for set of eight and I care right 95 pounds this week I look at my hypertrophy up I go so it's set of eight that's the goal I'm going to try real hard you got to have some ego for that you got to give a shit about how progression works if you don't care relative effort is a difficult discussion to have because why would you try don't care and then you have 99 problems but all the technical aspects of lifting is not one of them because you have to give a shit a little bit in order to get most of the better. Thank you so much Dr. Mike Isrtele you're amazing I am very excited for you and your wife by the way you guys are both welcome to fly in your multiple private jets please come and stay with us we will podcast in person I think that you and I have a lot to chat about I really appreciate your approach it is straightforward it's evidence based and I think that you program better than nearly anyone that I have seen it and let me tell you why it's important to me I'm a practicing physician I recognize that muscle is the organ of longevity it's everything it's going to trump diet it's going to trump you know and I say that not that that means you could go and eat whatever you want but the influence of having healthy skeletal muscle is primary the way to get it for resistance training changes the metabolic homostasis of the body to a greater degree than anything else and you do it very well. Thank you so much it's huge you're an excellent interviewer by the way I do this a lot and you're really standing up I'm okay I bet you can go in 5 dollars what you got my then I got I got it so yeah five dollars all it takes to get my endorsement folks line up and pay me money but yeah it's been wonderful it's been awesome and I look forward to perhaps having a conversation in person later on thank you so much

You were really wonderful. Review and it was it's called Creetian supplementation and women's health, a lifespan perspective. And it's there's a statement here. It says Creetian characteristics vary between males and females with females exhibiting 70 to 80 percent lower endogenous Creetian stores compared to males. Does that still hold true? It can. What's the female is getting larger months? So that was based on baseline. Look at that all the muscle amount over time. And there's a couple theories why we think that is maybe a reduction in dietary Creetian compared to the amount of male or the ability to take it up. So there is some evidence to suggest in the minimal studies that there is less. And that probably why we see a really good response from females, but especially in vegans and vegetarians. Our study in 2003 with muscle biopsies. It was almost like the females response was a little unbelievable. And then you say, oh wait a minute, I only have a book 50 percent of their muscle for the Creetian. Magnolia wonder they respond so well. So that's why I think it's a huge push for males and females on a plant-day style to at least consider Creetian. And if they're not getting a Creetian to rent meat or seafood, obviously, this is probably why they need to at least consider those ideas. What about the Creetian activity throughout the menstrual cycle? Yeah. There's a beautiful chart here. And people add this. Should I cycle supplementation throughout the menstrual cycle? What are your thoughts on that? So Abby Smith running in North Carolina is a world leader on this. And she's clearly showed that for young females, especially that there's fluctuation, but Creetian doesn't really have that any get your mouth effect is the easiest way to put it. I think from a practical, be standpoint. I think it's something to think of the big push right now on that the mental cycling influence performance and for the totality of evidence, it does it. And I think that's how a lot of females need to look at it. It makes fluctuate water retention during the different phases. But at the end of the day, they're going to be taking Creetian for longer than the Latino phase or follicular. They're going to be looking after the whole benefits. So at the end of the day, I think it's a moment. Yeah. I'm really happy to hear you say that. I do think that there's a component to the menstrual cycle that it seems to confuse a lot of people and making huge changes. I mean, unless you are an Olympic athlete slow and steady is likely better. I am curious, does it have an impact on mood? Because of its brain. Yeah. So there is some evidence that suggests moving. We're doing a study right now in Iowa. What can that mood and energy? I mean, you just sound you are just sitting up and Netflix and chilling all the time. I mean, remember I had here when I started in the course we could talk about that too, but no, we showed that's another. That's a huge whole top. We've got to figure that. I'm about to OK, we definitely have to talk about them. Yeah. But before we talk about the myths, creatine for men. It's one of the areas. That's sort of a subject of questionnaire when we ask people. Mode has improved in a series of populations with clinical depression and non clinical based populations. So mode, energy, stat of and self-esteem efficacy is one that seems to be emerging. Now very difficult to measure, but when you ask people now, as if maybe because they got improvements in the gym, they can perform activities that hold better, but mode is one that we're starting to see in improvement or at least some emerging evidence and that's going to come more often than all the young. That's fascinating. Now, before we get to the myth, what if an individual has been previously trained? Let's say an individual when they are young, they're training, they're satellite cells are healthy, etc. They put on sculptal muscle. They've now hit midlife and fallen into the midlife trap. Does previous training impact? The answer from a scientific perspective, we don't know, but it's logical is very similar to the muscle memory with training. So all those precious issues if they're still dormant or activated, they can become reactivated. So the logical theory is that if you take in a decade off, exercise and then creating, making of you a motivational boost that have a chance of our time, but that has that study hasn't been done. Fair, fair. Let's talk about some myth. Okay. Give me your top weight. Give me your top three. We, the number one for sure, it's that mass. We talked about that earlier and we think we have a good idea. It doesn't. The second one. The preteen does not increase fat mass myth number yeah, it does not. No, in combination with exercise number two, the ballness, I literally could say preteen caused cancer. And the person say that's not because it caused baldness. And they say, well, look at you. I mean, so this is interesting from the rugby study over to these two decades ago. Now, only a single study has ever sort of looked at any of these measures. And in our mess of its conception paper, we put out of a few years ago. We clearly showed that in these individuals creating increased serum, DHT, a derivative of testosterone or linked to hair follicle loss or thinning. But just like when you go to the doctor and there's a nice range for cholesterol and blood glucose, the DHT level went up within normal range. But when they were on placebo, they range or they increased did not go up. And so immediately people thought, oh, if this form, oh, mine up, that means that's why I'm going bowl. It's never been shown to call it the bowl. And then you could argue it's never been shown not the column called bowlness. But I've a sense over a thousand people at high dose two years. And now a single person biological male or female has come to me and say, Daren, whatever you're giving me, I don't know but my hair is thinning. So I don't know why the study hasn't been done. I don't know. It'd be easy to do to look at a professional area in a certain region on the head or wherever. But um, that is myth number, which is one end. Two. That's number two. The third one is I think, do I need to take a loading phase? And people often think, well, because all the products that you buy on a label to just the loading phase, the answer is 100 percent. No, you do not need to take the loading phase. That's primarily only for athletes. If you're taken up for a long cavity or health purposes, you can start as little as three grams a day. And you can work your way up the maybe five or more if you want. So those are three of the biggest, oh, sorry, uh, and then kidney and liver function would be a course one. There's no adverse effects and God, they've done randomized control trials since the early 2000s. High dose moderate dose, low dose, no adverse effects, comparable seaball. That is extremely humble. Where do you think the creating research is going? What would you like to see? I think we have a good grasp on muscle. We still have a little bit more because we talked about the protein synthesis rates and a little bit more cells and enzymes. But the next push will primarily be on bone research. But even bigger there, I think is coming to neck up. And we sort of put it a really good review last year for to explore the idea. Can this compound wither without exercise have brain beneficial effects? And it has some application for depression and anxiety, PTSD, falls in that category. What about concussion? It's not really showing a lot of problems now for the neurofizzy allergic or muscular conditions, such as Parkinson's or leukeric disease. But it has been shown to have some benefits of muscular dystrophy. So that's I think we're the next 20 or 30 years we'll go. There is a study super excited. I can't wait for this to come out. Looking at it, it's the effect on Alzheimer's disease. And we're starting to look at people with pre- supposed to dementia. Can it improve their way of life? You can throw everything we know about muscle and bone away. If it improves some aspects of Alzheimer's disease or dementia, that could have profound effects from a global initiative. And that's why I'm starting to get involved now from a creating for global health initiative. Maybe there should be DRIs for creating and certain populations. If they're not eating a lot of meat in certain parts of the world, can this help offset some of those effects? So it's a huge push. And I think you're going to start to see creating not just for athlete but for health purposes.

A lot of people think that in order to keep their glucose level steady that have to go keto and never eat carbs ever again and that that's the only solution. It really isn't. You can still eat starches and sugars in a way that leads to a smaller glucose spike. So let me give you an example with another hack. So the study found that if you eat the constituents of a meal in a specific order, you can reduce the glucose spike of that meal by up to 75% a lot. Meaning yes, meaning you can eat the exact same meal, same quantity, same foods, just by switching the order you get a smaller spike. And you guessed it, the best thing to eat first is the vegetables, as I mentioned earlier because you take advantage of the fiber. And then when you put the starches and sugars at the end of the meal, you get a much smaller spike. I mean if you have them earlier on in the meal. This episode is brought to you by Maui Nui Venison. I found Maui Nui Venison because I'm always looking for snacks for myself and my kids. And Maui Nui Venison delivers. They have in each jerky stick which by the way, pay some amazing. You can get it in peppered or original. Has about 60 calories and 10 grams of protein. You can have two. You double up. It makes a great snack for you, for your kids, for your family members, for your guests. And they use wild harvest methods that matters because it is better for the environment. Basically, they have a mission and a story to bring the best medicine to you no matter where you live while being good to the environment. You can try yours. Go to Maui Nui Venison. That's M-A-U-I-N-U-I-Venison V-E-N-I-S-O-N.com slash lion. Take advantage of this limited time offer and get 20% off your first order. Jessie in Chau's fee. Welcome to the podcast. I see that you're wearing a mussel. Yes, I wore my mussel tea for you to show off my guns because I've lived in WAITs three times a week. I felt like this was the perfect opportunity to show them. I would absolutely agree. And thank you. Thank you. You're a French biochemist. Incredible. New York Times bestselling author. You have been on a mission to translate blood sugar, science, glucose, regulation to the public. And by the way, that is not an easy task. To take science and make it understandable to the general population. True. True. It is my passion and it's been great to be able to make a career out of it. Well, first of all, how did you become the glucose goddess? I mean, could have been the protein goddess. It could have been the fatty acid goddess. But you chose the glucose goddess. Yeah. Well, if it feels more like it shows me. So I started my health journey when I was a teenager. I had an accident when I was 19 years old and I broke my back jumping off a waterfall. And that propulsed me into a world of physical pain, mental health issues, my body felt broken. My brain didn't feel like mine anymore. I was thrown into the deep end of health struggles. And it's at that point that I realized that that young age, that if you don't have your health, you really don't have that much. And so I was forced in a way to go on this journey to try to get my health back to try to understand my body, my brain, how to how to fix myself. And that brought me to want to study biochemistry and grad school study in Silicon Valley and work in genetics. And nothing really helped me until I discovered the fabulous land of glucose levels. I had the opportunity to wear a glucose monitor as part of a research study when I was in Silicon Valley. Very randomly, I don't have diabetes. Nobody my family has diabetes. I didn't think it would really bring that much to my life. But I was curious about it. Turns out that it completely changed the game for me. It showed me that the days during which my glucose levels were steady, my mental health was good. And the days where my glucose levels were going spike drops, spike drops, all those symptoms, all those mental health issues I had been struggling with, well, they would flare up and get worse. And so to me, Gabriel, I felt like this was the first clue that I had finally gotten to try to fix my mental health and my body, my brain. And so it became fascinating by the topic. I found that I wasn't alone, that up to 80% of the population who does not have diabetes can still experience these glucose spikes on a daily basis. And that they can lead to lots of stuff from cravings to fatigue to hormonal and balances to long-term diabetes. And so I went on a quest to learn how to study my glucose levels in a way that was not too cumbersome. And that helped me heal myself. And then I wanted to share it with the world. And that's how the glucose goddess accounts started and how this whole journey of teaching people the science of blood sugar started. And it was totally unexpected for you, yes. Yes, yes, absolutely. When you were dealing with challenges of blood sugar regulation, what were some of the moods, swings that you were feeling or if they were swings or if it was anxiety, what kind of internal feelings were you having? For me, it was more depression, anxiety, panic attacks that had started after my accident. And that got worse and had these sort of flare ups once in a while. I also experienced what's called depersonalization, which just honestly feels like inflammation of the brain. And I didn't really understand why some days my mental health was better or worse than others. And it's when I figured out that there was a glucose connection that I found one of the first variables that could explain why some days my mental health was worse. So yeah, it was mostly anxiety depression and this very strange depersonalization symptom. Have you heard of? I have actually. We actually see it a lot in our clinic when individuals are exposed to mold. When they have environment. Really? Yeah. In terms of where their location is. We certainly see it. So let's start with the foundation. The foundational question I'm sure everybody asks you is what is glucose? Why is it important and how is it or can be harmful to people? So glucose is your body's preferred source of energy. Okay, so every single cell in your body from your brain cells to your muscle cells, to your liver cells, use glucose for energy. And as human beings, the main way that we provide this very important molecule to our body is by eating foods, specifically by eating two types of foods. So starches and sugars. Yes, protein can also lead to some glucose, but generally for most of the population, they get glucose from starches and sugars. And some glucose is fine, right? No problem. It's like when you have a plant at home and you know the plant needs some water to live. But if you give the plant too much water, then it drowns. Well, the human body is similar. In the sense that some glucose totally perfectly okay, too much glucose and problems start happening. And specifically, when during a meal, you eat too many of these starches and sugars. Your body will experience what's called a glucose spike. So simply put it just means a rapid increase in how much glucose is in your bloodstream and in your body. And these spikes are really what I've focused my research on. These spikes lead to a few consequences. They lead to inflammation, they lead to glycation, and they lead to insulin release. So the objective for us to feel better is to try to keep these spikes a bit more under control and steady our blood sugar levels. And there's so many really cool hacks and techniques we can use a lot of them involved using our muscles, which of course you are a total pro at. But there's simple things we can do and that have a fundamental impact on the health of our body in our brain. Short-term today, how we feel, and also long-term. And that's really the message I want to bring to people is that it's easy and it's going to help you today and in the future. And I think that there is just some real benefit to understanding what foods and how much that can cause this spike in glucose. And of course, when we think about glucose spike, the body has a normal natural response to foods. Typically, at least in my clinic and I think in the literature, individuals, you do not want to go above 140 milligrams per desoliter. However, up into that point is somewhat normal. My question would be how is blood glucose measured? And at what point do you feel that it becomes harmful? Well, most of us only get our glucose levels measured once a year. We get our fasting glucose levels measured. And a traditional doctor will say, oh, if your fasting glucose is underneath 100 milligrams per desoliter, you don't have to be diabetes, you're perfectly healthy, you see you next year. If your fasting glucose comes back somewhere between 100 and 126, your doctor will say, oh, whoa, you have pre-diabetes. And now you think above 126, will be diagnosed as type 2 diabetes. Now the problem is, once you get to the pre-diabetes diagnosis, your glucose levels have been rising for many, many, many, many years. And so even if you don't yet have pre-diabetes or type 2 diabetes, it's super important to look at your glucose levels and make sure they don't creep anywhere near that 100 mark. So to your question of when does it become harmful? I mean, so clinically we can say it becomes harmful to close your get-to-pre-diabetes. But on your point about the glucose spikes, yes, we should avoid increasing our glucose levels post 140 after a meal, right? But there are even some studies that say that any increase after eating of more than 30 milligrams per desolator. So it delta an increase of more than 30 milligrams per desolator should be avoided in healthy individuals. So if you're fasting glucose level as 90, you should avoid going above 120 after eating. And this is debatable, of course, right? And I don't focus so much on the absolute numbers. I focus more on helping people reduce and flatten their spikes regardless of the height of the spike, whether they're at plus 30 or plus 60 after a meal, we cannot benefit from reducing that. So in conclusion, if you have three diabetes or top-to-diabetes, you need to fats and your glucose spikes to put those conditions into remission. And if you don't have three diabetes, yet you also need to look at your glucose spikes to prevent the onset of three diabetes and also to help you not get all the symptoms from the glucose spikes in the first place, which can be as simple as chronic fatigue as cravings as porcelain as hormonal disruptions, etc. So anybody benefits from learning about this topic. I do think that there is a lot of benefit from learning about it. And you know, it's interesting when you think about blood sugar regulation, one thing and I'm curious is if you see this. So do you always wear a continuous glucose monitor? This episode is brought to you by thesis. Thesis is the world's first customized nitropic company. Nitropics are nutrients found in nature or the human body that enhance things that we care about. Like focus, energy, mood, dare I say logic? And what I love about this company is while most companies take a one size fits all approach. Thesis takes a customized approach. You can go to their website, you can take their quiz and it has databases after databases of information that will allow them to pair you with your perfect blend. You'll get a starter kit with four different blend recommendations. I have to tell you lately I have been all about logic. Logic has something called fakopa in it. Fakopa is one of the most studied nitropics it's good for memory, neuro protection, learning, many things. You can try different blends by going to take thesis.com slash doctor lion that's take thesis.com slash doctor lion. Thesis is offering 10% off your first box. You'll get a customized starter kit. You'll take the quiz, use the code and you are well on your way. No, you know I did for the first two years nonstop and now I do it once every six months because I know everything now I can into it everything that's going. It's amazing it truly is amazing and I will say for people that are just exploring putting a continuous glucose monitor on one thing that we see and I'm curious as if you saw this individuals on a higher protein diet will maintain higher levels of blood sugar. Roughly anywhere from maybe nine you know in the 90s and it's through gluconeogenesis. Let's say their carbohydrates are controlled their body becomes very good at making glucose and much less reliant on external carbohydrates like skin cells or other things and you can prove this to yourself by putting a continuous glucose monitor on and I think just he makes a really a point is you have to understand your own body there's certain variability for everybody. I have a question for you. Did you notice that when you went above a certain amount of carbohydrates that you got a robust response regardless of the food type or was it very dependent on the food type and the fiber content? You know I never measured grams of carbs. That's just my brain doesn't work that way. I'm much more of an abstract person when it comes to food. I'm like oh you know 40% of my meal is protein and 20% of fiber and the rest is carbs so I could not tell you the amounts of carbs. But very clearly you know the breakfast that I used to eat which was a Nutella Crape and orange. That sounds good. You are orange juice. That sounds good right. My husband has that last week. What are you bringing in the house here honey? I mean I was raised on that right and then at 11 in the morning I felt awful hungry exhausted but I just thought that was normal. So to me what I like to teach people is just to be able to be a food detective and to be able to discern what kind of macronutrient is in front of them before they get into counting the number of grams. So for example I want everybody to know that when they look at bread will that starch or when they look at chicken that's protein when they look at vegetable that's going to be fiber. You know I mean I mean it's kind of sweeping analysis of the food composition but I think it's so important to be able to do that and most people don't have that skill yet. So if you're just eating starches or sugars and sugars or anything that tastes sweet from you know a banana to chocolate cake essentially and starch is being bread rise, pasta potatoes etc. Those are the things to look out for because those are the things that turn to glucose when you digest them. So anytime you have a meal that is mostly just starch and sugar you can be pretty sure you're going to get a massive glucose bike and that's the first phase to start really. Yeah and you know it's it's really interesting from what we teach people anything above. First all number one people do not typically count macronutrients. It is very challenging. Just in general it seems as if people are very busy but anything above 50 grams of carbohydrates seems to have a much more robust insulin spike. So the blood glucose rises, then insulin increases and you potentially can get a subsequent drop and blood sugar which makes you all the things that Jessie was discussing whether it's irritable, tired, mood swings, fatigue. Really important. Do you think that there are actionable things that individuals can do to manage the glucose spike? What you call these hacks that are important to them? Yeah that was a chance of question. It was like of course. Yeah so for those living I have a great team that helps me and we go through all the content of the individual that we invite on the show and we send them a list of questions prior and we send them some studies etc. So yes many hacks and I'm really all about action and they're scary and you can talk about disease states all night long but I want to help people actually get started that's my passion and behavior change. So in my book my first book glucose revolution there are 10 hacks but I want to cover maybe the foremost important ones here today at least these four because if you apply these four hacks you will significantly reduce your blood sugar swings, your glucose spikes and start within the benefits immediately. So the first most important hack to a void glucose spikes is all about breakfast and it can be breakfast at 9 a.m. it can be breakfast at 4 p.m. you can fast for as long as little as you want but the first meal of your day should always be savory never sweet right? Most of us have a sweet first meal of the day like I mentioned the Nutella Crapes and Orange Juice or it can be the breakfast cereal or the toast and the jam etc. When you have something sweet in the morning that leads to a massive glucose spike and then a crash and then your whole day ends up being this glucose roller coaster where you feel exhausted cranky moody and you have cravings for sugar and then it's 11 p.m. and you've eaten five pots of ice cream you know we all know how those days go because your breakfast determines your glucose levels for the rest of the day. So have a savory breakfast first thing and what would be something that you have? Just a pure favorite, very very breakfast. So savory breakfast is always built around protein. So my favorite savory breakfast would be an omelet with feta and tomato as maybe like some tuna, hummus of a cotto situation and my favorite savory breakfast is actually leftovers from dinner. Super easy warm the weapon of pan cracks and eggs in there throw some parmesan on top and you're good right? We should be treating breakfast like we treat our other meals. The concept that breakfast food should be the dessert is an invention of the food industry. We don't mean that it's only harming us. So savory first meal of the day built around lots of protein that's going to keep your glucose levels nice and steady. Do you ever think about resistance starch when you're having the breakfast? Can you mention about that as an astrategy? Absolutely you can have resistance starch you can have you can even add you know some vegetables in there to just get the fiber and if you want to have a simple piece of bread for example or some potatoes which is just regular starch you can but it should be there for taste right? It should never be the center of your breakfast. It should be there for pleasure for taste but not as the main character and something cool about resistance starch while we're on the topic. There's some really cool studies that show that when you heat starch up and then you cool it down overnight during the fridge some of the starch in the food let's say in St. Pasta will turn into resistance starch. So you're essentially lowering the glucose impact of a starch by heating it up and cooling it down and then easing it later on. That's so amazing. Do you see that? Do you see that on your own body? Yeah absolutely. And so what I do is I find these studies are really interesting and then I test them on my own glucose levels to produce sort of an illustration of those scientific studies and so that people can get the message from the studies in a very visual, easy way. That's the goal. What you do a wonderful job at doing that and just for the listener the resistance starch these are molecules that do exactly that they resist digestion and they function kind of like a fiber that that's one way you can think about it as opposed to just straight white bread etc it becomes more fiber-esque in the morning and it acts like fibers so you can end up with some pasta that has way more fiber than it originally would have if you had just easing it straight there. But that's like a little side quest hack right we don't have to do that for every single start that we eat and so that was the first one say every breakfast the second one which is very important has to do with vegetables. So when we eat vegetables at the beginning of a meal and this is key at the beginning of a meal the fiber in the vegetables has time to go and coat the walls of our upper intestine creating a protective mesh in our upper intestine that stays in place for a few hours and this mesh helps reduce how quickly glucose molecules from the rest of the meal are going to make their way into your bloodstream. So you're slowing down the arrival of glucose molecules into your blood by having what I call a veggie starter. So before lunch or before dinner start your meal with a plate of vegetables it can be anything from roasted broccoli with tahini to some raw carrots to salad whatever you want a veggie starter take advantage of that fiber in your veggies to reduce the spike of the rest of the meal and after the veggie starter eats whatever you want right you just add this plate and it's interesting because in so many cultures we see this as a habit so in France where I'm from we have this concept of kudite which kind of like an old school thing our grandparents used to do which is raw veggies at the beginning of a meal in Italy on tpasti is usually built around vegetables so we've known for a long time that these habits make a lot of sense and only recently do we have the science and the glucose evidence to back at all that's really cool. I actually I hadn't thought about that that's absolutely correct. Does it matter what kind of fiber whether it's soluble insoluble do you care or do you just say listen friends? I don't care. I mean this is this is my philosophy right I'm just like any veggies just find veggies that you want even if it's just salad that actually doesn't have that much fiber in it but even if you just want a little bit of salad or if you want to go you know the full mine yards and make a beautiful roasted dish of lots of different veggies go for the veggies. That's the most important part. And so the first hack is eat a savory breakfast with protein. The second hack is to pre-game your meal with fiber. What's the third? Exactly. Thank you to Element for sponsoring this episode of the show. Element spelled LMNT is an electric like pack that I've been using for a long time now. I'm a huge fan which is why I'm thrilled that they are sponsoring this episode of the show. Element is formulated to help anybody and everybody with their electric light needs whether you know you need it or not. For example if you are training and sweating a lot if you are not getting enough sodium or potassium or magnesium in your diet this has you covered it's a science backed electrolite or ratio. It doesn't have any junk in it. It doesn't have any sugar comes in very easy travel packs you can throw in your bag. I drink between two and three a day. They help me with muscle cramping. It helps me maintain my hydration case amazing right now. Element is offering my listeners a free sample pack with any purchase that's eat single serving packets free with any element order get yours at drink LMNT.com slash doctor lion that's drink LMNT.com slash doctor lion you can try it totally risk free. If you don't like it you can give it to someone and they will give you your money back. No questions asked. Okay the third one has to do with vinegar and it's been most of my time reading scientific studies and when I first came across the scientific studies I'm vinegar and glucose levels I almost fall off my mind. When was that? I cannot believe it. It was about four or five years ago and I really couldn't believe it. So it turns out that vinegar contains a molecule called acetic acid and when we have a tablespoon of vinegar in some water before eating carbs this can reduce the glucose spike of our carbs by up to 30 percent just by adding this vinegar drink before eating them and the reason for this is because acetic acid slows down the enzymes and charge are breaking down carbs into glucose molecules. So the acetic acid slows down how quickly the glucose from the carbs arrives into your bloodstream once again. It's all about velocity and slowing down that glucose so it doesn't spike so high. And again I mean like everybody has vinegar in their kitchen it is an ingredient that's been around for centuries and in the Middle East and you're on for example they have apple cider vinegar every single day it's known to be a healthy ingredient but only recently have we started to uncover what's really going on on a chemical level. So these are not rocket science they're kind of common sense but actually we need to bring them back because we've lost touch with all of them. That advice is really valuable in terms of what do we know from a foundational perspective and what if people always done and what have we gotten away from? I pulled a meta analysis here and this is the effects of apple cider vinegar on lipid profiles and glycemic parameters, systematic review and meta analysis of randomized clinical trials. I will link it here for you guys and the conclusion was that they found a significant favorable effect of apple cider vinegar consumption on fasting plasma glucose and blood lipid levels. Absolutely and what's also cool is that it doesn't matter whether it's apple cider vinegar or any other type of vinegar because they all contain acetic acid so you know apple cider vinegar is sort of the trendy one but it can be white wine vinegar it can be cherry vinegar it can be rice vinegar they all contain this acetic acid molecule. You do want to avoid though the very syrupy balsamic glaze the stuff that you know pores really slowly out of the bottle because that's full of sugars so that's not going to help it all. And how does exercise play a role in all this? Ooh I'm excited to talk about this with you. Well this is the fourth hack the first the fourth most important hack is to recruit our muscles in our fight against glucose bikes. So the advice I think if people is after eating move your body for 10 minutes okay because as I mentioned at the beginning of this episode every single cell in your body uses glucose for energy and your muscle cells also use glucose for energy and so we can use this to our advantage if we contract our muscles after eating some of the glucose from the meal will be used by our muscles instead of hanging around and creating a big glucose bike. So even just 10 minutes of walking even just cleaning your apartment walking your dog doing the dishes you can go to the gym as well but any kind of movement within 90 minutes after the end of a meal is going to significantly reduce the glucose bike of that meal. Now of course the other piece to look at is how much muscle mass do you have in the first days because the more muscle mass you have in your body the more you're going to have these incredible storage units to store any excess glucose and you're the pro at this so I will let you take the mic. Well yes glucose is the site for our skeletal muscles the site for glucose disposal and what's so amazing is it doesn't require insulin when you have exercising skeletal muscle the body will pull the glucose that is in the bloodstream out of the bloodstream and move it to skeletal muscle. So I love I think the fourth hack is my favorite I think that that fourth hack should be hack number one and I will also mention that when you engage in physical activity so what just he's talking about is she's very specifically speaking about post feeding glucose response. When you exercise and or when you are stressed you will see increases in blood glucose that is not from my understanding just see that is not where you were talking about you are purely talking about when you eat something what happens? Yes correct correct correct. So I'm talking about using our muscles and movement as a way to dispose of glucose after eating so that you reduce the glucose spike of the meal that you just had so that you eat the meal that you like with fewer consequences on your health by recruiting your muscles to dispose of some of that excess glucose. You have thoughts over time if this ends up being meaningful outcomes for example let's say someone like myself I'm tiny maybe my blood sugar never goes up past 140 do you think that there is benefit to measuring it watching it. I don't recommend everybody where the glucose monitor if that's the question you're asking I used to I used to think everybody should wear one and it was going to be life changing and I realized over the years and by getting a lot of feedback from my readers that for some people having a glucose monitor and seeing those numbers all day can be quite stressful and also if you don't have the education it can be very confusing to interpret seriously even I sometimes I'm like I have no idea why this pattern is happening right so I would recommend people actually sort of try to check in with themselves think about their cravings their energy levels their hormonal health they're asleep how they feel their skin as a way to assess how their glucose is doing within but if you're listening to this and you feel really drawn to trying to glucose monitor go for it's just be aware that you need as much information as possible for example my first book which is it's not a plug seriously it's just a really good one when I'm shown not because I will yeah glucose Bible to have if you want to go down this rounds but I think a lot of people can get the benefits of these hacks without wearing glucose monitors is there anything to do with any more hacks so that was four what we have tons of hacks but those are the foremost important ones that I really want people to take away you can find the other ones in my book but savory breakfast veggie starter vinegar moving after eating those that's the pillar if you do that for four weeks you will get significant benefits has there been anything that is surprising that has come out in the literature as you're reading tell me a lot of really interesting surprising stuff the most recent study that really blew my mind is the effect of grounding on your glucose levels so grounding being the act of either putting your feet against the earth right or and some grass or something so essentially connecting your electrical voltage with the voltage of the earth and as this happens information goes down you sort of it really great your voltage and your body electrons get put into the earth and the researchers also found that this significant you lowers your glucose levels they don't really know you are part is all but yes it decreases part is all yes and information in the body so it's probably all connected but again this just tells me wow we all wear these shoes that completely insulatus from the earth we're just walking on concrete all day if we can't if we just went back a little bit and walked on the bear earth a bit more our glucose levels would benefit so again it's coming back to these very common sense things but I thought it was amazing to see a study on it I'll send it to you anything else anything else that just surprised you and shocked you I mean that is pretty surprising that the environment would play a role like that yeah another cool study I mean there's so much I will mention one that I love which has to do with married couples so these incredible researchers very brave researchers recruited a bunch of married couples I think about a hundred married couples and they gave each person in the couple a voodoo doll representing their spouse and their researchers asked the participants to put a pin in the voodoo doll every time their partner irritated them and this for six weeks okay then the researchers got the voodoo doll's back and measured the participants glucose levels now what they found is that the people who had the most glucose lows okay so essentially more variable glucose levels with more hypos had put more pins in the voodoo doll representing their spouse so the researchers concluded that your glucose levels could maybe have a link to how you show up in relationship how irritated you are by those around you and to me this is so important because it's telling us that the way we eat can change who we are as a person it can change almost our personality right so if you're having married old troubles or even just feeling difficult emotions maybe looking at how you're eating could help you get to a place where you feel more balanced than at peace and for me that study I just have you know big kudos to the researcher I just think it's such a funny study right it's amazing yeah what do you think about that comparing voodoo doll's lemma how many pins did you put in there do you think that the environment so for example this this group that have a voodoo doll's I'm gonna kept my husband one it's gonna be full of pins and this is just gonna be a whole thing do you think that the interpersonal dynamic also can affect blood sugar in which that would then change the way that we maybe some people have a higher glucose tolerance than others maybe some people that appear metabolically healthy don't need as many carbs just because of the high stress environment have you if you thought about that absolutely yes I think it's interesting it's sort of looking at it the other way around so the biggest glucose spike I ever saw in myself was from stress I gave a big presentation five years ago I was terrified and then I in front of a bunch of hundreds of people and then I look at my glucose levels and I had spike to 190 just from giving a presentation in front of people just from stress and so if we follow that logic big glucose spike from the stress then big glucose drop consequences crankiness, moodiness, cravings etc I hadn't eaten anything but just my environment to the fact that I was in a stressful situation impacted my glucose and my behavior my personality for the rest of the day made me more likely to seek out sweet foods that would then keep me on a glucose roller coaster so for sure you can imagine that somebody who lives in a more stressful environment will have bigger glucose spikes and drops due to that environment and then that would only be exacerbated and get worse because that then leads to you you know having behaviors that are just going to make it vicious cycle and worse and worse so it's a very multifaceted complicated convoluted relationship have you have you heard of this something called the glucose types patterns glucose types are you talking about the Stanford study glucose types reveal new patterns of glucose dysregulation and yeah and yeah and 18 less exactly this is a this is a very important study that is the study that showed us the up to 80% of people who do not have diabetes can still have spikes into the pre-diabetic or diabetic range from foods like breakfast cereal that was a study that changed the game that was one of the first studies using glucose monitors on that population and sort of ringing the alarm bell saying hey everybody turns out even if you are metabolic take what I'm going to help you you don't have three diabetes you can still have these big spikes that have an impact on your health yeah it's it's really well laid out it shows low variability moderate variability and severe variability with individuals that again that's just you're saying are not necessarily diabetic and then these glucose types were associated by these variability patterns thank you to inside tracker for sponsoring this episode of the again blood work is of critical importance it is the beginning to your journey to health and optimization and by the way health optimization is an active and dynamic process you should be involved in I strongly suggest that you go to inside tracker dot com slash doctor lion they are offering 20% off their entire inside tracker store and if you are new to blood work you can head over and grab inner age 2.0 which is amazing it looks at 17 different biomarkers for men and 13 for women to allow you to calculate your biological age aka your inner age to see where you're at and what you need to improve it is a low cost entry and depending on your area you can have a mobile full bottomest come and take your blood which by the way is such a luxury and it eliminates all excuses for a limited time only you can get 20% off the entire inside tracker store just go to inside tracker dot com slash doctor lion that's inside tracker dot com slash doctor lion and figure out where you are to determine where you are going yes what are your thoughts on the gut microbiome where do you think that that plays a role in blood sugar regulation or is it still too early to tell you know I'm not an expert on the microbiome but what's very clear is that you know your microbiome is what processes your food and we know that a healthy microbiome keeps your glucose levels more steady and an unhealthy microbiome leads to more glucose facts so it's all connected it's all connected you would have to get a good expert on here to discuss that but if you eat in a way that's going to cause glucose spikes you're also eating in a way that is going to make your microbiome unhealthy so going to promote the growth of you know quote unquote bad bacteria and that ends up being a vicious cycle because then for the same foods you will get a bigger glucose spike because your microbiome is less healthy so interesting isn't that interesting and that is really this personalized medicine what does he say is that we could eat you know my producer over here Matt who's sitting over my left shoulder he could eat we I don't know we were filming something on Don't Cringe Jesse Rice crispy treats he could eat rice for they actually are protein rice treat rice crispy treats but he could eat that and his blood sugar could go to 150 maybe probably not he's pretty fit and mine could the exact same thing exact same meal maybe pretend where the digital twin of each other and mine could only go to 110 and maybe or 120 maybe it's because of I mean there's many different reasons as to why that would be but got microbiome I think does play a bigger role than we have yet to recognize it could be got microbiome it could be insulin release right so glucose is really not a very healthy picture it could also be a hydration status so when you're more dehydrated you have bigger glucose spikes it can be muscle mass it can be time a revenge role cycle it could be stress it can be a higher dur I mean the the variables are endless but and that's why it's so difficult to compare two people's glucose spikes and drawing conclusions we can't really say much because it depends on so much stuff though we can say is that if both you and your producer had used one of my hacks before eating the rice crispy treats both of your spikes would have been proportionally smaller and that's the key rights because those hacks work in everybody regardless of how high you're actually spiking a cdc acid will work for an individual no matter what yeah that's amazing now I know why my dad just slams apple cider vinegar he he he lives in Ecuador yes he lives in Ecuador and before he gets here he needs to make sure that there's a bottle of apple cider vinegar in the house well that's amazing see ancestral wisdom they know much better than we do it's maybe he listens to the podcast what are some of the most common misconceptions people have with managing blood sugar that you've seen a lot of people think that in order to keep their glucose level steady they have to go keto and never eat carbs ever again and that that's the only solution it really isn't you can still eat starches and sugars in a way that leads to smaller glucose spikes so let me give you an example with another hack so the study found that if you eat the constituents of a meal in a specific order you can reduce to glucose spike of that meal by up to 75% a lot meaning yes meaning you can eat the exact same meal same quantity same just by switching the order you get a smaller spike and you guessed it the best thing to eat first is the vegetables as I mentioned earlier because you take advantage of the fiber and then when you put the starches and sugars at the end of the meal you get a much smaller spike they need if you have them earlier on in the meal and so we can think about this a little further and say okay when we want to eat something sweet we should never eat it on an empty stomach we should always have an after meal as dessert and that's one of the ways you can eat the chocolate you love or the cookie you love with less impact on your glucose levels so always think dessert is the way to go again common sense that's when most people eat sweet foods but now pretend to have sweet foods between meals in the morning and that just needs to big spikes so always have sweet foods at the end of a meal and learn to use my hacks so you can eat the carbs that you love in a way that leads to smaller spikes and last thing I will add is that when you start using the hacks and reducing your glucose spikes you actually crave junk food and starches and sugars way less so it's sort of naturally you go towards the state where you're eating fewer carbs anyway but if you try to go the brute force route and say okay tomorrow I'm going keto that's very difficult to maintain and most people just can do it for more than a couple days right but if you solve the ended lying issue you're going to be able to build this into a lifestyle did you have a moment where you realize that you were going to do this you mean talk about the figure all day yes did you just have this you know you you and I this is pretty funny because I feel like all I do is talk about protein and muscle yeah I know it's so funny did I have a moment at several moments but it sort of built up I think the aha moments was when I saw that deep personalization correlating with these big glucose spikes I was my personal aha moments and then when I was working and so I can value and I started getting super interested about this topic I thought why is nobody made glucose super mainstream and almost you know at one with pop culture and over time as I built the Instagram and I felt that there was traction it built in myself too and became a passion and then the book happened and you know things just sort of snowball there was not a moment where I thought this is what I'm going to do as my life it sort of happened over time what about you how long have you been doing that five years and it just it took a life of a town totally totally but I do think the universe always wanted me to talk about this topic because when I was 11 years old we had a theater production my school and I was the pancreas and I was talking in this little I know I was talking and so my role was to play the pancreas the organ that manages glucose levels so if I look back like okay the universe always wanted me to talk about glucose it was a retarded you figure out how to make it mainstream I think this is the big struggle that a lot of people scientists do have I mean you've been able to simplify and listen you guys that are listening whether you're providers it you do have to sacrifice nuance to make information accessible and that is just the reality of it people may disagree but again to actually help the masses the simpler quite frankly the better and he sacrificed again some of the new on-sage it just happens absolutely and you say the simpler the better I got to a point where my content was so simple that I could remove all the words from it and people would still understand it because I went to drawings right my genius moment was to dream up these images of glucose spikes side by side explaining a simple concept so for example broccoli and then mac and cheese smaller spike than mac and cheese alone I don't even have to write broccoli mac and cheese because there's a little image of them right I stripped things down so far that I almost can't take anything away anymore so I think creating that visual graph was the thing that proposed this content and this science level of mainstream I think it's all about the visual element it was it's brilliant it's brilliant it's straightforward and it can reach a lot of people and even on that note I am sure that you're thinking about other things because at this point now you've been talking about glucose for five years and you're probably thinking to yourself wow everybody just wants to talk about glucose and I'm so over talking about glucose but it is now just hit mainstream is that happened to you yeah yeah you know two years in is when I felt like I cannot talk about glucose anymore I just cannot say what glucose is and then something switched in my brain where I don't know it didn't feel frustrating anymore just became automatic so when you ask me what is glucose there's no part of me that's resisting like oh my god I've had some this question a million times I'm like I'm very happy to tell you the answer that I think is the best answer and it's going to convey this information to the person but yes of course now I'm thinking about evolving things I'm really interested in mental health because that's the reason I got into this in the first day so I always wonder what I do to mental health what I did to glucose so could I make it visual could I turn complicated science into easy hacks could I make it super human and accessible but I think that's going to take me you know decades to get there because we don't have a good way to visualize mental health and I don't think that I can create a message that is super mass market if I don't have a visual support so I've been talking to if you companies that map the brain that voltage etc but it's too early I don't think we can really extract from that's a simple visual image that could help me in that journey but I'm sure is your thoughts about that I think you'll probably have a flash of insight moment because really it was this Evan flow of these moods or anxiety that led you to really pinpoint glucose and again I hear that a lot from my patients when they're feeling a certain way we have to figure out is it actually anxiety or is it blood sugar dysregulation and oftentimes if they're waking up in the middle of the night we'll see absin flows in their blood sugar that make them feel extremely anxious so do I think that you'll be able to do it I do I absolutely do and again you are a very unique blend of being interested in a biochemistry but also interested in this idea of bringing things to mass market in the mainstream that's unusual so my question is what did you do in Silicon Valley I was working okay so I'll back up right before Silicon Valley I was doing my master's degree in biochemistry at Georgetown and I didn't like the lab like it was it was too slow for me I was like six months to do this experiment and then something can go wrong and then there's this technique and then you have to scrap the whole thing and it's seven years later and your paper doesn't get really it was it did not work your eyes out of personality pretty much so so from that moment I knew I wouldn't be an academia and Silicon Valley I really wanted to work at this company called 23 and me they do genetic testing and ancestry etc and I thought it was the coolest thing and I wanted to work on the product team I said hey guys so I had master's in biochemistry but I want to work on product that means I want to work on the website and the emails and the experience and the features because that's my true passion like I'm a user obsessed person I always think about what is going to be the experience of somebody who has no scientific backing I always think about like my mother my grandmother my aunt how they're going to interact with this piece of information how do I make it seamless and super simple so they finally gave me an internship after I begged them for an internship for about six months a kicking and screaming they're like fine you can you can work your for three months during the summer and that's when I learned engineering and design and software and you know I blossomed I loved it and then when I had the moment of oh wow glucose is going to be important to me I merged the two I merged my little science and my understanding of scientific studies with my passion for making user-centric products essentially and design and marketing and bitter made a little snowball and voila glucose goddess was born it's a it's extraordinary hey you guys have to check out our stuff the extraordinary part about it is the information does bring awareness to blood sugar regulation and one could say well does blood sugar regulation and checking it does you know what are those long-term outcomes if you're healthy maybe not much but if you have disregulated blood sugar absin flows are likely not good insulin should be thought of as a fail-safe mechanism not something that you're calling upon frequently and then what else is so interesting about what Jessie has done is she's taken these somewhat complex topics and made it available to everybody and rather than we could have gone in down the rabbit hole of the acetic acid and what is the structure and what enzymes are it inhibiting et cetera et cetera but that might be interesting for her and I and maybe you but the point is is when people are sitting there just learning they just want to do the thing and that's amazing thank you to first form for sponsoring this episode of the show with all this discussion on blood sugar regulation I'm gonna share with you one of my on the go keep my blood sugar stable snacks that is balanced with carbohydrates and protein and that is the level one protein bar they come in all different kinds of flavors chocolate chip cookie dough chocolate mint cookie one of our favorites is chocolate peanut butter pretzel yes you heard that correctly and what I love about the level one bar is number one it has way protein in it it has a one to one or close to one to one ratio of carbohydrates to protein that helps with blood sugar stability they taste amazing you almost think that you're eating a candy bar but you're not so if you are looking for a sweet snack or potentially even a lower calorie meal then level one bars are the way to go get yours at first form dot com slash doctor lion that's first form dot com slash doctor lion it's all about just starting and doing one thing and can I ask you uh Gabrielle you're talking about you know in my board of talking about glucose what about you because you become the protein princess or you know you there's a whole thing around you and muscle and I'm sure that you're thinking about other things as well quite frankly I am I'm gonna go back to take a position and be part-time faculty and study sexual medicine hormones and do research looking actually at the hormonal interface of hormones and muscle mass just part-time I've got two more books to write and then of course the podcast thank you so much for asking but what I do believe that it's important is if you are talking about something that you have to be continuously educated about it and that's what this podcast is all about these transparent conversations and I believe that the next frontier is going to be this idea of sexual medicine and hormonal replacement in a way that is different than it's being discussed now I cannot wait to learn from you and hear everything you're gonna be sharing that's very exciting muscle is just one part of it it's the pinnacle just for you as if glucose is this major piece muscle is a huge piece and protein is a huge piece of that but there are so many other concepts that ride along with muscle-centered medicine and overall health like sexual health like hormonal health and I'm so excited to be able to talk about some of these other things what is next for you I mean you are all over the place and you know what else I'm really what I also really really love so the pictures are great but the fashion is even better girl we'll say that for the online and for the offline chat we'll what's up out but the fashion my friend thank you appreciate it I'm obsessed with fashion I mean I'm trying to you know be the first scientist biochemist who's you know really in the fashion game and I is again just weird parts of my brain coming together and I'm like how can I merge these two how can science and fashion become one and it's my little personal challenge right now so I just launched this YouTube show with sort of in-depth episodes where I cover all these topics and let me tell you every single one of those episodes has a full look that is really awesome from different fashion brands that I've been working with so yeah love the fashion love the fashion and also I'm a Gemini right and so I think I love decided you're of contrast how do you bring two things I have nothing to do together and make a little UFO like a unique little thing that nobody has ever done before and I think that's where a lot of genius lies so if you're listening and you're somebody who has two very distinct interests how could you bring them together because that makes something that is so unique right I love it well Jesse it's so wonderful to have you on the podcast we'll link to all your things and you and I will catch up offline about all things glucose and fashion amazing thank you so much for having me

Welcome to the Doctor Gabrielle Langeau. Today I am honored to sit down with my friend and colleague, Dr. Gerard DeNafrio. He was chief resident at Columbia and Cornell and did a fellowship in Spine and Sports at HSS, which is the hospital for special surgery. He is a physical medicine and rehab doctor and in this episode, are you ready for it? We talk about what you are missing if you only focus on muscle health. How tendons are the key to longevity and the role of hormones in tendon health. We talk about this and so much more as always. I produce this content for free. Please take a moment to share it, subscribe, rate it, like it. You know the drill. And if you are not part of our community, head to my website, Dr. Gabrielle Langeau and join us because remember, we are forever strong together. Dr. Gerard DeNafrio, thank you so much for joining me. I am very excited to have this conversation. You and I have known each other for many years now. You are extraordinary. You are a physiatrist. You are going to explain it to the listener. What that is and I'd love for you to talk about a little bit about what you are doing and how you got here. Fantastic. So thanks for having me on. So, physiatrist is a specialist of physical medicine and rehabilitation. So I did my residency in physical medicine and rehabilitation. And you can think about that as a combination of a few specialties. So it's a bit of neurology, a bit of orthopedics, a bit of internal medicine. We take care of patients along the entire spectrum of disability and ability. So throughout the course of my medical training, I have taken care of patients with stroke, hemiparysis, and hemiplegia, spinal cord injury patients work to fair bit of the VA taken care of our veterans. And then I have also been on the sidelines of professional sports teams as a assistant team physician for the net organization and the Red Bull's organization. So I have seen human movement, disability, dysfunction, pain, these things and a physiatrist is a nonoperative specialist. So we go through a variety of nonoperative ways to help patients with their pain, function, etc. And basically improve quality of life. It's amazing because it actually takes human movement into medicine. Yes. Why? Why did you choose this specialty? And by the way, you know, you're a very fit guy. But it's an unusual specialty, I would say. Yeah. So I started to learn about the specialty, right, as I was thinking about going to medical school. And I prior to medical school was a personal trainer. And so what I used to do is during the summers of college I studied up for my personal training certification. I used to be a personal trainer. I loved every second of it. You get so much experience watching how people move. And you get to see what it looks like when somebody has a dysfunctional movement pattern when they're being loaded correctly. And you really see what happens when you load a system. And that's what this all comes down to. So we're loading somebody's bowel mechanics, either those bowel mechanics are functional and they're going to improve. They're going to put on muscle. They're going to gain speed. They're going to gain functionality. Or you're going to have dysfunction that leads to pain and disability. Whether it be something like back pain or tendon off of these, which we'll speak more about. But as a personal trainer, I wanted to go into a field where exercise was a really important component. So we pride ourselves as societies are just having very close relationships with physical therapists and writing detailed physical therapy prescriptions. So we really are uncovering in the office. What are the bowel mechanical determinants of pain? So let's take for instance, your shoulder hurts. But your shoulder might be more the end product of dysfunctional movement at your shoulder blade. So uncovering with a good physical exam and using things like x-rays, MRIs, CAT scans on the spot ultrasound and of course taking a very thorough history. You could put together what is really the dysfunctional bowel mechanical diagnosis and then at the tissue level, what's occurring? So my residency training and physical medicine rehabilitation preceded my sports medicine training and all of this is led to me having a great appreciation for the Muscle of Skulls System, how it works and we were connected several years ago because I saw that you were talking a great deal about muscle centric medicine and a lot of the endocrine determinants of muscle, the importance of muscle as we age and looking at this holistically. If you were to think about how say a nephrologist goes into their training like chain, neurology. They look at the macro structural approach, they look at the micro functioning approach. So like how does the organ actually look in the body, what is it made of and then what is it do? So I've been you know, voraciously consuming your work and I've read your book and I found a great appreciation and it because it's looking at I'm looking at the Muscle of Skulls little function from locomotion, walking, lifting things, athletic endeavors, throwing, kicking, etc. But we're also I love that you brought to the table into the scientific conversation. What is the actual biochemical aspect of that? Now we're looking at the organ much more from the entire spectrum of what it is. And quite frankly, you and I have again been talking for years, so it's really nice to be able to sit down. I have a conversation of course this is the beginning of Unire working on some projects behind the scenes. You bring in a very important perspective. It is wonderful to think about the health of Skulls, a muscle from a metabolic standpoint. From it's impact on fasting, insulin, fasting glucose, triglycerides, and that's impact on say dementia or cardiovascular disease. The question becomes how do we get to these, what I would consider inflection points. Inflection points of aging or inflection points of disability. I love how you said you look at individuals and take care of them through disability and ability. I really appreciate your perspective on Skulls muscle as its organ system, which is exactly what Fizaya Tree does. But I also think that you have a very unique perspective that brings in very closely the bio-mechanical aspect that I don't think is actually super common in physical medicine rehab. We talk about it as physical medicine or rehab, but your perspective is certainly becoming and you use this tagline in your Instagram and I fragile. Yeah. Which there are a number of topics that I'd love to discuss on this podcast, which included in our limited to the things that limit our ability to progress, like tendon issues. Yes. Like back pain, hip pain, things that ultimately limit the quality of life for individuals and then other things beyond like should we be stretching. But let's start with one of the things that I think that we both seem clinical practice are issues with tendons. Yeah. And why are tendons important? What are they? How do we think about them in a global sense? Sure. So muscle is contractile tissue. Muscle is made of actin mouse and filaments. You have this incredible cross-linking phenomenon that's mediated by our energy molecule ATP. And we contract muscle and ultimately to move bone, but muscle doesn't attach directly to bone. It attaches to bone through tendons. And collagen is our most abundant protein in the body and no surprise, tendons that tendon is attachment from muscle to bone is predominantly made of collagen. So tendons are by definition. They are non contractile tissue. They're almost like if you think about a short bungee. So they exist in a relaxed state called the crimp state. And when you when the muscle contracts it pulls on that tendon takes the slack out and then it winds up attaching to the bone to move the bone. And a tendons have this incredible quality called visco elasticity, which is a cool word. Everyone is going to be quizzed on this later. Yeah, you go. So visco elasticity means that the mechanical behavior of that structure changes the degree of strain that you put on it. So at low strain rates, tendons dissipate energy at high strain rates, they really put down the force. And so you can think about as you're walking, you might be putting a lot of some tension through your Achilles tendon by definition, but you're not putting as much tension through it as you are when you're running and it's like a really tight spring. So the mechanical behavior of it does change. The tendons are sort of an organizational level. You know, muscles have the contractile elements. You have muscle facicles and facicles for those who are listening are bundles of proteins. So you have this structure, you have a larger structure and then you also have within that these composition of these micro structures of facicles and facicles are fascinating thing because they are present in muscle, tendon, and nerve. And the reason for that is because we don't we're not unipliner individuals. We don't just function in one plane. We function in forward and backwards, left and right, and also we rotate. And so muscles and tendons as they're trying to move a bone, they need to have specific elements stressed, not the entire, not the entire system stressed simultaneously, but the fasticles actually allow for tendons to be strained specifically. So you can think about like a picture. So a picture, the job of a rotator cuff, this is a cool point that I really like, the job of a rotator cuff is actually to stabilize the ball on the socket. We think about rotator cuff strengthening exercise. You'll see a lot of people with bands and cables and strengthening of the rotator cuff and it does that. It does rotate the arm. Hence, it's name. But the shoulder is an inherently very mobile joint. It's comprised of four different joints actually. It starts over here and at the sternal curricular joint, you have your AC joint and then you have your true glider, hemorrhol joint and you have the the scapula shoulder blade that rests on the back of the rib cage. So it's a lot of mobility in it, which is why on average unless you're a rockhead, you can raise your arm higher in the air than you can, you're like. Okay, so similar ball and socket joint with the hip, but more stability there. Job of the rotator cuff is to stabilize the head of the the ball and socket joint. It's almost like thinking about like a golf ball on a T. So as you raise your arm into a pitching motion, all of your rotator cuff muscles are active, but different facicles are actually more stress during different phases of that. So that's one of the fascinating elements of this. It's a really cool mechanical adaptive thing that we've evolved to have and we have it in all of those mobile structures of the musculoskeletal system. We haven't muscle, we haven't intended and we also have it in nerves to allow us to be more athletic in multi-planar motion. So it's very cool and in college and itself is most of tendon dryweight is type 1 collagen and then you have lesser components of type 3 type 11, you have other types as well and when a tendon starts to become diseased or overloaded, that can change. It's actually part of the process of developing tendonopathy. Let's talk about tendon, would it be fair to say that you couldn't have a healthy muscle without having a healthy tendon or vice versa? Yes, so it is fair to say and it's fair to say because we have general principles, we use this word homeostasis to describe how everything is regulated. Healthy muscle to exhibit its mechanical effect of moving bone effectively needs a healthy tendon. You can develop your muscle, it's actually muscle will develop more quickly than tendon adaptation occurs. Muscle will develop more quickly than the tendon adaptation and is that why designing a really good training program is essential to avoid injury because essentially the people listening or thinking, well why do we care about tendons? Yes. Nothing will take you out of the game faster than a acelter, then in a killease rupture tendon, hoppy which then becomes chronic, could you have a, I suppose a better question is which goes first? Yeah, so this is something known as the athletic accommodation timeline. So when you start, let's say you're not a runner or I could speak from a position of truth. I'm not a runner. So I need that. Yeah, yeah. So let's say I start running. The first thing that occurs in the first six weeks is I learn how to run better. And basically that's called neuro kinetic response. So starting all the way up in your brain at your motor cortex and going all the way through your nerves as they go through your spinal cord and go through peripheral nerves and into the muscle, you learn how to coordinate your motion. You basically learn how to use your muscles for more efficient motion. So if you were to test my ability to run in the first day, it's not going to be as good. I'm going to be much more gasped. I'm going to go deep into those energy zones. I'm going to really kind of stress to do the activity, but I get better at it with time. Then in muscle tissue, during after the first couple weeks, you start to get cycloplasmic hypertrophy. So your muscle start to bring in some products to help them function. Now the body perceives it seems putting down collagen, putting down protein. From one aspect, we have a substrate driven issue, which I think you've elaborated on the importance of losing the importance of protein intake. Then the other aspect is you need to continue a stimulus to convince your body to say we need to put down some new framework here. So then you start laying down some muscle. By the time your tendons and ligaments start to adapt to the athletic endeavor you're engaging in, you're almost looking at six to nine months. And that is much more of a significant timeline than it would take for a muscle to adapt. And by the way, tendon turnover is very slow. It is. So as opposed to muscles, which have a very rich blood supply and a rich nerve supply, tendons do not have a rich blood supply. They're relatively a vascular compared to muscle. So they're not going to turn over as fast. About 90% of a tendon is more less static. And then you have maybe five to 10 percent that's the variable element that changes with time. So this is the one of the important principles that I think gets missed. We hear about this concept of progressive overload. While you're not just progressive overloading your muscle, you're progressively overloading your tendon, you're progressively overloading your joint capsules, your ligaments, etc. So this is when my sort of harken back on my personal training principles. I say, well, where is the periodization? Where are we dropping back? Where is the deloding? Where is are we working towards a goal into to three months and then are we scaling back and maybe changing and kind of starting back from a point just ahead of where we started before? You can't just progressively overload until you find yourself into injury. And that's something I very commonly find. One of your quotes I'll steal from you is, you can't change what you don't track. And it's and it's too true. And some people are very nuanced. They've know their bodies really well. They've been training for 20 to 30 years. They may not need to track as much. But if you're a beginner or even an intermediate, and you need to think about, I want to train, I have a long-term goal. Well, your short-term goal should be perceived without pain, without dysfunction, and really just knock down the goals that are in front of me as opposed to training until I get an injury and change the training types, for instance, or give it up altogether. And that's so, so important. I see that in my office all the time, I say, I ask, what is your training program, look like? Well, I do, they'll tell me a split. I do back and buy it on Mondays. I do shoulders and tries on Tuesdays. I just want to tell Monday Universal Chester. There you go. I do, yeah, sorry. Yeah, probably chest on Monday. Matt, Matt, only does chest on Monday. Matt, Matt is a good chest. So, lots of pushups. Lots of pushups. And they'll tell me a training split per body part. But what about the global period? Like, what how are we actually looking at the overload of these tissues over two to three months? And what is the expectation? Is the expectation that you're going to progressively overload until you're the world's strongest person? Or are you going to have to scale back? This episode is brought to you by Timeline Nutrition. Uh, might appear. The product that I wish I had developed. But didn't. So, I've teamed up with Timeline Nutrition to bring you one of my ultimate favorite products. And that's my dopure. My dopure is a science backed uralithin A. Youralithin A sounds like a species of something or other. What it is, is a postbiotic. And 30 to 40 percent of you humans cannot make it. Why is it important? It's important because it's one of the first gut muscle access connection. Might appear. Helps the muscle and all mitochondria when you take it. You can take it in pill form. You can take it in powder form. I recommend trying the starter kit. They have ginger and berry. I put some in my yogurt. It's amazing. Here's what it does for you. It will improve your potentially your energy, your strength, your endurance. Again, might appear. Helps with mitochondria. And so name might appear. It helps with the regeneration and cleaning out old mitochondria. And if you remember anything about, I don't know, fifth grade science, mitochondria. They are the powerhouse of the cell. So you have to have good mitochondria to have good energy. And one of the hallmarks of aging is a decline in this mitochondria. So if it sounds like you need more energy, more strength, more endurance, and something that tastes great, might appear as a way to go. Go to timelinenutrition.com slash doctor lion. That's timelinenutrition.com slash doctor lion. And you'll get 10 percent off your first order. I recommend either the starter pack or the pills. Try it. I know that you're going to feel great back to the episode. When you think about injury, where do you see them? And again, you are a clinician. You are seeing a lot of patients every day. I started my very early, early hour. You know, I'll call you in the morning. We'll have some great idea. And you'll already be there reading. That's right. Very early. What are some of the most common things that you see as it relates to tendon injury? And I really like how you discuss this progressive overload. Is there something that we can do now that potentially can change the way that we move so that we don't have to deal with these injuries that seem to really inhibit our capacity to live. Like you said, sometimes individuals will say, well, I used to do bench resmenal account because I have 10 to sell them. Sure. Sure. And it's not the muscle that the problem is it's the tendon. It is. That's right. You will infrequently, you know, and to some degree frequently depends on what you're seeing, but you will see muscle strains. In muscle strains can be unagrated scale. But the more frequent thing that I see in my practice is tendonopathy. And the most common tendonopathy is I see are broceter cuff tendonopathy. Specifically, one muscle on the roseter cuff named the superspinatus. And the latin terminology means that's above the spine of the scapula. So it's one of the higher ones. And then I'll see a lot of Achilles tendonopathy. A good bit of patellar tendonopathy. Which is neat. Yes, that's right. So and then gluteal tendonopathy. And that's one that really impacts a lot of people over the age of 50. And is very much present when someone's walking. So if you think about the importance of walking as it relates to not just calorie expenditure, quality of life, low commotion, one of the most common things I see is something called greater trochanteric pain syndrome. Otherwise, abbreviate as GTPS. Some people know it by a similar term which is bercitis. Okay, so when somebody has a bercitis and a lot of times you'll get the clinical diagnosis of bercitis, you can get either a traumatic bercitis or a bercitis because you have a adjacent tendon that has a low-grade of inflammation. More commonly, I see the adjacent tendon that has a low-grade of inflammation. Bercis sacs, they exist in the body to allow tissues to glide on each other. So we commonly see the greater trochanteric bercitis, which is in the sides of the hip. That may be a little bit inflamed because the gluteal tendons from the gluteus medius, which is on the side of the hip and the gluteus minimus will be inflamed because they're not connected to a rather, they're connected to a muscle that's not doing its job. Are there movements that we should all be able to do or is this an impairment in our ability to be able to move appropriately? Yeah, so some of it is the basic sports medicine principle of you have a low-bearing tissue, you have exceeded the low-bearing capacity of that tissue and that tissue is now in a state of disrepair. That is the hallmark of tendonopathy. So we're as a tendentare the collagen fibers actually separate. Tendinopathy is characterized by a state of chronic disrepair, like blood cells are in the area. You start to aggregate things like fat molecules, you start to have the collagen type change a little bit and your body actually grows little nerve rootlets into the area to sense pain more readily. Oh, that's not good. That is not good and it's actually what's interesting phenomenon because it is also preserved. This same thing just like fast schools or in other places. This same thing occurs in interfortipodiscs in the back. You have a collagenous structure without a rich blood, you know, you have a nerve supply at baseline, but the more frequently that you injure it, it actually there's good scientific evidence as a gest that there's little nerve roots that will grow into the area and make you experience pain more readily. Basically telling you to stop it, stop shut it down for a while. So I think one of the things that you're asking me about, what could all we all be doing? Take stock of what's bothering you, listen to your body. If you are you're training shoulders and you're doing a set of military presses, but that night you notice that you're waking up in the side of your shoulder is hurting in the middle of the night. That's a sign that one of your tendons is a little bit of pain and might have the beginnings of tendonopathy, re-examine how you're doing a military press, maybe sub that movement out for the time being. Don't ignore those things. There are good pains in their bad pains. Good muscle soreness, I think anybody who trains you know it. You feel good. It's you get the endorphin release here for instance providing a stimulus to the tissue and it's clearing that the byproducts of exercise over a couple days and you feel better. Bad soreness and a tendon you typically have your either compressing the tendon too much during activity. You feel like a snapping sensation when you're going through a military press. When you're walking on those sides your hips hurt a little bit more or you go for a run and you notice that your Achilles tendon actually feels painful to touch and is a little bit bigger. Listen to that, decrease the training volume and then think about always pairing what you're doing in your exertional work with what I call capacity work. So as a framework I always bring to patients. One thing you can learn from studying and working with professional athletes is that they take care of themselves very well. In addition to having fantastic genetics and athletic ability, you know they also take care of themselves in a way that we don't. So we don't for instance spend a lot of time doing what I call restorative work, boring exercises. I so metrics or really taking time and saying all right well I'm not going to train today because or I'm going to train differently today because this structure is inflamed and it's a problem. I'm not just going to take a couple of Advil and see if I can train through it. I'm going to listen to my body and say it needs to heal. I'm not giving it adequate time and I'm going to abortion to percentage of my time to that. I like to use the 8020 principle with us. So 80% of your time exertional work. Go for it. You want to do your cardiovascular work. You want to do your strength training, your power training, whatever it might be. Somewhere around 20%, you should think about the injuries you've had in the past. You should think about the stuff you're dealing with in the present and you should be building capacities in those tissues. If you have to work with a physical therapist to learn how to do that appropriately, that's fine. But you also there's a lot of great content online about how to how to restore normal mobility and joints, how to strengthen up your tendons. So that's something I readily engage in and I encourage my patients to readily engage in as well. Certain amount of your time, increasing your capacity, to then go exert yourself. Don't have the entirety of your program just be exerting yourself because the sum total of your human movement is not just the gym. It's life. It's the degree to which you are sitting. It's the physical and psychological stressors that you're putting on your body throughout the course of the day. It's your ability to sleep well and repair well and get enough protein in and get adequate nutrient intake. We think about it in terms of the gym because for a lot of us, the gym becomes our sport and it becomes something that we really look forward to. We kind of rise and fall on our our performance within it and it can hurt a lot to think about, well, I can't engage my workout. They work my workouts my release. I need my workout. I need my workouts my foundation for my day. But spend some time doing the hard stuff in the background and you'll be rewarded for it. Don't wait until you get a really bad injury until you learn how to learn how to rehabilitate them. And then just it, because I think that as you age it becomes more challenging to recover. I was looking at some of the research on tendons and thinking about how can I relate this to something that I know about, which is skeletal muscle. Sure. That when you are very active and you are young, you're improving you satellite cells, you're able to prime the body to be able to put on muscle later on in life. The literature that I was reading about on tendons was that the activity in youth is really critical for the thickening and the ability for these tendons to form. I don't want to say in a meaningful way, but in a way that will withstand a lifetime of activity. Which I want to ask you about what do we know about training up tendons in youth? And then is there a natural decline with skeletal muscle? There is somewhat of a natural decline to skeletal muscle because of increasing animal existence. Again, there is some controversy in this space, whether it's because of an activity or a natural process of aging. But where if we were to think about a concept that we know a lot about, which is skeletal muscle, maybe the listeners know more than I do about tendons, which is why I want to have you on so that you can teach us all about tendons and injury and approaches to training. But what is the progression from tendons from youth to aging? Yeah. So in your teens and your twenties, you build up the college and content of your tendons. You build up the area. So we talked about cross-sectional area, which is basically the thickness of the tendons. And with time, you do have a little bit of resistance to modifications in your tendons. So we find that in the aging athletes, you tend to develop this low grade tendonopathy or tendonopathy like features where you have your aggregating these other cell products, like the fat content or calcium content, and it also tendons lose some of their stiffness and we want tendons to be stiff. You do. So tendons are supposed to be stiff by design. You want a good spring to be mechanically efficient. You want a good spring to be mechanically efficient. They think about running, bounding, hopping, etc. You want your muscle contraction to be highly efficient and go towards bone. There's this really interesting principle called Young's Modulus. Young's Modulus is basically the calculation based upon the stress strain curve of a tendon. So your Young's Modulus should increase with training, which basically is the efficiency of the tendon to do work. And the some resistance to injury. Every tendon in theory could be injured at its maximum. Just like a muscle could be. You go try to pick up a car or your bicep, my tear. Yeah, I could totally do it. There's some days I think I can do it too. But the tendon does appear to have a decrease in that Young's Modulus. A decrease in the ability of its mechanical efficiency as we age. You also will see some degree of decreased cross-sectional area of tendons. And you'll also know some decreased collagen content as we age. But these are all modifiable, but to the same extent as muscle less modifiable. So building up good tendon tissue does not mean you want the largest tendon. You want the mechanically most structured tendon. And what this is important note. Larger doesn't always mean better. Because it tendonopathy is actually characterized by larger tendons. They aggregate water. They aggregate these things called proteoglycans. So the tendon does get bigger. We want the same way some elite power lifters aren't necessarily the most muscle-ed individuals. But there's some of the strongest individuals. You have to think about how are they the strongest individuals. They're the strongest individuals because they're mechanically very efficient. They know how to move neuro-kinetically. They know how to position their bodies. They do have muscle strength. But they don't necessarily have the largest muscles. A bodybuilder will have larger muscles on average than a power lifter. In the case of tendons, the collagen, you know, we hear about DNA as a double helix. And it's a very fascinating thing to learn about collagen as a triple helix. So you actually have these cross-slenching of molecules in the collagen. And that allows the collagen fibrils with the intended to link more effectively, to move more effectively. So a lot of times we see whether it's with weight training, cardiovascular training, like running, or even like a a plyometric protocol, you'll see that people get the young's modulus changed before they increase if ever cross-sectional area. Men have larger tendons than women on average. But that doesn't necessarily mean that the tendon is always stronger just because it's larger. Larger structure is only as good as the microstructure within it. And the microstructure is more measured by young's modulus. So when we look at the studies that examine loading up the lower limb tendons, the patella attendant, the Achilles tendons, the glutes. What we see is that that young's modulus changes, and that does appear to change a little bit with age. So building that up while you're in the prime years is perhaps beneficial and then staying with it. Do we know the mechanism of action as why there is a decline? I don't know the body of literature when it comes to tendons and tendonopathy. You know when I think about muscle we know that there is motor, de-innovation, there's a decrease in the quality of the satellites. Do we know why tendons decline? So one thing is from a metabolic aspect, they do change a little bit. So they actually tendons are minimally aerobic tissues. They don't really go through the they don't really use oxidative phosphorylation as it means by their largely anaerobic. But they have some aerobic up at metabolism and it's actually a hallmarked of the degree to which your tendon is conditioned that it can actually engage in aerobic respiration. That's pretty fascinating, isn't it? It is. I think because it's such an on-off mechanism. Meaning you're either engaging the tendon or your neck. Exactly. You're either crimped or on tension. You can kind of get away with an anaerobic response. Is it a metabolically active tissue? Less active than muscle. Highly less active than the muscle. But the metabolism will change and your blood flow may change as you age as well. High poxia or the absence of oxygen is considered to be a driving factor behind tendon degeneration. That's interesting because it's mostly a vascular. Yes. So it doesn't have a good blood supply to begin with. Yes. So minor alterations as we age either to do to the sedentary nature or just the fact that we're not moving well or whatever else it is or just time. The other thing is we accumulate micro tears. And a lot of micro tears don't heal. It's a high rate of chronic tears and say like a rotator cuff or another other is of the body. Then may not heal and you may not need them to heal to me. They may not progress to be a surgical issue. But that will weaken the tendon. When the nothing in the body is as strong as when you originally made it. So if you have a collage and a structure, it's relatively a vascular. You're going to try to put down a scar tissue within it. It's almost never going to be as strong as when you first started it. The other tendon fireballs may take that load. They may be able to do 99% of what they did before. But it's tough to say that the magnitude, effect of the tendon and its best will ever be the same. So the metabolism changes and you also see cell synescence or some cells just dying off. And we see that in a lot of tissues. So there's an element of tissue hypoxia. There's a little bit of a change in tissue metabolism. The collage and cross linking perhaps is not as efficient and so your young's module is goes down. And then we also see that some of these cells just die off with time. And so it gets harder. There's I think if you can maintain it, it's part very good. It's tough because there's always the the abstract element of this, where examining literature that takes a point in time and typically these studies are over months. It's tough to say what would happen if you informed a population of this when they were younger and they engaged in certain exercises could they in theory maintain a lot of this the same way that theory we can maintain a lot of our muscle. Okay, you got to listen to this and please don't turn off this ad because I got to tell you about cozy earth resort towels. How many showers do you think that I've taken today? Like 27, that's how good these towels are and no, I didn't really take 27 showers. But I got the cozy earth resort towels and I feel like I don't even have to go to the resort because these towels are so soft. You know when you go to the end get these beach towels they're usually scratchy and they're big. These are plush resort slash beach towels and we are entering summer. They're amazing. I got the it's kind of like a rust and white beautiful beautiful towels so soft and of course cozy earth makes bed sheets that I wear or bed sheets. I don't wear my bed sheets. I probably should. They make bed sheets. They also make PJs loungewear. This stuff is temperature regulating. It is so soft. It's so luxurious and my listeners or viewers get 35% off. That's right. Very generous. 35% off your order go to cozy earth.com slash doctor lion and I'm telling you if you're looking for a gift grab these resort towels. Amazing. Back to the show. Are there activities that individuals should be doing? You had mentioned plyometrics, running, skipping, bounding. Will those things that maybe children naturally engage in help develop the health of the tenant and that we should probably continue to do. Whether it's should we continue to sprint? Should we make sure that we have bounding in our program? Yeah. I think everybody should be training type two muscle fibers and so you need to be getting some degree of explosive work. I think the biggest phase change that we see when we look at a program for somebody and we try to see how they could be, for instance, we're seeing that they're overloading their hotel or tenant. So the tenant that connects the kneecap to the shin bone and helps basically act as a mechanical lever for the quadriceps muscles. Maybe they're overloading the sagittal plane a little bit too much. So explain to us what that is. So sagittal is back and forth. A squat is a sagittal plane movement. To some degree, a barbell squat, you're doing some degree of frontal plane. So that's left versus right stabilization and you're also not rotating with the bar in your back. So that would be a classic sagittal plane movement. The bench presses a sagittal plane movement. But as we age, it does appear that we just generally spend less time rotating and running and cutting and doing the things that we did as kids. So when we try to go back to those activities, that's when you'll hear about an acute Achilles tendon rupture and some 30 to 50-year-old male who's doing a backyard football game for the first time in a while. So you'll hear about it and they'll pop their calf muscle and that's an Achilles tendon rupture. So I like to look at globally in a program how much time are you spending in the three planes? Are you rotating? Are you rotating under load? Are you stable as a good example of a stabilization exercise in the frontal plane would be like a suitcase carry? I'm trying to carry a kettlebell up my side. I'm going to go forwards and backwards and I'm going to make sure that my body doesn't lean either way. By engaging in sagittal and transverse movements, you engage different muscles than you do with sagittal I'm sorry, transverse and frontal plane movements. You engage different muscles than you do with sagittal plane movements. A lot of the machines in the gym will keep you in the sagittal plane. And so this is something that I advise people to get off of machines. Get used to doing lunges, get used to doing rotational work and really challenge your body. There's some degree of I think a very good scientific debate about what exercise is best for tendons. I would love to now and I want to know if blood flow restriction has any influence on tendons. Yeah, it's a good question. With regards to the types of exercise, we look at predominantly the prevention aspect and from the treatment aspect. From the prevention aspect, there's nothing to say that we can justifiably tack down something to the wall and say you should only do isometric or eccentric or concentrics. It's tough to say that. It's a little bit of conjecture and a literature about that. But what's interesting is there was a very good study that looked at the rates of lower limb tendon opportunities and soldiers in Israel. And basically looked at a prevention program and then used an ultrasound to take a look at the tendon health of the lower limb tendons and whether or not those tendons were aggregating those those products that are homeworks of tendon up at the. And what they found was contrasting what you might think was like an Achilles prevention program. There were almost no calf raises in the protocol. The entire protocol was hip and knee. And it was all stabilization of the core rotational movement, hip airplanes, stuff like that. So this is another concept that I very commonly bring up with patients which is smoke versus fire. Are your symptoms representation of that tissue being at its end? It's overloaded. But is the real problem mechanical element that's missing from your program or missing from your life? So in that particular study, when they looked at prevention, they did find that it was helpful when they underwent this prevention protocol, which is largely comprised of hip stabilization exercises. The entire kinetic chain is linked. We cannot divorce one element from the other. Your body has to achieve motion. It has to get motion range of motion from some element. Okay, so let's say you go, bend down to go get something you're doing a squat. There's so many moving parts within that from your ankle to your knee to the intrinsic muscles of the foot and the bones and the foot to your hips to your low back and to your thorax, etc. So you're going to get mobility from somewhere. So as the answer to the question, how can we actually prevent some of these things from happening, it's can we identify your mechanical weak point to head of time? From a rehabilitative aspect, we use isometrics commonly as the starting point in a tendonopathy rehab protocol. So would you explain what would be an example of yeah. And isometric exercise is one where you're contracting a muscle but you're not moving the limb. So if I were to be rehabbing a biceps, it would be just holding a dumbbell at my side. Right? A concentric would be bringing the dumbbell up to my shoulder and eccentric force is when we're actively mitigating the lengthening of the muscle and those tend to be the hardest. Right? So that's when we're lowering down a weight slowly. So it was a scientist by the name of Alfred Sin who came up with something called the Ophardson Protocol and since then we've been really focusing on e-centrics as the sort of the go-to, that's how we're trying to get by a week six of a PT protocol for somebody's achilles. And we've broadly adopted that for other tendons as well. And good comparative study came out a couple of years ago that looked at heavy slow resistance training versus e-centric training specifically and found that heavy slow resistance training was non-inferior to e-centric base training. So basically the time under tension with deliberate motion meant to restore the capacity in the tendon is as beneficial as doing, you know, heel drops off of a stair for for instance for a kill is tendonopathy. For blood flow restriction I can't say specifically whether or not it's beneficial the thought of Hyperemia so Hyperemia is the process of getting more blood into a tissue. And we do use therapeutic ultrasound to heat up tendons and we use shockwave to heat up to basically break up microstructures in attendant to treat it when we put PiroP, we're putting blood products in an area. Right? So the the thought of getting blood into this relatively a vascoestructure is one that makes a lot of sense. How effective is that? Which one is specifically? Any any modality that utilizes because the structure is a largely a vascular structure so now you're introducing something that potentially it's not exposed to routinely or with the amount of whatever you're going to use. Yeah. PiroP or however you're going to use any of these modalities, how effective in treating a tendonopathy is it and and tendonopathy would be something that would cause pain over time. And limit the capacity, you know, from a very practical aspect the reason we are really focused on tendonopathy is because those seem to injure before a muscular injury happens. That's right. It's the common denominator that limits the quality of life. I think it's a huge limiting factor in training programs and progression and I think it's one of the first things we see when somebody starts weight training and we start to see these things arise. So we'll go through a couple treatments. Amazing. All right. So we have this relatively vascoestructure. It's in a state of disrepair. Let's think about what that means. So the actual structural components are not as strong as they were. And you can think about this like you have a house that is not perhaps built as well as it could be. You have a leak whatever else it might be. Well, first thing we're going to do is we're going to bring it to GC and so that's your general contractor and you're like what's it GC? Oh yeah. Yeah. So we're going to you have Tina sites. So same thing in muscle, you have her myocytes and you also have your osteocytes in bone. You have these cells that basically look at the tendon homeostasis and they help direct traffic. And Tina site is a standard. It's called a modified fiberglass cell. So it helps to lay down college and it also helps to direct traffic. The Tina sites will sense that something's wrong and they'll bring in other cellular products. One of which is that you will start to grow little blood vessels in the area. So part of 10-0 is actually when we put color power Doppler on ultrasound and we look at a tendon, we'll see stuff light up that was previously that is a good telltale, one side versus the other. Do you have Hyper-EME in a tissue? That's already assigned that things are going in the wrong direction. Well now we say well now you've aggregated this scar tissue, you've aggregated these other things that are there. They're not that helpful. Well we might have to bring an excavator. And the excavator is we have a couple different treatments for excavation. One of our treatments is called PNT. So percutaneous needle to notomy, which is when under an ultrasound will actually pass a needle through the tendon several times. Is that where a dry needle in came from? It's very similar to dry. It's where this came first and then dry needle and was adopted. Yes. So dry needleing depending on your discipline, dry needleing is something that could be performed by a physical therapist. For myself, I do these under ultrasound and visualize the portion of the tendon that's the nitylpathic. Which I just want to highlight that that takes a ton of skill. Ultra-sounds are not easy to use. And quite frankly I believe that that's how it should be done because then you actually can see where the injury is. Yeah. What tissue you're putting it in? You're not doing it blinded. You are being able to visualize. It's important to visualize. It's also going to tell you whether or not there's a tear there. You don't want to needle a tear. So a tear is a different concept. A tear is a separation. So we don't want to excavate or in that area. It's not helpful. So the thought of passing a needle through a tendon several times will actually help induce take this state of chronic disrepair and convert it to the acute inflammatory phase again and basically help to cycle out some of that stuff. So that could be done through PNT. It could also be done through something called a 10x procedure which helps to remove scar tissue remove calcium that's built up in tendons. The advent of PRP and YPRP is so interesting. So PRP is a distillation of blood products. So we spin down your peripheral blood. It's still majority red blood cells but PRP means platelet rich plasma. And there are two subtypes of platelet rich plasma. The exact concentrations of which do differ in the literature based slightly depending on the study you're looking at. So you have leukocytes rich so white blood cell rich platelet rich plasma and leukocyte poor platelet rich plasma. If I were treating a joint, I would use leukocytes poor. I don't need white blood cells and a joint necessarily. But when I'm when I have this chronic state of disrepair, I need a whole construction crew. I need my white blood cells. So I'll use leukocytes rich preparations. And I typically perform it with a tonotomy too. To actually put some areas into the tendon where I can distribute that PRP. Now PRP has several growth factors, one of which is put the derived growth factor. And this helps to basically stimulate the teenocytes and another type of cell that resides in tendons called TSC's tendon stem slash progenitor cells. So you do have a repository of stem cells within your tendons. It's just a question of mobilizing them. So conceptually, we thought, well, PRP makes a lot of sense. Depending on the tendon and depending on the literature that you're examining, it can be very effective. On a hold, I would say it's probably a 50-50 proposition depending on the crinacity of your tendon problem as well as whether or not you have a tear can confidently and where that tear is. Not all tears are made equal. The tendon itself, right? So you have the muscle coming towards the tendon. You have a mild tendonist junction, which basically looks like a finger where the tendon is interlocking with the muscle. And some tears do occur there and those can be quite tough to treat. But then you also have something called the emphasis, which is where the tendon attaches to the bone. And so those are the most common ones we are treating. Now you can have a tear at any portion in that tendon. So they all have different prognoses. If you have a tendon on the bottom right by the bone, that's a different prognosis than the one up by the top by the burso. So we try to extrapolate from the natural history of this. What's the percentage chance that's going to heal? Where is it? How big is it? How impactful is it to the amount of strength you can produce in the relevant muscle? How imparit is it? And then would we consider is this a large enough tear that should go to surgery? Is this something that we should try PRAP in? Important for people to know. If you do suffer a tendon tear, there are different types from a perspective of if we're just looking at a large tendon. You can get what's called a full thickness tear, which is when it's like as if somebody punched a hole in a paper, go straight through from top to bottom. And you usually know when you do those. Yes. That is. I have had quite a few injuries and you know when that happens. It's not like a tendon off of the. You don't necessarily, you know, might be a little irritation and then you go back to the thing and then you irritate a little bit more. That's right. But when you get a full thickness tear, that is an acute injury that will take you to your knees or whatever. Yeah. So the full thickness is the pot hole and then there's something called a company. So we say full thickness and complete or full thickness complete. In complete would just be a sheet of paper and I punch a whole bunch of hole with the whole bunch. Complete means I literally take a pair of scissors and I cut the paper in half. If you have a complete tear, now the tendon is no longer attached to the muscle. That is a surgical problem. Okay. That is not something that's likely to heal by itself. That would be, for example, like a tricep tendon tear or a bicep rupture. Yeah. So and depending on how important the bicep. So for instance, the bicep is interesting because the bicep is almost like a fifth rotator cuff muscle. There are people walking around with bicep tendon tears without significant, you know, without significant symptoms. But if you have a complete full thickness tear, what will occur in time is because the muscles not seeing any tension, the body depirurizes it and it will and if it atrophies to date, I'm not aware of any way to stop that or reverse it. So those are the circumstances. You know, like I brought up that example of the 30-year-old guy who pops his Achilles playing back card football. He's that's the most common age population to get Achilles tendon tear ruptures. But if that occurs and that tendon is not reattached or it's not a proximate and you're putting a boot and something like that, then for seeably you'll atrophy your gastrochineur solace and that's going to be really tough functionally to go through. So essentially don't delay. I think a lot of the patients that I have and many people listening, they don't want to stop their activity. They'll injure themselves and they don't want to stop. I don't want to hit a bicep repair. I can still be just as strong but if you're going to do the intervention that requires surgery, one should do it swiftly. Yeah, you should be evaluated swiftly and you don't want to see on MRI or on ultrasound. You don't want to see those atrophic changes occur. That's a sign that your that muscle is not going to be as functional as it originally was and therefore your prognosis is in this good. I want to thank one of the sponsors of the show and that is Mudwater. Did your mom ever tell you not to drink dirty water? Well she may have been wrong because mudwater is amazing and actually it's not dirty water but it is brown and let me tell you about this. It is chai tasting a little bit of caffeine. It has mushrooms in it. It's what we would think of as a functional type of drink and I got to tell you it really helps me when I want a little bit of caffeine and not a lot of the jitters. This is amazing and what I do is I put a little bit of hydration packs. I use element hydration chocolate. Mix it a little together and well a lot together. I forauthored together which by the way you can get your own brother. They will send you one and twenty dollars off when you order yours. Mudwater has a little bit of chai, cardamom. Might even have a little cacao type flavor which it does and if you are looking for what we we consider a adult hot chocolate this is the way to go and it does a lot of good for your body without a lot of the jitters. Go to mudwater.com slash doctor lion that's mudwater.com slash doctor lion for twenty dollars off and a free brother. Why do you think that we see you know again you see patients often and it'll be daily either shoulder a near hip. Do you believe that it's because of patterning why are those the common injuries? Yeah in the shoulder I think it's because we have mechanical compression underneath the bones of the shoulder and that's known as a symptom that's called subacromion pinchment. So basically you're moving your shoulder around and the tendon gets caught underneath a bone and that's you can sometimes hear a snapping sensation when you do something like a military press. For patella it's because a lot of times patella tend the naipathy is part of a greater clinical concept known as patella femoral pains syndrome. Which by the way is most often associated with weakness of the gluteal muscles. So the knee is overloaded trying to do too much work and the glutes are not adequately supporting the knee in the hip. So the posterior chain is actually affecting the anterior chain. Yes and posterior a lot of a little specifically. So hallmark of patella tendinopathy patella femoral pains syndrome. We commonly will look at strength and up the gluteal media on the side of the hip and then the really the whole go there is can you get back to walking and running with stabilization at the hips. So there is not so much pain at the knee. Once again smoke versus fire. Your knee hurts you do have a tendonopathy but mechanically speaking there's an insufficiency of some muscles that are higher up in the kinetic chain. That's it just seems really challenging as we think about long term projection of people's lives to figure out that you know I have a weak glute lead and you have I don't know just pick a different muscle. Sure. Are there things that individuals should all be doing? Should we you know we wake up? We brush our teeth. We brush our hair. Should we be getting up and doing glute activation? I don't know eyes, teeth and eyes for our shoulder are there things that that we could embark upon now to very specifically prevent a mechanical injury from a tendon that we don't even know that we have. It's a great question and trying to distill what makes a lot of sense. I will give home exercise programs to patients almost that exact effect. They come in with a back injury but I say when I was an awful time good to start rehabilitating and prehaving. It's pre-having. It's absolutely real thing. It's tough because prevention is difficult to study. It's more really a point. It's very very difficult to study. I'm recommending this because conceptually makes sense not because I have a study to point to that doing you know sideline hip abduction exercises help stave off the onset of something. So what I see for the shoulder a lot of times the mechanical dysfunction is at the shoulder blade and how it's moving. Either it's elevating too much it's not appropriately what's called protracting and a really good test to see how your shoulder blades working is to do a push up with a plus. So at the top of your push up you push out the ground a little bit more. If you're trying to achieve that motion by rounding your thoracic spine you can't appropriately actually work through the back part of your ribcage and your shoulder blade to get to work well. So push up with a push that like for the hips a single leg stance squat. So with that be a pistol squat. So actually I prefer this like skater to skater variety. So your your your your I know exactly. Trail leg is behind you. So I like to see single legs stability and single legs stability is a great determinant of how you are actually going to progress to your gate cycle. So a lot of people this is a really good thing and I'll show off my P.M. in our residency here. So and is this standard so do all I do all physical medicine and rehab physicians need to learn biomechanics. Yeah it's a huge element of our training. It is a part of your training. And I'll tell you why because you unless you understand normal biomechanics through the gate cycle you can't rehabilitate somebody with a stroke. Once they're hemipratic once they have a foot drop it's really tough. So you have to know the normal mechanical determinants of gate to understand the dysfunctional element of it. So I like to see how you know with regards to the gate cycle 60% of your time is in stance phase 40% of your time is in swing phase there's a 20% portion that's called double support where both legs are simultaneously on the ground. So your glute meat is actually active to stabilize your pelvis. So if you see somebody with a lot of hip movement while they're walking you don't want to have a 100% stiffness but you want to have stability. If you have a lot of hip movement when you're walking it's oftentimes in indicate what's not as hot and not stable as it could be. There's not enough muscular attention to support the core. The center of mass in the body is in the pelvis. So I always encourage young athletes. I'm like if you have to focus on a couple things it would be very stable through your pelvis. You can't shoot a cannon from a canoe. So you need stability in the pelvis to put force down to the legs. All athletes regardless of what you're doing made in the legs. So all athletes are made in the legs. Yes. And I believe that very strongly great pitchers have of good set of legs. They know how to really drive off even look at Mike Tyson right one of the great knockout artists that has ever existed in the heavyweight division. He had monstrous legs right. It was a huge home that why he was able to compete with people six inches to our them. So I believe it's a good stable core that can rotate under load. Good strong glutes and knowing how to keep your spine stable is really important. So good neutral spine throughout the range of motion. And then when you're walking yeah you're going to be you do swing the thoracic spine and rotation a little bit while you're swinging your arms but you want your body to be stable. You want to be able to walk slow and you want to be able to sprint fast. And if you could do both of those you kind of check in with yourself. If you can't walk slowly without feeling like you're off balance something's a little bit off. Do you think that everybody should continue to sprint or not release that ability? I would love for everybody to sprint. I think sprinting is fantastic. It's also a great check in to see where you're at. But if you are doing it you need to be very careful with load management because if you haven't done it in a while and you go back to it it could be a major risk factor for our kill is 10 to the and to be clear well actually I evolves my hamstring doing a long stride sprint. Would you recommend you know people listening to this or thinking because we're going to cover zone two cardio and training because you and I really see eye to eye. Excuse me. Sure. About how there's a lot of discussion about zone two and how that's going to be so effective in cardiovascular health there's a lot of other ways to train. But this idea of picking up where you left off may not be the best things. If you are at home listening to this moving fast is important because you lose speed and you lose power. But perhaps not picking back up if you haven't sprinted or you haven't done a lot of these motions like the guys that you're talking about between 30 and 50 jumping on the basketball court you probably have to build up to that. Is that fair to say? It's absolutely fair to say. Can we talk a little bit about well I mean let's tie up the rest of 10 and opathy because I'm curious about some risk factors which in my mind would include medication. Yeah. Common medications that may affect tendon health. Yes. The first one that comes to my floor of quenalones. So that's like Ciprofloxicin, Levelfloxicin that's a whole class of medications. Those are antibiotics. Floor quenalones are very strongly linked with tendon problems and tendon rupture. We believe that this impacts tendon metabolism and integrity to some degree. So those are of concern. You know there's some I think very good discussion around statins and tendons specifically. So whether or not they're beneficial. So if you have somebody who has hyper cholesterol in your mouth they can actually deposit. I know you know this but Zanthomas in their tendons. So fatty deposits in the tendons. So in that case a statin might actually decrease the size of their tendon and improve the tendon health. But if they have... If they had the... For meelial hyper cholesterol in your mouth. That's right. But not if they just have high cholesterol. It's tough to say. Okay. Stuff to say. Because hyper cholesterol in your diabetes gout. These are a gout and slash hyper urecemia are all risk factors for tendonopathy and smoking. So if you look at the metabolic syndrome spectrum, obesity is also a risk factor. All of these things impair tissue healing anywhere in the body. So in this in a structure that does not have a great blood supply that's constantly under load it's very much magnified. That's an interesting concept. I haven't quite thought about again because I'm so fixated on muscle. If someone is obese or struggling with any kind of metabolic dysfunction, that would affect tendons in general. Diabetes patients will reoblate more slowly than non-diabetic patients. And partly because tissue healing is slower. So as an excellent textbook that I came across that actually looks at all the metabolic influences on tendonopathy and chapter by chapter goes through it. And one of the aspects of it was just think about it like it's another structure in the body. Heels more slowly. Bone fractures heal more slowly. Microwave, tartar, sure, and bone is more slow. It's one of those things where it's reasonable to make a leap from one concept to another. If tissue healing in tissue repair is is not as quick as it could be or as as comprehensive as it could be in one tissue, there's no reason to suggest that it's going to be better than rather. So floor quinnalones. Yes. Can cause a risk of tendonopathy. Yes. Which it's really important that physicians educate their patients. Don't go sprinting. Don't go running when you're on these stattens. Stattens may have a positive effect depending on the person. Yes. Anything else that is known to affect tendons? Quarticle storage. So corticosterids, if I had a great great attending while some residency, he said, if you if you just draw a body diagram, you can find a place that corticosterids in fact every part of it. And it's the truth. You can get hair loss, they can get your skin changes color and texture and no surprise it doesn't pair tissue healing. Now the question becomes a very good question because it is part of my practice to provide corticosterids. And also it's important to point out it's standard of care. It is. It is. And so the question becomes why are we doing what we're doing? And so in the circumstances of somebody has a tendonopathy and they're getting a corticosterid injection. That injection should be guided. It should be into the ingestion versa. You don't want to put corticosterid into a tendon. That's not going to help anybody. But if you're putting in the ingestion versa, there's theory that perhaps you're going to unness the ties and kind of decrease the pain signals coming from those little nerve inlets that have actually grown into the into the tendon themselves. And if I get you some short term pain relief for three months, which is on average, what we we counsel people for corticosterids, if you can short term pain relief and you could do the PT and your mechanics are improved, are you in a better landing spot than if I didn't do it. And that's the conversation I have with everybody around a corticosterid. Now oral corticosterids are prescribed for a variety of conditions. We're much a logic conditions. And we're talking about a prednisone, a metal dust pack. That's exactly right. I even used them to some extent when we're treating low back pain patients over really bad low back pain bout and they have a flare and we can't get them in for like an injection epidural. And we can't get them through PT because they're in such a bad spot. We'll use a medrotoes pack. Now medroal itself is going to be absorbed by the body. The body, your body does not know exactly where to disperse this medication. It's going to be absorbed. It's going to impact hormone production. It's going to suppress natural production of things like testosterone and sex hormones. It's going to feed back on the pituitary and the hypothalamus and the whole chain and the adrenals. But at the tendon level, it can actually impact the urability to repair. And so if you're if you're susceptible and you have a predating injury and you go through medrodoes pack and you go exert yourself, there is a potential that you can injure yourself. Now, once again, risk benefit ratio and everything we do, I've used this phrase with you once before and I'll use it again, there is no free lunch and biology. So it's true. It's true. So everything we do has side effects. Everything we do has a potential downside. Everything needs to be weighed for the person in front of you. So in the risk benefit analysis that you're saying somebody has a tendonopathy, it's been recalcitrant to PT. You've tried to do some stuff. They have nighttime pain. Well, now the nighttime pain is impacting the rest of their body because they can't sleep well. Is pain worth a night? Depending on the tissue. So let's say, so if you have a shoulder, a bercitis as a consequence of a tendon problem in your shoulder, nighttime pain is a hallmark of it. So. And is it because cortisol is lower? Why is that happened? Mechanical compression. So when you stop moving tissues that are relatively inflamed, they will touch other structures around them and sensitize them. And then specifically, if you're like a stomach sleeper and you put your arm up to the side around your pillow, you might feel like your your delt wakes up really sore. And that's because you're compressing a tendon. Tendons like load. They don't like compression. Tendons like load. They don't like compression. That's right. So same thing. We're learning a lot of really good one-liners. Really, really great. There's a same thing. Somebody has a gluteal tendon off the other side of the hip lying on that side would be very painful at nighttime. Extended compression on a tissue that's irritated, you're going to know about it. Somebody has an Achilles tendon problem. Shoefits not correct or they they tried to say they were in the first time in cleats for a while that they weren't in cleats before. You might inflame that area. Any other medications that can be harmful? There's perhaps more as well. Those are the big ones. I think more about the in some circumstances, some of the hormone replacement that's helpful. I was going to ask you. I was going to ask you on the flip side of this, are there potentially oral agents or injectual agents that could be beneficial for tendon health? Broadly speaking, from a nutrition aspect or like a nutraceutical aspect, what we can take. Hydralized collagen has been proven to be a little bit helpful in studies. No surprise there has been I'm sure Lucy has been on this podcast before. No, never heard of it. Yeah, right. So, Lucy is actually a component of a proteoglycan around tendons called decoran and it can help lubricate tendons. It's also once again a concept that makes sense. If it's good for muscle, it's probably good for tendon. So, in these sort of good for muscle, it's probably good for tendon. I love this because we have really left tendon out of the conversation. We're back to your neck of the woods and muscle. But the interesting thing is we know that you need to some degree. It's a substrate driven issue. You do need adequate protein intake. It is a collagen structure. Whether you absolutely need collagen because your collagen is going to be broken down your stomach and drop back is a better question to ask. So, it has been proven to be someone helpful. Omega 3 intake has been associated with decrease in tendonopathy. And is that because of its impact? I was think, okay, well, what would the mechanism of action would that be an inflammatory perspective? I think it's the low-grade anti-inflammatory aspect of the resolve in pathway. So, I think that that's it. Now, for that reason, it's important to point out a hallmark of tendonopathy is expression of prostate gland and E2. And so, if people don't know E2 is something that is present in acute inflammatory processes, it's why a lot of anti-inflammatory medications work. So, Omega is act on the same aspect without a lot of the potential downsides. So, I will counsel patients to take Omega 3 supplementation, DHA and EPA are superior. So, I will counsel them to do that as well. Now, with other aspects, protein intake, loosened intake, vitamin C is a co-factor and collagen synthesis. So, vitamin C makes a lot of sense. Vitamin are their doses that we know of? You know, I'd have to get back to you with the exact dosing. I just know that it's dietary intake of vitamin C is associated with improved tendon healing. And if you heard of, I don't know if you ever use these in clinic, but SPMs, the specialized pro-resolve in mediators, orally? I've not used them. What is, um? Yeah, I am not so sure on the data bed. We've used them, some of my colleagues have used them a lot with operators. Okay. But, you and I will have to look at some of the actual data, but I am curious. Yeah. And vitamin D can be helpful as well. So, vitamin D has been proven to be helpful and tendonopathy as well. It can help decrease some of the pain. Vitamin D, vitamin C, and vitamin D deficient rats have decreased rotator cuff healing after injury. So, it's interesting to think about loosened glycine and lysine are the amino acids that are most helpful. But having a good amino acid rich diet with good amino acid profiles, probably best. From a hormonal aspect, hormones are really interesting here because I think when we were speaking about this, you had mentioned that when you were, that can train you, it came across some patients in one of the first signs of some of their hypothyroidism was actually the acute development of tendonopathy, which is fascinating. Yes. Thyroid hormones basically T3 and T4 play a role of stopping apoptosis or program cell death in tendons, in tino sites. So, in your general contractors that are overseeing work on your tendon. So, if you have insufficient thyroid hormone, stimulate thyroid hormone circulating, that's perhaps a major risk factor. Another thing that's a potential major risk factor is T4 actually mediates collagen metabolism. So, you need enough circulating. The sex hormones are often interesting too. So, estrogen is the interplay of female sex hormones and what these deeply cladges, structures like tendon and ligaments is the subject of fascination for a whole body of literature. So, I don't want to do the major service by speaking about it very quickly. But there's been a good degree of insight into phases of the ovulatory cycle and risk of injury and adolescent females who are in the developing stage there and engaging in sport that perhaps you could have a two to six times increased risk of ACL injury during specific phases. And then we know in the postmenopausal population that tendonopathy is tend to develop. So, the absence of estrogen appears to be a problem. Same thing goes for testosterone. Now, testosterone, there is a clear in that same postmenopausal population that testosterone is going to decrease as well. So, testosterone appears to be beneficial for tendon where the conversation gets very interesting is are the testosterone analogs, are the synthetic analogs detrimental. And one of really good questions so basically what he's saying is the use of certain anabolic steroids going to injure tendons. I think it's a really good question. And the answer is they appear to be clearly do the use of them, the muscle, the skeletal muscle is enormously sensitive to them. But does it need to be testosterone specifically to help tendons? And that's one of the great questions. So, I'd say somebody starts on an anabolic steroid regimen and they're drastically increasing their muscle size. Well, the aphatic adaptation curve does not change. You might retain more muscle, have less catabolic effect. You might get more week-over-week training benefits. But you still need time for the soft tissues to accommodate. So, it's one of those unfortunate things that plague people is by September and ruptures, pectend and ruptures. That's what we see a lot of time in the gym. And so, it's something important to think about. There's a need to be testosterone specifically or it's or can it be something else? The literature that I was reading, it seems like it needs to be testosterone specifically. So, both estrogen and testosterone play some protective element. And therefore, another question is in individuals who are taking synthetics who are on a robotaid inhibitors, are they doing themselves some degree of its disservice? Are they throttling down estrogen so much so that it's not beneficial? Have you done your blood work? If you haven't, I've a solution for you. And that is one of the sponsors of the show inside tracker. Why is blood work so important? Well, you know, I use inside tracker. My friends use inside tracker. Also, my parents use inside tracker. Inside tracker makes getting blood work very easy and user-friendly. They have an amazing interface. You can check it out on your phone. You can check it out on the desktop, which, you know, hopefully you're using a small one. Inside tracker allows you to look at really important biomarkers, like hormones, iron, thyroid, insulin. The list goes on. ApoB. It never stops. And by the way, if you are a professional annual of clients inside tracker also has a pro platform, amazing. I really feel that inside tracker has revolutionized health care and listen, blood work can be expensive, but it doesn't have to be. Inside tracker is offering my listeners, 10% off, 10% off. Anything on the store in the store, anything as it relates to subscriptions, 10% off go to inside tracker.com like inside tracking your body, use the code doctor, lion, and do not wait if you are due for your blood work. Give this a shot. It's extremely valuable back to the show. You bring up a really good point. And what he's talking about is medications, aromatis inhibitors, that would decrease estridile, or overall estrogens. And we know that estrogen is important for both men and women. I can say clinically, I like to see my men. It's interesting for women. There's a lot of ebb and flow. Obviously, we don't want their estrogen suppressed, but for men, I am happy with an estrogen level between 30 and 50. Individuals, you will see sometimes are on something like aromatics. And they will suppress their estrogen and they'll feel terrible. They'll feel terrible, perhaps they'll get injured. You know, in menopause, I've seen somebody of literature talk about frozen shoulder. Yes. And I'm curious, is to why frozen shoulder and menopause wouldn't that be whether it's shoulder, whether it's a knee, patella, tendon issue, or head, why shoulder? Yeah. It's adhesive capsulitis. There are rare clinical accounts of it occurring in other joints. But that's the clinical term for frozen shoulders. And adhesive capsulitis, which appears to be an acute thickening and contraction of the joint capsule. So when we think about a joint, you have two bones articulating with cartilage. And so you have a cartilage interface that allows that. You have typically have a pressurized area of joint fluid that joint fluid periodically gets turned over by the body. And you have a capsule, which is made of collagen, and basically envelopes the entire joint to provide stability. This is what, when you, if you ever like cartocturkey and you take out the hip and you hear the suction break, you're breaking the suction seal that's within the joint. So adhesive capsulitis is sort of most common in women between the ages of 40 and 40 and 60. You can occur in men as well. And it is, the hallmark is this very rapid onset of decreased range motion of the shoulder. So the point where some individuals can't raise their arm above their head without necessarily a predating injury. Some predating injuries can predispose you to it. So let's say you have a acute rotator cuff terror. You stop moving your shoulder all together, just to protect yourself. And you're not going to undergo in the rehabilitative process, perhaps that could actually predispose you to getting your shoulder frozen. It's also interesting because frozen shoulder is one of the few times in medicine that we can say corticosterids are meaningfully disease modifying. So we use corticosterids in sports and spine practices for pain relief. That's the main purpose, they're pain relief. But in the process of frozen shoulder, depending on which article you reference, I like to look at the, there was one article that described it in a way that I think it's very easy to understand. Freezing, frozen, and thawing. Okay, so makes a lot of sense. If you catch it in the freezing phase and you give it a corticosterid injection in the joint, it actually decreases the duration of symptoms. Frozen shoulder untreated can lead to potentially years of symptoms in the shoulder. So the question is, is there is the absence of estrogen and the increasing rise of the, um, the precursors LH and FSH, that are present in the, in the state of menopause, are these things predisposing to that? Because we also see in premenopause a women as well. So it's tough to tell, but we know some risk factors for frozen shoulder, one of them is obesity, one of them is diabetes. And then the other one is perhaps a lot of these, uh, premenopause a females are saying. So tough condition to treat. Yeah, and these are all really important conversations because if we just focus on muscle and we miss tendons than when people get injured, you know, I hate to say it. It's not an if, but it is a when. At some point, if you are pushing yourself or sedentary and then getting back in a blend, you're going to get hurt. Yeah. And I would also say arguably it's not always the muscle. It's probably the 10 in first. Yeah. And it is. And, and you know, it's interesting too, tendons degenerate at a speed that's quite rapid. So if you stop using it, it is a, so I was thinking when I when I learned about this, it's very slow on, right? So it's six to nine months for accommodation intended for the on phase. But it can be relatively fast off. So depending on the degree of a mobilization post injury is a potential that your tendon could be the weakest element coming back. So injuries will find the weakest element. A bear by on mechanics, whatever it is, you're going to find the weakest element in the chain. That's how a lot of times we diagnose pediatric injuries with tendon. So in pediatrics, the bone is weaker than the tendon. The bone is weaker than the tendon. Yeah. And the majority of circumstances. So you'll see this interesting, this interesting convergence of pediatrics and geriatrics, where because bones are weak relatively relative to tendons and muscles in both segments of that population. So if you have say an osteoporotic person and they go and they trip and they catch themselves and they evolve their, their hamstring right off of their issue of tuberosity on the bottom of their pelvis. It happens. I know, I did it. I did not for that reason. Sorry. So terrible. Tough to treat. Now, same thing goes for when we have kids. We will find bone fragments, you know, things called something called attraction, a prophesitis, which is like your eyes goods. You see somebody's knee was a little bit of a lump on it. Basically, the tendon was pulling on the bone. The extensor mechanism of the knee was overloaded. And because the tendon was stronger than bone, it convinced the bone to do what it wanted, which was pulled the bone more towards it. Now, we'll see that to some extent in the population in between. So if you have say you have a longstanding, a kille's problem, but it's a kille's tendonopathy or you just overload your kille's, you will see the actual attachment point. The bone changes form. It says if the tendon is pulling the bone up and actually, because bone is constantly remodeled. Interesting. Yeah. So x-rays despite the fact that tendon is a soft tissue problem. So you wouldn't see tendon on x-ray. You would not see the discreet. Yeah, you're not going to evaluate it to the same extent. So as the listeners thinking, well, how do I know if I have a tendonopathy? Should I go get an x-ray? You would not go get an x-ray? I would get an x-ray only to look at the other elements of it. But MRI and ultrasound are superior for tendon imaging. So MRI has a very good degree of resolution and a very high degree of penetrance. So the benefit of MRI is we can see to the level of the bone and beyond. ultrasound will stop at the bone. So very high resolution and some it says higher than MRI. And so I will find commonly on someone's in a shoulder, I'll find a little what are called interstitial tears in the middle of the tendon that we're not visualized on MRI. Because MRI takes certain cuts, the other benefit of ultrasound is dynamic. So I can actually put the probe on somebody, have them move their shoulder around. And if I'm going to make the clinical diagnosis of you have shoulder impingement, I can prove it. And I can see is this something where you're acutely catching your shoulder under a structure, that's going to help me formulate a therapeutic exercise routine for this person. On the topic of, you know, not if it's when, it's a tough pill to swallow. I know, and I hate to say it. It's and I hate to say it as well because I do believe, I'm one of those people was like, in the ideal circumstance, could we avoid it? Yes, if you didn't do anything. Absolutely could avoid. But in that case, you're going to be on a freight train towards a bad state of health. So you have to make a trade off at some point. Now, with restoration of normal mechanics and loading and periodically deloding, I think we can do a lot for injury prevention. And we know what normal mechanics are despite the fact that everyone has different arm lengths and different leg lengths. There are standards of mechanics. There is, if you look at an orthopedic textbook and a look at joint ranges of motion, it'll look at specifically what's in normal. Like in these are all, these are all gouging distributions, bell curves. So you're going to wind up with, here you go. You have majority of people should have 180 degrees of shoulder flexion. They should have 90 degrees of shoulder external rotation when the arm is abducted. You can find these things. Now, if you restore range of motion, a very important principle in Muscle Scouto Health is mobility and stability. Okay. When I evaluate somebody, I'm looking at them on a two by two table. Are you weak? Are you strong? And we're talking about a specific element of the mechanics, not generalized. For example, raise your arm. Yeah. Like is this strong? Can you push it against? Exactly. And what I like to look at is say I'm examining somebody's hip and I'm going to isolate one of the gluteal muscles with a specific range. Are you weak in that muscle? So I like to look at weak versus strong and mobile versus stiff. weak versus strong mobile versus stiff. Yeah. So to give you an instance, for a instance of who kind of fits in each category. So for our elderly patients who have unfortunately accommodated a lot of a lot of time and where they're most often stiff and weak. So joint ranges of motion decrease with time. You get calcification of soft tissues. You're joint capsules hard in a little bit. We stop moving them as much. So it's natural to see a normal decrease range of motion as we age. So now if you pair that with in activity, if you pair that with somebody who's not engaging a lot of resistance training, it'll be paired with weakness. So stiff and weak. Because you hear a lot about that people are very hyper mobile. Yes. And it's interesting to hear, but as they age that they would stiffen. Yeah, just about everybody's difference to some degree as you age and just about everybody's more mobile when they're younger. Now there's obviously variations within that depending on what yeah, modify a little behaviors you engage in. Now let's take for instance the hyper mobile a patient. So hyper mobility does come. It doesn't it's not always a dedicated healers down low-stagnosis. We have something called the bite and score or the patient. You should mention Elers down lows because there are, I do have a few patients with it. People are very curious about that just as we're talking about mobility because there's probably a spectrum of it that's much more common and individuals recognize and it could preside people to injury and other things. So there is a good evidence based score. It's called the bite and score that can actually be, that can be performed in the office to test for hyper mobility. What we look at is can you bend down to the floor, touch your palms on the floor. Can you bend your pinky back and then grade it in 90 degrees? Everyone can be trying it. Yeah. Go ahead me up. Yeah. So there's other tests within it, but there is a spectrum of hyper mobility and it's likely due to a genetic determinants of collagen. And so when we think about it's not treatable. Corrective usage. So it can be treatable with modifiable with exercises and I'll explain that in a month. But these are relative, not absolutes. So your mobile and weak patients are most commonly hyper mobile. The mobile and weak. Yeah. So the, I'm the two by two, stiff and weak is elderly, your mobile and weaker hyper mobile. Now stiff and strong or stiff are in strong as like an offensive lineman. If you examine an offensive lineman's hips, they're not going to rotate a whole bunch, but their strong is heck and they could put the power down. So that's stiff and strong. Steffa strong is not a bad place to be. Then your mobile and strong, those are your microjordants. Those are the people and strong. That's the, that's the grill. So if you can, for every bit of mobility that you gain, you have to be stable. So range of motion, if I just stretch myself into a range of motion, but I don't know how to actively activate muscles to protect my body in that range of motion. It's just range of motion for range of motion sick. Not all mobility is uniformly beneficial. In my opinion, I believe that if you're going to have mobility, you need to have a company's stability. And if you're a more mobile person, you have a larger responsibility to be stable through a larger range of motion. Now, what are the determinants of mobility? Is a really complicated topic, but you have your boned determinants. So not everyone's hips are shaped the same, not everyone's shoulders are shaped the same. And those are your more mobile joints. Then you have your soft tissue determinants, things like collagen play much more of a row there. So whether you're hyper mobile in a joint capsule, women are more mobile in their joint capsules than men. Women have more type three collagen in their tendons than men. So that's going to influence. I didn't know that. Yeah, just broadly speak. Okay, broadly speak. So these are, these are, these are some determinants that are going to predict some of the soft tissue and then the mobility aspect in really how stable you are. A huge element of that is that that same neuro kinetic element we spoke about before and the athletic accommodation timeline. So if you can be stable and you know what muscle to contract in what position, mobility is fine. But I, for instance, I would prefer for a lot of patients to be in a narrower range of motion, but much more stable through it than as opposed to having just a very large range of motion. If you think about the ranges of motion that we need to accomplish your day-to-day life, you need to be able to do a good hip-ing, you need to be able to do a good squat, you need to be able to rotate and you need to make sure that you're, you're producing enough body tension that centralize in your core to mitigate injury in those circumstances. You don't have to be an elite contortionist to achieve every day life. And that's why the the concept of stretching is a very interesting conversation to have what we're achieving with stretching is a very interesting conversation to have. Should we do it? This is going to bring me to the yes or no section. Oh dear. Okay, so you're not going to like this because you're very academic, but I'm going, you can only answer yes or no. Okay. Plotty's. Yes. Stirred injections. Yes. Zone two. Sure. Ah, we've never had a guest answer sure. I've heard. I think it's beneficial. I think it's a question. The question is the dose, the type and what, but see this is very difficult for people I always get. This is why I'm not on the hill. Okay. If I want to, if I want to, yes or no, is I be a politician. There. Yoga. Um, well, I love this section of the podcast. Yeah. Is that it? Yes. I'm not, I'm not, I'm not know. And I'm not yes. I'm, I'm going to bow out of that one. I'm going to use my fifth amendment on that one. This then leads me to stretching. Stretching can be beneficial. Okay. So it's not uniformly beneficial. The question is what you're trying to achieve with it. Let's talk about protein, specifically first forms natural way protein formula one. People ask me all the time, what kind of protein powder I use, what kind of protein powder I recommend. Formula one makes many different kinds of protein powders, different flavors. A natural one, you pick it. It mixes amazing. It makes it extremely easy to get your protein in. And really, there, it's a way protein isolate. So you're getting the majority of your calories from protein in the shake. Taste great. Super easy to travel with. Great breakfast, dinner, maybe even lunch. Whatever you need, it's got you covered and it has all the amino acids necessary. We'll help improve body composition, muscle mass, all the things that protein does. And by the way, when do you need protein? Well, you need it every day. And that's why I love first forms, protein powder, their formula one, go to firstform.com slash doctor lion. That's firstform.com slash doctor lion. Now then let's talk about that we do a so Matt loves having the yes or no, because it obviously no answer is typically yes or no. But stretching tell us about should we be stretching before activity? Should we be stretching after? Because I ran out of the gym yesterday because my sister said we trained with Carlos Smada, he's my coach. And my sister said we are done working out, we should stretch. What are we stretching? Why are we doing this? And then I said I'm going to talk to doctor to draw because I think you're wrong. We probably don't need to stretch after we work out. And now I'm about to be schooled. Well, let's say so there is this is one of those topics that I have some relevance in, but I don't feel 100% expert level with. I have a lot more to learn on it. But I'm going to give it a shot for you. So stretching pre-activity, decrease neuromuscular firing, decrease stability, not beneficial for power athletes. And can we define power athletes? So pitcher, pitcher, shot putter, elite power lifter. You could even throw fighters in there. That's a powerful sport. So you're producing power is force over time. So you're going to produce force over a very short period of time. So static stretching probably not beneficial or just we're talking about power. Pre-exercise for power generation. Now stretching, they're different categories. They're static stretching. So I'm going to hold a pose for a while, typically 20 seconds or more. And hopes to elongate it to you. Now you're not just stretching the tendons. You're not just stretching the muscles. You're also providing neural feedback that can actually turn off some sensors that help to protect you under load. But these, the Golgi spin of iris. Yeah. So Golgi must have a muscle of power. Remember that? Yeah. So the Golgi's interesting, the other apparatus are also interesting. But the static stretching component perhaps has some benefit post-exercise with relation to tendons health specifically. And it may actually help just elongate the tendon. And actually, if you're holding a pose, maybe we've like up with an isometric or let's say you're going to do a heel drop and just hold it there. That could have some benefit. Now for power or for for recovery recovery. Or recovery. Yeah. Now I say a lot of, I'm going to heavily weight the may here. Okay. Because I'm taking it may help. But I'm also going to tell you from a personal aspect, I don't do it. So I think it's important to note that I don't. There does my husband. There. I've never seen that guy stretch. He has a lot of ease of smartman. So so now, if you're going to, if you're going to stretch with hope to teach your muscles how to engage at a larger range of motion, then you do PNF. So proper effective neural muscular facilitation. And the answer for that is PNF PNF. Proprion. Sapshan. Neuromuscular facilitation. So PNF is a process by which, okay, so I'm going to I'm going to stretch, say my hamstring. And somebody's going to push against my leg. And I'm going to actually try to contract my hamstring at a larger length than I did pre-stretch. And then I'm going to stretch from there. And so there's typically these on off-cycles like a 10 second isometric at a one length, 10 second stretch at another. And you can do that. Now the benefit of that is you are teaching somewhat that the muscle can relax at a larger length. Okay, so whether pre-extricizer post-stricizer size, I'm not clear on. And this seems to work with a lot of people do with pain. Yes. So is PNF used for mitigation of pain, muscle or? Yeah, it's used in rehab. So it's used by physical therapists and ATCs and other people who who will real rotate patients. So it's definitely part of it. When I design a physical therapy protocol's repatience, I like e-centrics for lengthening. So once again, e-centrics your muscle is contracting periodically or mitigating that the elongation process. I think that could be very beneficial. The stretching component is interesting because once again, we're not just stretching the muscle, we're not just stretching the tendon, and we are also gliding the facial layers. So here's another that you brought this up. So here's here's fashion. Another, that's it. Would you consider that an organ system? It's interesting. It's part of the Muscle scottal system, but it's so richly innovated and so large it could be. It's on category. What is fashion? Fashion is interconnected, connective tissue that can run the entire length of the body. Incredible. Here's why we don't get taught about fashion as much as we should be. A lot of it is almost as if we during the process of medical school, it's a second, a second of the average. It's gross. It's necessary. And it's absolutely disgusting. It's also important. It's important. Yeah, and thank you to everybody who donated their body to the science. Incredible that people are willing to do that. When we dissect a Davers, most fashion dries out so much so that it hears to adjacent structures and becomes incapable of dissecting it off of. Now I've spoken to some scientists in Italy about this specifically. When you were just, I wasn't in Italy. It just happened to me. But you're just thinking, I spoke to somebody, basically because ultrasound is one of the main ways to evaluate fashion in the living specimen. So, there is specific catavaric preservation techniques for preserving fashion. But one of the reasons we don't really understand it or appreciate it's the level that we do is we just don't see enough of it. So, fashion can adapt. Fashion is if not the most richly-intervated structure in the body, one of the most richly-intervated structure in the body. That means the most nerves. So, does it feel, you feel, people feel myelfacial pain. I believe it is a part of the diagnostic spectrum of pain. So, you have a muscle that hurts. You have a tendon that hurts. You can be joint that hurts. You can have a ligament that hurts. And fashion also can hurt. It might be a bit. It's not. It's not. It's something to do with fibromyalgia. It's interesting. The concept around fibro is part of the issue. We also see malefacial pain and people who don't have fibro. So, we see malefacial pain and overuse syndromes. A very common malefacial pain that perhaps some people will experience is if they have a pretty large asymmetry in their hips. How their hips move and function, they feel a malefacial pain in the top of their glute low-back area. It's tough to discern. I spend my job doing this every day. Descerning what the main pain generator is and then describing how we can appropriately rehabilitate it and treat that pain. Now, fashion specifically do adapt to exercise. And one of the best books I've read about this by a guy by the name Bill Parisi. So, and he the forward was written by Stu McGill. So, talks about facial adaptation to training. And that basically this fascia system that extends in some circumstances, the length of the body connects your glute on one side to your lat on the other is a lot of the reason that we don't move like rigid robots. So, allows us to move much more coherently. Now, the question in this circumstance is how much of a role is that in pain? How much can we do about it? Now, we know that it adapts in some circumstances because there are some athletes that when you take them and train them a certain way, they get athletically worse at what they're doing. Now, there's changes at the neuro-kinetic level there, there's changes at the muscle level there. Presumably, there are some changes at the facial there as level as well. One of the accounts that Bill talks about in his book is about an elite quarterback who was training like an offensive lineman. So, basically, they were putting the quarterback through the lifting protocols on offensive lineman and the quarterback all the numbers around throwing got worse. Spiral got worse, velocity got worse, arm started to hurt. So, maybe everybody needs to train towards as far as a specific goal because, on some level or another, your entire body is adapting to that, stressor. So, you always have to keep that in mind of when you're training an athlete, they can't all be treated the same, not any exercises uniformly, the perfect one for everybody. For their specific needs, you have to do an individual needs assessment for that patient. So, fascist is very interesting. We do visualize it on, and specifically, where fasc are where the small nerves, like say, for instance, the nerves that talk to the muscles of the back. The facial layers are where they travel. So, the thought is behind myalfacial pain is, could you have these layers that are not appropriately gliding on each other? And patients who have chronic pain, there's some evidence, this is just that they don't glide that well, rounding this back up to the initial question, round stretching. Stretching also glides fashion. And so, does that have its own therapeutic benefit? Could that actually be helping produce these proteoglycans, these lubricants that are present in the body, the same way that they'reintendents? So, is it a lubrication problem and can we facilitate that with stretching? So, then there's also the question of mouth-hashed release and what we do for individual people. My, I'm less concerned about the modality we use to get people mobility, so much as I am more concerned with us restoring stability through that mobility. Really well said, I'm learning just so much. Can we talk a little bit about training? Yes. I've learned quite a bit and you really have helped me reframe. In fact, we're working on second, I'm working on a second book proposal and I'm hoping you would be so gracious as to impart some of your wisdom in part of that process. And I've learned a lot about thinking about how we train the current paradigm, the current narrative is all about zone two. It is that zone two is where we need to focus and then we have other groups that we talk about resistance training, do it three to four days a week. There's understandably so. There are only so many ways that we can make global recommendations. Yes. That being said, I would love your take about unibes spoken about minimal amount of movements, exercise, kettlebells, more effective ways to utilize our body. I'm just going to leave that for you to take it or whatever that you'd like to. Sure. So the concept of zone two is an interesting one. I think that a lot of the excitement around it is that it's helping to promote mitochondrial function and that mitochondrial function appears to be absolutely essential as we age. And can we improve mitochondrial function to decrease things like insulin resistance, improve metabolic health, improve our athletic performance. And the concept there, it's interesting to see how depending on what you look at, these different terms that describe similar phenomena. So submax, bota training, zone two, moderate intensity continuous training. I did a presentation a while back. Specifically as a regard to patients who were recently diagnosed with cancer, undergoing cancer treatment or finished cancer treatment and what exercise recommendations we could make for them because their VO2 max and muscle mass help predict how they do. And we know that quality of life mortality mobility, more ability, the more fit you are from a cardiovascular aspect, the better you will do with treatments. So how can we help people? And so the question was in the presentation, should we be engaging in high intensity interval training or modern intensity continuous training? And the answer is of course, both can be helpful per unit time, high intensity training might be more beneficial to jack your VO2 max upwards. But what are we really thinking about with VO2 max? One is if we're going to test VO2 max in somebody, they should be familiar with the movement of which we are testing them. It's not fair to say somebody has suboptimal VO2 max, but it's their first time doing a certain athletic activity. They're never going to be, you're going to be gas, even if I'm an marathon runner, if you throw me into a box hearing, I'm going to be gas and two rounds. Because you might be amazing, but normal person. But the truth is I would be gased and it's because I'm not familiar with the movements, it's the way that I should be. So it's important, that's important caveat. Don't get down in yourself if VO2 max is not where you think it should be because you did some modified bruised crop protocol in a gym. It might not be where it should be because you don't have familiarity with the movement. If you're on a bike, there are so many determinants of your performance on a bike. Absolutely. You're positioning, you're familiarity with it. What muscles you're activating, you're shoe angle with the actual pedal. And I'm out of my league there. I know that that's the very, very surface layer of it. So we're looking at substrate utilization, fats versus carbohydrates versus creating phosphate. And we're looking at what can be done to maximize fat oxidation. So this concept around zone two is I understand it is fat max. Like we're trying to maximally use fat for fuel, why we exercise, to teach our mitochondria to metabolize fat more readily to decrease insulin resistance. That's what makes sense to me at least. Now with high intensity interval training, I think the downside of zone two is time. I think that's it. I think you have two children in a beautiful life and a full practice. Yes, and time is tough. So I don't engage an autonomous zone to myself if I had more time in the week, perhaps I would. But then high intensity interval training appears to be as beneficial for VO2 max as the zone two, but you're training it two different ways. From high intensity interval training, you're like raising the ceiling of your house higher. You're just you're getting better at pushing it higher. But the VO the zone two training appears to be like you're solidifying the foundation. You're getting better in the lower levels that predicts success at the higher levels. So we might be describing it this way, but it athletes have intuitively known this for decades. When they run, they're not gasing themselves every workout. They leave a little bit on the table and the body goes to a period of compensation to basically mount their response to that stressor. And then when they do peak one or two times a year, they're in really good shape. So same principle applies to weight training. So our should we or could we be going to neuromuscular failure? If our goal is muscle hypertrophy, should we be focusing on just muscle hypertrophy and specific muscle segments or generalize strength and instability? I think these are good questions. But I find the way I trade with kettlebells is I want to be number one thing for me is don't lose stability in all three planes of motion, sagittal, transverse, and frontal, like we spoke about before. When you work a kettlebell, most of the time it's in one hand and that by nature destabilizes you. And you're not going to get destabilization if you're working only with barbells. So if you're not going to get destabilization working with barbells. As it relates to the frontal and the transverse plane. So you'll be stable as all heck in the sagittal plane. If you work with the barbell, I was the sagittal plane hero. I went to the gym and I did bench lats, I did squats, I did deadlifts and I became very proficient in those areas. But then I would go play golf and things would hurt. And I'd be like, well, that's interesting. You know, I'm not the world's best golfer, but it shouldn't hurt as much as it did. And I thought it was basically because it wasn't as proficient in translating force in rotation. So I like to use a kettlebell. I think you can get a lot out of it. I think the work from the strong first organization and Dan John online in his own endeavors have done a great job, elucidating the cardiovascular respiratory benefits of kettlebells that you can get strength and conditioning. And so I try to follow that. I also do something and we spoke about this term exercise snacks, which I don't particularly love. But I can't think of it. Well, we'll find a way to re-rend it. But definitely. Yeah. I call it farm hand strength. So like, if you're working on and now, let's say you're not a farm hand, let's say you're just somebody mulching your yard. You're not going to basically go to the point where you're falling down every single time. You're going to leave a little bit on the table. You're going to come back to it. You're going to go do a different activity for a short period of time and then you're going to come back to it. And so what I do, what I'll do is I'll enter mix like some sets of kettlebell swings throughout the day. I might do a set at 9 a.m. and do a set at 10 30. I'm not looking to build a sweat. I'm just looking to get better at the movement. So I'm really stressing that neuro kinetic element. Am I getting more am I getting better at the movement? Am I doing a little bit of stimulation of muscle? But by no means am I getting a skin ripping pump out of it. But potentially you could build a workout like that. Yeah. There's a comp. There are, you know, when we look at some of the really good people who are training and what they do in a lot of rehabilitation from injury, sometimes it's 3, 5, 10 minutes. And so the question because I think in there is do you want to be really, do you want to be super proficient with a movement or do you want to get as much training in an as short period of time as possible? So there's different strategies there. But we move throughout the course of the day. It's not like we only move for 30 minutes and then we're mobilized for 23 and a half hours. So the concept of going to the gym, I think is something that needs some work. Where we think about going to the gym, we dedicate time. But should we be in our spursing movement throughout the day? I think some people, fortunately in their jobs, can do that and some people unfortunately can't do that. But I like, like, you know, I saw you both do a set of pushups before. That's its own little stimulant part to the podcast. That's our pre-game pushup. There you go. We do a now podcast ritual. Now is that not helpful because you only did one set? No, of course it's helpful. You didn't know that we're doing some after this. I'm happy to do it. But you did, you did one set in isolation. And you benefited from not overloading your tissues. You benefited from a short term increase in your heart rate. You learned how to become a better push-uper. And that has something to do with it too. So I think coming back to the concept around zone two, if you were to train, I think that the probably what makes sense from a metabolic corollary for weight training is like, if you're going to neuromuscular, muscles are on fire, you're not in zone two. I think we can comfortably say that, right? Yes. So you're probably in zone five or four or five. So you're really getting there. Now, if you train and you say you do 10 repetitions of something explosively and then you wait a couple of minutes and do it again, could you still be in zone two? And that's the this concept that has come up called anti-glycliced training, which is a way to build endurance and strength, which has been subject to my own personal fascination. I'm not in a position where I could speak if I'm educated perspective on it. A lot of the literature behind it is in Russian. So I can't really get learning. But I've read Paulville's work and Paulville does a great job with that. And I've recently read a couple of his books and I think it's something I've experimented with the same way that we might all experiment with zone two or a hit training or powerlifting or whatever it might be. A lot, I think one of the benefits to my patience is that I've gone through the process of experimenting a lot with this play baseball and football, it was a personal trainer. I did a good bit of just casual powerlifting. I tried to be you know a crappy bodybuilder for a period of time and it wasn't great at it. But and then on top of that you know I might not have I might not be running a marathon like Shane in a couple weeks but I did run a half and you learned so much going through those two those individual experiences. So I try to maintain a radical open-mindedness about what could be helpful and try it myself on it if I can. And that's really valuable a physician that sees patients and also walks the walk and experiences it. And I do think that you bring a very unique perspective in your practice, how do you incorporate some of these things? So you practice in where are you in practice right? I'm in Florida Park, New Jersey. I work for some at health. Okay. And people could make an appointment with you if they would like to. So let me just tell you guys something. Every guest is incredibly vetted before they come on the podcast. I have so much respect for Dr. Gerard. I send patients to him. If you're in the area, if you are not, he is definitely worth the trip. I would love to hear a little bit about what makes your practice different. You need we've heard a lot about your philosophy and how you think about things from both a bio-mechanical aspect. I know where you sit from an nutritional aspect but also your fellowship Yes. I'd love for you to expand upon your training and just your individual practice. So my practice is Sports and Spine Practice. I did a Sports and Spine Fellowship at the hospital for Special Surgery. Which, by the way, is one of the best in the country. If not one of the best places in the world. Yeah, it's a great place to train, a great place to be. I have been, I think the very important take home for anybody who's listening outside of me kind of speaking about myself for a moment is if you can find mentors that are really good for you, really pursue their mentorship. That's how you and I have developed this relationship. I have a mentor almost at every different phase of the career. So I kind of have mentors that are closer to me and age. I have mid-career people. I have a later stage career people. And I also have mentors who are non-clinical or not even doctors. You know, who are people in different fields. Getting their perspective has been so important and anything that I do is the great fortune of having a great family and a great upbringing, great wife and kids at home and parents and brother and friends. So I'm fortunate that every day I go to work, I feel like I bring the best version of myself because I have a great backing. Amazing. Now, for my practice, my practice focuses heavily on the biomedical determinants of pain. And when patient comes in, let's say I see a back pain patient, it's less difficult to make the diagnosis of a pinch nerve in the back from a herniated disc and more difficult to certain discern why that disc herniated and to unravel and a relatively short timeframe. What determines it's in that person's life or in their training, predisposed them to injury and how are those things going to be in conferences to them getting better in the future? So that takes some refining and I've gotten better at it with time, but every day we try to build a little bit and I try to find what is motivating this person, what are your goals? And I ask every patient, what are your goals for this visit? Some people just want clarity of diagnosis. Well, the first thing we need to do beyond anything else is clarity of diagnosis. From a biomedical element and from a tissue layer element, do you have a herniated disc? Yes, why? Repetitive flexion movements without appropriate lumbar stabilization, insufficient hip mobility and then they didn't have the appropriate braced from the obliques. That's a good starting point. Now let's use this inflection point of injury and let's build you back to a point of antifragility. So the concept of antifragility is one that I borrowed from Nassim Talib's book, which is one of four books in the Incherto, which are very difficult and fun to read. I love I love very thick books. Yes, very thick. There are books about everything. If you ask me what they're about, they're about everything. But this concept of antifragility is actually a concept that is exhibited in muscle and tendon and bone, which is you provide a stressor to a structure. It doesn't break. But in time if the stretcher's adequate, the stressor is adequate, the structure can actually get stronger. So I branded myself antifragility because I love that concept. I love that's the essence of my practice. Can we use stressors rather than hurting you and disabling you to make you stronger? Yes, they're strong. And I know that's you too. I know that you too. So I look at, can we get people from a point of injury to back to a state of athleticism and what are the goals? Do you want to be on the ground plane with your grandkids? Are you somebody who's going to run a marathon in a couple weeks? And we kind of look at all these things in the variety of treatments that I can offer. And when there is an evidence-based adrohr from, we will draw from the evidence-based. If there's no evidence-based adrohr from an area, we'll extrapolate based upon the knowledge of my biological foundations. So my practice is a sports and spine practice. So I see a lot of hip pain, back pain, shoulder pain, neck pain, to a limb, let me send elbow and then of course, knee and some ankle foot as well. And the two main conditions I treat are back specifically low back pain, tendon opportunities around the body and then a lot of neck pain. And you'll find that patients who have low back pain have tendonopathic problems as well. And you'll find... And the shoulder, it's a whole swing. It's a whole swing. So the whole swing and that problem is, but I think it's, you'll find specifically that there are insufficient cees in the pelvis and the paripelvic muscles like the glutes. And so it's not uncommon to find a tendon problem there. So I like to uncover what the root causes and that's really what gets me out of bed every morning. It's root cause diagnoses. And then if your diagnosis is accurate and you can correlate it with the diagnostic testing we have x-rays, MRIs, ultrasound, et cetera. And it matches up with a good physical exam. Well, now we have a clarity of diagnosis. Then the treatment, everything we provide from a treatment aspect there out is much more beneficial. And what I love about what you're saying is it's not about the end pain or the end symptom. It's a root cause approach which traditionally medicine is not about a root cause approach. And that's what I think what makes you and your practice so exceptional is that what is at the foundation so that you can get people better. Where do you see the field going? So I think that there's a good interest around regenerative medicine and there are a variety of regenerative therapies that we have now. PRP, you know, we spoke about the athletic accommodation curve. There's also the innovation curve of companies and products. And instead of like being on the absolute first phase of stuff, I'm probably one phase delayed. I feel the same way. We have to make sure that things are safe, effective, worthwhile for patients to spend their money. Yes. Agreed. And first rule of medicine is do no harm. That's right. So do you know harm? Anything we do, we want to understand what we're doing, why I want to put it in the right place. So I think there's some very interesting work that's going on from a stem cell aspect. Fat concentrate procedures, further subcategorization of PRP, went to use it, went not to use it. And I think the field will continue to develop that. I think as we evolve as a field going forward, we'll begin to understand a little bit more about things like fashion. We'll be, you know, just need a little bit more about mechanics other than just isolated joint range motion. And whole body movement. I think that it takes a lot of interest in that and study to do it. But I think we're getting there. And I think that the last frontier is in a lot of ways, the first most important, which is prevention. And I answer prevention is worth a pound of cure. And how can we prevent these injuries? Or you know, you see this word circulated online bullet proofing? Like, how are we going to bullet proof your shoulder is bullet proof your knees? And so that's where a lot of my own self experimentation comes in and trying to learn that as well as watch people do it and experiment with that. But as a field, I hope we study more of that. And then of course, predictive, predictive analytics around who who's going to wear a joint in a specific pattern based upon their bony development. We have some evidence to understand that now, particularly in the hips. But in the, we're starting, I think to an a greater degree to look at that in the shoulders and surgeons specifically are doing a great job of looking at that. And then from a tendon aspect, you know, like we said, are the exercise we can engage in? I'm certainly going to do my best to find out. And I think, and to figure out what is the most effective ones. I think that the question becomes minimally effective dose of everything. Yes, training, medication. Yes. How much is too much? And are we overtraining tissues? And that's why we're seeing so many musculoskeletal problems? Or are we just inefficiently training? And is it because we just don't know how to do it? If you can restore, you know, quote unquote normal mechanics, it's a very some person to person. But if you can restore normal mechanics, a lot of things get better. And I think what we're seeing now is people like yourself are doing a great job of highlighting. Well, we need power, we need muscle mass, we need cardiovascular potential. What movements can get all of those in a minimal dose of time? Because we're all busy. And then what nutrition can empower those goals? And what sleep determines can help us? So I love how holistically you look at everything because you can't look at one thing in isolation. The body is not isolation. Everything works, everything works together. And it's funny. We have this concept of organ systems and things like this. And when you look at the musculoskeletal system, it's like, well, B cells are present in chronic tendon opportunities. That means it's now part of the immune system. You know, it's, they all work together. They're all constantly connected and communicating with one another to generate our homeostasis. So hopefully we understand more about the aging process. What we can do in the prime years to to to arm ourselves to that. And then what activities we can really get people back to as they age and age gracefully. Dr. Gerard, Danoffrio, thank you so much for spending time with us. You are a wealth of knowledge. I've just been very impressed with you over the years. And you continue to impress me. Thank you for having me on. Where can people find you? So I'm on Instagram as anti-fragile MD. And then my my website is with my employer, someone held. So if you search my name, Gerard Danoffrio, you'll find that I have a web page there and you can book appointments from that point. And over time, I think I'm also on YouTube at anti-fragile MD. And we'll be publishing more content in the coming months and years. Yes sir, thank you again. Thank you.

In this episode of the Dr. Gabriel Lineshow, I sit down with gastroenterologist Dr. Ken Brown. What makes Ken so unique is that he combines clinical research with practical application. He still sees patients. In this episode, we talk about how the micro biome could be causing your waking. We discuss how your gut health could be potentially leading to later life threatening diseases, the things like Alzheimer's. We discuss supplements that will be helpful for the micro biome and so much more. As always, if you like this episode, please take a moment to share it, subscribe, leave us a review. If you have not checked out the community, you can go to the website, Dr. Gabriel Lines.com and join us. Because remember friends, we are in this together. Dr. Ken Brown, I'm thrilled to have you on the podcast. Welcome. Thank you so much, Gabriel. I love the setup you have here, and I'm honored to be here. Thank you. I want to tell the listeners something really special about you. Okay, and I didn't share this with you before we sat down because I wanted to save it for the podcast. You and I have been friends now for gosh, six years. Yeah, at least six years. I had a friend, and she became a patient and she's a friend and a patient. And she was a 34 year old extremely well known entrepreneur. She went and she did a grayel test, also known as the gallery test. And this was before I had helped and stepped in taking over her care. Her grayel test came back positive, her colon cancer. 34 years old, a no family history, and she had also done a pernoveus scan, full body MRI, which showed a mass in her, was it her seacum? And I'm heart racing a little bit because this is a pretty sad story. She passed away. And I called you when the doctor that was seeing her before said, yeah, you came back positive for cancer, go figure it out. You need to schedule a colonoscopy. She lived in Dallas at the time. And I called you and I said, can I need your help? I don't know what to do, this girl cannot. She's going to some random colonoscopy place. You stepped in. You did a colonoscopy within the week. You found a large mass in her seacum. You had her scheduled first surgery within the week for removal. And I am forever in your debt. I'm so grateful. Thank you for doing that. And I hope friends that are listening, you never put in that position where you need to call in a favor. But the way you stepped in and the way you handled it, it sadly, she passed away within six months of that diagnosis. She didn't want to get treatment at the time. But thank you. Thank you for the referral for trusting me. A very difficult case. A completely caught off guard. Really thought that it was going to be something seen. They were seeing something else on the stand. But that's what we do. We're doctors. We treat people. And unfortunately a lot of people get very frustrated because of the system in the way it's clogged and the way that insurance companies are involved. And sometimes going peer to peer is the way to make things happen really quick. So it's, you know, we take care of each other and that's. Unfortunately, people that don't have access to a friend that's a doctor or somebody. Sometimes they kind of get shuffled around a little bit. But you can count to the chase. You know how it goes. Yes, I do. And I've called you many times. Fortunately, not as significant as a colon cancer case of a 34 year old. But there has not been one time that you have not come through for me. And I'm so fortunate to be your friend. I'm so fortunate to be your colleague. And I just wanted to set the stage so that the listener knows. Yeah, we're going to talk all about science. But I think even more importantly that they know who you are as a person. Well, thank you so much. Can I tell you something about you? Oh, yeah. Of course. So first of all, congratulations on your book. Thank you, sir. I have read it. It is great. I love it. I was a little scared when I first walked in here and let me tell you why. Because I read it, but then I also listened to it on audiobook. I'm sorry. No, because once I heard that you were reading your own book, I'm like, Okay, well, I got to listen to this. So I listened to it, but I listened to it at 1.5 speed. Okay, good. So when I came in, you sounded like you had a stroke to me because you were reporting in my mom. Yeah, yes, yes, yes, yes. And then I figured something out. If I put you on like two and a half speed, and I get on the devil's tries to go, it sounds like you're yelling at me. Actually, due to bothers. Perfect. You know, as you write a book and you record your own audiobook, they make you talk really slow. Oh, yeah. So they slow down your cadence. How long did it take to record that? Three days. That's it. Just all day, three days. Yeah. Oh, my goodness. Yeah, it was awesome. It's probably my favorite. One of my favorite parts about actually writing the book. Yeah, well, you did an amazing job on the audiobook. Thank you. Thank you, sir. I can't wait for your book to come out. Oh, there's no writing going on. Oh, putting on this bottle. Yeah, no, no, no, I just have a lot going on. I can't seem to sit down and put any words on paper. You're doing a very important work. You are a practicing physician. You're also a developer of a supplement line company. You're doing a whole bunch of other things. You also have a podcast. You're also on social media. You have a team. It doesn't stop for you. And I have to say today, we're going to talk all about gut health. And there's no one that I trust more. You are very well researched and you have a lot of clinical experience. And we's a thinking about things. So just at a very high level, let's for our listeners talk about why gut health isn't so important. And by the time that they are done listening to this podcast, I think you guys should all grab a chair. You know, you know, saddle in and sit down because we're going to talk about. Irritable bowel. We're going to talk about colon cancer. We're going to talk about all of the things. This is going to be a mini masterclass. Oh, Jesus. No pressure. One. That helps. Something else that you turn me on to after reading your book. I got really excited about the gut muscle. Yes. And how that plays into it. And then you describe in your book about how the muscles are actually an endocrine order. Because it goes throughout the whole body. The muscles produce metabolites, which are actually anti-inflammatory and they're beneficial and they help the brain. The gut does the exact same thing. The microbiome, the hundred trillion bacteria that live in our colon, they produce metabolites. So when you were describing what the muscle is doing, the gut is doing something extremely similar. Probably on a little larger scale because it's a direct one to one. And then the influence on the muscles is actually taking place as well. So if you don't have a healthy gut, we're going to go from this. But I just want to say that for your audience, if you don't have a healthy gut, you are actually struggling to have healthy muscles. Or actually maintain muscle. And this gets into all those things you were talking about the myocides being released. I mean, that is the language that I talk about. Talk about the metabolites and the cytokines and all that stuff. And this is going on in the muscles as well. And we have the ability to make sure that you can optimize your training regimen by optimizing your gut as well. I couldn't agree with you more. And we see that in the athletic population. It's interesting as training volume increases. I have seen a precipitous decline in gastrointestinal health, whether it's because of permeability, whether it's because of stress. But the overarching theme is, I think that we could safely say the healthier your gut is. The healthier your muscles will be. It is this full interconnected organ system. We talk about different organ systems in silos, but they're all connected, especially by myocides, metabolites. And that is where gut health is, you know, from my perspective, even the first layer before we even get to muscle health, right? Because of absorption of nutrients, because of the postbiotics, because of the way in which gut health influences everything else. Absolutely. I mean, I'm a little bit biased. You don't say as a practice that. But all help begins and ends in the gut. I mean, when we think about it, we take in the outside world and we bring it into our gut. We have all these influences on our body, but you have total control of what you're putting in. And what you put in can either benefit your gut or harm your gut. When we're talking about gut health, I think of it as different places. I think of the direct aspect of, are you causing gut inflammation through various things, just direct inflammation, poor diet and a biotics, whatever. And then are you taking care of your microbiome? So when we talk about gut health, it's almost easier to start with the microbiome and then work your way up to the pathophysiology or things that can go wrong in the gut. Because if you don't have a healthy microbiome, then you're kind of starting at a bad spot already. Really quickly, I'd like to take a moment to thank one of the sponsors, and that's fatty 15. You've heard all about essential fatty acids and fatty 15 is a new fatty acid. The first one discovered in the last 90 years. And let me tell you, essential fatty acids are critical for health and wellness. We've all heard this, of course, but fatty 15 is unique. So it's a carbon 15. And by the way, it is going to be helpful for cellular aging. The reality is we're all getting older, but there are ways and things that we can do to combat. The destruction and impact our life style has on our body and our brain and our mood. fatty 15 is one of those supplements. fatty 15 is amazing and it's extremely potent. And by the way, you will not be burping up fatty 15 because it is tasteless and odorless, which also makes it amazing. fatty 15 has great research behind it, which again, I think is extremely valuable. So a lot of different supplements on the market. I'm only bringing to you supplements that I love and use myself. fatty 15 is helping me with energy. I'll let you know about aging next year, but fatty 15 is an amazing product. I think that you're going to love it. Go to fatty15.com slash doctor lion. That's fatty15.com slash doctor lion. And no surprise, you will get 15% off on your first 90 day subscription. Now back to the episode. How diverse is the microbiome? So for example, let's say you and I have the same diet. How diverse will my microbiome be versus yours? That is really interesting because there's other factors that get into play with this. What we do know is that the microbiome can be similar in different regions of the world where the diet is very similar in the lifestyle as similar as well. So if you go to certain islands and things like that, where people talk about these blue zones and whatever the microbiome appears to be somewhat similar. But due to other lifestyle effects exercise, sleep. If the diet is the same, we think it's the same, but are you opening a package? You're actually having whole food, plays a big difference. And then how that plays out in relation to the epigenetics, meaning what does your microbiome do for you? What does it do for me? You and I are 99% genetically identical. We could be 90% different with our microbiome. And what does that mean? Say that again. So we are 90% identical as humans. So you and I are 99% identical in our genome. Okay. People don't realize that the microbiome, the 100 trillion bacteria, 1000 species, actually has its own genome. So the genes that they produce are 100fold more than what you and I are producing. Two people genetically identical as humans completely opposite with our microbiomes. They've been proven that this is where the whole concept of fecal microbial transplants coming in. How the microbiome right now truly is the new frontier. People talk about it. You hear about it. Everybody's trying to jump on this bandwagon, but the reality is it really is a new frontier. Because we have not really figured out how to completely control it. How I'm doing studying the microbiome. So I was doing clinical research for 10 full years. So the history of this started when I was doing pharmaceutical research. And it was at that time that the whole concept of bacteria creating some disease, meaning IBS, could be the root cause of all this. And that led to the development of a drug called diffaxing. Which I think is an incredible drug. I'd love to hear your perspective on that event. Yeah, the story behind it is just very interesting because that's how I started going down the path of developing something natural. Basically when we were doing the research, there were going for FDA approval on irritable bowel with diarrhea. And irritable bowel syndrome in my world when I went to medical school and residency, IBS, if you scope somebody in the blood work was normal, it's in their head. I remember something it was actually considered a disease of hysteria. Yes, it very, very similar to back in the 80s when somebody got an ulcer, actually prior to that. If somebody got an ulcer, it was believed that you have too much stress in your life. You're working too hard. You have an ulcer. Then in 82, I believe, discovered that a bacteria was causing it. He looked back to Pylori. That is the same paradigm shift that took place when I was doing research about 12 years ago. Dr. Mark Pymantell had discovered that something very similar was happening. IBS is not just a functional problem. It's not just something in your head. The traditional person would just be prescribed anti depressants. But irritable bowel syndrome is something that he can be caused by bacteria growing. Where it shouldn't be called small intestinal bacterial overgrowth. Certainly in the functional world, they adopted this very quickly. I still have many colleagues that treat people with IBS with anti depressants. That's it. While I was talking to him, I was part of the clinical trials set in this off. He said, unfortunately, we'll never be able to help the bloated, consipated person because what they're doing is the type of bacteria or the kingdom of bacteria called our K-bacteris producing something a gas called methane, which is slowing everything down. This leads to a circular problem producing more bacteria causing more problems. That's when I figured out what we can, if the pharmaceutical industry doesn't have anything for meaning, modern day antibiotics don't work, let's look at all natural alternatives. That's what I did. At that moment when I was starting to look at this, so this is way before people were really talking about microbiome and manipulating it. The scientists I was talking to, they were already discussing it, especially in Italy and in Spain. They were saying, well, if you use these certain polyphenols, we know that this is actually what is helping to produce a diverse microbiome, meaning a very healthy microbiome. So it's 15 years ago when we really started talking about the microbiome back then and how to keep it healthy. That's the biggest thing. And we're still at the beginning, so 15 years into research from your perspective, we're still just scratching the surface of the microbiome. 100%. We can test and we can find DNA that gives us clues of what type of bacteria. We can make up your microbiome. We don't know if they're active. We know that we can test for the DNA. Are they alive? Are they doing things? We do know that certain people with certain types of bacteria produce more beneficial metabolites. We know that if you have a narrow microbiome, which we're going to use the term dyspiosis for that. So the standard American diet is causing a lot of this. And if I ought to cross a lot of it, but when you have a narrow microbiome, then you lose the ability to produce all these beneficial things. You lose the ability to decrease inflammation. You lose the ability. Equivalent in your book when you have fat infiltrating the muscle, the muscle itself does it have as much ability to produce all those beneficial things. And so when you have this narrow microbiome, we know that this, the best way to think about it is, treat your microbiome well. It will treat you well. Keep your microbiome young. It will keep you young. Mistreated. And it becomes almost a parasite. It actually starts hurting you. And it's, um, my son came up with this idea. It's calling cancer awareness month. Oh. So I give this bracelet to everybody that I scope. Okay. And it goes, you know what you should do. It's a lot of bracelets you're giving away. I know it is. Well, they're, they're rubber bracelets, nothing fancy. But he came up with this term, which I love. It's my son's 19. He goes to university taxons right now. He, uh, he's like, you know what you should do is you should do a play. You should do, you know, the WWJD. Do WWYMS. And so every one of my patients gets this after I scope them. What would your microbiome say? So that I tell them so that when you leave here and you're really hungry and you pull into the Burger King or the McDonald's or the whatever. Nobody listening does that. Yes. Look down and go, what would my microbiome say about this? Because it's that important to keep it healthy. And we don't think about that. That, that's very enlightening. I have a few questions for you. For example, are we born with a certain microbiome? And if so, or some of us born with a more advantageous microbiome? And what are the things that we can do if there's parents listening? What can we do? And maybe it is equal to everybody. The things that you can do like sleep, train, have polyphenols across the board is similar. What would you say the foundational aspects of microbiome help are? Well, that's a, kind of a two-part question. But that is a great question. We are born and we already start sharing the mother's microbiome. And we now realize that we thought that the placenta was completely imperbable to other things. So it's just a form birth. In fetus, in utero, there is some exchange of developing exposure to the mother's microbiome. Then the birth process itself, see section versus vaginal, you're going to be exposed to different microbiomes there. Immediately after birth, all the, inoculations, things like that that we don't really have, well, you don't even realize that your child's getting these, you know, vaccinations or antibiotics and things like that. That being said, a lot of that is out of your control. What is in your control is what we call the Golden Window. Basically zero to age three or four is the Golden Window of helping your child have the best microbiome. Because then it's set. And if they end up having a really bad microbiome then then they have to spend years trying to change lifestyle habits. Change things so that the microbiome becomes better. So it actually happens really early on as an infant. And that's something to actually think about. We have to make sure of all the normal daily processes like as an adult, we always talk about sleep, exercise, eating whole foods and things like that. Similar to a child making sure that they have the best possible diet that is not disrupting it, making sure that you're limiting the amount of antibiotics. That's probably the biggest thing for children, but highly processed foods is super huge in this. And all of this plays into the fact that when you have a healthy microbiome, you probably can tolerate a lot more of the what life throws at you. Yeah. You're getting hit by whatever pollutants, all these other things, but you can probably tolerate it a lot better when you have a healthy microbiome. If you look at a graph of obesity and adolescence. You're going to ask you, that was my next question. Yeah. An anxiety and even ADHD. It's fascinating because it just clips along very steadily. And then right around 1978, you see this obesity line start climbing. And a little bit further than that, like 1982, you start seeing anxiety and ADHD. And if you look, that really does correlate with our change in diet, meaning our change in what is allowable in the diet. And if you look at the diet, hyperdose corn syrup, highly processed seed oils, the flipped ratio of Omega 6 to Omega 3, Amolose fires. And what we're learning is when we start looking at this, including artificial sweeteners, a lot of these things actually disrupt. There's some gut inflammation, like from the Amolose fires and from some of the inflammatory seed oils. But there's also disruption of the microbiome. That is really fascinating because what I'm hearing you say is we've really honed our attention towards obesity. And we've focused on body composition. And of course metabolic dysregulation, the blood markers that go along with that. And yes, we've gotten better at testing for ADHD. And perhaps we've gotten more stringent on our screening for depression. But the influence of microbiome is not something that is normally incorporated into that conversation. And so with the increase in processed foods, the disruption of the microbiome from what I'm hearing you say, probably played and does continue to play a huge role in obesity, in depression and anxiety, ADHD. Is that a fair statement to say? I think unless you have any other compelling evidence to say this is the exact thing that's actually happening, it has to be the microbiome. There's a point in time when we start inducing things into our system that we know are inflammatory. We know that if the only country that sprays glyphosate right before it's harvested to dry it, we know that glyphosate is a microbiome disruptor. We know that these different things. So we talk about obesity all the time, but it was a flat line until right around that when we started doing all these types of things with the processed foods. And when that started happening, is it to calories in calories out? I don't know. Your friends with Dr. Lane Norton, he'll sit there and talk about this. Is it disruption of the microbiome? I don't know. We've got people out there that are doing animal studies, you know, conclusively showing that a lot of this, having a diet, having a standard American diet, we'll definitely disrupt that. Is it the possibility that you're having intestinal inflammation that actually decreases the enzymes in the gut lining that don't allow you to convert the amino acids that you're ingesting into some of the neurotransmitters that you need dopamine serotonin and GABA? We know that if you've got an inflamed gut, you won't be able to do that. Does that lead to ADHD? Does that lead to anxiety? So, if you have an inflamed gut, is it possible that you don't have the right neurotransmitters? Because it's being, you know, 90% of serotonins produced in the gut. We know a lot of people don't realize that GABA, the inhibitory neurotransmitter, the thing that kind of says, well, calm down, like the police cop kind of thing. That also needs the gut, and it actually converted by the microbiome. So, is it possible that we have this huge epidemic of depression and ADHD and anxiety? Because the foods that we're eating create localized intestinal inflammation, not allowing these enzymes to work as well to convert trip to fan to serotonin. That's possibility. And when the microbiome is healthy, then it's going to produce these metabolites, short chain fatty acids, but it's a bit of a thing like this that circulates throughout the whole body and actually heal those cells to allow your body to convert that. So, definitely the gut seems to be playing the biggest role in this. I did hear somebody that I don't remember who it was, but he was on human discussing how he believes that the reason for obesity is due to a mitochondrial thing. What we're now talking about is mitochondrial disruption, but that comes back to inflammation. So, you can always step your way back to if we have inflammation, then this is going to lead to cellular distress. If that happens, mitochondrial dysfunction and so on, is this more than just calories and calorie out? Well, I think that we can all agree. Many of us can agree that calories and calories out plays role. Right? This is, there's probably no denying that. But the nuances of that, I believe are there. I have read some research that talks about this ratio of formecturus and bacteriabetes and that some individuals may. And I'm not sure if this is the right word of zorb, more calories based on their, and please correct me. Based on their gut microbiome profile, whereas you could eat a burger and I could eat a burger, but the impact of that food is going to be different. Would you say, is that, is that our fair statement? I think it's a fair statement that gets back to what we're talking about 90% different with our microbiome. And so, you and I can eat the same thing, can have something different. A lot of the research that goes on in this is doing this fecal microbial transplant. Trying to see if we can manipulate that. They have shown that if you take these stool from a fat mouth, give it to a skinny mouth, skinny mouth gets fat. Why is that? Well, it has to do something with the microbial genome having an epigenetic effect, turning on different things. Outside of the gastrointestinal tract, we are talking about a systemic effect in microbiome. That's a systemic effect. Having a systemic effect on the body, which leads me back to this question, what can we do? I guess the first part of that question is, how does one know if they have a healthy microbiome? And what are the pillars that you feel that everybody could deploy upon actions that everyone could take to improve their overall gut microbiome diversity, help those kinds of things? So, the functional medicine and community would say, well, let's check your stool. And what is the efficacy of these tests? I think it's been best described as we have the ability to test this. If you're doing something about it, the science quite isn't there yet. And so there's a lot of companies or so many. I wrote an article for one of the news outlets about at home stool testing. This is a big thing. People can just order it online. They send it in and they get a report back. Well, what do you do with that? It's lots of information that's interpreted. Well, maybe you should have more of this supplement, more of this supplement. But the reality is, we don't really know if changing the racial one particular thing. Here's what we do know. This is based on human trials. If you protect your microbiome as much as possible, meaning protected by getting properly, trying to avoid stress, avoid antibiotics, and try to eat a diet that is not highly processed. And then you feed your microbiome what it wants. And everybody talks about fiber. Recent studies just came out. We're comparing large complex polyphenols to Inulin, which is kind of the gold standard fiber. They actually gave it to humans over 28 day period. And they did show a slight microbial improvement in 28 days. But these were healthy volunteers to be in with their parents. How did they define healthy? Well, it's basically based on the ratios. I see. When you look at this, it's the genus. There's bacteria that we believe that when they are, the ratio is shifted. You will have more inflammatory markers as opposed to non-inflammatory markers. Can I stop you for a second? Just to clarify inflammatory markers like HSCRPR. Are we talking about calprotectin? Are we talking about somulin? What kind of inflammatory markers are we? Most of these studies are looking at the cytokines. cytokines. Yeah. Okay. Blood cytokines? Blood cytokines. Like in the other. Exactly. Yeah. So like in the other consics, Tiana, phalpho. Things like that. What they can show is that you're going to have higher ratios of that. A lot's of really cool stuff now where we're looking in the anti-aging world about keeping your microbiome young and then you can actually stay young because when they look at what do they call super centenarians? Those that make it past 95? I think that's the term. When they analyze their microbiome, it's similar to somebody that's much much younger. And every other study across the board from fruit flies to rats to humans. Because we age our microbiome changes and it becomes less diverse. And when I say less diverse, basically means bad bacteria seem to go higher and good bacteria seem to come down. And which ones are good and bad is kind of irrelevant because we've kind of clumped them into these two different things. Certain bacteria produce more of the anti-inflammatory metabolites. Other ones actually produce inflammatory metabolites. So we know that as we age, this is going on. Now is it because the microbiome is becoming less diverse and we're aging quicker? Or through the aging process, I will not take care of the microbiome so it will follow, kind of chicken in the egg sort of thing. But knowing that the people that make it to 95 have this very robust diverse microbiome, we know that that plays a key role. And so protect in the microbiome. So feed it what it wants, protect it. And then the lifestyle stuff, the beauty is it's everything that's in your book. Get good sleep, eat whole foods, get exercise. All of those have been shown to improve microbial diversity. You can, your microbiome has its own circadian rhythm. So if you're disrupting your sleep like being on call and we're all that that definitely affects it. We know that there's for those people that do shift work. It definitely affects their life expectancy. And it could very well be because it keeps disrupting the microbiome. Talking all things digestion, it made a lot of sense to bring in. One of our sponsors, that is Ned. Hello, Ned. When you think about digestion, you have to think about rest and digest. The parasympathetic nervous system. And of course, what does that require? It requires you to be chill. That's exactly why I love mellow. Hence the name mellow. It has three different forms of Qulated magnesium. It has alphiene. It has GABA. It has other amino acids to help chill you out. If you want to have a great night's sleep and you want to be able to rest and digest your food, then you have to check out mellow. T-screate comes in a cute little packet. If you so choose those and by the way, you can get yours at helloned.com. That's helloned.com and they have mellow magnesium. You'll get 15% off if you use my code, Dr. Lyon. That's hello, Ned. 15% off. Use the code, Dr. Lyon. Now back to our episode. We have to re-evaluate the way physicians go through training. Yeah. I mean, for those listening physicians, depending on your specialty, we'll be on call every second, third day for 24 hours. Yeah. Fortunately, I think everybody is at a stage of their life where they can handle it. But if you continue that throughout your career, I think that that's really where it starts affecting you. Use that something that I just want to bring attention to. You said protecting your healthy microbiome, which makes me think, I think, in term of muscle. And basically in midlife, muscle, you can always build muscle, but really maintaining the health of skeletal muscle is key. As we are young and you're working out and you're moving and you're building your tendons and you're training, the health of skeletal muscle, one would argue, hits kind of a pinnacle at 30. And the key is to maintain that strength and power output to avoid this decline. It makes me think the microbiome is almost a parallel organism or parallel organ system in and in of itself. How influential can we actually be on the microbiome and does one need to much like the maintenance of skeletal muscle continue to do those things. So for example, if you were to completely shift your diet and you were to do that for three months, what kind of influence in a meaningful way, if someone is listening to this and eating a standard American diet or is struggling with obesity or being overweight, what kind of meaningful influence can they have on shipping the microbiome and how long does that last or is this such a dynamic process that it is something like your bracelet that one has to do every day. It's a very dynamic process and it's fairly easily done. The problem is that when people on January 1st, I have a whole clinic full of people who become in January 1st and they're like, I don't know what it is. I've turned over New Leaf, I quit eating fast food and I'm eating all whole food, many of them or like I'm going to go vegetarian. And they'll come in and they're miserable. And part of the issue is that not only is it the increase in fiber and things like that, but what's happened is you don't have the right microbiome to even utilize the nutrients that you're giving it. And so what I try and tell my patients is think of it that you have to have the right microbiome to unlock the capability of the fuel that you're giving it. It's like trying to gas up a Tesla if you're giving it the wrong fuel or vice versa, if you pull a big diesel truck up to a Tesla station, you've got fuel, wrong microbiome, you might have the right microbiome, but you keep just rupting it with the wrong fuel. So it plays such a big role because once you can get to the point where your body really tolerates it, which is why I think you're saying when we talked earlier about how microbiomes can be very regional because everybody's microbiome starts to tolerate this recurring diet that isn't all over the place. Like here, standard American diet, I have a lot of patients that will come from wherever. I had an Israeli person that's like, this is crazy. He's like, like, got to all messed up. Everybody at work, they want to have Mexican today. They want to have Chinese tomorrow. They want to have whatever they want to have whatever they want to have. And he said in Israel, it's a very standard version of a few things. It's more of a Mediterranean style diet. So yes, you definitely can change the microbial profile, but a lot of times people get miserable miserable in the process because they're not ready for it. They jump all in. So it's kind of an ease in process. Once you have that, we do know with human studies within 28 days of taking in this particular case, it's not so much a diet study, but making sure that they're feeding it specific things like large complex polyphenols. Which what we're being example of that? So in example would be Cabracho, which is a large tanon. I don't even know what that is. Cabracho is really one of the world's not world. So you're saying I should know what this is? No, you shouldn't because it's one of the things that I studied way back when. That was one of the few things I found that could actually decrease methane when I was describing this study earlier without a pimentel. That's how I went down that path and discovered that we were using Cabracho Colorado as a food source. Very cattle to decrease methane production because it was being produced by the same RK of actor that is happening in C-bomb. It's fascinating. But the study that was done was 28 days giving healthy individuals two large tanons, Cabracho and chestnut, during my cranial analysis first and then checking it later and then checking metabolites first and checking it later. So what's really cool about this is that there was a slight improvement in the microbial diversity but they were already healthy. So keep that in mind this was healthy volunteers. But there was an exponential increase in the metabolites. Which is the metabolites that are I had a good friend of mine Suzanne Devkoda. Do you know Suzanne? She actually is a Cedar Sinai. She heads up the microbial microbiome institute. Oh, just. Pretty amazing. And she was talking about that it's really not about the gopmicrobite that the bacteria have found the metabolites that they produce and it's about the metabolites that the foods that we eat like for example, a kombucha. It's not about what's in the kombucha it's about the metabolites in the kombucha or the metabolites that are leveraged by the gopmicrobite. Yes. And so the side note on that what we don't know is that can you take these metabolites and will they actually absorb or will they be destroyed? That's one of the questions that are still kind of out there. But it's the metabolites or everything. And the metabolites are this new place and people are like all things. Somebody will discover something and figure out, well, buterates are great example. Oh, buterates good for you. Okay. Let's make a supplement and put buterate in it. Well, it turns out it gets destroyed. It tastes horrible. It doesn't it doesn't really bump the actual buterate and it's a dynamic thing. But once you start making these changes, you only need a little bit of improvement to actually have these metabolites. And it's not just those. It's not just that. So a study was done with one of our PhDs that we work with where she did an in vitro analysis where she put these large same tanons. She did her thesis on tanons. Because you want to hear the same thing. She's like the world's biggest expert on this. And the tanons are the compound that's in the chestnut or the other chestnut in the Cabracho. Cabracho. Tannons? All right. So polyphenols are the molecules that make vegetables and fruits colorful. That's what gives them their color. That's what makes the Mediterranean diet healthy for you. What people don't realize is that polyphenols is just this big umbrella term. And there's all these different types of polyphenols that fall under that category. It's almost like having genus and species. But the large ones that are, it starts out as a small phenolic compound. And then mother nature attacks on a couple more smaller phenolic compounds. And then we have a recognizable molecule. So what she showed is that when the chestnut and the Cabracho are metabolized by the microbiome, she published a paper where she did a mass spec on the various compounds that came out. And it was fascinating because in there are recognizable polyphenols that people buy, like green tea extract, EGCG. Yes. And then the chastity which is there. And catacons and flavinols and all these others. So what's happening is that mother nature has this way of putting these molecules together to be larger and larger and larger. So the way that I kind of describe it is you have all these little Lego pieces. And then they're put together and you have this big majestic ship or casserole or anything that you like building out of Legos. And then those go through your digestive tract, undigested and they make it to your microbiome where your microbiome will then break it down and they just start disassembling these Lego pieces. And it's these smaller pieces which then can help to break down the different compounds that we're eating and things like that. Which maybe one of the reasons why the diversity, it's very important but if you're feeding it what it wants, then by breaking this down, then you're going to get the benefit of all these other things that are going on. It's these metabolites that are happening. So not all polyphenols are created equal. So I'll have patients come in and they'll be taking five or six things over the counter when if you have the right microbiome then you can just take a large complex polyphenol. If you don't have the right microbiome, you're probably wasting your money. A lot of different supplements that we talk about. This is a whole separate discussion because I haven't really been able to figure this one out yet. We know that there's so many things that are poorly absorbed. Quarciton, Burberry. I mean, you name any one of these things are all poorly absorbed. Everybody's trying to figure out, we have a highly absorbable version of this. There's been some recent data about people having these very highly absorbable curcumants, but we're also seeing in my world liver damage from people taking curcumants supplements. Why is that? It could be that we're really not supposed to be absorbing these. We're supposed to be giving them to our microbiome that then breaks it down. That's actually into the beneficial thing. That's a whole separate deal because in the supplement where everybody's trying to figure out how to make things more absorbable. And maybe they're completely missing the mark that it's not actually the curcumant. It's the metabolite that the curcumant produces from the microbiome. Basically, the next advancement in medicine, the way I see it, I'm sure the way that you see it, is that we can actually identify and prescribe certain kind of nutrition plans and certain foods, based on an individual's gut microbiome. Or do you think that that is unnecessary? No, I think it would be fantastic if we could sit there and look at this and have an idea of what it is. It's maybe one of the reasons why certain like some people just completely love certain diets. And they do well with it. I believe that to be true. My son said that she's like, is your son going to be a gastroenterologist? No, my son is not going to be a gastroenterologist. Astronauts happen. Astronaut maybe. He's in the College of Engineering right now. So he just happens to be a very insightful good kid and they've watched, they've watched their dad come home and can't turn it off ever. You don't say. I think that that is something that plays all of us. Yeah, so they've seen the journey. But they said, you know, people go around and they get all these genetic tests. And they want to know the 23 and me and ancestry.com and everything. He's like, doesn't it seem more likely that they should kind of figure out where their true origin was? And what they ate in that area? And meaning that there are very healthy people that they could only eat plants in this area. And that's what they did. Is it possible that they evolved in a way where that is? There's people over here that really had a higher meat source and they did really well with that. So is it to microbiome? Is it the genetics who knows? But it's kind of interesting. I frankly agree with you and I've thought a lot about it because the thing that divides us more than anything is that from politics is nutrition. Is that funny? It is funny. And we have built these concepts based on foundational truths. As if everybody is equal. For example, it takes two and a half grams of looseine or 30 grams of dietary protein to stimulate muscle through this mechanism called amtour. We can safely say that looking at skeletal muscle that this is the trigger point. Now, the question becomes how come certain nutritional patterns work really well? And for many people and I would say probably 90% of the population will do really well with reducing carbohydrates and increasing their fiber and optimizing for dietary protein. But I can't help but wonder and think about which goes to your point and I have thought about this a lot that there are certain individuals that may do really well being vegetarian or vegan and it completely transforms their life. I believe that it all has to do with the gut microbiome and that there's early studies that would indicate potentially that the gut microbiome can produce some of these amino acids that are actually essential amino acids that flies in the face of even the term essential amino acids. And that if we can pinpoint who does better, you know, and I guess it's trial and error, but if we could be more involved in that clinical decision making or help guide people, then I think that the health trajectories would improve. Yeah, I think it can only improve because we know that these metabolites will let's look at your world. So you're familiar with myostat and follow statin. So we know that a metabolite from amino acid triptophan that is in absorbed, it's converted to IPA, which is indulged through pro-Priyonic acid. Well done sir. Thank you. We got a lot of the math here. So this is a stepping on some stuff I haven't thought about a long time. So, you know, in IPA has been shown to increase follow statin, which decreases myostat. And so now we've got a model of how this could actually microbiome can directly affect muscle growth just on that one aspect. We know that butarate actually decreases the inflammatory response and can sometimes increase the stem cells with other muscle fibers which are nearby. So there's like another example. We know that inflammation in itself makes muscle growth difficult. So we have all these different things to play into it. So if you can decrease the inflammatory aspect in your entire body, then the gut plays, one of the biggest roles to do that. So you talked about the large polyphenols, takes 28 days or so to maybe... In one study. But I mean, it's probably if we were to give a number to think about like a gut reset, I'll just throw that out in a silly kind of term. But, you know, a period of time that someone should think about potentially moving the gut microbiome in a meaningful way based on oral intake. I'm not talking about exercise which probably has immediate, albeit short-lived kind of influences. The large polyphenols are there other things that individuals that you think that all individuals should ingest to improve. And I know we just have to say this cautiously improve their gut microbiome because, again, baseline everything is different for everybody. Are there other foods or things that you think that people should all be using, whether they are fermented foods. And I know this kind of moves us into small intestinal bacteria overgrowth because things like fermented foods might not be good for someone that has small intestinal people. What's interesting about fermented foods that I love as opposed to just traditional probiotics? Where that's a whole separate, hairy world. But the data is pretty soft on whether they're actually better than placebo long term, at least in my world. When I go to my studies, when we go to conferences and things, though long term data shows that probiotics probably are, quote, traditional or probably equivalent to placebo. Just straight up. But as I tell all my patients, if you get a benefit from it, then you're having a benefit from it. And that's all that matters. But what we do know is that with fermented foods, especially those like kimchi and sourcrout, we know that the probiotic or the bacteria inside is protected by an insoluble shell. And so I really like those a lot because now you're basically writing insoluble fiber with fermented food down. Hopefully they're producing them at satellites like your friend was talking about. And that's a wonderful, you know, something that we need to get more into to see if we can actually increase the metabolites and so on. But so fermented foods is great. And we know that polyphenols are great. And we know that fiber is great. So any prebiotic by definition is wonderful for your microbiome. It doesn't really matter which one's better or worse if you just have a bunch of it. And if you hold foods, you're going to get a bunch of it. Do you care what kind of fiber, whether it is soluble insoluble, are there, do you have certain favorite foods that you think are valuable for everybody? Or is it just based on something? It's just based on preference. I think that both insoluble and soluble work together. We do know that they can actually help decrease the glucose spike if having a lot of carbs. That actually helps to prevent your body from reacting to it and producing the insulin. I'm less into nutrition in the sense of there's so much noise out there. I like to sort of defer to the dietitians that I work with and let them have longer conversations. Because the way that I'm, I guess the best I feel and I've tried a bunch of different things. But the best I feel and looking at the data that I know, I like 80% carnivore, 85% carnivore, and I take polyphenols as a supplement. Yeah. And so I take polyphenols as a supplement and I take my fiber traditionally soluble fiber because it's just easier insoluble. It would just be like the vegetables and stuff. And my blood work which is great. My CRP is absolutely nothing. And so I mean at least on paper it looks good. Physically I feel good. I just got to kind of watch the other advice a little wine. Which has, I guess, polyphenols in it. It doesn't, maybe not a bottle. But you know, can. And by the way, if you guys are listening to this and not looking at it, can is jacked. And I think that that's how we first became jacked. And that's what I'm not overselling. It is very true. Can has always been super fit and jacked. And I think I probably ran into you at the gym and an event initially many, many years ago. All right, do you want to know what I drink in the morning that is a little bit salty and gives me a huge pick me up? Well, I'm going to tell you. And that is element chocolate element that's LMNT in my coffee. I brew a black cup of coffee with a shot of espresso and then I put a scoop of collagen and a little bit of MCT oil in it. And one fourth packet of element chocolate. Sometimes I use chocolate mint. I've also saved chocolate caramel. It's kind of this like chocolatey caramel. Amazing. So I get my caffeine. I get some collagen for of course, here's going to nails. And I get electrolytes in my coffee. Sodium, potassium, magnesium, all amazing. I have now created my own supercharged drink, which you can to. And by the way, this is a different way to take element. That's a little packet of electrolytes. If you get headaches, maybe you get headaches with your caffeine because you dehydrate yourself or maybe you get headaches because you sweat a lot while training or maybe you just live in Texas where it's hot. And so you definitely sweat a lot. You definitely get headaches. And this is why I love to add electrolytes to what I'm drinking. And it can be coffee, it can be water. lately it's been coffee and it tastes amazing. You can get yours at drink element. That's drink lmnt.com. You'll get a free sample pack. When you use the code a doctor lion and by the way, if you don't like it, it's totally risk free. You'll get your money back. No questions asked. I love this stuff. You will too. Back to the show. I want to talk about this whole idea of irritable bowel syndrome. I actually treat a ton of gastrointestinal challenges in my clinic. Whether it is quote irritable bowel, whether it is constipation. I do want to discuss parasitology just as kind of a, I want to mention it. But what percent, your population is skewed. Everyone is coming in with GI issues. But what are some of the top symptoms that people come in and complain about to you? So let me just basically describe my second opinion patient. Somebody comes to me and they've seen several doctors. They've had multiple tests. They have been labeled as having irritable bowel syndrome because that is a trash can diagnosis. The actual wrong criteria that our society uses is you have abdominal pain, relieved with defecation lasting longer than three months. If you fall into that category, you're being labeled as irritable bowel. I've always had a problem with that because you can have opposing symptoms. You can have irritable bowel with constipation or you can have irritable bowel with diarrhea. Now in medicine, we're always trying to find a unifying diagnosis. Which is important because we have to be able to, I have to be able to call you up and say can. This person has x y and z. Yeah, it's the old ockham's razor. We have this disease irritable bowel that affects greater than 20 percent of the US population. It's probably more than that, right? Probably much more than 20 percent that have actually sought care. And they have opposing symptoms. That's always bothered me. That's why it was so exciting when the concept that Dr. Pymitell figured out, which is bacteria causing this, if the bacteria produce hydrogen sulfide, you will have diarrhea. If the bacteria produce methane, you'll have constipation. That's an aha moment for me because all these people are coming in. Now the questions that I ask my patients is by the way, I know that you have these judicious. Are you bloated? All of them bloated. Do you care where the bloating is? Is it full belly bloating? Is it below the belly button? Do you care? A little bit, let me get into the history of it. I care more about the timing. Are you bloated? 20 minutes after you eat? 30 minutes after you eat? Are you bloated more when you eat carbohydrates? Are you bloated in the morning when you wake up? Because the thing is is that if people feel full, then a lot of times people misinterpret what that word bloating is because it means different things. But if somebody wakes up and they're completely bloated in the bloating never goes away, typically that is more of a functional constipation thing. That's more of that. But if somebody wakes up flat, eats a carbohydrate rich meal and then they blow up. Well then that tells me that this is the person that has been labeled as having irritable bowel syndrome. The problem is is that they go in, they get told that they have a baby. They wake up in recovery at an endoscopy center and they say great news Gabrielle. Column was perfect andoscopy was perfect. You just have a baby S. You get up and you walk out and you go, I still don't feel good. I still have bloating and then I ask the questions, you have brain fog, you have fatigue, you know, you're in trouble sleeping because all these things play into it and then that tells me more that there's more going on. What I want to change the paradigm shift in this thing is that bloating is so pervasive that it is considered normal. I mean literally it's like, well everybody blows, right? Well not Matthew. No. My producer never. But the, um, but I kind of think of bloating is the canary in the mind shaft. That's the first warning sign that your gut is unhappy because you're not able to tolerate the foods that you're giving it. Whether the timing of it 30 minutes or it's several hours, I'll get really bloated in super gassy and that tells me your micro biome probably is not ready to handle the food that you're giving it. Either way what we're talking about is an unhealthy gut or the beginnings of an unhealthy gut. And we know that if you let that go on, then in the lining of the intestines, you have very, very tight junctions and the purpose of this is to take in the outside world selectively and make sure that you defend yourself also if it's something that's there. And we call that the tight junction. Over time, the bloating is a signal that this is early inflammatory process in the gut and when this takes place, then you start developing more of a porous gut. Leaky gut and functional terms and testle permeability if we're talking to a medical doctor. It's funny how I use different words to get into the gut. I'm talking to. So bloating is the most common symptom. And if you have bloating that's a canary in the mind shaft because now we're starting to look at all these people that have end-stage diseases and we're doing retrospective analysis on them and going, oh, wait a minute. Your husband had dementia, your husband had severe dementia. Did he ever have any gut issues? You know what? 20 years ago, he really started complaining about his gut and it just never went away. Yes. And so that's why I'm saying that the incidence of autoimmune disease, the incidence of cancer, the incidence of all these things continue to rise. Why is that? I mean, we have a generation which is, you know, dying younger than the generation before. Very weird. What's going on? Well, what could be going on is that we're allowed the warning sign to become normal. So bloating is number one. Bloating is by far number. Bloating is the most common symptom. Any gas one or all edges will see and it's not constipation. Well, the people will always start with the bloating. So constipation is super super common but the symptom is, I feel bloated because you can be constipated on paper. In other words, you may not have a bowel movement for four days, but if that's your norm, then you don't consider yourself constipated. You don't consider yourself constipated. You can be bloated one day and not have gone to the bathroom and you're, you consider yourself constipated. So it's a perception of whatever your normal is. But the point is is that the most common symptom is bloating and it's not even included in any of the diagnostic criteria for irritable bowel syndrome, which is super weird. That is right. And what would be once someone talks about bloating, are you immediately then thinking, what is the next step? Are you thinking, okay, well, let me see how advanced the, I hate to use the word disease. But how advanced is the disease? Do we need to start looking at xanulin and calprotectin or is what is the first step after someone comes in and says, Dr Brown, I'm bloated. Hate to be really boring about this, but the history, history, give me a history. Like, what happens if somebody comes in and they're like, you know, if had diarrhea, I'm like, do you get bloated after you eat? I do, I guess I'm a little more dizzy. When were you last normal? What do you mean? I'm like, when do you last recall not having issues? It's like, oh, you're funny. You bring that up. It was after I got food poisoning. Yeah, it's right before I had my honeymoon. And then it's I had my honeymoon and I got sick where the Dominican Republic and I've never been right since. And that is so a history of that. Now I'm making his sharp turn towards, okay, let's worry about bacterial overgrowth. Somebody that has that I'd had absolute issues my entire life and do you wake up bloated? Yes, do you feel like you can go to the bathroom? No, do you spend a lot of time on the toilet, whatever, then we start talking about childhood. If they've had stuff for a long time. Oh, now we're dealing with functional conservation, possibly pelvic floor issues. Okay. And then you start going down that route. And so everything in the history to me just sort of dictates what the next test is going to be. Let's talk about small intestinal bacteria overgrowth because it is so pervasive. And when I was looking at some of Pimentale's research and some of the research, he really pointed out that something happens, that and you and I were talking previously right before we started recording that one in nine people that get food poisoning, whether it's camp la bactre or I think that there are three other main bacteria that cause food poisoning. Those individuals, one in nine and I think it's higher. You'd mentioned that it's higher. Yeah, I think it's significantly higher than that. We'll get small intestinal bacteria overgrowth. And if that is left untreated, then it becomes an autoimmune disease. That if it's left untreated, then that intestinal permeability allows you or you have a guard or cell called a dendrite, which reaches up grab samples the outside world. If it happens to sample the shell of a bacteria, a lipopolisaccharide called LPS, then it hands it to a B cell that B cell goes, well, that shouldn't be there. Let's call the troops in. And then they call the troops in turn on the inflammatory cascade cytokines, recruit more white blood cells. And now we've got our immune system, which is turned on. But it's not really fighting anything. Meaning it's not really, you can't go into the looming and get rid of the bacteria, but the bacteria is constantly pinging the immune system. Well, people that are genetically predisposed that heightened immune system eventually will find its way to the thing that causes RA or celiac disease or crone. They're all sort of collitis. So the model of a 100%. Okay. 100%. I want to pause here because this is really important. We're talking about gut health. We're talking about small intestinal bacteria overgrowth. We're talking about the triggering effect of a bacteria like food poisoning. And it sounds like it could really be anything. It could be any kind of gut dispiruses, but we could just pinpoint that something happens that creates this insult in the gut. And then it triggers the rest of the body to have a flare up of whatever that person is genetically predisposed to, whether it is crones or Hashimoto's, which is thyroid or rheumatoid arthritis, that the canary in the coal mine or the the linchpin is really the insult of the gut. Yeah. So over time, that we think that's one model to which can lead to autoimmune disease. Probably leads to all kinds of other diseases. Yes, sir. Because it's inflammation, but if we come back to the same thing. The other thing is when we're talking about sampling the outside world, this cells that they get turned on, they actually once it hits a mass cell, one of the, you know, white blood cells that can release histamine and different other things, it can actually touch the entire nerve, which goes directly to the central nervous system, which is why many people have brain fog fatigue, things like this, anxiety, when their gut isn't right, because there's a direct connection. More so, the indirect is through the vagus nerve, but we're talking a direct connection cell to cell, it goes all the way up. And you can have this brain gut connection going on. And so that's possibly contributing to the dementia later in life, but it's all tied in, which is what we're just learning. The more more, more, we learn about it, the more that it's all interconnected. And do you test for a small intestinal bacteria overgrowth? I do want to hit this because there are tests like anti-viculantest in this idea that then shows that there's this autoimmune component directly in the gut that then can cause chronic constipation if small intestinal bacteria overgrowth gets out of hand and then causes this autoimmune response, ultimately affecting these viculant, right, so viculant, you should probably explain better than that. Yeah, the anti-viculant antibody is what they're testing. Because that is, as I understand it, part of the motor units in the gut that helps with mortality. So when we talk about C-Bell, we're really talking about a mortality issue. What's going on that allows this bacteria to keep growing? Why can somebody show up with years of this problem? The model is that some insult happens. Dr. Pimentel's research in the lab that he has a really looking at them, and he's very academic, which I love. So it's, it's, you need a breath test, you need to check this blood work. The C-Bell breath test. The C-Bell breath test, the trio breath smart, is his, his particular one that he's involved with that company. And you need to check everybody for this, these autoimmune panels. What ends up happening is, is that when your body fights an infection like canphalobacterium, the antibodies produce to kill canphalobacterium, happen to be very similar, or the antibody happens to fit. It's like a lock and key mechanism. It happens to fit very nicely on vinculin, so it's an anti-vinculin antibody, and it makes the vinculin not work. This is the equivalent of having two telephone poles, and you're supposed to conduct an electrical current between the two, but you shut off one, so the current goes here and then just stops. And now there's no current to the next one, and there has to be an alternate route to keep that going. In that area where it's shut off, because of the anti-vinculin antibodies, then bacteria can start to grow. And that's the model of having recrypt bacteria overgrowth, which is very hard to get rid of. So I don't always do that. I get people that have already spent a lot of money, and I like to just get the history. I'm less academic and purely clinical in this setting, or somebody's paying their money to come to me. I like to treat them. And so I will treat frequently if the history is right. And I'll care what the breath test shows and that's what you treat it. The depends on if they have conservation or diarrhea. Let's talk about it. Well, so we talk about polyphenols, and so the polyphenols is my world, the complex polyphenols, and so I develop the product specifically for this, so we always use that. And that's our frontier. It's called our truntil, and so I always use our truntil. And how do you do that? Two capsules, three times a day, for a minimum of 30 days, that whole thing of time. It takes time. It does. And the reason why we talk about the microbiome is one of the things that intrigued me was some people that take it, they get worse before they get better. We thought it was always dieoff, dieoff meaning that, oh, it's because we're killing these archaic backdoor and they're releasing their their their last moment. Yeah, they're last fall and they're like, yeah, they're like flu like symptoms, but now I'm actually thinking it probably has more to do with the inability to break down these large complex polyphenols because your microbiome is it right? When I did my initial study, so we did clinical trials on this randomized trials. People that didn't respond, some of them were coming back in and they're still on it. I'm like, I thought I thought it didn't work. They're like, I know, but I kept taking it and sometimes weird. It's just, I'm just feeling better now. And it took me a long time to figure out they're probably adapting to the ability to get the most out of it, meaning that it's not absorbed so you need the microbiome there. So I use our truntil. Almost always we use xifaxin as a prescription. Can we talk about that? Zifaxin is a medication that is FDA approved for small intestine bacteria overgrowth. FDA approved for irritable bowel with diarrhea and I'll go ahead irritable bowel with diarrhea. So the reason why I say that is is that it's irritable bowel with diarrhea because if you pay. Yeah, if you put sebo, which is a code, the insurance will deny it. So it's very funny that I'm like, listen, we all know that this is the same thing. I've used to diarrhea being treated with zifaxin. So it's zifaxin 5. 53 times a day. And Dr. Pimentel studies were always two weeks. I do a full or I'm, I do a full 28 days. Yes, same with one refill. So do 28 days or do you do two weeks with one refill or do you do 28 days with one refill? What the insurance will allow me to do? So I think I can only get 40 times a time. It's all just trying to play games because it's absurdly expensive if you can't get insurance to pay. Couple thousand dollars. Just nuts. So I do zifaxin. And if there's constipation with it, sometimes I'll add neomison. And I dose it 500 or three times a day. The, you'll see that the prescribing dosings 500 BID. And you use the neomison three times a day with zifaxin. With zifaxin. And these are people that have come that have failed a bunch of things. So I'm throwing the kit. This is my kitchen sink. I'll take the kitchen sink. Roger that. And then we ought to do something for the motility at night. So when we're talking about that motility, when ends up happening is when that vinculin antibody binds to the electrical pole, telephone pole, whatever you want to call it. At night, when we go to sleep, another reason to make sure that you have deep restful sleep is that every 90 minutes, something called the migrating motor complex, or the housekeeper phenomenon takes place. So every 90 minutes while you're asleep, a large electrical impulse starts in the stomach and goes sweeps through your whole small bowel and dumps everything into the cold. And that is the housekeeper phenomenon, which is what it's called. I just learned I have never heard of that before. Really? Yeah. This is probably the key to getting people fixed because you treat them during the day then they go to bed. And if you don't have that swishing of getting rid of it, you don't, if you don't let the housekeeper come in and sweep up the small intestine, the bacteria that remain just regrow. So the key here is to do a multility agent while they sleep. And we're kind of limited on these as the problem. What does Lodos and Tricksown fall into that? What kind of or is that Lodos or with her mice? And what are you using for multility agents? And why do we, why are we limited? I have not, I tried to find the data on LDN specifically for gastric MDN, specifically related to migrating motor complex. It's a little hard to find hard science on LDN regarding that kind of thing. And have you had an LDN expert on your show? I haven't. And if you get somebody who really knows it's a try and talk about that. Yeah, we probably have to get a pharmacist who did clinical research. I'll look. Oh, I'm supposed to have somebody on our show and they live here in Houston. Great. I forgot about that. Yeah. I'll interview them first on camera. Let me see if they're good. I'm a little bit selfish sometimes on our podcast because I like to bring people on that I can learn something from. I always bring people on. That's why you podcast. Listeners and watchers and viewers and friends. You guys think that I'm doing this for you. Well, I am, but I always bring guests that I feel I can learn from and that they can learn from. Yeah. Is not why we have the podcast? Yeah, and find topics where people can cover something like that. But you brought up the LDN. So no, I'm not using LDN for that. What we have used some a rithromycin. But right now the thing that seems to be working pretty well is motegridy, which is per caliparine. Yeah, but yes, motegridy always use that at night. That's that is does not affect the serotonin system. So it turns out that it does because there's some side effects that people have from it. That are. Yeah, like mood dysregulation and things like that. But it stimulates the five HT4 serotonin receptor, which is what we're trying to go for. So it's per caliparine really low dose. I've 1 milligram trying to add that at night. Now this is the kitchen sink and the kitchen sink never gets paid for for me. So I can never get all this. Have you done your blood work? If you haven't, I've a solution for you. And that is one of the sponsors of the show inside tracker. Why is blood work so important? Well, you know, I use inside tracker. My friends use inside tracker. Also, my parents use inside tracker. Inside tracker makes getting blood work very easy and use are friendly. They have an amazing interface. You can check it out on your phone. You can check it out on the desktop, which, you know, hopefully you're using a small one. Inside tracker allows you to look at really important biomarkers like hormones, iron, thyroid, insulin. The list goes on. ApoB. It never stops. And by the way, if you are a professional annual of clients inside tracker also has a pro platform, amazing. I really feel that inside tracker has revolutionized healthcare and listen, blood work can be expensive, but it doesn't have to be. Inside tracker is offering my listeners 10% off, 10% off. Anything on the store in the store, anything as it relates to subscriptions, 10% off go to inside tracker.com like inside tracking your body, use the code doctor, lion, and do not wait if you are due for your blood work, give this a shot. It's extremely valuable back to the show. Could we potentially use this enomptalking calling to colleague? Could we potentially use something like magnesium citrate? Because it's just that we want, is it that we want the Paris stall state that para, you'll say for me, stall stall state? Yes, wave or could we, or were just trying to move things through? So we could potentially, I hate to say give them a little diarrhea, but maybe increase magnesium citrate to have them go to the bathroom at night or even magnesium oxide, as a motility agent. So my experiences, those are modifications, meaning they're hyper concentrated. So magnesium oxide, magnesium citrate, they draw water in. It's the drawing of the water in that goes through. You may get a little bit of a contraction, but the reality is that the liquid itself will make its way through without having this large sweeping wave. And what I mean by the migrating motor complexes, if you look at a monometry, meaning the muscular contraction, it is a wave that travels down. So it is an actual ringing of your intestines. And so it's definitely something about the contractions, probably related to cell turnover, probably related to increased blood flow, all those things in the small bowel. The magnesium citrate in oxide are really good as modic wax. That's why when it gets to the colon, it draws water in. When the water is drawn into the colon, if it gets stretched a little bit, the reflex of the colon is to contract, which is how fiber works, it stretches the colon a little bit, and then it basically contracts and keeps everything moving. The problem with those is that if you are already somebody that feels quite bloated, you can actually add quite a bit of fluid, that's where merilacs also makes my patients feel pretty miserable. Okay. Because are you having a bowel movement? Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Or the doctor stops some great. You have an bowel movement. But yeah, but they're still kind of miserable. So do you test for small intestinal bacteria overgrowth? Or do you say, okay, basically I don't need to test, but if you have bloating and diarrhea, you have small intestinal bacteria overgrowth, we are going to treat you with zifaxin and neomisin. This is assuming somebody's come with the second opinion. I can make sure that they don't have something else. Okay. Yeah. Because there's always, I mean, there's always a leave in andometriosis or something else. Yeah. Well, not even that, but like in my world, there will come as a second opinion for gastroenterologist. So I at least know that they don't have Crohn's ulcerative colitis, celiac disease. Got it. To make sure we're not missing some underlying colitis stuff. But I guess selfishly I'm asking this question because I always do a broth test because I because there's also there's methane, give me the three. Hydrogen sulfide and hydrogen and hydrogen and then there can be a mix, right? How do you treat each one of those? So the beauty of the hydrogen sulfide one is they're being pimentoni company. They've isolated the type of, I think it's an e-coli that actually produces that. But the hydrogen sulfide are sulfide reducing bacteria. There's just a lot of them. Right. It's easier to treat. So those get treated with zifaxin and I mean, the same regiments going to be there. And did they have diarrhea or constipation? Typically, they will have diarrhea. Okay. Hydrogen sulfide people. And then it all comes down to hydrogen being produced. So you have bacteria that break down the food before you can. They release hydrogen. If you have arcaya bactor on one side, the arcaya bactor says, you know what? I like that. It grabs a hydrogen, it grabs four of them through an enzymatic process, produces methane. Other bacteria like you know what? I like that. I just need a couple hydrogen over here and they'll produce hydrogen sulfide. Problem with the breath test that I run into is that when I have a good history, I'm like let's try treating so I don't have to worry about this. The breath test can be really variable and we're learning this. I see that all the time. Yeah, and we're learning more and more because there's something called a food marble. Have you heard of this? I haven't. I'm learning something else. So it's a company out of Ireland that we've been doing some work with and they're actually doing their own study on us. But it's a pocket breath test. It started out to figure out what food you would have food intolerances to. And then they quickly realize it may not just be food intolerance. They could be bacteria overgrowth. And so what foods are triggering more of the gases? And so you eat and then you blow into it, it goes up to the cloud and it shows what gas you're actually producing. Right now it cannot find hydrogen sulfide but it can't do hydrogen and methane. But what we're seeing with this is we've got people that those food marbles respond to certain things and then it'll change within 12 hours. And so is the breath test of a snapshot? Is it done the exact same way every single time? Is it possible that there's variables? I only say this because I still use lots of breath tests but I like to use it to either guide me one way or the other like is this really we're just barking up the wrong tree here? Or why aren't you responding? And here's an example that I've learned with breath tests. So I've had people that have come in and they're just classic. It's like there's just no way you're not going to get better. Great historians they want to get better at things. And I only say that because as you know there are patients that have identified with their disease so long that it's not. I don't know if I'll ever get you better no matter what but you're not sick that's the important thing. But I've seen certain cases and I actually was on a webinar with Dr. Pimentel and I brought this up and he's like not I've never heard of that. Okay but I've seen the breath test spike very early. Yes. So we're talking 15 minutes into this thing very early and then come down. Everything we're giving them probably hasn't even hit. Yeah or it's hit and gone through but has it opened up yet. So we've got Zyfax and which is still and it's compressed little tablet that isn't dissolved yet and so we're missing it. So these people just everything we're giving them and so I've had good success by changing that break in tablets. Doing stuff let's get those let's get the medication available to the early part of the doodinum where you're growing all this stuff based on your breath test or opposite. You have a very high spike late so you're somewhere in the distal small bowel. I want to go up on the dose of everything because we need to get more concentrations to get there because by the time it gets there it's diluted a little bit. So I use breath test a lot for that. I use breath test a lot for trying to see if the correlation of the symptoms correlates with the breath test if there is then we do like a food marble and I take this home and see if we find a pattern with this. So I don't I don't do that with everybody. A lot of the other people in the civil world definitely do. They say you have to get a breath test you have to do this but I'm that rather you know. When do you decide to add in neomycin? Is that the only other additional medication that you'll use? So zi fax in which we should say is a really I might be partial but it's a really amazing antibiotic. It seems if what I read is correct and maybe something you know new hasn't come out since I read it but it stays in the gut. It is not a essentially systemic antibiotic it stays in the gut it can help with almost resetting the I don't want to sync up microbiome but yeah definitely does not affect the gut microbiome adversely or beneficial. We've known that actually we're trying to look at different things for treating like ulcerative colitis with it. So the key to treatment for cibo is intraluminal delivery. Intraluminal delivery meaning it poorly absorb things are the things that are going to help which is why traditional antibiotics that get absorbed you may get some benefit in a small bowel for some of it but you're absorbing them which ultimately is going to disrupt your microbiome. So we get really cautious about throwing antibiotics at people and you know hoping that it'll make the bacteria go away. The large polyphenols are unabsorbed as well so that's a whole concept of why that's there. The ciboatro itself has all these hydroxyl bonds on the outside and it works like a hydrogen sink and it's one of the few plants that can actually damage the archaic factor or the methane producing type of bacteria. The funny thing about zifaxin is that when we did the studies with them so we were me and my research manager were one office in a suburb of Dallas and the other sites that were enrolled seeter cyanide malt cyanide Johns Hopkins Mayo just all the usual heavy hitters they were all enrolling and as it turned out we were the leading enrolling site in the whole country not because of bragging rights because I didn't know well enough because an FDA agent showed up at my office. Not because of what? Yes what? Okay. Be a brand new researcher in the leading enrolling site but what was really interesting about it is that that definitely shows the difference between academic center where you have fellows recruiting and the number of people and just sheer volume of a traditional community practice but what was wild is my results were way better and I was part of the clinical trial so that's I'm randomized. I don't know what's going on but but when they uncovered it my results were way better than what they actually ended up publishing with a cumulative data total it was like six nine percent better than placebo by a result or way better than that and I think it comes down to choosing the right person talking about it and most important compliance the compliance of taking it for that full in this and the study was only 14 days but taking it at least three times a day, 14 days with the zyfaxin very few side effects outside of cost that's the only problem with it is basically the cost and the other treatments that we've got zyfaxin neomycin is there any it the reason why the neomycin is there is because the zyfaxin really does not work against this archaic factor the omycin has a little bit of a fact against it so a couple studies came out with showed some benefit taking both of them to help with the constipation in that introduction. Any other medications used for the treatment of zyba? Oh boy yes I use a lot of different things so and do you use a lot of different things and I think that one of the reasons is I'm diving so deep into zyba is because I think that all of us either clinicians or people listening either have it or haven't countered it. Again it's this bloating it's this diarrhea or constipation I mean it seems as if it is going to affect all of us in some way or another whether we have it or a patient or client and we have to really get clear that there is some good signs behind it about what potentially could be and there's some really good potential treatments and it's really important to treat because if left unchecked once an individual gets damaged to these vicarilin or kind of these motor units I think it's very difficult to fix chronic constipation and it seems to affect autoimmunity and inflammation as a lifeline problem. Yeah for sure and I think that that's why it's so important for me to sit there and say we don't always have to put them in this perfect box I don't always need this antibody blood test I don't always need this breath test what I need is for your gut to heal. How we do it? Well let's try some different things we're going to definitely go down if you have the history and you sound like sebo we definitely need to do that the beauty of using some natural products is that even if you're not getting rid of what you think is the sebo you're at least helping the microbiome for instance there's other things that are going on that we've been doing I came out of for my patients I have what I call a sebo support box which is AM and PMP packets we teamed up with I didn't get one that It's because I traveled here I have to travel a lot. It's used in for this so well worth your time my friend. Totally worth my time but like because what I was seeing is all these people were coming to me and they were having food intolerances they're like I can't eat this I can't eat that I can't eat this. Which would you say that that's part of that FOD map diet? So the FOD map diet is just low in these fermentable sugars and I'm not a fan of that because if you're on it long enough you become micro nutrient deficient and it's kind of a bandaid and the FOD map diet just took off because it's got a cool acronym because people start throwing whatever but after listening people are having all these food intolerances that they didn't have before and then you start looking into it and then let's get back to where I was talking about the enzymes that break down those amino acids well we have other enzymes like something that breaks down histamine dimenoxidase if you have inflammation in the gut the dimenoxidase can't work as well and it actually is not able to produce enough dimenoxidase then when you eat anything with histamine in it like an avocado avocado sound safe spinach is the terrible people feel terrible they feel terrible and one of the reasons is because the histamine that's being produced gets absorbed and then the histamine is creating this sort of systemic reactions so I'll use in this box with everything that we've talked about I'll use dimenoxidase I have a trontel and an amp and packets I put a immunoglobulin Y you're familiar with claustrum and things like that and so claustrum one of the main reasons why people use it is for the immunoglobulin IgG. IgY has actually been shown in studies to be more stable throughout the gastrointestinal tract so this way it can go through the whole length of the small bowel so I add the IgY and then in the evening packet I add a combination highly absorbable magnesium because as it turns out when you have bacterial overgrowth the inflammation in the gut and the bacteria can actually deplete your body of magnesium and why is that immunocompan it's just because the organisms themselves will use the magnesium that you're taking in. So selfish. I know and so. And the beauty of using magnesium, glycine, amenies, amalate is that malate has been shown to improve intestinal motility like we're talking about and then glycine has been shown to help with anxiety. Yeah it's really really interesting. I think that that's helpful for people. When is there anything more that you wanted to cover on CBO because I have one more question regarding CBO and that's this idea that it just seems that it's almost refractory sometimes that they do really really well on a combination of zifaxum. You know you put them they can go back to eating normal foods they don't have to follow this fod map diet they'll be fine for a couple months and then it's back. The unfortunate thing is what we have also seen is that zifaxum can work great once pretty good the second time and not work the third time. So there is some sort of tolerance to that. I think that the key to these people that have this refractory situation is to work downstream and improve the microbiome so that the microbiome can correct the problems going on. So if you are producing pro-motility metabolites like butary then you're going to correct that motility issue that's allowed in the bacteria to grow every night. So over time I'll have people that just seem impossible to treat and possible to treat and we just try all these different things and let's try this let's try that and then just over time all of a sudden it just gets better and I think it all comes down to the sebo in the small bowel is affecting your microbiome causing dispiosis and as long as you're having dispiosis then the two will go hand in hand and so if you can't totally get rid of the sebo then let's at least focus on the microbiome and over time it seems to work. So this is just a long game is what you're saying is with the small intestinal bacteria overgrowth is you can treat the small intestinal bacteria overgrowth but you want to create an environment where gas-rontestinal health permeates no pun intended that's is really kind of yeah but I don't I mean I hear this from a lot of people well it just seems to never go I don't have that many patients where they they come in they're like nope didn't work I mean maybe three or four and I still see them regularly I was trying everything yeah I have one patient but then again she hasn't been great about doing her test because I did she does have animals she has a handful of dogs and I I think that there maybe a gerdia component to that you know I I think that there's a component to parasitology which you know before COVID we would send everyone to parasitologists to do a stool sample and they looked into the microscope and now everything is done with DNA testing and PCR it seems to miss these and we see this with the military it's a huge game with the special operators because they go to all these different places you know I had one guy come back and it's entire platoon actually had their goal blooder out they all actually they all got sick yeah all of them of platoon and you know they they all have sebo everybody as sebo but they also have a handful of whether it's roundworm or whippedworm or gerdia or and to me behestalidica and it seems as if they pass it back and forth because of toilets or things that have the of that nature do you find that do you feel like the parasitology testing is adequate that we're doing now or there any opportunities for improvement that you've seen and this might not be your domain but definitely not my domain but I will say I think that we don't have good testing we don't and so if especially if I'm using labs that are required by the insurance the doopily of lab core or yes they don't they it's crap analysis I do do I'm using a stool test called genesis stool test which does you some DNA analysis and things like that but it's still like it's not good it's not good it's always negative and yes it's always negative and that's because whether the burden is high enough yeah we still send out to infectious disease our infectious we have great infectious disease doctors I aren't infectious disease people don't believe that there's a whole lot of parasitic involvement causing disease in the area that we live in and so it's not sure we get food globally they are in animal I mean again the reason I became very capable of doing this is because I treat special operators as well so how do you diagnose them then I will tell you more after the podcast but we send them to old school infectious disease guys like in their EVs and 90s that do old school multiple stool samples and they all come back positive and they come back positive well for again and to me but his solidica I had one guy that had just an system analysis and they find it and we treat them but more importantly they all get better here is the ringer no again terrible mom jokes but you have to treat their spouse oh wow yeah you have to treat them right and so you can treat one person full resolution of symptoms but if you don't treat the partner whether it's back on the toilets or the bed sheets or whatever they all get it back I'm just laughing because if they're going to go see you and then you end up diagnosing something like that this is like how it was when I was in high school or if somebody got an STD you're supposed to call everybody that you've been in contact with yes no no it is funny but most importantly these guys all get better but we have had to go to extreme measures to find parasitologists to send them to these old school places and it's it's tough this episode is brought to you by first form first form makes incredible protein patterns that's probably one of my most common questions that I get asked what kind of protein do you use and first form makes great flavors they also have a natural way which is amazing we make putting out of it we also make someone of like a ice cream type shake and if you are looking for protein powder on the go then look no further first form makes a great one you can check out their protein powders which by the way also mixes amazing nobody likes that chalky tasting protein powder or you're like drinking it kind of choking not sure if you should spit it out or maybe it doesn't taste good and there's an aftertaste it's a whole situation first form has fixed that you can try yours go to first form that's one ST PH O R M dot com and use the code doctor lion that's first form dot com slash doctor lion um I want to move on from a small intestinal bacteria overgrowth uh two you know I I would love to you know there's a lot to cover I'd love for you to mention something on chronic constipation and if that's treated again because there's probably primary causes behind that um and then you know whether a lot of use is safe just want to mention that because I also really want to talk to you about colon cancer and how we should probably be screening much earlier than 45 because we're seeing an influx of um individuals that are getting sick but before we go down that I would love to hear about this chronic constipation chronic constipation is so common. Another thing it's just it's in our it's in our society the thing about constipation is is divided into two different buckets for me how often are you called to the bathroom and when you are called do you feel that you can fully evacuate those are the main things because if you go to a doctor and you say like oh every day great you're not conspated but I don't really ever feel like I'm completely emptying well then by definition you're constipated not by any clinical criteria but because you're not feeling it and so when it is a motility thing or when I say that you're not called to the bathroom of a whole ounce I don't even get the urge for three days we need to retrain your balsce to try and go to the bathroom unfortunately pharmaceuticals that are out there the ones that we have available real hit and miss and so sometimes they're just complete like bowel perhaps that make it you just you have to stay home and take it are you saying that the pre colonoscopy fun enjoyment of brutal well in some in sometimes and it's unpredictable one of the two drugs I'm thinking of are Lynn's essence and trulettes what's interesting about them is that they actually are peptides and tiny little peptides that you can't find in the bloodstream but they get converted into the active component and then can cause a ton of diarrhea so but if it's if it's not causing diarrhea then people aren't really going to the bathroom at all so having no response to it. And why is that? Well I think it has something to do with the lipase cleaving it that's because you can actually have a better response if you take it with some fat. Oh that's interesting that's a clinical pearl. Yeah it makes no sense at all though so like well here's why that's okay but that's a that's a really good clinical pearl. Well here's why because we I've met with their scientific um lays on and they're saying that if somebody doesn't respond try having them take it with some fat bacon but or something like that. Well that seems to help it along and when I'm asking why they're like well it just seems to work better and the problem is when you take fat it actually causes something called an illule break so when you have fat which is why you stay full longer it actually slows everything down and it doesn't actually trigger like an immediate bell movement but this happens to be a medication that they don't fully understand exactly how it works so it is a peptide my theory is that when you have fat gastric lipase is released it cleaves it into its active form so when you take it if you don't have lipase so I have tested this yourself not on myself but I have tested it on severely-consuppated people and have given them pancreatic enzymes plus the linsus and told me to take it at the same time and I was told that it was more than a bowel prep for a colonoscopy and okay so that makes sense so there's something with that so these drugs a lot of these drugs that get approved they're still some confusion about how they actually work they just know that it's safe enough for the FDA to say okay do it so if somebody's not going enough then is what is the appropriate combination of fluid fiber, cybal fiber and cybal fiber and an osmotic agent and those are osmotic agents or menis and cytrate, menis, am oxide, mirrolax you know that's peg these different things and so how do we get enough fluid in there so that your colon can then start contracting and at least moving things along quicker sometimes a stimulant is necessary well it could be a natural one like sena okay or it could be which is I forgot what the actual natural name of it is but or bisicolid is the pharmaceutical one which is the oplex, to get people because what ends up happening is caffeine or nicotine does not caffeine nicotine both caffeine has can prolic acid which works as a stimulant and nicotine definitely which is why back in the day people would wake up have coffee and a smoke and have to use the bathroom nicotine definitely because it actually can hit the nicotinic receptors which stimulate motility for sure so but I mean tell them people that I want you to take some mayn't use them citrate and smoke half a pack or a nicotine men side side of the body or not saying to do that guys but yeah those yeah those definitely can actually stimulate that and then using a stimulant as necessary people are very scared to do it they don't want to become dependent everything and is that a true thing it's not it's the old stimulant medications that we had with damage the nerves those no longer are there what and what were those I don't remember what it was it was it was we so it was an actual compound that would actually damage the nerves and then you would actually become dependent but they got rid of that compound so for example daily use of sena would be acceptable you are not worried that some it would become dependent on elective I am not worried about it but it's something that we don't want you want you to train your balls and so the actin in my acid in the bowl it's basically pot of training for adults and so my wife's a rehab doctor and so you know she would run these inpatient rehab units where you have to retrain balls and somebody that has a spinal cord injury and things like that so that kind of comes onto that like your balls can be trained what I tell my patients is that you know like your muscle your colon has acted in my acid also and the more it gets stretched the weaker the connections are same thing if you're a bicep look at look at us you know but I'm I'm weaker here versus here to here I have more acted in my acid and so what we want to do is try and make sure that you have the most muscular propulsion when it gets stretched to the point where it can't contract it's called toxic mega cola yes and then it just sits in emergency it sucks it sucks for everyone the patient and the doctor so it's it's just a matter of if you haven't gone in a couple days I'd rather not say we'll just keep you know putting up with it let's give you a stimulant now and take a stimulant if you haven't had a bowel movement in two to three days take a stimulant so that time it take it overnight wake up have a bowel movement and then let's try and go longer and longer and see what we can do about bowel training that goes hand in hand with pelvic floor issues so a lot of people men and women men and women more women there's a lot of things associated with it we can go back to the childhood trauma we can go to stress we can do different things we can go to the phone people taking their phone to the bathroom but I don't know anyone who does that right now Matt he's in the bathroom but yeah but I have to bus his chops it's like the it all comes out of the same thing that you're not you have these muscles and you have to allow them to relax to have an effect of bowel movement the brain doesn't understand that it's not relaxing and so you think that you're relaxing when it's not happening so all bring people in and the most effective test is just basically have them squeeze on my finger with their anus try and relax don't try that at home fast yes and then try to um... expel my anus and it sounds weird but i'm sorry expel my finger through the anus correct and by the way this is like when we talk to yourologist there's lots of penis talk and now you talk to a gastroenterologist there's lots of anus talk this is just it's just not far for the course yeah it's normal but it's fascinating because so many people that have calcination and nobody's happy about it right but i'm like just trying to spell my finger i don't want to do that i'm like just try and then when they do i feel the internal it's called a pdendomusle just clamp down and they're like i'm trying i'm like okay now watch this and i'll pull on it and i'm like okay do you feel that they're like a little bit i'm like just relax i'm gonna hold my finger here now do it and then they get it and that's where biofeedback and therapy comes in and that really easy to feel okay and that's and you and one would address that by seeing a pelvic floor specialist of pd right uh physical therapy so it's a physical therapist that specializes in pelvic floor therapy and there's different so that is that is the root cause now i'm sorry that is the end mechanism the root cause of why that's happening could be different things it could be you've had chronic constipation for so long that just pushing like crazy okay the wires get messed up there is an association with trauma of various kinds of trauma because your pelvic floor is a core muscle and you can hold a lot of emotion there and that happens and then there's also this whole phone thing it sounds silly but it's done wonders for my hemorrhide business really yes all ages all ages it's fantastic because people go to the bathroom with their phone and they get triggered and they sit longer holy cow yeah they can get emotionally triggered and when you're emotionally triggered you can't you know it's that fight or flight versus rest and relax yeah you need your body to completely relax well while we're on the topic of um pooping the squatty pd's that changed the angle of your would it be the pelvic floor is it the some muscle yeah it's that muscle is that a good thing it's a great thing yeah love it so you believe that there's positive benefits to changing to raising your um it's like raises your it's has you squat instead of seated yeah so what you do is it well all it does is get your knees up above your hips okay and if you lean slightly forward and there's tons of data on this there was an article that's kind of funny the Japanese did this they took like 10 medical students always the medical students and they repeatedly filled their rectum full of barium and then they would have them poop it out in various positions until they found the most effective angle friends this is why you should never become a medical student yeah and they uh and what they determined is there's an actual angle too far and it may change but there is an angle you know when you go to other countries that they squat with the bathroom they don't have constipation or hemorrhoid issues so there is a physical physical a physical way in which we were potentially designed to go to the bathroom 100 and squatty party gets you almost there we should have been that and it should have invented I mean did an amazing job with Autron T.O. we used it in all our patients that were bridging them from for sebo treatment but you know can you really should have that's thought about this squatty party that's it's recondomissed the boat on that one yeah we we may have a branded squatty party out of that but you know but honestly that's it they did a great job of at least getting out there there's tons of different brands out there now but definitely I am going to give you I had five rapid fire yes or no question okay you don't get to comment it is fully yes or no okay mouthwash no yes yes yes yes yes yes yes no yes that is sushi is like full of pairs like I love those pair of settings you're eating you know I can't really well now I told all my patients and no so you guys if you were listening if you were in tens camp carry on yeah my patient and you are listening to this okay I'm just saying I'm just saying I'm just saying that if you're getting gas station sushi here in Houston I don't think it matters you guys are going to get G.R.D.R definitely going to get some kind of worm so caveat I always make sure I have a little sake to kill whatever organism is there can routinely do worms himself okay all right I'm a huge sushi well not after this I'm going to have to send you some G.R.P.R.Nagmas oh is this a restaurant yes or no we're so I don't know you side tracked me with the sushi because you said yes but G.R.P.R and the reason I'm asking a gastroenterologist about G.R.P.R.P.R.Nagmas or even the tri-septiide which has team two mechanisms of action is because again this is coming from your perspective from gastrointestinal health but it's only has to know just put you on spot no no okay but but this one's a totally caveat essentially it's yes for the right people but know the way it's currently just being tossed around a whole lot we see I see too many people and I'm really biased on this and we see too many people that come in with a stomach full of food and they have anything in two days so like this is I'm I'm letting it play out a little bit longer I mean I think it's great for some people I know but that's why I did this whole podcast on it where we kind of waffle because I'm like I think it's really beneficial I at this last meeting I was at anti-aging doctor was talking she said that we really believe that this is the most the biggest impacting medicine that we've had in decades and I agree with that I'm just you are a gastroenterologist and I just I see the negative side and I'm just waiting for it I can't in good conscience say please go do that because if you get permanent gastropreases or something like that happen but I don't think that's going to happen because it doesn't affect the nerve yeah how is it causing how is it causing gastropreases then I think I mean so I I mean I have my theories on this it just delays gastric emptying and that's exactly what it's designed to do if you give it to some of you already struggles with constipation now we're talking about something out so if you have someone that actually already has damaged GI track or is really struggling with chronic I mean so basically if you have someone who let's say they have damage to their nerves let's say they have diabetic astropreases or even some kind of lime can cause nerve damage whatever it is and then you give those people GLP when I'm gonna say then you've got a problem but I haven't seen any data that says that and again I just don't buy it I think they're really good drugs I think we have to determine who is utilizing it and who is not and who's utilizing it the right way how are you maintaining your muscle that's the big scary thing I will also say there's no direct mechanism of action that says that you connect we put patients on GLP ones and I mean I use more of the tries to depotize the dual agents we track all their muscle we track their body fat and they do not lose skills and muscle really no that's great it's because they are training and they are prioritizing protein and we have all the other pieces in place the reason that there is such pushback is because people are losing body fat and they're losing skeletal muscle but there is not something inherently about the mechanism of action that actually affects skeletal muscle yeah my pushback is a very it's a soft no yeah because I'm just sitting on the side line actually well you were yes on sushi so now you're a big trouble but the I will say this you know everybody talked about those empathy and everything but you know it is just a peptide it is and you were the first person to ever even talk to me about peptide literally like six years ago and I love peptides like now I think that's the if the FDA would just get out of the way and farm over get out of the way there's so many incredible things yeah that can be done with that yeah and just to be clear you know we're not really we are definitely not giving anyone medical advice we are both practicing physicians and the FDA did come down really hard on peptides and peptides are just a string of amino acids all put together in particular ways we there are peptides like again C.J.C.Nipomorlin and B.P.C.157 which seems to have some good impact on gastrointestinal health but the FDA did come and take many of them off of the market for physicians to prescribe but all the good ones that that being said GLP1 Agnes of Zempek, Moderna or all peptides as well let's pivot a bit to screening yes let's talk about colonoscopies let's talk about colon cancer and when you think individual should be screening and what are your thought processes from both endoscopy and colonoscopy so the current screening guidelines are everybody age 45 and older you start your screening process if there's a family history of anybody with a polyp or cancer you start at 40 because they're just kind of hard start to talk about. Just as most people have had polyps right so then that's the interesting thing is anybody in the family ever had polyps or cancer and they're like now and then when they come in for their skill it's like I actually asked my mom and she's been having these for years it's something that nobody ever talks about right you don't talk about it the dinner table. Yeah it's not just cancer because we know that colon cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in the United States which is crazy because it is a very slow growing cancer isn't it? It's a slow growing cancer and we have a cure the cure is colonoscopy because we know that these cancers almost all of them start out as a polyp and then they grow into cancer so as they grow into cancer we can remove those polyps before they become cancer. So they all start and how common are polyps? Extremely common and so every cancer in the world and you have a polyp and then the recommendation is it in five years that you can read or five years traditionally depending on the size of polyp and you've had things like that but they're common enough that we're judging gas runerologists about their competency on their adenomate detection rate. What if we're seeing it say that again? So we're being watched to make sure that we're having adenoma detection rates ADRs which are at a certain level and so we know that in a certain population we should be achieving an ADR of at least 32% or something like that but meaning you should be able to catch meaning that everybody off the street at least I don't even know what the actual bare minimum is because all of us are significantly higher than what is required but I want to say that most of us over 40% 45% of all the color possibilities that we do we're finding a pre-cancerous polyp. Now what's really scary is we're finding even really young people now. 30s? 20? Is it because we're screening or? No because we're not even screening these people. I'm seeing them for bloating pain things like that and then I get in there and it's like wow rectal bleeding and then it's like wow there's a polyp this is really interesting you're in your 30s we would have completely missed this and in 10 years that would have been cancer. That's what's a little bit scary so when you say when we start screening I'm you know all you have is a hammer I'm like start screening the second you're old enough above 18 to make your own choice and so but we are seeing a lot of people that are we're scope in them for other reasons and we find pre-cancerous polyps in their 30s so. Why do you think we're seeing such a massive increase? No one knows in article I guess was two years ago was the first one that actually looked at this and showed that the children of this generation are having higher colon cancer than their parents so stop them think about that the parents are now in their 70s and the kids in their 40s are having colon cancer. It's the first generation ever to have this. Is it diet? Is it disruption to the microbiome? Is it other factors immune response to whatever infections things like that who knows? But your kids have they been screened? No not yet no need to still file that you know 1917 and so but certainly I think when I got my first screening when I was just because I was seeing stuff. Yeah but also your gastrointrologist and everyone should know that whatever physician whatever specialty the physician is there's the medical student syndrome and then there's the residency syndrome where whatever you're in it's you know I don't even have a prostate and if I was yourologist I probably I'm like I definitely have prostate cancer. I know we got a like now I'm so paranoid because I have patients that so many of them are getting prostate cancer I'm like can't and so like they'll come in and tell me they're like oh talk and I get I get all worried I'm like could somebody do a prostate exam on me? Well she's home today so you just might be but he's got to figure out how to do some sort of at home tracking like we can now for cholesterol like we can now for diabetes like we can whatever so about hologard PSA oh we off the yes no please say we're off yes we are off yes no okay hologard because a lot of people don't like to get colonoscopies and I'm hoping you guys understand it's it's critical I mean nobody likes it but so hologard is a test that is number one the company is heavily funded by large venture capital that's why you see commercials all the time for it I have a number of senior commercial oh really yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah the hologard tournament and so hologard is a test that looks for appearances in DNA in the stool that can determine if you have colon cancer the problem with colon guard is that the sensitivity and specific meaning the likelihood of it actually of you actually having cancer if it's positive is very low so I've treated or I've scoped I was keeping track of it but it's got to be somewhere around 120 people now they have come in with positive hologards the look on their faces I'm dying of cancer terrified I'm terrified all 120 no cancer wow that if then if you read the data on it yeah yeah now that's very now that's false positives that really false positives people out and these are people that it may have had two hologards and then one was negative almost positive one was negative two years ago one was positive the problem is it doesn't pick up polyps at all and so you'll have these people and if it's positive you're getting a colonoscopy here's the rub if you're like wondering why does it even exist well it's going after the insurance reimbursement for colon cancer screening so the worst thing insults injuries when somebody gets a hologard positive and their insurance said okay we'll pay for that because this is your screening exam but now they need a colonoscopy and they're like well we are to pay for a screening now you're on a hook for a deductible so they got one for a hundred percent paid and now they come to me and they have to pay out a pocket so that's part of the problem so now I'm not a fan of it okay it's I only only use it when I really don't want to do a colonoscopy and you know it's somebody's 112 years old and they are they're scared I'm like all right well to get a hologard and God please be negative please be negative yes then I have to do it yeah so not a fan definitely it's and then once all my patients that we're scared to have a colonoscopy once they have one they're like this is just not a big deal come in you go to sleep you wake up and you're done then you have a peace of mind yes and you might get a bracelet and you might get a bracelet that says what would your microbiome say yeah doctor can brown I love anytime that I get with you we could go on and on I'm hoping that you'll get back on that plane that you flew here and we will do a whole second episode because there are things that we didn't get to cover like reflux I like yes I will tell you when we need to do that whole reflux talk I got it because that's what I'm doing research on right now tell me because I would love to have you back on to talk about reflux and each pylori and all of those kind of things so tell me what you're up to well the biggest thing with reflux is that it is the most common disease it's the most prescribed medication this whole class of medications called ppi's the problem is is that now since we've had them out there for 30 years it appears that ppi's proton pump inhibitors next to him you see them there really seems to be some correlation with causing dementia causing osteoporosis is that because of the impact on the mineral absorption I don't think anybody really knows they just know that it's a correlation two sides of it are well maybe the data is pretty weak but the reality is if it's contributing to that and there's other ways to fix it then maybe we should not just be shutting off the acid maybe we should work on doing other things like tightening the lower sopigil sphincter maybe making the stomach work better and move the right direction things like that that's what we're working on right now well I cannot wait again we have shared patients together and I have a consultadue with pretty chronic reflux and and there's all kinds of things so I am so excited for you to come back on and talk about it because I think that you are amazing I also believe that your heart isn't the right place you are truly trailblazing and very much an intellectual who wants to see the evidence and a natural way to move things forward and get really great results for people I think you are a physician and the way in which you've shown up is is something that is just very admirable well thank you I think that there are lots of things that inspire us but I'm very grateful that I haven't had a job that I like where most of the time I can help somebody and then in the science part of it these little dopamine rewards of figuring stuff out so it's I work with a lot of people that seem to do much better financially but I don't I don't I don't think they're happier than me yeah I or they're not fit or than you that's for sure where can be the fine jail they can find me at on Instagram at gut check project my website my medical website for those kind of things is kennethbrownmd.com and then things like the sebo support box and these other answer to everything that's kbmd health.com and and the things like a tranteal I think that they products that you've developed art extraordinary we use them in clinical practice all the time it's it's just part of our protocols yeah that just go to atronthil.com atr.ing. everything thank you so much for your time and your energy and your jokes which are pretty good of course minor marginal but well done sir and again thank you so much. I'm going to go back to the hotel get on that battle bike and turn you up to the speed of three on the audio but I will be happy to yell at you and your intervals thank you so much. Awesome thank you.

We talk a little bit about training. Yes. I've learned quite a bit and you really have helped me reframe. In fact, we're working on second, I'm working on a second book proposal and I'm hoping you would be so gracious as to impart some of your wisdom in part of that process and I've learned a lot about thinking about how we train the current paradigm, the current narrative is all about zone two. It is that zone two is where we need to focus and then we have other groups that we talk about resistance training, do it three to four days a week. There's and understandably so. There are only so many ways that we can make global recommendations. Yes. That being said, I would love your take about unibes spoken about minimal amount of movements, exercise, kettlebells, more effective ways to utilize our body. I'm just going to leave that for you to take it or whatever that you'd like to. Sure. So the concept of zone two is an interesting one. I think that a lot of the excitement around it is that it's helping to promote mitochondrial function and that mitochondrial function appears to be absolutely essential as we age. And can we improve mitochondrial function to decrease things like insulin resistance, improve metabolic health, improve our athletic performance. The concept there, it's interesting to see how depending on what you look at, these different terms that describe similar phenomena. So submax, b2 training, zone two, moderate intensity continuous training. I did a presentation a while back, specifically as a regarded patients who were recently diagnosed with cancer, undergoing cancer treatment or finished cancer treatment and what exercise recommendations we could make for them because their VO2 max and muscle mass help predict how they do. And we know that quality of life mortality, mobility, more fit you are from a cardiovascular aspect, the better you will do with treatments. So how can we help people? And so the question was in the presentation, should we be engaging in high intensity interval training or moderate intensity continuous training? And the answer is of course, both can be helpful per unit time, high intensity training might be more beneficial to jack your VO2 max upwards. But what are we really thinking about with VO2 max? One is if we're going to test VO2 max in somebody, they should be familiar with the movement of which we are testing them. It's not fair to say somebody has suboptimal VO2 max, but it's their first time doing a certain athletic activity. They're never going to be gast if even if I'm an marathon runner, if you throw me into a box hearing, I'm going to be gast and two rounds. Because you might be amazing, but normal person. But the truth is I would be gast and it's because I'm not familiar with the movements, it's the way that I should be. So it's important, that's important caveat. Don't get down in yourself with VO2 max is not where you think it should be because you did some modified bruised crop protocol in a gym. It might not be where it should be because you don't have the movement. If you're on a bike, there are so many determinants of your performance on a bike. You're positioning, you're familiar with it. What muscles you're activating, your shoe angle with the actual pedal, and I'm out of my league there. I know that that's the very, very surface layer of it. So we're looking at substrate utilization, fats versus carbohydrates versus grie teen phosphate, and we're looking at what can be done to maximize fat oxidation. So this concept around zone two is I understand it is fat max. We're trying to maximally use fat for fuel while we exercise to teach our mitochondria to metabolize fat more readily to decrease insulin resistance. That's what makes sense to me at least. Now with high intensity interval training, I think the downside of zone two is time. I think that's it. I think you have two children in a beautiful life and a full practice. Yes, and time is tough. So I don't engage in a ton of zone two myself. If I had more time in the week, perhaps I would. But then high intensity interval training appears to be as beneficial for the VO2 max as the zone two, but you're training it two different ways. From high intensity interval training, you're like raising the ceiling of your house higher. You're getting better at pushing it higher. But the VO2 training appears to be like you're solidifying the foundation. You're getting better in the lower levels that predicts success at the higher levels. So we might be describing it this way, but it athletes have intuitively known this for decades. When they run, they're not gassing themselves every workout. They leave a little bit on the table, and the body goes to a period of compensation to basically mount their response to that stressor. And then when they do peak one or two times a year, they're in really good shape. So same principle applies to weight training. So our should we or could we be going to neuromuscular failure? If our goal is muscle hypertrophy, should we be focusing on just muscle hypertrophy in specific muscle segments or generalized strength and instability? I think these are good questions. But I find the way I trade with kettlebells is I want to be number one thing for me is don't lose stability in all three planes of motion, sagittal, transverse, and frontal, like we spoke about before. When you work a kettlebell, most of the time it's in one hand and that by nature destabilizes you. And you're not going to get destabilization if you're working only with barbells. So if you're not going to get destabilization working with barbells. As it relates to the frontal and the transverse plane. So you'll be stable as all heck in the sagittal plane. If you work with barbell, I was the sagittal plane hero. I went to the gym and I did. Well done. Bench, lats, I did squats, I did deadlifts. And I became very proficient in those areas. But then I would go play golf and things would hurt. And I'd like, well, that's interesting. You know, I'm not the world's best golfer, but it shouldn't hurt as much as it did. And I thought it was basically because it wasn't as proficient in translating force and rotation. So I like to use a kettlebell. I think you can get a lot out of it. I think the work from the strong first organization and Dan John online in his own endeavors have done a great job illustrating the cardiovascular benefits of kettlebells that you can get strength and conditioning. And so I try to follow that. I also do something and we spoke about this term exercise snacks, which I don't particularly love. But I can't think of it. We'll find a way to re-rend it. But yeah, finally. Yeah. I call it farm hand strength. So, like, if you're working on, and now, let's say you're not a farm hand, let's say you're just somebody mulching your yard. You're not going to basically go to the point where you're falling down every single time. You're going to leave a little bit on the table. You're going to come back to it. You're going to go do a different activity for a short period of time. And then you're going to come back to it. And so what I do, what I'll do is I'll enter mix like some sets of kettlebell swings throughout the day. I might do a set at 9 a.m. and do a set at, you know, 10 30. I'm not looking to build a sweat. I'm just looking to get better at the movement. So, I'm really stressing that neuro kinetic element. Am I getting more am I getting better at the movement? Am I doing a little bit of stimulation of muscle? But it, by no means, am I getting a, you know, of skin ripping pump out of it. But potentially you could build a workout like that. Yeah. There's the, there are, you know, when we look at some of the really good people who are training. And what they do in a lot of rehabilitation from injury, sometimes it's 3, 5, 10 minutes rest. You know, and so, question because I think in there is, do you want to be really, do you want to be super proficient with a movement? Or do you want to get as much training in in a short period of time as possible? So, there's different strategies there. But we move throughout the course of the day. It's not like we only move for 30 minutes and then we're immobilized for 23 and a half hours. So, the concept of going to the gym, I think is something that needs some work. Where we, we, we think about going to the gym. We dedicate time. But should we be in a spursing movement throughout the day. I think some people, fortunately in their jobs, can do that and some people unfortunately can't do that. But I like, like, you know, I saw you both do a set of pushups before as it's own little stimulant for our podcast. That's our pre game pushup. There you go. We do a, now podcast ritual. Now, is, is that not helpful because you only did one set? No, of course it's helpful. You didn't know that we're doing some after this. Well, I'm happy to do them. But you did, you did one set in isolation and you benefited from not overloading your tissues. You benefited from a short term increase in your heart rate. You learned how to become a better push-oper. And that has something to do with it, too. So, I think the coming back to the concept around zone two, it's, if you were to train, I think the, the probably what makes sense from a metabolic corollary for weight training is like, if you're going to neuromuscaliferia muscles are on fire, you're not in zone two. Right? I think we can comfortably say that, right? Yes. So, you're probably in zone five or four or five. So, you're, you're really getting there. Now, if you train and you say you do 10 repetitions of something explosively and then you wait a couple of minutes and do it again, could you still be in zone two? And that's the, this concept that has come up called anti-galic training, which is a way to build endurance and strength, which has been subject to my own personal fascination. I'm not in a position where I could speak if I'm educated perspective on it, a lot of the literature behind it is in Russian. So, I can't read it. I get learning. But I've read Paulville's work and Paulville does a great job with that. And I've recently read a couple of his books and I think it's something I've experimented with the same way that we might all experiment zone two or a hit training or powerlifting or whatever it might be. A lot, I think one of the benefits to my patients is that I've gone through the process of experimenting a lot with this. Played baseball and football, it was a personal trainer. I did a good bit of just, you know, casual powerlifting. I tried to be, you know, a crappy bodybuilder for a period of time. And it wasn't great at it. But, and then on top of that, you know, I might not have, I might not be running a marathon like Shane in a couple weeks, but I did run a half and you learned so much going through those, through those individual experiences. So, I try to maintain a radical open-mindedness about what could be helpful and try it myself when I, if I can.

And the idea is that the US dietary guidelines for Americans was created to function as, again, guidelines for healthcare professionals, for individuals also trying to be able to implement what we would consider a diet that was sufficient to meet baseline needs. Again, these are ways in which we can design a diet to overcome a deficiency. Not discussing any kind of optimization. There is not a differentiation for an aging population, which we know you had mentioned muscle protein turnover. The whole body muscle protein turnover, you guys can listen to one of the episodes that actually I had Dr. Bob Wolff on from Arkansas. He discussed these stable isotope tracers as well as down laymen. It's just a way of being able to see the movement again of these amino acids in the body. But what becomes really important is that right now the dietary guidelines and the recommended dietary allowance, which is pointy grams per kg of protein, does not differentiate the quality of protein. And I think one of the reasons why I really wanted just to come on here is number one, she's a neutral party. Just cares about the science and is not incombered by the information on the internet, from influencers, she is purely a scientist. Just as that fair to say. Yes, definitely fair to say. In fact, I don't even know if Jess has an Instagram account, but nonetheless, her science is phenomenal. When we think about what we're looking for for health outcomes, it becomes really important to recognize where the deficits are with the information that we're giving and also a pathway forward. Right now, we are hearing about plant-based patterns and it's really important to note that could you overcome the amino acid deficiencies that would be put into place with the minimum requirements that pointy grams per kg? Yes, what Jess is saying to state it very simply is that it requires more calories and also typically more carbohydrates that ride along with these whole foods. And one thing I want to even add to that is it takes more understanding from a nutrition education perspective where really oftentimes a nutritional professional has to be involved to design these diets so that an individual, if they're consuming a lower quality protein, this is more likely a plant-based protein, they need to be consuming complementary and essential amino acids to achieve, as you said, those basic requirements. And so that's another key point that Dr. Rodriguez brought out in her paper as well, that these diets they put together and were able to achieve the modeling with were done by registered dietitians with intimate knowledge of protein quality. So to your point, absolutely, it's total core can take has to be higher, carbohydrate intake is higher and nutrition education has to be higher. And we're discussing protein, but as you had mentioned before, there are other nutrients that ride along and you just mentioned it in passing, but there are other nutrients. Again, it's designing a diet, a full diet which goes above and beyond protein for optimal health and preventing deficiencies. The conversation while we discuss it as protein because protein is easy, it's a macro nutrient that we eat. We don't typically think about B12 zinc, selenium, anserine, creatine. A lot of these other low molecular weight molecules that ride along with these higher quality proteins. I would love for you if you have a translatable way in which an individual is designing or deciding to reduce their animal-based products, would a use of an essential amino acid mix be helpful? Do you think that there is a place for branch-chain amino acids? And if so, how would you put that into a nutrition plan? Right, right. So all prefaces, well, I'm not a registered dietitian, so certainly this is just my scientific opinion based on the current literature as well, it's just thinking about the practical application of an individual trying to build a sustainable wheel pattern. So with that, I definitely think Whole Foods approach. I've heard that on your podcast before. So Whole Foods definitely have a lot of benefits from their matrix and what I mean by matrix is exactly just described. All of those micro-emutrients and vitamins that come along because certainly protein is not the only macronutrients, so not the, it doesn't cover the micro-emutrients and vitamins as well. So for individuals who have the energy allowance in their diet, pursuing a Whole Foods approach would be most ideal. But as you mentioned, in some cases, individuals can't consume enough protein to maintain from a plant-based source to maintain that energy balance or that weak maintenance status. And so in that case, foreign individual, and we bring this point out as well, in this paper, as well as Dr. Rodriguez does, using an isolated plant-based protein powder could be one option, free form, essential amino acids could be another option. These we'd like to talk about as tools in the toolbox. I mean, I'm not going to pivot too much to our service members right now, but there are times in the military setting where you can't eat a whole food because of logistics. And so same thing for an individual who's jumping in the car, they're trying to get their kids to work, or kids to school on time, maybe in that case, in a central amino acid powder that they can consume on the go, helps them get to that more optimal intake. So to have a short answer, yes, I think they have a place in the dietary pattern. And a level deeper is, do you envision integrating the essential amino acid density guidance into the existing dietary recommendations? Right, so I didn't explain as central amino acid density score earlier, but for the listeners in short, really this was a concept to consider the grams of essential amino acids in ratio to the total co-work intake of that meal or of that food. And by doing this, you could arrive at a perspective of a greater essential amino acid content per calorie. And so then for certain foods, you could have a score. And for example, a score of above 2.2 for an entire meal with score very high, meaning that the essential amino acid ratio to calories is very close to even, right? Or what's the max score? So we did not propose a max score. I think that's where this concept was in its infancy. Certainly, we're just trying to expand and explore of potential options. And we don't want to call out a concern without trying to provide one solution as we move forward. That's very helpful. And you do feel that there is certainly a place for this essential amino acid density conversation. And because again, it's challenging. It's challenging this idea. And then the next question above and beyond, I know this isn't a list of our questions, but I'll just mention it that there are essential amino acids and then there are limiting essential amino acids, like Lucy, Lysine and Methionine, which the Lucy limitations if an individual doesn't have enough Lucy, the outcome is relatively clear. Lucy is a trigger for skeletal muscle. It does other things in the body, but it's primary role. Or one of its primary roles is, again, stimulating skeletal muscle. Methionine has its own role. And Lysine, which has a longer pool, I don't want to say half life, but it seems like the protein turnover or the pools of Lysine seem to last a bit longer, would there be any issue having a lower amount of Lysine? I think that that particular outcome and certain amino acid, essential amino acid, outcomes maybe become tricky for us to identify in an aging population. And it's probably a deficiency or suboptional intake over time. Again, this is just my theory that I'm mentioning.

How much sleep do children need? So our sleep duration need does ebb and flow across the lifespan. Very little babies need virtually to be sleeping almost all day long as you remember. And then as children age, they need a little bit less and up until the kind of school age period or time of a child's life. They need somewhere between six and 12 hours of sleep. But there are a lot of individual differences. Some kids will do well on that lower end of the spectrum and other kids will do well on the higher end. And this is where I love to think about end of one experiments. What works for you for your kid? After a night of eight hours of sleep, do you find that they are bright-eyed and bushy-tailed as the saying goes when they wake up? Or do you find that they're dragging and maybe in the car in the afternoon? Do they fall asleep? Those would be signs that they're just not getting quite enough. And then maybe start that next night and try to start the bedtime process a little bit earlier. And the bedtime routine a little bit earlier. Do you think there is a time that is universally good for kids? And what do I mean by this? Meaning we talked a little bit about this circadian rhythm, which is this 24-hour cycle. Here in Texas the sun goes down, let's say six o'clock. Let's say the sun goes down in Boston or New York. I'm just making this up. In the egglock. Does the location dictate the time we should begin to think about putting our children to sleep because they listen, mind didn't come with a manual. Oh, I'm so much easier. But perhaps if at six p.m. when the sun is going down, even though it's not convenient, maybe that's the time that we begin to wind them down. Do you know what I'm saying? In terms of like what if we're kind of doing it wrong? It's not our children. They can't regulate. They only. My kid, she'll want to stay up and read Princess Books and literally one thought like one eye is falling. You know, well, I love that. I love it. It sounds like a great bedtime routine. But young kids are very susceptible to light is one thing to keep in mind. So make sure and this does not have to be expensive for everyone listening. You can get great blackout shades at Target for very little. But do make sure your children have sleep proofed environment. And an environment you just showed me your daughter's bedroom. It's so amazing and so cozy and so fabulous. You want children just like all of us to walk in and feel so used. Have elements that comfort them. They're favorite stuffy. They're favorite, lovey. And the book that helps them also feel, you know, at peace and safe. And that's going to change as they grow, of course. But I think this is where kind of back to the end of one experiments. Thinking about workshopping your kid's sleep until you find the sweet spot. And whether that's a 6 p.m. fall asleep time. Or if that's a 9 p.m. fall asleep time. And one of the key things is your children are young. But what might be happening is all of us have in large part genetically predetermined. Preferences for chronotypes. Now this is a term that refers to each of our personal preference for being alert or sleep within a 24 hour day. What is yours? I am a very severe morning type. How about you? Same. Same. Right? I was at the gym. I love it. So that is a kind of part of this equation also. And your children, those types might be presenting themselves. What are the other types? There is a morning person. We generally model it on a spectrum from what we call morningness to eveningness. And the biggest question, the best question for figuring out where you are within that spectrum, is when do you do your best work? And if you would probably tell me first thing in the morning, right? Would you say, or just, yeah, would you like to talk about that in a month? I can tell you that. Okay, because I don't sleep well. I have the two little kids, whether my husband is on call or not. But I'm hoping one is amazing. Finish this episode. I can call you and I'm going to implement same sleep, wake cycle, black out, shades. I'm not exactly sure what I'm doing with my kids. But then I'm going to call you and tell you. I can't wait. And let's text along the way, too. You get there because all of this is really all about work shopping and finding the sweet spot for you, for your kids, for your partner and factoring and also your professional obligations, your personal obligations. And maybe also unwinding, you know, yourself is a mom because we do stuff for everyone around us, you know, all day long is moms. I am only aware of one thing that suppresses malatown and that would be light. Is there something else that's cortisol suppress malatown and are there other do we know? The two things that have the biggest impact on our circadian rhythm are number one blue light, blue daylight spectrum light. And that is the strongest what we call lifegiver or zeitgabor to our circadian system. So like comes in through the eyeballs and it travels along the optic chiasm to a tiny region of the brain called the superchiasmatic nucleus. And that's the circadian rhythm home in the brain. And then that's kind of fires the secretion of malatown in if the eyes detect absence of blue daylight spectrum light. But if bedtime approaches and you open up a computer screen that has full brightness, you're going to be giving yourself a physiological cue to become alert and awake because the eyeballs will receive blue daylight spectrum light from that screen and thank it's time to become alert and awake. And so we're virtually shooting ourselves in the foot when we use blue light and metting devices before bedtime. There's a free software called fluxf.lux and it's free widely available. I'm not affiliated with them but I personally use the technology. You do. That's amazing. And what that will do is it will take away the blue from a computer screen. So if you must be working before bedtime, do consider flux and what's nice is you can set it up so that it just goes on automatically. And as the sun sets in your time on your laptop or your tablet, then the screen will become warmer. So blue daylight spectrum light is the strongest input to our circadian system. An exposure to blue light at inappropriate times will disrupt the flow of malatown in. The second is meal timing. A meal consumed to light will disrupt the circadian system and could make it difficult to fall asleep that night and experience consolidated for a story to sleep. That would make a lot of sense and we do see a lot of disregulated eating in general. I think not only do we have a ton of external light exposure. I don't know is fluorescent also blue. I mean there's light pollution everywhere everywhere. And it takes a lot of effort and there I think there's also a lot of confusion because there are a lot of devices that say they're circadian lights or they're you know sleep promoting lights, which you know also are quite bright and then maybe someone's using that before bedtime. So the best thing for your bedroom is to go to a department store or a drugstore and buy a sleep friendly light bulb and put that into your light. You're a light light. I'm a red light. I'm a red light stand. Yes, it's a red spectrum red colors are measured in temperature. So it's a warm light. It's reds. It's maybe oranges. Those are kind of sleep inducing colors and use that in your bedroom. If you're reading before bedtime and then if when you wake up in the morning, do you need one of these circadian lights? I don't know but I think that generally is if you have an in love it, amazing. But getting outside into the natural blue daylight spectrum light, kind of as soon as possible is great for helping our helping a line, our internal circadian rhythms. I do that with the kids every day. I don't know if you think about, do you do that too with your kids? I'm inside. Right, I'm inside. Yeah, okay. All right guys, let's go. I'll just hand them out of the house and sometimes the best light. I think we're all. Do we know the impact of exercise and the types of exercise on sleep quality? This is a great question. For so long in sleep, we would discourage exercise at night. Now I think the research is still emerging but what we've found is that generally, if you're getting exercise, that's the most important predictor of good sleep quality. We really care less when you get it. There have been a couple studies, one in vigorous activity, for instance doing a very vigorous high intensity workout before bedtime is ill-advised. That does have some negative impact on sleep. But by and large, just making time for exercise, I'm really not worried about when you do it as long as you get it in. And this question is related to our circadian rhythm preference, our chronotype. Because if you're a true morning person, one of the other questions I'd like to ask, it's a great predictor of where you are on the spectrum from morningness to eveningness is when you do your best work and when you want to work out, a true morning person will say, oh, you know, the morning or an evening person will say, I love to get a workout enough to work. I don't think I have a handful of times. Have you ever worked out after work? Oh my god, I need a lot of motivation. Or you know, it's not going to happen. I'm exhausted. I'd rather get a bit for to train than I would rather train at 5pm.

I'm Dr. Gabriel Lyon and today I'm bringing you a conversation that fuses ancient philosophy with cutting-edge behavioral science. Brian Johnson is the founder of heroic, a public benefit corporation backed by over 2,500 investors. He's trained over 10,000 coaches, create a science backed protocol and built one of the most ambitious systems for character change on a planet. The biggest lie perhaps tied for first that we tell ourselves is greatness is for someone other than me. You got to choose, do you want to be actualized or do you want to be entertained? We talk about the real signs of behavior change. Why habits don't stick? Why most wellness apps fail and what the data says about building a life worth living. But we also talk about what happens when you don't feel heroic when you fail, when you're tired, when you want to quit. So what if the problem isn't your lack of motivation? What if the real issue is that no one ever gave you the science or the structure to actually change? This is the episode you show your future self, what you're ready for. Brian Johnson, founder of heroic, welcome to the show. Dr. Gabriel, great to be here with you. I want to tell you a story. Now you are an unusual guest for the podcast. The podcast is typically a health and wellness podcast and medicine. But I would say that at the root of all of those things is an ability to think and live well. And there is no other expert that I have watched for over 15 years which is wild. Do it better. And I'm going to share with you when I first found you. So it's kind of a funny little story because my dad is here visiting from Ecuador. He was so excited to meet you. I mean, I have been hearing about you almost every day. Did you see what Brian? You know, his philosophers notes on this and he's quoted this today. Now my dad is actually, he went to Wharton, graduated third-ness class, was up for Rhodes collar, Captain of his wrestling team. I mean, this is a guy who really loves to think deeply. But where I originally found you was on YouTube about 10 or so maybe longer years ago, looking for my own philosophy. You were living in Bali. You were not yet married. And your wife was talking about your now wife, I think of 18 years, was talking about how when she saw you that she knew she was to be your wife. And she traveled, I guess, she somehow met you and message you on the internet is that true. Hi, well, I'm his back story. Did not know this until right now. Okay. So fantastic. Is that true? She heard about me. She saw the side. I was running at the time and said, I'm going to marry that guy. Then she moved across the country three blocks away from me before we had our first day in our system crazy story. Did she know that you lived three blocks? No, had no idea. Yeah. And I think that that just goes to say there are people that find each other. And I think that there are communities that build in ways that are unexplainable. And fast forward. So I saw you. And what's it? What site was it that you were working on? At the time. Yeah. It was called Zodds. So it was a before Facebook, social platform, John McEarfield Foods, head invested in us and it was a long time ago. Last great wascares, more air than what's going on. It's not wild. And then I saw you talk. And then somehow I saw her talking about her experience. And I was just really interested in the content that you were putting out. And at the time I was also searching. I mean I was early on in my medical career. It's very vigorous and it's a rigorous sacrifice kind of training when it's done well. And it's unusual. And there you are. Fast forward to then Mark Devine, a long time mentor who introduced me to my Navy SEAL husband, who you actually have known Mark for years. And then we fast forward a couple more years have a close relationship in the special operations community. Such a small world. And here you are. And here we are. Let's go. Here's my mother. That's crazy. It's crazy. And I get to meet your dad. I mean I don't know your life must just work in a serendipitous type of way. As yours. Yeah. I feel a super blast. And I want to know you are a modern day philosopher. And from what I understand there is a heavy focus on stoicism. I want to know what that is. And I want to know how you came into this world. Came into the world of being a philosopher. Yeah, not necessarily the first two artists. I mean it's all influencing everything else. Yeah. But I'll skip the origin story from the origin and move into the stoicism kind of came out of and the whole philosopher thing for me is the etymology of the word philosopher as you know is fielo so fielo a lover of wisdom. So I just became passionate after I sold my first business 25 years. 25 years. 25 years. 25 years. 25 years. 25. 26. I think and I had a map to take a little bit of time after I transitioned to the company that bought our company. And I remember sitting I was in Mojoya and I remember sitting out doing an exercise from how to think like we in order to eventually get to write a 101 questions down. I get goosebumps right now talking about it. I can remember it like you as yesterday. Right? And long story short he asked a question how can you get paid to do what you love to do? So I remember writing that down, putting on the shower and taking a bath and looking at it and contemplating that. And what I love to do is to study how could I live an optimal life. And again, this is 25 years ago. How can I get paid helping others to do that? So that's the order of the philosopher, the lover of wisdom. And just to deep, deep passion to understand what all of the best ancient wisdom traditions and modern science have to say about how to live a good, noble, truly great. I know that might be one of the themes we explored. They are truly great, noble, virtuous life. And then just went all in on it. Had enough time, resources to take a bit of time and travel to bed and studied. So my favorite teachers around the world, you know, and just fully immerse myself in understanding how you apply that ancient wisdom, modern science, to live a great life in the modern world. Why was it so important? That's a great question. I mean, I just felt this urge felt this passion to to understand how do I have a good life. I'm sure my own suffering. You know, my family is kind of background, my father's struggle with alcohol, his father's struggle with alcohol and it is own life. And just, you know, I went through my own psychological challenges and really wanted to understand how to master myself. But to do so for something bigger than myself, Catholic School for 12 years, good Catholic boy, how do I serve, you know, just that hunger. And I also had a very, very low tolerance for doing anything that didn't feel aligned with a deeper purpose, dropped out of law school. You know, I've made some very, very big kind of pivots and decisions in my life to go all-in on this. So very low threshold for doing things I didn't feel called to do and a deep, deep passion to truly master these ideas and to share what I've been learning. You've put out over 700 philosophers notes and you've studied Marcus Rulius, you've studied these incredible people and I would argue that there's going to be a time when we are no longer here that people are studying what you put out. And as you think about history, what are some of the key components that you have learned to live a great life? First, I appreciate that and being worthy of that and having the ambition to make a difference at scale, you know, into embodied the qualities I admire in my heroes, including the epictetus, is in the array, is et cetera. But the thing that I've found that I think is central to everything, not just the stoics, but you can go back to the ancient Greeks and you can go across all cultures and you'll find the same exact wisdom shared, tattooed my body with the one word summation. If you were to ask the ancient stoics, whether it's Seneca or Epictetus or Araleus, how do I have a good life? They would have answered you in a single word, which is R-a-t-a. In the word translates as virtue or excellence, but means something closer to being your best self, moment to moment to moment. And I like to say if you're capable of being this and you're actually being that and there's a gap between who you could have been and who you're actually being. And of course they're often it is, but it's in that gap in which regret, anxiety, disillusion, depression, if you do a long enough exists. It's more nuanced than that, obviously, but it's also that simple. When you close the gap when you express your best self, you live with virtue, you live with excellence, you experience what the ancient's called, the U-Dimonia, the someone bone them of a good life, a good soul, U-Dimon, you feel that you're expressing your best self. In the midst of hardship, this isn't about Pina Colata at the side of the pool. Does it not matter when things are going well? Well, it's especially important that you practice these ideas when things are going poorly. So disaster is virtues, opportunity. Is disaster is virtues, opportunity. So those challenges that we face and this is part of other arm, you know, we have talked about and you do a lot of work with the special forces. Like this is what they have me talk about. So when life hits you hard, what do you do? So not seem to have coined the word anti-fragility, right? So the opposite of fragility isn't resilience. The opposite of fragility is anti-fragility. And the metaphor Jonathan Hight uses, who's the only other guy who really talks about anti-fragility is imagine a cup on this table. If it's a plastic, well, if it's a wine glass and you knock it over, it will shatter. It's fragile. If it's a plastic cup, you knock it over, it will bounce around. It's resilient. But what would happen if you knocked a cup off a table and it somehow got stronger? That would be anti-fragility. So operationalizing that. And the metaphor that Tileb uses is, the wind will extinguish a candle that's fragile, but the same wind will fuel a fire. So the question is, how are we showing up? Are we fragile? Are we resilient? Which is better than being fragile? Or are we anti-fragile? Can we use life's challenges? That's an opportunity to get better. And the worst we feel, the more committed we are to our protocols, which I know what to talk about today as well. Yeah, that's fascinating. This idea of anti-fragile, because ultimately in the idea of muscle-centric medicine, it's focusing. And I think this is one area where you and I are very much aligned. Yes. Love you, Laura. Let's go. Is it a idea of how do we understand muscle as this largest organ system? And it is this tissue that cannot be bought, cannot be bargained for. It's much like this idea of being anti-fragile, it must be understood. It has to be earned. And with the outcome of earning muscle, you become more diligent, you become more discerning, you become more disciplined. So I would almost say it's stoicism in real form. And the muscle-criticism. When you look at the, I mean, even in your the scientist here, but the mechanics, the first thing I did after I sold my first business was become a trainer. So I realized, look, if I'm going to have a shot of actualizing my potential, I have to get my energy down. And this is 25 years ago. You know, now we know mitochondria is the hard of everything. But even building muscle, what do you have to do? You have to leave your comfort zone. By definition, you must overload your current capacity. Not foolishly, but enough to push yourself to grow. I really love this conversation with Brian Johnson. And let's face it, every hero needs to say hydrated. And hydration is very important. And we typically recommend half your body weight in ounces, which makes a lot of water to drink. You know, frankly, I struggle to drink straight water. So adding an element has been key for me. For a number of reasons, number one, I don't get enough electrolytes in my food. And when I am drinking straight water, well, I don't know. I don't seem to recover as well. Element has been great for me and my family. I'm very excited for this summer because I'm going to be using Element Lemonade. It has a thousand milligrams of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium, 60 milligrams of magnesium. I have less headaches, muscle cramps. Although I still get my husband to rub my feet, you can get your free element sample pack with any purchase at drinklmnt.com slash doctor lion. And again, I wanted to thank one of the sponsors of the show, Element. You can also try Element's new sparkling, bold, 16 ounce can of sparkling electrolyte water. So if you are trying to get away from diet soda for whatever reason, then this is a great alternative. That is literally another perfect metaphor of what it takes to be anti-fraudial. We get that in the gym, although most of us don't practice that. And I love your influence. Your focus on what's worried about fat loss less and more about gaining strength and muscle. But what if we approached our life's challenges the same way? So we go to the gym we'd never left styrofoam weights. Ever. Yet in our lives when challenges hit us, those are spiritual weights. Yet we want to avoid them. We think something's wrong with us. We shame ourselves. What if we will have to lift them the same way we do at the gym? And again, that sounds nice. How do you take that off the bumper sticker and make it a practical part of your reality? But using the exact same overload, recovery, then your stronger aspect in our psychological and emotional and creative lives, relationship, all the things. Seeing discomfort as the source of growth. You know, you and I both work with the special operations community and I think about this a lot because of my husband and some of the other individuals that we take care of in our medical practice. Some of them are born with particular attributes. And maybe they have this threshold where they see horrific things and they don't encode it in the same way. And there's other individuals that we have to really push on that needle to take action to make us stronger. And I just wonder, as you've had a 25-year experience from where you started to where you are now. The person that you were then to where you are now, how has that transformed? And was it, I mean, it wasn't overnight, but there were probably big moments where you go, okay, I got this and this is going to prove that I'm worthy of becoming the person that I know that I can be. Yes, well on that scale, bless the people that were born with that resilience, the inner, the energy of Rachel Jean, I was not. So I can playfully say now with the background I described with my father and his father that I seemed to have lost both the genetic and environmental batteries on that one. Look, 25 years ago, I wanted to end my own life. Like, I know the depths of despair. I had absolutely no skills. I had no habits. I had no mentorship and I had no concept of how I could flourish in the world. So I know what it feels like to feel that. I know what it feels like to feel its opposite. And I have a decent sense of what I did to incrementally aggregate and compound the little gains to get to a point. You know, we all have highs and lows, obviously, but to have that level of stability. I think this is what my deepest passion is, is in whether it's a special forces. When I do what I do with them, it's you must train these things. You train them on the battlefield, but we have to train them how to win off the battlefield. There are psychological skills, much of which is based in stoicism and modern cognitive behavioral therapy is stoicism. If you look at Aaron back and you look at the founders of CBT, they're drawing on epictetus and the the stoic wisdom base. So teaching these skills. And almost it's basic training. I mean, in basic training, are we teaching these fundamental skills of how to live with wisdom and discipline and love and courage, such that they can win on the battlefield? And off the battlefield, on the home front, etc. But these are teachable skills that the greater the stress, the greater the need for this wisdom. And so that's a big part of my life's work, not just with the military, but with everybody else. I mean, you look at the numbers now of anxiety, depression. And this is why I'm such a fan of you and your work to reflect back why I'm such a big advocate for you is okay. I've got a few favorite kind of go to teachers and particularly with nutrition. You know, it's you, Georgia E. I deeply admire her nutritional psychiatry approach. I find extraordinary. Peter T. I admire a lot of different reasons. And I've literally mash it up. Chad, T. P. T. Tell me what you have real high in Georgia E. And Peter T. would say about this and your focus on the protein, the muscle, the overall kind of lifestyle choices that we make that create the energy. I mean, energy is everything to me. If you can't get out of bed because of poor lifestyle choices, and your mitochondria is dysfunctional, good luck showing up in your work or your love. So we obsess about all the core fundamentals. And again, the greater the stress, the greater the need to dominate your fundamentals. And that's the eating, the moving, the sleeping, the breathing, the focusing, your mind is what we come back to, relentless oil. What is stoicism? So stoicism is an ancient philosophy created by Zino who who fascinatingly arrived in Athens via shipwreck. So the founder of stoicism literally arrived in Athens washed up on the shore. It's a perfect story, a wealthy guy who lost everything and yet found the most important thing, which is he passionately studied the different philosophy of his day and created stoicism as called stoicism because he taught on his stela, which was a painted porch in Athens. But ultimately it's a philosophy that's very rational that encourages us to recognize the fact that some things are within our control and other things are not. And we would be wise to focus on the few things that are within our control, which are our thoughts to an exam. Obviously not all thoughts, but after an initial response we do have a choice as to where we put our focus. And most importantly our behaviors. And the philosophy as I said is summarizing that single word living with our day, but to live with virtue and the cardinal virtues of ancient stoicism are reflected in ancient Greece, in Buddhism, in Hinduism, in Taoism, in Confucianism. It's what modern science founded the positive psychology movement on. They started by studying all those wisdom traditions, all of whom told us a good noble life is a virtuous life. Live with wisdom, discipline, love, and courage. Those are the four cardinal virtues. They they use some different words. They call discipline temperance. They call the love justice. But in my work I modernize that justice is love. If you read Marcus Aurelius and his commitment to service, playing his role well, it's goosebumps inspiring. And then again temperance don't drink too much. Don't eat too much. That's really discipline. That self mastery. That is the greatest predictor of your well-being. Can you get yourself to do what you need to do whether you feel like it or not? I mean that is science says twice as predictive of academic performance for kids in school than their IQ. Again, if you know a kid's idea. So how to get these foundational principles in education. But I mean I shared that with a leading prep school in L.A. and they immediately commissioned me to create content. Because my point was, look, will power out, out predicts IQ for academic performance by a factor of two. That's insane when you think, it makes sense when you think about it. But it's also to me insane when you first think about it. And you can teach will power. Yeah, we are not. How? But this is, I mean, look at the greatest, you know, the best selling book right now in self development, a brilliant marajames player who has worked with a talent to help us. He's, there's a science to have a change, which is one aspect of willpower and discipline and incredibly important one. But you can teach your, teach kids how to cultivate that ability to, again, do what needs to be done whether they feel like it or not installing habits, deleting habits. And we can talk about, you know, what's the, here's some kind of, you know, we do have a lot of parents that listen to this. And if they aren't parents yet, we'll convince you how important and how amazing these little humans are to our, uh, Western. I'm still going to be able to hear. I was like in the little hero. Yeah, Sanji, sure. My little son, he goes, he just, you know, yelled heroic and puts his arms up. It's just unbelievable. Well, I'll tell you what, and 251, which is a big part of my mission, the, the individuals who will be running the world are in high school right now. And so the question is, are we teaching these kids who will be running the world? How to live a good, noble virtuous life? I mean, it's, it's true. We have a tragedy when you think about it that these kids and their parents and the faculty and the broader community are not being taught the most basic fundamentals of how to live a good, again, noble virtuous life. And these, these are all teachable. So it's one of the things I'm most excited about and proud of with our work is the work we're now doing with the educational system. And again, you can, we can boost someone's self-efficacy there, but we if they can do something in 30 days with Sony Woodburn Merriskey, the world's leading basic researcher, these are not complex ideas. What would be a start? What would be a protocol? If we were, and you have an amazing heroic app, my doubt again, your number one biggest fan showing me the quotes and the warriors discipline. What if someone was listening and they said, okay, well, after this show, I want to know what I can take to implement today. What would you tell them? Beautiful questions. So then I had a chat with one of the countries best basketball coaches, right? And we were talking about exactly this. And what I, what we help people do is identify the behaviors that you engage in when you're at your best. So there are certain things that you do when you're at your best. We break it down and what we call the big three. So Sigma Freud with whom I don't agree on most things that a good life is two things. You're working your love. If you can get your work and your love out and you're doing pretty well, to which I say yes and if your energy sucks because of poor lifestyle choices, read Gabriel Lyons book and figure out how you can get your energy dialed in, then you can show up powerfully your work and your love. So my question for myself every single day is, who are you out your best? And what do you do in your energy, your work, and your love? A practical example of why what do we shared yesterday with this coach who had worked with Trevor Mowad and who's recently passed, but a brilliant peak performance psychologist worked with some elite athletes and special forces, etc. I believe too. He worked with Tiger Woods, Tiger Woods at his peak and then he had some tough times. And he sat down with him and he said, hey, Tiger, write down the 10 things you were doing when you were at your absolute best. Hey, I've big news to share. One of our sponsors, EG1, just launched their next generation formula. You know, just when I thought they couldn't raise the bar anymore, they did. Same single scoop once a day, but now with even more vitamins and minerals and upgraded probiotic bland and this is a game changer. It is now clinically backed by four human clinical trials. That's right. And by the way, that is almost unheard of in the world of supplements. Most greens powders don't even come close to this level of testing. In one of the trials, EG1, next generation was shown to increase healthy gut bacteria significantly. And of course, help fill nutrient gaps even in people who already eat well. This isn't fluff, it's peer-reviewed science and it shows up in how you feel, whether it's energy, digestion, immunity, all of it. For me, EG1 and for my mom is non-negotiable. It's not about replacing food. It's about having a daily insurance policy for my health. Listen, I don't need perfect. And this is clean, comprehensive, and it allows me to be consistent. And now with this upgraded formula, holy cow, no better time to try it. Here's what I got for you. And now clinically backed with an advanced formula. This is a perfect time to try EG1. I've been drinking EG1 since Ecaus have come home and I'm so proud to be partnering with them. Subscribe today at drinkag1.com slash doctor line. You'll get a free bottle of EG D3 K2 and an EG1 welcome kit plus five travel packs on this upgraded formula with your first order. That's drinkag1.com slash doctor lion and you will feel the difference. So talk is like sure let me do that one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, five, six, five, five, five, five, five, five. It's not too complicated. The version of you that does the things you do when you're at your best will outperform the version of you that isn't doing those things every single time. So when I work with teams in particular, this is my story. It's look, you tell me who's going to win. Player one who's doing all the things that they do when they're out their best, not perfectly, but more consistently. We're player one who's not. That player while, before this player, you put the group together on a team. This team will be that team every time. They may or may not beat the opponent. I love that. But they'll always do it. So that's literally what I do every day. I don't have, do I? Yeah, every day I'm quickly journaling my identities, energy, work and love. So in energy, I'm a discipline, definitely. Yeah, I mean, you're very fit. You always can tell, you know, I'm a mountain. I'm a producer. We always make jokes. And fitness is huge. Man, being able to, if you are talking about medicine or the mind, we have an expectation that individual should be fit. And it doesn't have, you don't have to be you think? You think that when I go to my brothers on college, you had stage four pancreatic cancer. And you can't get rid of a cough and he's carrying an extra 20, 30, 40 pounds is giving me sugar on the way into the pets. Again, our medical professionals should be the embodiment of elite fitness to me. And the fact that they are not says a lot. And again, deep admiration for the things that work within our current system. And yeah, looking at you and looking at those who are deeply committed to being an integrity with these ideas, in helping us solve these health challenges before they become crises. Yeah. So keep it energy. I have a certain identity. And then when you say identity, do you mean what does that mean? Well, this is another James Clear. I always talked about this, but James Clear, I never knew the etymology. And I love, I'm kind of a nerd with that, you know, used to read the dictionary as a kid kind of thing. Right. But in atomic habits, he gave me the etymology for identity. I always talked about your identity. Need to drive your behaviors, which drives your feelings, not the other way around. Identity, behavior's feelings, not feelings, behavior, identity. But then James Clear said identity literally means, etymologically repeated beingness. So your sense of self, yourself, image, which is unbelievably important. You will never outperform a poor self image. Peak performance 101. Your identity is who you think you are and who you consistently act like. So what you want to do is you want to hit both sides of that. You want to have a clear identity of you at your best. So you are, for me, I'm a disciplined athlete. So I want to show up and I often, it's a soft athlete. Now I want to show up, I want to show up. I want to show up. Like a warrior who does what they need to do, whether they feel like it or not. And then you got to do those things. Then you affirm that that's like me. That's like me to be the guy that does these things. That's how I frame up identity. But then I connect to divert shoes. So again, in a single word, it's R to R virtue. But then we got to take that out of the abstract and make it more concrete. So every day, I want to show up with discipline. I want to be disciplined, calm, confident, energized, tranquil, and poised. Those are my core virtues and energy. And then I have certain behavior sign, Gagin. I did 101 burpee workout. That's one of the things I do every day for out on a how long. Amazing. But I do, frankly, I do as little as I possibly can. I'm checking in and the dude's like, hey, I asked you have a rolling machine, you know, at the high, whatever down the street. Just like now we don't. And his at the risk of being a modest responses. Is that how you got so shredded? I'm like, no, actually, it's 90%. It's 90% nutrition. More protein less carbs. In fact, I'm going on a podcast tomorrow. The Gabriel line literally, this way, I told him, like, check it out forever strong. He goes to his computer, starts diving it in. It was just awesome. But for me, it's, I want efficiency. You know, I want to do what I can to get what I want and spend no more time than necessary on anyway, I do that for my energy. I do it for my work. I do it for my love. And I want to identify the few things I do that if I do them, it's very hard to have a bad day. Very hard for me to have a bad day when I'm in bed for eight and a half to ten hours a night. I'm doing my idea of sun salutation, 10 pull ups, a hundred burpees, a thousand meters of rolling in 10,000 steps every day. I love that. And then I'm, I love that. Following my nutrition protocol, boom, really, genuinely, I'll have ups and downs, but it's hard to have a circus because it's a standard too. Yeah. And then the follow-on for anti-forgevity is the worst I feel, the more life is hammering me, the more committed I am to those three things. So then my question back to your community is, what are your three things? What are the three things you do in your energy that just keep you plugged in? That when you look back at your past, when you were most on, you were doing this, this, and this. So then my question is, are you doing it now? And then the next time life hits you, rather than go for the bottle of wine or the sugary food or the Netflix binging with respect, we all do our own idiosyncratic addictive things. What if in that moment, rather than being the candle that's extinguished by the challenges of the wind, you, or the fire that gets fueled by the wind, and you double down in your protocol. You more fiercely do the things you do in your at your best when you feel your worst, everything changes. I love that. And it's deeply personal, right? So you said, tranquility and calm. I mean, those things are very personal. Takes also a lot of thinking. It sounds like greatness takes a lot of thinking about as opposed to, you know, who am I when I show up and thinking about having a self image? And I bet you, because we're not really trained to think, that many people have a gap in that, and that's a real opportunity. I think the average attention span is 47 seconds, right? So yes, we need to step back from the screens, long enough, ask ourselves some important questions, you know, and that takes discipline. It takes wisdom to know that there's a bigger game, and even greatness is we were preparing for our chat today. You know, there's greatness of the self, which is kind of what everybody's selling right now. You know, the fame, the hotness, the well, that sort of thing, and then there's greatness of the soul. So the Greeks talked about this as well, the Stoics, the word magnanimous, literally means great soul. Mahatma, Mahatma Gandhi means great soul. So there's an interesting delineation between the extrinsic measures of greatness in our current society. In 2500 years ago, they had the same challenge. And how is that? You would think that it would be a lot different. You'd think that the word art, it would never have left the cultural vernacular. But why has it? Why isn't the, I mean, Stoicism was the dominant philosophy for hundreds of years, and the fact that it's, and that simply means changing the things that you can change. And I accept it. Live your virtue. That is absolutely true. So living with virtue would be, look, life is happening. I don't have control over that person or that political situation or this or that, this natural, natural disaster, I have control over how I respond, respond with virtue. Be your best self. Live with wisdom, discipline, love, courage, and then disaster, as we said, Seneca says, is virtues opportunity. Boom, you're in the gym. You're in the spiritual soul gym, right now. Lift the weights, quit complaining, walk out of the gym and go numb yourself, stay in the heat, and actually do the work to forge your next level of excellence. And you have a team, and obviously you have a family. Do you have them all begin to think about their, as you, you know, you have many protocols and many processes. Do you have them create a self image of the targets that they can do? It's a condition of their employment. Team, we are implementing that today. Yeah, I mean, we frankly struggle with it. How much did we do, what do we do, how do we do? But it's so important to us that our team is culturally aligned. And you mentioned one of the important facets of what we've tried to build. We want structure, and we want idiosyncratic expression. Thank you to one of our sponsors for this episode. You know, I look pretty good for 65. And I only bring on sponsors whose products I genuinely use I'm up, just kidding. I'm not 65, but I am not kidding about absolutely loving one skin. And after seeing my girlfriend skin, I've told this story many times. I want to show you what she was doing. Turns out it wasn't plastic surgery. Or at least it hasn't been up to this point. And she's been using one skin. I tried it. I love it. I use it on my face. I use it on my body. I use it wherever I have skin. And it has been amazing. I think that it has improved my skin's texture. And I was thinking to myself, okay, well, what makes it better? Well, it has a novel, clean science fact ingredient. Well, it has many ingredients, but one in particular, it has this peptide that supports DNA repair and targets root cause skin aging and listen. It's summer is coming up. And I use a broad spectrum face sunscreen, eye cream, topical body, hard to find a skin care line that delivers real results. But I have found it, and I know that you're going to love this product. You can get yours at 1 skin.com. You can get 15 percent off. One skin with the code, Dr. Lyon. So my identities are different than yours. Everyone on our teams. Your virtues are different in energy work and love. But the commitment to being our best self is shared. So or has the right in a score, sleep score, whoops got its thing. Or is it called a soul force score. So when you show up every day and you do the things you said you would do, which is part of our protocol. Every morning you commit, you recommit to being your best self, setting your intention, attention, action follows. Every day you do those things, you get a point. You go from 80, 81, 82, 85, 90 after 21 days, you get to 101. Then you earn your try then, today, you go back to 100. You got to do it again, you get to 101. So literally that soul force score is a team demonstrate their commitment. Again, in their own idiosyncratic ways, or we're blessed to have passionate individuals on our team and people that want to be on our team. And so just having that that standard set and the shared commitment to being our best selves in service is something bigger than ourselves is a really, really big part of our culture, same with our coaches that we try and again, everyone does it differently, but that's a really important part of what we do. You've seen what thousands of people go through these programs, taking care of thousands and coached thousands of individuals. Is that fair to say? You've had over 10,000. Okay. Yeah, from our coaching program. Is there something that seems to unifyly hold individuals back as humans, as having human nature? Yeah, it's great. So my coach is a guy named Phil Stutz, who I just love. He was in Jonah Hills Stutz on Netflix and his favorite teacher is Rudolph Stiner. So Rudolph Stiner says there are two things, two things that most hold people back, fear and laziness. Now fear and laziness are the opposite of two virtues. So the opposite of fear is what? Courage. It's not the absence of fear. It's the willingness to act in the presence of fears. What courage is. And then laziness, of course, is the opposite or the vice of deficiency of discipline. You can have a vice of access of discipline and be so rigid that you break anything, any time doesn't go right. So I would offer that those two or what drive me, you like every human being who's ever existed, fear and laziness. The opposite of wisdom is foolishness. The opposite of love is kind of a selfishness or an apathy or something that's all about you, you know, or nihilism sort of thing. So again, what about you? Is it in difference? Of course, it will hate in difference, which is worse. You have an active expression of the opposite of love and then a passive expression, but they're both vices. How does one know that they are pursuing greatness versus this ego-based drive? Yeah, I think that to me, we got to delineate greatness of the self and greatness of the soul. And I don't like the way most people use the word ego. I think the ego is very, very important. I think the ego is what keeps you in the game from a Freudian perspective. There's the ego, then there's the id and the super ego. The id is your impulse. You can't get yourself to stop your addicted behaviors. The super ego is you got to impress everybody. Your condition by your parents and society. So an ego keeps you strong and in the game, but the ego needs to be plugged into something bigger than yourself. So if you're chasing fame, wealth and hardness, and that's kind of your thing, those are what scientists would call extrinsic motivators. And they've existed for 2,500 years. This is not a 21st century challenge. This is 2,500 years old. Scientists say, if you are pursuing the extrinsic measures of success or greatness, fame, wealth and hardness, even if you are successful in your pursuit of those things, you will be less psychologically stable than people who are focused on the intrinsic aspects of flourishing, which include deeper relationships, becoming a better person and making a difference in your community. There's nothing wrong and here, and we obviously with fame, wealth and hardness. In fact, they're often reflective of value that's been created and will hard work that's been done. But we want to make sure, again, Phil says 51% 49%. I was just going to ask you, at what? 51% spiritual 49% material. You don't need to beat 100% spiritual zero. If that's your thing, go move to the Himalayas and float, you know, levitate or whatever, you know. But for almost all of us, it's going to be somewhere in between 99% 1%, he says 5149. And I think that we all know, we can check in, we can pause. And if we're feeling that that franticness, I mean 78%, 85% of people feel burned out right now. Take a break, pause, step back again, read your book, get your mitochondria functioning well, put the screen down, think about these things and start thinking about how you can live with more virtue. This is Steven Kavie as well. If Steven Kavie was alive today, who is one of my favorite modern teachers, I mean, he's rolling over in his grave right now. What passes for self development, he talked about 30 years ago, but begin with the end in mind, he says. And his ultimate end is, and I do this every time I do anything. It's your own funeral. So with the end of your life, who's going to say, what? They're not going to talk about your Instagram followers and how much money you had, the square footage in your house or how many houses you have, this is not the conversation. They're going to talk about your virtues. So, you legit virtues is how David Brooks puts it. He talks about it in the second mountain. There's the first mountain, which is the self Yes, demonstrating excellence. And again, that's important. And then there's the second mountain, which is you're living for something bigger than yourself. So the idea is integrating both of those things. And as we were talking about, I mean, the influencers being truly noble and virtuous and committed to something bigger than themselves. Challenging because by definition, the idea of influencing is, you know, you question, is that a noble virtue, as opposed to trying to, and maybe, you know, I'm sure some are. Some aren't. It's this idea of how do we get good information out there. Y