Lowry, number one scientist. Uh, this is Ryan Larry, number one scientist in in my lab. Again, Dr. Jacob Wilson. We're here to answer your questions today. So, we're going to go ahead and get it started. Um, so, this is a good question. Um, what are your thoughts on fasted cardio in the morning? Um, good question. That's a good question. So, here's the thing. There hasn't been like a ton of long-term studies on fasticardia in the morning. Uh, one scientist uh, his name was Trabellski in 2012 came along and they did they took RAM people who are doing the Ramadan fast. So they're not eating during the daytime and they had one group where they basically did uh, cardio at 2:30 in the afternoon fasted and they had a second group where they did cardio at 10:30 at night uh, after they had eaten. And they found the only group that had lost fat was a group that did 2:30 in the afternoon fasted. Of course, there's problems with that because there's different times of day um diet wasn't controlled too well. And then the second one was by my good friend Dr. Brad Shfeld in 2014. They basically took women, trained them for, I believe, four weeks, and essentially what they did was they had them do um cardio in the morning. One group did it on an empty stomach um and had a a shake immediately after a low calorie shake and one group had a low calorie shake before. Um and then they did steady state cardio and they found they both uh actually lost fat but there are no differences between conditions. So so one study kind of shows it helps. Um one study showed it really didn't but again that was four weeks long so we don't have a lot of long-term studies. One of the things I will say is this um is that oftentimes people will skip breakfast entirely and really if you look at Brad Shfeld study they didn't skip breakfast entirely um if you but if you were to do cardio and skip breakfast entirely and try to wait a few hours so you would lose more fat. I might be concerned because breakfast is important meal and I know Ryan Lowry's done a lot on breakfast. So what are your thoughts? Yeah, for sure. And actually, a lot of people who do skip breakfast seem to be hungrier and they eat more throughout the day. And there was a study recently by Sasaki in 2014 who basically took people and they had them either they had in subjects eat and then train or train and then eat a large meal after. And basically they found the subjects that ate for ate their large meal and then trained after actually had lower fat than those who trained and then ate. So the timing of when you have these larger meals could have an impact on overall fat mass. Yeah. So um you know again if it might not be I'm not sure how huge a difference going to make but I would say it's probably if you are going to do fasted cardio you should probably get at least some branch chain amino acids in you because I'd be worried um about you tapping into your muscle source. So that's definitely some advice I have and I wouldn't skip breakfast regardless. Great point. Great point. Uh, great question here from Ryan. Um, great name by the way. Uh, I really want to build more muscle on my shoulders. How many days a week should I train them? Um, let's see. Okay, Ryan. Well, my first question would be how often you train your shoulders now? And, um, then you might want to then you're going to increase the frequency from there. So, let's say um there's there's studies that basically show that the more fre frequently you train a body part, the more it will grow. Um, so but you have to be careful with that because the one thing I'm not saying that, you know, a lot of guys that take this as license to destroy my shoulders every single day. Um, you know, that's not the case. But if you look like anecdotally or stuff like old school stuff like Arnold Schwarzenegger when he had a lagging body part, for example, I remember he told a story about his rear delts. He put a dumbbell next to his bed and said that was awesome. I tried it one time, but he put a dumbbell next to his bed and before bed he just or when he woke up, he just grabbed the dumbbells and hit his rear delts. Um, and he said they grew. When his calves were down, he'd start training them every day. Um, Ben Pakowski, I remember our good friend who right now we're working with as he preps for the Arnold Classic. When he was making his cast, he he had a picture of his mind. He wanted his cast to look like Dorian Yates. And he trained him every single day until they did. So, but is there science behind that? The answer is yes. Um, TRS Trolls Rosad um from their Norwegian Institute of Sport took powerlifterss who were trained three times a week for their for their chest and their legs and they had them train six times a week and they grew more when they did six times a week. But the key is they kept the volume the same. So if you they were doing for example 10 sets Monday, Wednesday, Friday for their legs, they did five sets on Monday, five sets on Tuesday all the way through Friday. So it's the same number of sets but it was spread out. So lower volume, more frequency. So that being the case, if you're training your shoulders twice a week, maybe hit it four times a week, but the same volume you were doing before. Okay? So, um, if if you were training it three times a week, maybe try four to six times a week, but keep the total volume the same. As you adapt to that to lower volume, more frequent workouts, and you and you aren't as adapted to high volume workouts, our laboratory believes that you could cycle back around to lower frequency. So, you're going like low volume very frequently. When you stop adapting to that, bring it down to two or three workouts, high volume, and boom, you're going to stimulate muscle growth again. So we we have a theory that you should basically cycle your training frequency. Sick. Very cool. Very cool. That's the latest science has to offer on the subject. Oh, great. Here, good question here from Jeff. Almost finishing up Project Mass. Awesome. Right on. Seeing some good gains. When is Project Shred coming out? Got to be able to show off these muscles. When's Project Shred coming out? Well, I'll tell you what, man. Um, right now, uh, Ryan and I and Lawrence Ballinger are in the works working on Project Shrek. Um, we're basically this is going to be one of the sickest things that's ever been delivered, um, to anyone. And definitely, we're excited to work with bodybuilding.com. So, it's it's coming as soon as possible. And, and way to go on Project Mass. Keep killing it. That's good. Uh, okay. Here we go. Jay asked, "What's the difference and similarities between coconut butter and coconut oil?" Interesting. Well, both of them are definitely going to be high in MCTs. That's important. Um, one of the things that we like to do is melt down coconut butter, uh, and put the put it in our Greek yogurt a lot. So, um, coconut oil is really good for like shakes. When you're making shakes, um, say you're having a shake in the morning. We've talked about having like a little highfat and higher protein breakfast. So, if you're going to have a shake, maybe co some coconut oil and some heavy whipping cream and some protein would be a good breakfast, per se. But coconut butter is really good mixed in like uh Greek yogurt or something like that. Yeah. And then the thing is um about coconut butter is it has um fiber in it. Yeah. So, has a lot of fiber and the coconut oil is basically 100% 100% fat. So, um, so the fiber content, if you're like eating a meal and it doesn't have any fiber, um, you know, like if you're making a a keto mousse or something like that or a, you know, then we would recommend probably having the butter because you need some fiber so your stomach doesn't get messed up, right? Um, and so you stay fuller. So that's the main difference is probably the fiber, a little bit of carbs, maybe like two to three grams a serving, but not nothing uh that's drastic. Um, and uh, like like Ryan said, it has mediumchain triglycerides, which you know are extremely important. Definitely important. So, keep using it. It's fantastic. Um, Ryan asked, "What supplements do you recommend while dieting?" Great question. What supplements do we recommend while dieting? Um, so, okay, we got to think about this for a second. When you're dieting, um, you want to protect yourself from losing muscle and you want to keep your energy levels high. You also want to, um, improve things like insulin sensitivity, right? So, you want to maintain focus, um, you know, keep energy high, um, and improve the efficiency of your calorie intake. So um the we've done a lot of studies you know as you guys know we've done a lot of studies on um on the branch chain amino acid metabolite uh HMBB uh HMBB about three grams a day. We've done uh very extreme calorie restriction studies actually and we've actually done um some si sim simulated military mission models where you're doing a lot of cardio and at the same time um you were dieting hard and we found that the HMBB prevented some of the muscle loss that you got and actually um blunted the genes that cause you to break down protein. Um so that's definitely one thing. Uh, another one is is one of our favorites that doesn't really have a lot of human data, but it has a lot of promise and that's Hikah. Um, one of the things that we we've used a lot and basically there's one study they've used in soccer players and they found that it actually increased uh the lean mass of their legs and it decreased our soreness. And there's some some molecular data showing uh its effects on protein breakdown. So again, kind of similar HMBB, Hika. Um, anything else? Maybe even something like uh phosphotylcerin. You want to touch on that? Yeah. So what happens when you're really when you're dieting hard and you get really stressed? Um, things like cortisol go up, you you start thinking irrationally and phosetyler has a ve very high amount of content in your brain actually. And um what happens when you take it you are able to buffer stress more and there's a lot of research on this a ton of research if you want to look into it. Um our good friend Dr. Ralph Jagger and Dr. Martin Perur have done a lot of research on it. But even anecdotally, you know, as a professor and and and as a scientist, same thing with Ryan, you know, um we're spending all day um studying the science of bodybuilding and and training and we don't get a lot of sleep sometimes. You know, last week we were doing a bunch of experiments and um we it's not good because we're going to talk about this probably later, but you know, there are nights where we got three hours of sleep, you know, and uh you're stressed and I can tell you when you take fossil serarine, you buffer that stress. Um and so I would definitely recommend about 300 milligrams a day. average um person usually gets about 100 to 125 from their food especially if their uh if their diet's lower in fat. So um yeah definitely fossil also you want to what increase your calorie efficiency. So things like whey protein are going to be very good as well. Great. So Eric asks uh fat came off easy at first uh when there was more. How do you suggest attacking the latest stubborn uh bit on the lower belly love handles? This is a this is a great question and and it's always tough to to when you're when you come to a stall say in losing fat and you're like well how do I keep losing? And one of the things that we tend to tell people is um oftentimes when you're dieting down or you lose a lot of fat something known as your NEAT your non-ex exercise activity induced thermogenesis decreases typically. So consciously you have to you make an effort to try and increase that and that can really help try and keep keep that fat off and and even get that extra fat off. So doing things like when you go to the gym, park further away, taking the stairs, um cleaning the house, right? Um doing little things like that, standing, going for a walk in the middle of the day. All these things are going to attribute to your metabolism long and after they accumulate over and over and over again are going to have effects long term. Yeah, that's kind it's like uh this neat non-ex exercise activity induced thermogenesis. B it's um we what happens is that you actually have in your brain you have uh basically this thing called a neat meter and neat is if you look at people who are really lean just watch them next time if you someone who's really lean and someone who tends to store a lot of fat watch the lean person and that a lot of times they're fidgeting a lot you know they're kind of scratching their head they're chewing gum they can't sit still. Um, one of the things that you know like uh if you look at like um kids, you know, or adults from kids, you're like, "Oh man, when I was a kid, my metabolism was so high, right?" Well, if you look kids, ask the kid to sit down. What are they going to do? They're they're going to be bouncing up and down, you know? They're going to be moving their hands around. They're they're thinking this. They can't sit still. And what are we what are we taught our whole lives in class? Oh, sit still. Stay still, Johnny or whatever. You know, don't don't move. Come on, sit still. Come on, be quiet. And now, as adults, we're, you know, just like that all day. And, uh, our neat is very low. So, like Ryan said, uh, you want to do stuff like chewing gum, taking the stairs. Um, don't park right up front. What studies also show is that when you diet, um, your neat meter says, "I need to conserve energy." And your fidgeting activity goes down. So, what you want to do is you want to track your knee. Um, you can get like a wristband or a pedometer that's tracking your steps. Um, and try and make sure at the beginning of your diet period to the end that those steps are not decreasing because that's a good indicator of your need. So, uh, that's that's that's that for sure. Awesome. Um, another great question here. What protein source is the best and why? And also does a calorie equal a calorie or is a macro a macro? Uh okay. Um so what protein source is best in and why? What do you think? I definitely say um as we we've actually written a book chapter on this. Um definitely like milk-based proteins are going to be superior than plant-based proteins. And we've we've discussed this a lot. A lot of it's going to depend on the leucine content. We all know that leucine is really the trigger for muscle growth. Out of the three branch chain amino acids, leucine is the is the one that really triggers the response. Um, and milk-based proteins such as whey, um, casein though, they're they're higher in leucine content than than the other ones such as like wheat or pee for instance. Yeah. So you actually and and basically so the higher lucin content the the better your body composition actually is going to be. um which is really important which leads to the qu the other part of the question was is a macro a macro? Um well and meaning that does it if I just track my carbs or I just track my protein does it matter from where it comes from? Well, let me say this. Your macros are very, very important. And it's very important to know, okay, you know, I'm getting this much protein. I'm getting this much carbohydrates. But we do know that a macro is not a macro as far as body composition. So, um, we know that, for example, whey protein um, will result in greater change in body composition than, uh, vegetable-based proteins. In fact, I had someone on the bodybuilding.com forums ask me the other day like, I'm working really hard. I'm giving everything I got. Um, and I don't understand. I'm not making gains. Have I reached my genetic potential? I said, "What's your diet like?" He goes, "Well, you know, I'm a vegetarian." And the the issue is protein quality, to be honest. Um, the you want to think the higher the protein quality, the better change that you get in body composition. Um, the more muscle you have, the more of a thermic effect you have. So, um, again, yes, a macro is not a macro. Um, and if you and if you are a vegetarian, that's that's completely fine. Then supplementation becomes extremely important. Um, because like Dr. Wilson said, you're not getting that that uh high quality source. So, you would need to supplement with something like branch chain amino acids with your meals in order to hit that threshold that we're talking about. Yeah. Um, so that's really important to keep in mind. Um, Ryan Gums kind of asked a similar question that um to before. Hey, Ryan. Uh basically the question is hit cardio first thing in the am better to do it fasted or or highfat breakfast. What what I can say Ryan is very like one thing is uh breakfast becomes very important. So breakfast is essential like we said and if you were to have breakfast um probably your uh sort of a higher fat like lower carb breakfast is ideal to program your metabolism. Brian's been showing that a lot in our our lab. And the the the fat content is probably going to be best to be mediumchain triglyceride based. So again, like coconut oil, um coconut butter, you could take MCTs, but if you do, just be real careful that you train your some branching amino acids or some whey protein probably. Mhm. And you make a great point. High-intensity cardio is going to be a lot different than steady state, which is something we've studied a lot in our lab. So, highintensity training or or interval, high-intensity interval training is going to be a lot different than just going and walking on the treadmill for an hour. And basically what we've shown in the past couple of years is that you actually see greater lo greater decrement or greater loss in fat with high intensity interval training than the steadystate cardio that we typically see. Um, so that's good. Keep keep doing the high intensity, man. Yeah, it's a exactly that's the point. Um, and uh so this is a good qu I like this question. How much muscle have you found in your studies that you will lose while in a cut? I.e. is it one pound uh per 10 pounds of fat? You know, Jeff, let me say this, Jeff. Jeff, to be honest with you, um that is a really difficult question. And the answer is that it depends on your diet. Let me give you an example. So we just did a study where we had people um basically they lost uh one group lost they both lost six pounds about maybe seven pounds and um one group um was basically it was ketogenic dieting versus cyclic ketogenic dieting. Okay. So in the ketogenic dieting group, keto, you guys remember ketogenic dieting, 75% of your diet is fat, 20% of your diet is protein, 5% is carbs, and it induces a state where your liver starts producing these ketones. And ketones spare your muscle, okay? They spare your muscle and they actually prevent leucine from being used as fuel. We had another group that did cyclic ketogenic dieting. So cyclic ketogenic dieting is basically you take the weekends and you carb up. So what happened was that um the cyclic keto the the ketogenic dieting group lost seven pounds of fat and no muscle at all. Zero muscle. The cyclic ketogenic dieting group they lost seven pounds of mass but about four and a half to five of that was muscle. Wait a second. So one group carbed on the weekends they lost like 45 pounds of muscle. The other group lost all fat. What was the difference between the two groups? The difference was blood ketone levels. Ketones spare muscle. Okay, they prevent muscle from being lost. So, why do I say this? Um, one, your diet's going to make a difference. So, in this case, these people when they carved up on the weekends, their ketones lowered. Then they went on Monday back to ketogenic dieting, but they weren't adapted to using fat because they kept carbing up on the weekends. So, they didn't get into they were only in ketosis for like two or three days a week and they had very low ketones, but they had no carbs available to them to spare muscle. So, they lost a bunch of muscle. Now, I say this, ketones are or muscle sparing, but um there's another way that people induce ketones. If you have a lot of body fat starting off, the more body fat you have starting off on your diet, the more ketones you're going to produce. You have a ton of fat to to metabolize or burn. So what Forbes actually showed is that the higher your starting body fat, it's very hard to lose muscle if you have a lot of fat. You can actually diet very hard without losing muscle. The leaner you are or the closer you come to your target goal, the more in danger you become of losing muscle. So if you start off at 22% body fat, you're not going to lose much muscle from 22 to 15%. You might lose 10 pounds and none of it be muscle if you're training hard and you're following a lot of the principles or the training programs that are on bodybuilding.com. But as soon as you hit under 15%, you're like 12%. Specifically, even 10%. If you're dieting really hard and you don't have you're not protecting your muscle from muscle loss with things like branch chain amino acids or HMBB or a ketogenic diet um or high quality protein or high frequency training uh you are in danger of losing a lot of muscle to where if you lost 10 pounds half of that could be muscle if you're not careful. So my advice is that um when as you get closer to reaching your goal, you need to take more and more precautions of sparing muscle tissue. Uh so that that's what I would say. Fantastic. No, that was awesome. Um here's another one by Jesse. Uh how important is sleep in my training regimen? Uh this is I mean like Dr. Wilson mentioned before, unfortunately we don't get a lot of it, but it is extremely important. Um extremely important. So, we know that if you get like anywhere from like 4 to 6 hours of sleep per night, which isn't very good, you can actually have decreased insulin sensitivity and your blood glucose levels could actually be higher. Well, they've done they've actually done studies, fortunately for us, they've done studies where like they've had people lose like have like four to six hours of sleep for like three nights. Say you've had a really busy week. You've been cranking on some projects. You have stuff due for work. Well, they've done studies where people have have a loss of sleep. And then on the weekend, say Sunday, they have they get 10 hours of sleep. Well, basically that 10 hours of sleep allow them to recover recover per se their insulin sensitivity and allow them to get back to normal. So sleep is extremely important. It allows your body to recover especially if you're you're increasing things like frequency, which we talked about, or increasing your training volume. Sleep is going to be just as important uh if you if you're looking to make adaptations. Yeah. So, one of the things is um we're interested in sleep and and admittedly I told you that this is an area that we have to work on. We're kind of like we're definitely workaholics here, but the thing is um we've improved a lot on our sleep, but there's a lot of studies on it. The thing the thing like Ryan pointed out, like I know like last week when I didn't get a lot of sleep, I could tell I was a lot hungrier. Um uh Ryan knows this and the guys didn't know this. I was a lot crankier than usual. But um but seriously um you need to develop a sleep regimen. It's basically no different than your meal prep or your training regimen. So what you need to do is that you think about it's like blue light will keep you awake. Things that stimulate your mind um uh will keep you awake. Yeah, exactly. Cell phones will keep you awake. So, what you need to do is what research demonstrates is that when you go into your room, uh you need to have the room pitch black. Pitch black. Your phone, you know, like I know my phone at night like will blink. Okay? You don't want that. You want to make sure that you take um you know, if you plug in your phone and it blinks, take a shirt and put it over that phone um because you don't want it blinking. Um and turn the phone on silent. Um, the other thing is go ahead and put your alarm on. Don't in the middle of the night pick up your phone and go, "Oh, I wonder what time is it. Time to get up." That will get your mind thinking right away. Um, you know, you can actually get there's there's glasses out there that actually um block blue light that you can use for the last hour before you go to sleep. Um, and then there's stuff some supplements that you can take like what are some supplements you recommend for sleep? Um, some that we've worked with in the past like, uh, magnesium is is one that we like a lot. Um, there's there's magnesium and zinc. Um, it's basically we I'm I'm not a huge uh proponent of melatonin. It's fantastic, but unfortunately for for me, and I know for you as well, it leaves me feeling a little groggy in the morning. So, I like more of like a magnesium, zinc, um maybe even some Valyan root. Um things like that can really help at night. Yeah. And people who are vitamin D to you said that you say vitamin D. People are vitamin D deficient um will also uh not be able to sleep. But the thing is you want your vitamin D more in the morning. Um because vitamin D acutely can can inhibit like um melatonin release, your natural melatonin release. So you don't want to take it right before bed. you want to make sure your vitamin D levels are good, especially like in the winter here. Um, unless you're like in Florida like we are, right? So, um, so that that's one of the things that I want to point out. Um, Hannah says, um, not a qu Hannah Weismire says, "Not not a question, but thank you for doing these. I love listening." Well, thanks uh for joining in, Hannah. We really appreciate that. That's awesome. U, here's one from Veronica. This transformation really is changing my life. That's awesome. keep killing it. Uh, I'm having a hard time eating back my cows I burn at the gym around 500 and I've noticed my weight loss slowing down. We've we've been seeing this a lot. Um, could not eating back my kals be causing my weight loss to slow. Well, certainly and and it's great that you're that you're hitting the gym hard. Um, one of the ways to do this that we've found is what a lot of times people don't know how to increase their calories. Um, and one of the ways that we we've talked about a lot, we've experimented with is increasing protein content because there's been a lot of studies basically by in fact by one of our really good friends, Dr. Joey Antonio, who basically found that even overfeeding on protein didn't really cause any any fat gain. And one of the reasons being is because protein has a high thermic effect. Um, it's it's very high in that regards and it doesn't really allow you to to store much when you're even when you're overfeeding. These people had over 350 grams of protein a day and they they didn't gain any fat. So, one of the ways to increase your calories and to bump that back up to replenish those calories that you're burning at the gym is by increasing the protein content. Yeah, exactly right. So, there it's almost impossible to store protein as fat. You know, it's anabolic. It's satiating. It has a high thermic effect which is going to make you metabolize more fat. Um, very inefficient. you know, again, to source fat. So, uh, Veronica, that's that would be our recommendation to you. Um, also remember what Ryan pointed out earlier that, um, having a larger meal before you work out could be a really good idea, so you're not playing catch-up. And, uh, and it seems to be that it's easier to get leaner when you eat those calories sort of before. Um, yeah, great. So, this is a really good one by Nina and Dr. Wilson. We had we just had a conference here at UT and this is one of the topics that he touched on and uh they asked, "I have a hard time figuring out how hard I should push myself in a workout. I've been working out so hard during this challenge that I ended up getting very sick. Uh and once I even wheezed and had difficulty breathing for an hour after my cardio. So, how should you really determine how hard you should go in the gym?" And is there a way that you can monitor that, I guess? Yeah. So, Nina, I I could totally sympathize with you like um I know the thing is we've been doing a lot of studies like on this and I think we try and test stuff out like on ourselves and I know when I was in grad school um I was doing a lot of experiments and I was pushing myself really hard and I was getting my squat up to um to 500 and I was training ridiculously high volume and like literally like uh up to three times a day and and I can remember I can remember doing workouts and um literally going in there and feel like not hitting my lifts like my body wouldn't physically be able to do it and because I couldn't do it I kind of would um say you know what you didn't hit this list so now I'm going to do 20 more sets and it got to a point where I pushed myself so hard that um I got ridiculous like almost deathly sick and it kind of led me to go okay just step back uh and kind of take more of a scientific approach and go what's going on and how can I help other athletes not go through what I went through and so our laboratory has been trying to figure that out and what we've come down to is we've been doing a lot of experiments on what's called autoregulatory training and in fact we have an article on bodybuilding.com it's it's our latest article on the muscle prof column so what's autoregulatoratory training it's training that one you still plan your workouts. So, basically, Nina, I know you probably have a whole game plan uh set out. So, you're like, you know, for example, that uh say you might have to hit a body part three times a week and and you should start off with a plan like, okay, I know I need to hit it heavy one workout a week. I know I hit it moderate, one workout a week, and then I should probably have a light day. So, that's your game plan. So what autoregulatory training does is it takes into account how you feel into the equation. Okay? So say Monday you come in and you feel phenomenal like you could run through a wall. That day you do your heavy workout. But say Monday you come in and you had a long weekend, maybe some relationship problems, and you feel horrible on Monday. That day you should do your light workout. And then on Friday, if you feel phenomenal, that's the day you should do your heavy workout. So, you get all your workouts in, but you plan it based on some flexibility, but with a game plan because again, without a plan, you have a plan to fail. You guys all know that. But you still need to make it flexible to how you feel. And there's other research on autoregulatory training for example where what researchers did was you know most times people have you lift like okay I'm going to do three sets of 10 at 75% of my 1 RM but you can adjust that so you go okay what can I hit for a set of 10 if you can do more you up the weight if you do if you can't if you misrepresented it in your mind you only got six go down that's auto regulatory training so our lab's been trying to figure out what is the best form of auto regulatory training to actually do. So, um, you want to explain that? Yeah. So, basically, one of the ways that we monitor in our lab is this thing known as a perceived recovery scale. Um, and basically it's a scale from 1 to 10, right? If I if I'm a 10, that means I could run through this wall. I'm going to hit PRs on all my lifts. I feel fantastic. I'm going to go in and just crush it at the gym. If I'm a one, I'm like sick. I can't get out of bed. Uh, it's the most brutal feeling in the world. Basically, what we what we found is that based on your perceived recovery, say I go into the gym and I'm like, I feel good. Maybe I'm like an eight or a nine. I'm going to do my hardest workout on that day because I feel fantastic. And then after that day, maybe maybe one or two days later, I might feel like trash. Well, instead of going in and say, you know what, screw it. I I I got to get up. I got to hammer it hard. Rather than do that, I'm listening to my body and I'm saying, you know what, maybe it's time for me to do a power day. So rather than go in and destroy it now, maybe I I stop and I step back and I'm like, I'm just going to go in maybe even do something light, get a get a little power day in, maybe even get a little pump and then get out, right? And then that'll allow yourself to recover. That way you're not just going down, down, down, down, down. You go down, you allow yourself to recover. Down, allow yourself to recover. And you're always uh just listening to yourself based on how you feel, your perceived recovery scale. Yeah. And so again, like Ryan said, it's a scale from 0 to 10, and we've been testing in our lab the threshold. We've actually related the perceived recovery stat scale. We've done really brutal protocols, which are kind of famous for. We've made people lift 50,000 pounds in a single workout. Um we saw perceived recovery was related to free testosterone um direct markers of muscle damage performance and we recently did a study. Okay, we took people and trained them insanely for two weeks like the type of training that you wake up in the morning and make most people like shiver, you know. And um what we found is that individuals on their perceived recovery when they didn't allow themselves to go below a seven or a 7.5 actually in our study um by the end of the two weeks we we backed off training for two weeks. Those people jumped up in muscle mass and they jumped up in strength. people who fell to like a five and a half or six. Um, those people went down in performance during the two weeks and after we backed off for two weeks, they only recovered their strength and size. People who who did kind of like I told you I had done in grad school when I when you when they allowed themselves to get down like a three or four, they went down during the hard two weeks and we backed off training for two weeks, they didn't recover. So there seems to be a point of no return from not listening to your body. So we suggest is that don't allow yourself to fall below like a seven. Um and if you find yourself multiple days hitting a six or a five, you you're hitting that point of no return. And what you need to do is taper for at least one to two weeks. And basically what a taper means is that you keep training as frequently, but you take all the sets you're doing and cut it down by 50 to up to 80%. So you keep training hard, but instead of doing 10 sets, for example, of legs, you might just do three hard sets per workout for a couple weeks. So that's our advice. Definitely. Um, great question here by Michael. I'm trying to gain some muscle by eating six meals a day, but sometimes can't always get my meals in depending on my work schedule. I was thinking about adding in a meal replacement shake. Is there anything I need to look out for when selecting? Um, I'd say most importantly, um, we we get this a lot. Um, a lot of people are always trying to eat more meals and they can't really figure out how to fit them in. Uh well again one of the things that we've talked about a lot like for instance like branch chain amino acids um is going to be important and to look look out for that I'd say anywhere from 2 to three grams of leucine is going to be important for triggering that response. Um ideally like 2.5 grams of leucine will maximize that response and basically look for that when you're when you're buying a product. Um a lot of them a lot of them have that but make sure you have at least two to three grams of leucine. um in your product in your in between meal shake. Yeah. So like Brian said, you know, if you go to body.com, they have a lot of amino acid products. You can bri branching amino acids. Um my brother uh Dr. Gabe Wilson did research where basically he found and also another researcher Dr. Douglas, Pat, and Jones found this that um basically let's say you had three meals a day and in between meals you had like branch chain amino acids and like a granola bar, you'd reinstate protein synthesis. Um but if you went on say Body M, you found a meal replacement, make sure it has like at least 20 to 30 grams of protein in it. Um and probably, you know, and some complex carbs in there as well would be really good. uh you know, so that that's definely some advice, but again, you can either alternate your meals um with branching amino acids or if you're dieting or branching if you're trying to gain mass like you're trying if you're actually trying to gain mass or maintain lean mass, then um I would say have uh some sort of energy source like a carb in there like a granola bar with that or just buy a full out meal replacement that follows the criteria we just said. Great. Yeah, absolutely. Um, Steve from New Jersey. Nice. It's my It's my state. Um, can you provide some more examples of gaining and maintaining lean mass? I'm 125 pounds of 15% body fat. I'd like to reach 12% at 130 lbs. Is this realistic with only six weeks left in the challenge? This video rocks. Well, thanks, man. And, um, what what are your thoughts on that? Uh, Stephen, um, so like Ryan said, he's from Jersey. My brother Gabe Wilson's in Jersey right now, too. Um, so, okay, here's the thing. Um, it always, it really always depends on your sort of, you know, capacity that you have. Have I seen something like that, um, you know, happen? Yeah, I I think it's possible. Yes, I think it's possible. I was looking at scans yesterday um on our DEXA machine and I've seen numbers like you're saying to go from 125 to 130 from 15 to 12% is entirely possible in the next six six weeks. So yes I have seen that um I've seen it multiple times. Um so basically as far as gaining and maintaining lean mass um we did research it uh at our lab um with um actually when Sean McCclary used to be in our lab as well and basically what we did was we did what's called sort of a lean bulk versus a dirty bulk and uh we just increase calories slightly. So, if you have if you increase your calories slightly and mainly from protein, like maybe like increase your calories by 500, for example, and it's more higher protein content, you're going to have a hard time gaining fat and you'll likely lose some body fat. Um, yes, you can gain muscle and lose fat at the same time. I can show you a million scans on our on our DEXA machine in the lab that demonstrate that. So, you're going to up your calories slowly. That's one. Two, if you're trying to maintain a lower body fat, you don't want to just lift weights, just like we talk about in Project Mass, you're going to want to make sure you're very insulin sensitive. And to do that, you're going to need to do some cardio. But the type of cardio you're going to do is more like sprinting type of workouts. So, you're going to do like 10 to 30 second allout sprints for maybe four to 10 second uh four to 10 repetitions two to three times a week. Um and uh those and then the other thing is how you structure your calories is going to be important. Your breakfast is probably going to be one of the most important meals of the day. The next important meal of the day is going to be your preworkout meal because those if you're eating a lot of those calories right before you work out, like Ryan pointed out earlier, you have less chance of storing that as fats. Um and uh so that those that's my main tips. And obviously nothing is is as important as like the training stimulus itself or it's definitely as important as anything else. So you're going to want to train hard and you want to train frequently and use the the things we've been talking about with periodizing but using your mind to periodize as well. Exactly. And just just keep making sure your training's on point, your nutrition is on point. And and this goes for everyone. Um, as you know, we're here to help you guys throughout this entire challenge and and and beyond that. And even though there's only six weeks left, you guys have any questions, um, hit hit them up at at the muscle prof anytime, any day of the week, we'll be there to answer qu answer any questions that you guys have, even if it's about your program or what you should be eating and stuff like that. Anytime. So, that's what we do. That's what we're here for. That's what we're here for. So, another great question. Um, I love that most people seem to be leveraging this challenge to kickstart a lifestyle rather than an extreme. What would you say? Um, I I agree 100%. Um, an extreme crash diet they won't be able to sustain. What is your advice to both sides? This is huge. Um, absolutely huge. making it a lifestyle is a lot different than saying, you know what, I'm just going to crash diet um for this entire challenge ju just to try and get look as lean as possible. There's a huge difference between the two. And making it a lifestyle is something that you can sustain for a long period of time. And that's what this is for. This isn't to say, oh, you're just going to lose lose a bunch of body fat just for this short period of time. We want to make this something that can change your life forever. And that's what that's a lot of the principles that we're talking about. A lot of these techniques are meant to do that because when you when you crash diet or you're like, you know what, I just want to look good for these 12 weeks and then whatever happens after that happens, you do things like you're going to alter your metabolism. In fact, one of the machines that we're we're sitting be in front of right now is our metabolic cart that we work with a lot. And basically what we've seen with a lot of competitors um is that people will crash diet really really really hard and their metabolic rate goes through the floor and then they rebound. You see it all the time. You see all these people who have successful weight loss and then all of a sudden they bounce back up really fast and sometime even even get a lot worse because their metabolism is so slowed. But one of the things that we're we're trying to do here is we're trying to make this a lifestyle. We're not trying to crash. No, this isn't meant for people to crash down. This is meant to install principles that are going to help you for the next couple of weeks, for the next couple of months, for the rest of your lives, honestly. And and these are really what we're trying to do here. So, there's a huge difference between crash dieting and creating something that's sustainable. Yeah. One of the number one things that is important for sustainability is education. Educating yourself. There's a lot of studies where they basically they've taken two groups, they dieted them down. one group they didn't educate um like on what to do to maintain the lifestyle afterwards. One group they did educate, the group they didn't educate shot right back up. So when you're on bodybuilding.com it's the great thing about body mount.com is they have now customizable workouts where where you enter your information and you can use certain workout what you what I would encourage you to do is these are great workouts. We body mount.com is such an awesome selection. and they worked so hard to put this for you. But a lot of times people will use the program and they'll just they'll kind of rebound right up after. But while you're doing that program, go on to bodybuilding.com for more content like that program and learn, you know, uh um read the articles, understand why your metabolism is the way it is so that when you come out of this uh 12-week challenge that you're able to sustain it. So the number one thing I could say for sustainability of lifetime of lifestyle is education itself. Education is key. Absolutely key. Uh great. So here's a good question. I'm always hungry. Um me too. Yeah. Me too. What are what are some ways I can avoid this? Um this guy right here is the master. He's helped me a lot uh in this regard because, you know, sometimes we're just eating things and and you eat and you're like, I'm I'm still hungry. What how can I how can I help this? Well, one of the things that he talks about a lot um is volume, increasing the volume of your foods. So, every every day Dr. Wilson and I are in the lab, we always make these shakes. And typically, people always think of like a protein shake is, oh, I'm just going to take my my shaker bottle, throw some water in it, shake it up with some protein in it. But what if you took what if you did the have the same shake but instead you add ice and you blend it. What's that doing? That's adding volume to the shake. You're you're adding air. You're you're adding more water. Um all these things are going to have an impact. Drinking drinking water throughout the day. Um having a salad before you have your meal. All of these things just just all about adding volume to your foods are really going to help you stay satiated. Yeah, volume is very very important. Um, so like your plate, um, you know, half of it, at least half of it should be vegetables ba based and then 1/4 should be like a lean protein, 1/4 maybe a lean carb, unless you're keto and that's going to be a little bit different story. Um, but even if you're keto, half your plate should probably be vegetables, right? So yes, the more volume you add, the better. Protein is very satiating. If you're like, "I'm starving. I can't maintain these calories." Use protein to buffer that situation for the day. Um, and uh, a big breakfast does seem to help with hunger. Um, and so make sure you do have a big breakfast and fiber. And fiber is very important. MCTs are very important. Um, here's another great question by Kelsey. When's the best time to be consuming protein shakes to lose weight but still build muscle? In the morning with breakfast, before after workouts? Uh, when's the best time to take branch chain amino acids? Uh, I've been taking it before and during workouts. Is this the best option? Uh, great question, Kelsey. So, there's actually a study by a good friend of ours from Australia and um Paul [\h__\h] Dr. Paul [\h__\h] and he published this in medicine, science, and sport and exercise a number of years ago. So he took he gave a protein supplement and he gave it before or after the workout or he gave it to the sub these are bodybuilders or he gave it to them at breakfast or dinner and the ones that had it before after their workout lost more body fat and gained more muscle. What does this say is that obviously having uh amino acids available to you before and after workout's important. Now but the thing is the main thing is that you're getting those amino acids or you have them available to you around your workout. So, um, you know, if it's not a bad thing to have protein shakes with breakfast and have them at night before bed and then have branch chain amino acids before and after your workout. You're covering all your bases there. But, you know, for some reason, you could only have it at a at at two times, let's say, before and after your workout, but that's probably not going to be the case. The other thing is high quality protein is going to have you know, if you're having like uh you know, chicken or something like that or or lean meat, that'll be kind of like a protein shake. Um, but what I will say is this, it is important to mention that the supplements do have an advantage. Um, basically Pat and Jones showed that like a fast digesting smaller calorie branch amino acids was actually more like it was like 220 calories. It was more anabolic than a big 800 calorie meal as far as protein synthesis because the meal was so slowly digested. So there is an advantage to protein that are fast digesting. I'm not saying that calories are important because they are. But having that around your workout and that being the basis of the shakes so your stomach doesn't have to work hard and blood can go to your muscles and not your gut is beneficial. Definitely. Definitely a good point. Um, let's see here. Oh, this is cool. This is great. Great. Uh, I have a skill-based goal for the challenge, Candace, and and for the challenge of achieving 10 pull-ups. I'm currently at seven. Oh, great. That's awesome. Well, I'll tell you what, there's one of the um one of the researchers in our lab, um, uh, Julie Minovich, is, uh, is doing I think she's around the same. I think she probably knock out really strict eight or nine. May I think she might have just hit 10. Um but um one thing that we recommend is that you do um it's all about specificity. Okay. So what happens is and I know I don't want to sound like a broken record but like um uh one of the things my old mentor Dr. Sawyer said is like if you want to do be good at something and keep doing that something that is true but um there is something to be said for variability. So you have it's it's kind of tricky because you have var variation you need but then you have specificity that you need. Okay. So number one thing is you you are probably going to want to frequently do pull-ups. You could probably practice them every day. Um uh just like a basketball player practices a free throw shot every day, you might want to practice your pull-ups every day. Okay, that's number one. Number two is that if right now you can do seven, you might be able to do seven the first set and then the next set you might be down to five and the next set may be down to four. So it's a it can affect your volume. So one thing you might do is start off try and get sets of seven. But one thing we use is uh um other people go do lat pull downs now or I'm going to do the machine pull-ups. But that's not as natural as a normal pull-up. So the transfer is lower. So what do you do? Um there's one thing we do in our lab is um we use uh resistance bands. So the bands that you they're long bands and they be we use the bands you would put when you're doing squats to do u bandit squats. Um but you put it on the top of the bar and put it down on your feet. So now when you're doing pull-ups, it's a very normal regular range of motion. And so you're doing pull-ups with these bands, but it's not like a machine. you're using the same planes of motion. And now you can do, for example, um you could have a high volume day where you're doing like uh five sets of 12. That should immediately skyrocket your pull-ups up. The other thing is to realize that um we've done studies in our lab um myself and Ryan and Dr. Eduardo Desa in our lab where we found that variation of a movement results in greater um adaptability than just doing the movement itself. So, you can do wide grip pull-ups, you can do close grip pull-ups, you can do underhand pull-ups, you can do neutral pull-ups, and you should vary those on a day-to-day basis. Um, and that should get your pull-ups to go up. Um, you can have heavy days, which might be body weight. You can have um uh the higher volume days, which might be sets of 12 with one band. You can have really light high volume days, which might be two bands, where you're trying to get sets of 15. So, alternate both the intensity or the weight from day one, two, and three, and alternate the exercises uh every day as well. And your pull-up should be like at 12 before no time. All right, let's see. Uh on a high carb day, during a carb cycle, how low on fat do you suggest to have? I don't want to go too low to get reduced hormone production. Um keep doing what you do. You guys are great. Well, thanks a lot, Joe Kim. Um this is definitely a great question and and you make a good point about hormone production. Um and the one thing I will say is that um the timing of when you are the distribution is going to be important in these cases. So oftent times people say, "Oh, I'm going to I'm going to just very high carb or and have low fat." One of the most important things to consider though is when you have them. So when you have your really say I'm having a high carb meal for instance um I don't want to have high fat along with that meal and that's important to remember. There's some research by Dr. Wolf in 1996 where he basically shows that if you have a he showed the mechanism for having high amounts of fat or high amounts of carbohydrates and it blocking fat oxidation. So separating them out in meals and and basically what we know is that uh we like to say have your higher fat meals with breakfast. So having like your high a highfat meal with breakfast and then having your carb maybe around your workout and separating the high carb from your fat is going to be extremely important in these cases for your high carb days. Yeah. No, I think that answers that question perfectly. So that's great. Um this one Jason 45year-old male u I've been running on a thousand calorie day deficit since January 1st. I'm still losing 1.52 pounds a week. Awesome, man. Keep killing it. Um, how long can I keep this such an aggressive deficit before my metabolism slows down? I train five times a week. Rare cardio. Okay, Jason, that's a that's a really really loaded, very difficult question to answer. Um, what I'm going to say is that your body will adapt to anything. It will adapt to anything. Pretty soon that that 2,100 calories will become your maintenance. So, um there's it's important to realize that you kind of want to periodize um one period I'm sure you're training really hard five times a week. You know, one thing you could do is make sure that you're listening to your body and periodizing your training uh really well. So, one thing, for example, on your training that you're going to want to do is make sure that you know, maybe you start off, say the next week's really hard, then you or you go, let's say you go a light week, a moderately hard week, a really hard week, and then you back off a light week because one thing is if you're not overreaching too much, that should help your metabolism stay relatively high. Um, the other thing is it may help to um not have 2,100 every single day. Be honest with you, we need a lot more calories on calorie cycling. We don't have that data. Um, I would suggest that maybe um two days a week, maybe you're upping your calories to like 2,500 and again doing it with like protein might be beneficial. Um, so th those are some tips that that I would have. Remember, part of you adapting again is your training along with your nutrition. So, make sure that you're modifying your training frequently enough to keep your body in a in a high metabolism state. Even changing the type of cardio you do, um, whether it's sprinting outside or sprinting on a cycle will maintain your metabolism. So keep your body guessing as much as possible if you're to sustain that rate and try and have a few days where you relieve your body so it doesn't have a chance to adapt. All right, let's see. Here's here's one from Nathan. Uh I was wondering, do you guys have any tips on staying motivated to work out and diet? Lately, I haven't been. Um, one of one of my favorite quotes is, uh, and we've talked about this and it's been on the videos is that you have to have a vision that is so clear that it has no choice but to become a reality. And and that's something that really motivates Dr. Wilson and I I know that you have to have a vision of what you really want want your body to look like, what you really want to do, and and just has no choice but to become a reality. You see it every single day when you wake up. And that motivates me. I'm like, you know what? Even if I'm like, you know, I'm not feeling I'm not feeling like I should go to the gym and I'm feeling I'm feeling lazy, right? But I have this vision that is so clear that I'm like, you know what? I I got to do this. I I I need to be where I want to be. I want to be healthy. I want to I want to stay active. I got to keep doing it. And and that's something that's really helped helped myself. Yeah. So, I had that quote like on my on my bedroom door. So, I wake up, it's first thing I see. We have it in the lab. Um, and the thing is that you got to realize that what Ryan's saying is that that that's setting goals, setting proper goals and is so there are two there are a lot of components that affect motivation. One of them is goal setting. So you want to make sure your goals are very clear. When you're unsure of where you're at, try and go back and remember why you started. And sometimes that helps you. You remember when you remember when you started this challenge, how excited you were. Ask yourself why was I excited? Try and recapture that vision. And part of that setting goal, clear goals, writing. Don't just say them. Write them down. Let other people know them. Okay. The next thing that is important for motivation. There's been times where I've been trying to do something. I'm going, what is going on? What I I feel like I have AI know what I want. I have a clear vision. Why don't I feel motivated? Well, the next thing that you want to realize is um some that's your confidence a lot of times or what we call situationally specific self-confidence or self-efficacy. And what self-efficacy is um basically it's determined by a lot of things. One is positive self-t talk. Make sure that when you wake up in the morning if you have doubts that you uh replace those doubts with positive selft talk. Okay. Surrounding yourself with people who also who give you um positive compliments all the time and motivate you as well. Um those are things that are going to be very important. So working on your confidence setting realistic goals is also important for confidence. If you set a goal like I want to lose 100 pounds in the next six weeks, the goal becomes unrealistic and therefore confidence is at a low. So set goals that are achievable that you can see. You want to think about if you were to go up a flight of stairs and I told you to jump to the top of the flight of stairs right away. You would say that's impossible. If I said take one stair at a time, you would believe you could do that. Your confidence would be high and therefore your motivation would be on point. So that's sort of uh the the things that we would recommend. Yeah. And one of the last things um you you touched on this is surround yourself with those on the same mission as you. We're all here as a team. We're all trying to get healthy. We're all trying to improve improve our lives, improve our bodies. Um and that's what we're here for. Everyone here is a team. Everyone on this 200k transform is a team. So, it's being surrounded with them interacting with different people and and that's really going to help. Yeah. People who are not afraid to push you. And when you're you people who wear and you want to tell them this, people who when you're tired aren't going to just say, "Oh, quit. Oh, go ahead. Just stop." Like just real quick story. We just put on a conference here at University of Tampa. So you can see like on our Instagram, we put a lot of photos up on the latest science and this took so long to put together. um organizing speakers, putting getting our own talks together, um you know, having the opportunity to talk to hundreds of people, answer hundreds of questions, but by the end of the conference, um my good friend Sean Wells, uh who's um the most phenomenal formulator in the world, um basically he goes, "What are you doing after the conference?" And in my mind, I'm like, "I'm going to try not to collapse." And uh I'm like, "Well, I guess I'm not doing much, Sean." And Sean goes, "We need to get to work right away on on looking at what's the next big breakthrough in bodybuilding. What's the next molecular pathway that's going to make people better, especially while I was fresh on her mind?" And I'm like, "Well, Sean, I'm going to need a little bit of time to recover." And he goes, "So, what's a little bit of time? 15 minutes." And I'm like, and what turned out, I finished the conference. I'm horse. I can't barely talk. And 15 minutes later, I'm on a chalkboard um with Ryan um and our and our chemist uh Brian uh the gorilla chemist on uh on Instagram. And what we're doing, we're on the board drawing molecular pathways trying to figure out how we can help you guys because and that was important to me, but I I wouldn't have been able to do that. We made some of the biggest breakthroughs that you could possibly know, and we're going to be sharing that with you over the next couple months. But those breakthroughs would have not happened had I not surrounded myself with people who are willing to push myself. And that's what I would say for you with your motivation. All right, guys. Well, it was great hanging out with you guys. Um, just a little quick update. We're going to be live answering questions at the musler prof on Instagram tonight at 5:00 Mountain Standard Time, 7 o'clock Eastern. Um, and for those of you who are going to be in Columbus uh at the Arnold, make sure you make sure you find Dr. Wilson and I. We'll be we'll be walking around and we'll even be at the bodybuilding.com booth. Uh we'd love to meet you guys and talk shop. So yeah, exactly. So definitely find us. Bodybuild's gonna actually do something. We're going to do a giveaway, too. So if you find me, take a picture with me, show it off. We'll um we'll be giving you guys some goodies as well. So um see you guys tonight at 5 Mountain Standard Time, 7 Eastern on our at the Muscle Prof Instagram. Later.