So you got 4 workouts covering the whole body over a 6-day period. Having said that, you gotta be flexible. If you need an extra day for recovery, then take an extra day so that'll become 4 days over 7. Some people may need even more, you gotta listen to your body. If you need more days to recover then, you know, just extend that cycle into 7 days or 8 days or whatever you need. Extra negatives are a tool that you can use to increase the intensity. Basically, you got three phases of strength. The weakest phase is the positive or the lifting of the weight. That's the weakest phase. The second phase of strength is the static. You're stronger on the static. And then the third phase is the negative. Unfortunately, a lot of people think in terms of just lifting weight so for instance, a bench press, they lifted the weight to the top. All right, job done and just drop it back down and do another one. They're missing half of the rep and possibly the most important half of the rep because more muscle damage occurs on the negative than on the positive and it's the damage to the muscle that the body repairs that then becomes muscle growth. So you're missing the most important part of the rep if you don't emphasize that negative part. And even when you've gone to failure on the positive part of the exercise, your muscle hasn't gone to true failure because there's still strength left in the negative. So that's why I advise sometimes doing additional negatives at the end of the set. If you've got a training partner. If you're on a machine and it's safe, for instance, you're doing bench press on a machine, you reach failure, you do a couple of forced reps, your positive strength is depleted. You failed but you still got something left in the negative so you can get somebody to raise the weight to the top and lower it slowly down for a couple reps until they can't control it, that way, you've depleted every, you know, every area of the rep. In offseason, a moderate amount of cardio, I think, is good for your cardiovascular conditioning. You need some decent amount of cardio to recover between your sets. So 25, 30 minutes three times a week, moderate cardio I think is good for some conditioning. It's also good for recovery from the workouts because it helps--you're pushing blood around the system, get rid of the waste products from the weight workouts. I prefer to do them on days that I'm not in the gym or if you, you know, if your schedule doesn't permit that and you have to do it on the days you weight train, I would much prefer to do it away from the weight workout. I've known for years for my own feedback that if you do cardio after weight training, it kind of interferes with the recovery. The priority is recovering from that workout and rebuilding the resources, so it's much better to do your cardio separately. And funnily enough, scientific studies are coming out now and proving this if you do cardio after weights, your strength gains are less than if you did weights on their own. I do a small amount of ab work but there's no additional weight. It's just body weight, short movements, crunches, reverse crunches, leg raises. Of course, if you wanted to get thicker abdominals, you could use extra resistance but most people don't because aesthetically, you don't want to build too much muscle in the midsection 'cause it spoils your shape. So just very controlled, short movements, basically abdominals is just to bring these two points together. So sit-ups and so on, not in the most effective. I found just simple forward crunches and reverse crunch where you bring your hips up toward your chest and reversing that movement, that's pretty much all I needed. Sure, you can do once a week when you're in a mass cycle, but I wouldn't recommend using extra weights 'cause it's gonna build thickness in the obliques and it's gonna, you know, it's gonna spoil your symmetry. I do several sets, just concentrating on the contraction and having more control, especially when you go on stage, controlling the abdominals and with the posing and everything, you need to be connected with the muscle in order to control them. There's a debate, what's better, machines or free weights? Neither, you know. They're both tools that you can use. As long as you're working the muscle, you're working it to failure, it doesn't particularly matter if it's a machine or a free weight. There's advantages and disadvantages. The advantages with the free weight, of course, we're all built differently. We're all different heights. We all got different lengths of limbs, different attachments and everything where a machine is just built in one way. A free weight, if you lift the free weight and I lift the free weight, it will take a slightly different pathway because our bodies are built differently so that's the advantage of a free weight. It works with the individual's body where a machine, you're locked into a groove. The advantage of a machine is that you can isolate the muscle without too much outside involvement, especially if you got injuries, they're very useful and there's more control involved. So if you want to go extra negatives and so on, of course, if you're doing a free weight, bench press is very awkward to do extra negatives at the end. You'd have to lift the weight to the top and lower it down and it's just not practical and it's not really safe, whereas a machine, you're doing a machine bench press, you can get your training partner to lift at the top and you can control it and it's safe. So there's advantages and disadvantages. I use both in my training. I use free weights. I use machines. You know, the main thing is as long--it's more like the effort that you're putting in rather than the tools that you're using. I've always worked with a training partner just because working to failure, it's not practical. If you haven't got a training partner, you at least need a good spotter, somebody that knows what they're doing. If you're, you know, if you're going to failure with a--on an incline press with a free weight, for instance, if you go to failure and there's nobody there spotting you, it's very dangerous so you can get stuck with that weight on your chest. So you need a good training partner or at least a spotter, you know, to assist you in those exercises where it's not safe and practical to do it without a training partner. So, for me, they're essential but, of course, you know, you've gotta have a training partner that has the same goals as yourself. I think that's very important. You know, I can give guidelines, but obviously it varies from one person to another depending on their metabolism. I usually start with a protein recommendation. If somebody's training hard and they're trying to build muscle and put on body weight, I would recommend a ballpark like 1-1/2 grams of protein for each pound of body weight. So if you weigh 200 pounds, for instance, 300 grams of protein a day, that's what you should be aiming for. And your body can only utilize so much protein at one time and it doesn't stay in your system for very long so that's why I recommend eating--breaking that protein requirement down into five or six small meals throughout the day and that's where a protein supplement becomes very important. That's something I've always used since I've started training because to get, 300, 400 grams of protein a day from solid food is very, very difficult and, you know, if you're working and so on, it's not practical to eat chicken breast every couple of hours. So a protein supplement is very useful to get that requirement in. As far as an energy requirement, carbohydrates, it's gonna vary quite a bit from one individual to another. So I can give you a, you know, a guideline and basically if you're putting on body fat with that level, then you have to bring it down a little bit. If you're not gaining weight, then you have to go up a little bit. Whatever protein level you're taking, times that by 1-1/2 to 2. Three hundred grams of protein a day becomes 450 to 600 grams of carbohydrate a day. That would be a good guideline. And again, break it up throughout the day and keep good source of carbohydrates, you know, fairly complex carbohydrates that are broken down slowly, released into your bloodstream slowly so you don't get spikes of blood sugar and big drops. So we're talking oatmeal, brown rice, sweet potatoes, vegetables, things like that. You need fats in your diet. There was one time back when I started training where it was just high protein, carbohydrates and super low fat and I found with a little bit more fat in my diet, definitely my strength went up and I got better gains. You know, you're gonna get dietary fat if you're eating eggs. I wouldn't just eating egg whites, I would throw a few egg yellows in there. If you take all the yellows out, you're taking some of the aminos away. So let's say you're having ten egg whites, I would say have at least three yolks in there as well. You know, steak, you're gonna have natural fats in there and a couple of tablespoons a day with omega fats mixed omega fats to make sure you're getting all the essential fats. Chicken breast, turkey breast. Beef is an excellent source of protein. It's just, you know, if it's very high in fat, obviously you don't want that but you can get--I used to get lean ground beef almost as chicken breast and it's a better and more complete source of protein. So beef is a good source as well. So eggs, chicken breast, turkey breast, beef, fish is fine if you like it, I'm not a big fan myself, then a protein supplement. Those are main sources. I used to train after two meals so I'd have a big breakfast, you know, oatmeal, eggs and so on, a couple hours later, I'd have a shake, a protein shake, maybe a banana or a small amount of carbohydrates. About an hour to an hour and a half before I trained, 30 minutes before I trained, I'd take a pre-workout kind of stimulant supplement. After training, I would take a small amount of simple, quickly-digested protein like a whey isolate along with some simple sugars, dextrose, sucrose, it doesn't matter as long as it's simple sugar. Then you're gonna get that insulin reaction. The body's gonna release insulin and it's gonna help push nutrients towards the muscles that are depleted at that point and that's a good time to take, you know, extra glutamine, creatine. If you're taking creatine, that's an excellent time to take it. You're gonna absorb more right after the workout with the simple sugars. I got a lot of experience with injuries. I had enough injuries over the years. I've learned as I went along. I was a young guy when I started, I got injuries and there's really no--there was no good advice around. I'd go to my M.D. and, of course, they don't know much about sports injuries. They just tell you to rest and take some anti-inflammatories. If you've got an injury, a small injury, it's good to take care of it. You know, what happens if you've got an injury, if you got a small tear in the muscle, your body will repair that but it repairs it with scar tissue. Scar tissue is not flexible like normal muscle tissue. It's not elastic so if you could think about like an elastic band. If you snapped an elastic band and then stuck it together with glue, with a lump of glue, it will be fixed but it will no longer be elastic and there's a good chance that that lump of glue, at some point, is gonna snap again. So if you get a little injury, I think deep tissue and massage is the best thing to do. And you get somebody in there to break that scar tissue down, bring blood into the area and trying to get the healthy tissue back there and do that before it becomes a severe injury. That's what I've learned over the years. And, you know, regular chiropractic is very helpful as well to keep everything in balance. Don't wait till you've got an injury. If you're putting a lot of stress on your body, if you're doing a lot of weight training, I think it's a good idea to have regular chiropractic care, just maybe once a month, something like that. I used to do strength because I mean strength is a good indication. If you're getting stronger, you're getting bigger and vice versa. So I would do body weight. I even used to do measurements like measure my arms. The stuff might sound a bit old, old school, but if you got various factors there, you can see if they're all increasing. So you could do a couple of measurements. You could do your body weight on the scales. You could do your strength levels and see how that increases from month to month and have a goal each month. Even if it's, "This month, I'm gonna put on 2 pounds," if you did that every month at the end of the year, it's 24 pounds. It's a huge gain. I don't do pictures in offseason, but I did getting ready for a contest, every week, getting ready for a contest so that way I could track how my body was changing and actually helped me a lot. When I won the first Mr. Olympia in 1992, I kept every week pictures and what I noticed was like practically 5 or 6 weeks out from the contest, I was more or less in contest shape and I kept coming down and losing weight and losing weight. And it may have got a little harder but what I realized is I was actually losing muscle. So the next year, I was determined not to do that and I didn't make that mistake and that's why I was able to make this huge increase from 1 year to the next, like 16 or 17 pounds of muscle from 1 year to the next. And everyone's like, "How is that possible?" Well, you know, I had a great year of training so I probably did put on 5 or 6 pounds of muscle, which at a pro level, that's a great gain, but more importantly, I didn't sacrifice 10 pounds of muscle like I sacrificed the previous year. So it's really helped the learning process. Something that really helped me over the years to keep motivated is keeping a journal with nutrition, with training. What I used to do is every month, write down where I'm at presently. This is my body weight. This is my nutrition. These are my max weights or eight reps on like ten key exercises, and then I would set myself a short-term goal, which is like in 1 month's time, I want to do this. And it's gotta be an achievable goal. For instance, if you could just add 5 pounds to your bench press in a month, if you could do that every month, then that's 60 pounds at the end of the year. That's a huge gain. So it's important to have goals, short-term goals, maybe monthly goals and maybe a long-term goal at the end of the year and break it down into little steps. Instead of looking at, "The end of the year, I want to achieve this," how are you gonna get there? You gotta take small steps to get there. So monthly goals and writing them down I think it makes them more--much more powerful. What I would do before a workout, I would look at my journal and I would keep a record of every workout as well. After a workout, I would write down, "This is what I did today," you know, "incline press, 200 times 8 reps," and I would review that before I went to do the workout the next week. "Okay, that's what I did last week and that's my goal to beat this," you know? "I did 8 reps with 200 or whatever, this workout I'm gonna "do 9 reps or 10 reps or I'm gonna do the same reps with 205," just small increments and get that goal in your mind. Know which exercises you're gonna do before you go to the gym, which order you're gonna do them in, what your goals are for those exercises, rather than just wandering in a gym and thinking, "Oh, I'm doing chest today, what shall I do? What do I feel like doing today?" And having no clear goal. If you got no clear goal, you're very unlikely to get anywhere.