(intense rock music) - Hey guys, this is Craig Capurso, Cellucor athlete and bodybuilding.com athlete. Today, I'm gonna take you through a 15-minute time cap-type workout. What we're gonna do is basically go through each exercise, we have a specific number of reps that we're gonna go through. We're gonna go through all of them until we complete that, and then repeat the round, and we're gonna add one more rep each time. And so, what we're gonna go for is many rounds as possible in 15 minutes. And the cool thing about an exercise like this, we can actually score it. So, if we're doing the first exercise out the gate, it's gonna be 10 push-ups. That's gonna equate to 10 points, but the last exercise in this series is gonna be power cleans. Let's just say we're using 135. One rep is gonna be 135 points. So at the end of this thing, at the end of 15 minutes, you calculate all of your reps and your weight that you pushed, and basically, that's gonna be your total score. And the cool thing about this is you come back, every time you want to do this workout again, and compare yourself. All right, so let's break down this workout. So, the first exercise in this group is gonna be push-ups. The next one is gonna be toes-to-bar. The next thing is gonna be burpees. Then, we're gonna hit some technique in pistol squats. And then, we're gonna get into power cleans. And remember guys, there's only 15 minutes to do this workout, so hit it and quit it, rest when you have to. Get this thing done. (intense rock music) (weight clatters) All right, so let's get started. The first exercise is 10 pushups. Keep your elbows a little bit more tucked in. Mimic what you're gonna be doing on the bench press. You don't really want your elbows wide, you're gonna be hitting more shoulders. We're gonna really be focusing more about the chest on this one. The next exercise after that's gonna be toes-to-bar, get a good grip. You can wrap if you want to. You probably don't have a lot of time to do that, but basically, hang on, you know, hit the abs. You're gonna be crunching your core. Make sure the pelvis comes up. The next exercise after that's gonna be burpees. There's not really much I can tell you here. It's gonna be a more of a willpower. Hit it and quit it, get up and get down. Then, after that, it's a little bit more technique. Each leg, we got five reps in the pistol squats to start. This is gonna take some time if you need to hold on to a rope or hold on to a bar or hold on to a stand. Help you get through these, that's a good way to get started, but after a while, you want to, you know, advance where you can do it yourself. Focus on sitting on that heel and the coming back up and down. Then, the one after that's gonna be power cleans. I'm gonna start with 135. I'm gonna be trying to practice on more Olympic Style form. I don't want to muscle it and hold it. I want to bring it around, get down, pop a little bit, and press that bar overhead. (intense rock music) When I repeat this circle, I'm gonna basically add one more rep, so when I go to the top of the set, it's gonna now be 11 push-ups, 11 toes-to-bar, 11 burpees, six each-leg pistol squats, and now two power cleans. So, a lot of people ask me, you know, "How do you rest in something like this?" It's completely up to you. Your rest is gonna be different from my rest. You know, certain exercise, I'm gonna be more spent, so I'm gonna need a little bit more rest before I start the next rep, or even the next exercise in the group, but it's completely up to you and how your body taxes. So, again, at the end of this, we're gonna be hitting these power cleans, hang cleans, and press. It's the reason we're doing it at the end is pretty much rip and pull, I want to see what you got. It's gonna be a little bit challenging with, you know, the fatigue that sets in. So, be careful, make sure you come underneath the bar before you press overhead. It's really just a gut check, see what you got, adding a little bit more performance in this sprint, if we will. All right guys, so again, let me say there's only 15 minutes in this workout. So, you gotta hit this thing hard. Give it all you got. (weight clatters) (bell dings) They complain we don't sweat in these workouts, here we go. So, this workout could be done maybe on a weekly basis or a monthly basis or even a couple-months basis. It's kind of a gut check, you know, it's a workout that's gonna help your aerobic capacity. It's gonna help you set a score and let you chase something. Pick up the intensity, give yourself a little bit of performance, but basically just burn a ton of calories, improve your performance and If you have any questions for me or anything about this workout that you need to know, contact me at social media @craigcapurso. So, make sure you guys give us a follow, and you can see more workout shows like this from bodybuilding.com.