Today we're doing a lower body workout. We're going to be working on our thighs and glutes. It's a 15-minute M wrap, which means that you're going to be going through the circuit of five different exercises as many times as you can. These exercises are fun. These are exercise combos that will raise up your heart rate and target the biggest muscles on your body. But you have to push as much as you can. Put all of the effort into this workout. You're going to love the way you feel afterwards. So, here are the exercises that we're going to be doing today. Backward lunge kick up, sumo squat, leg lift, pistol squat to deadlift, curtsy lunge side kick, squat to lunge jump. Okay, so let's get ready. Let's do this. So, the first exercise in the circuit is backward lunge kick up. We're doing 10 reps on each leg. This exercise requires balance, so make sure that you're staring at one point right in front of you. That's going to help you with the balance and try to kick as high as you can. The second exercise in the circuit is sumo jump squat and leg lift. So, you're going to keep your feet wider apart. Jump up as high as you can. Land softly on the balls of your feet and then do the leg lift. We're going to be working again our glutes and our thighs, but also we're going to be targeting our abs with this exercise. You're going to really start to feel your heart rate raise up during this exercise. But I don't want you to slow down. I want you to push yourself even farther. The third exercise in the circuit is pistol squat to deadlift. We're doing 10 reps alternating. Try to focus on tensing all of the muscles in the standing leg. That's the most important thing when you're doing the pistol squat. If you cannot go all the way down, try to go at least halfway down. Focus when you're doing the deadlift as well. It requires a lot of balance, but that means that you're going to be also working your core muscles. So that's really good thing. Don't give up on an exercise just because it's challenging. Just either try to do an easier modification or just try to push through it and have fun with it. The fourth exercise in this workout is curts lunge to sidekick. We're doing 10 reps on each leg. The curtain sidekick is a lateral movement. It's going to really target our glutes. So, when you're performing this exercise, really try to keep your focus on your glutes and to keep them under tension as much as you can. The last exercise in the circuit is squat to lunge jump. And we're doing 10 reps. You're going to be moving really fast between squat and lunge. So, don't take any breaks in between each movement. Try to go from lunge to squat as fast as you can until you complete the 10 reps. This is only one round. We have 15 minutes to complete as many rounds and as many reps as possible. So, keep going through the circuit until the 15 minutes is completely up. The goal is to complete as many total reps as possible. Write your score down because the next time you come back to this workout, you have to beat your personal best. This is only one workout out of my entire program. So, if you want to see the rest of the program, check out the details below this video. If you guys have any questions for me, you can find me on my website zuskcali.com or on my YouTube channel, Instagram or Facebook. I will be happy to reply to any questions you have. And for more free articles and videos like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.