Thank you so much for joining us on the post show. I'm Dave Ferris standing next to Jay Cutler and Larry Pepe as we get into the post show commentary of the 50th annual uh Mr. Olympia wrapping up. It's just been such a tremendous show. Phil Heath of course walking away with the title of Mr. Olympia for the fourth time. I know that you understand how that feels, but if you can put into words what you thought of the competition and of course Phil Heath once again taking the crown. You know, I had Phil uh from Friday night obviously uh he he closed the deal tonight. You think he came back better? He came back stronger. He came back with a mission to win the title. He fought off a better Kai Green tonight. Uh that's that's kind of the story that that kind of uh was built up for the show. I think it proved itself tonight and uh you know, Phil came out the the victor. It was interesting to see uh quite the homage being paid to to Joe Weider. It being the 50th anniversary of this, so many legends up on stage. What was it like for you in that moment when you were up there with all of those other Mr. Olympias, people that really helped to build this sport over the past 50 years. I I think we all have a story with Joe Weer. I mean, I I stated, you know, when I came out to California for the first time, I met Joe Weider. I was 21 years old and uh Joe Weider basically told me I had a future in bodybuilding and he wanted to support that. So, I was able to move out to California when I was 25. He actually moved me to California to become a better bodybuilder and work closer with the magazines muscle fitness and flex and of course endorsed the weeder supplements and uh work kind of under his umbrella of uh of what he built and uh it it gave me a great opportunity. It made me into a great bodybuilder. I mean that's when my my career actually in the pro ranks went from basically the bottom all the way back up. And uh you know I I get I understand how a lot of these guys their stories especially Schwarzenegger walking on the stage explaining you know he has the deepest relationship obviously with Joe of any of us but I think we all have a certain story that you know we can tell what Jolia touched upon in our lives when you were a 21-year-old kid because plenty of 21-y old kids go I'm going to move to California and hope things work out. Did you ever expect that it would get this big? You know what? you don't know what to expect and I think uh you're so caught up in trying to just make your career the best it can possibly be. I think really uh you know you just you kind of take every year one step at a time. I think that's what a a professional does. They don't really get too far ahead. So I didn't really want to think to the point, okay, I'm going to be on the Olympia stage. I never thought I really compared to those guys to be honest, especially at that age. But then before you knew it, I was knocking at the door and of course uh now winning four titles, it uh it leaves me uh in a piece of history. And Phil Heath, of course, matching that streak tonight. Is there a little piece here that goes ah no, you know what? He he won four straight. I didn't I wasn't able to do that. Larry Larry knows the history. He's the historian over here and he'll tell you. Uh there's some battles I fought. Uh I had a fight off uh of course the eight time winner Ronnie Coleman to get there. Uh so when I won it was it's big history of course losing coming back and winning it and uh you know closing out my last Olympia 2010 was my last victory and of course I lost the next year to Phil Heath. So uh you know I kind of brought Phil in and I left with him you know toppling me which I didn't expect when I actually helped him you know get underway and I said oh he's going to be great and I think he'll be Mr. Olympia someday. I just didn't know he'd be Mr. Olympia from me. Well, we saw some fantastic competition and I I I will say that your predictions were very accurate. Uh Flex Lewis is standing right off stage right now. Uh what are your thoughts on him moving up to the open as opposed to staying at 212? You know what? I don't know if he's going to do that. I think uh it's going to be tougher. I mean, as great as Flex Lewis is, I mean, you know, it comes down to, you know, a kind of a height stature in this this division. I mean, he's he's definitely packed for a shorter bodybuilder, but you can see these other guys. I mean, look at someone um you know, that that's you know, you look at the Lee Labradas and those kind of people uh that that really kind of broke through, but it's it's kind of a different era now. The guys are so built and um you know, William Bonik, I mean, look at how built he is and how how much muscle he packs on. And I mean, he was, you know, pretty much uh you know, at the end of the pack here, which I thought he was overlooked in this in this uh lineup. We agree on that. Well, we'll get the word from Flex Lewis in just a moment, as well as the physique winner, Jeremy Bonita. He is going to be joining us on stage momentarily. Jay, thanks so much for the insight. Always a pleasure to hang out with you and talk to you about this fantastic world of bodybuilding. 50 years now in the books. Mr. Olympia coming to a close here in Las Vegas. We are live and we'll be right back with more of our post show here on bodybuilding.com. Day one. Motivation's high. Gears packed. You're unstoppable. You lose fat, build muscle, transform, but it doesn't last. Days pass, desire drops, fitness goals become fitness dreams again. Because fitness starts on the inside, your brain. And welcome back. Our post show is live here at the Orleans in Las Vegas. It's the 50th anniversary. Mr. Olympia has wrapped up. Nicole Wilkins joining us on stage right now. Congratulations on your win and making your own piece of history tonight. Thank you very much. So, I mean, we're at this event and obviously it's historic. It's the 50th anniversary. How does it feel for you though to be able to put together a piece of your own history? Amazing. I mean, well, it's humbling in in its own to be on the stage and to be considered one of the 50 champions throughout the history of the Olympia. Um, but you know, my goal to come into the show was to break the streak of getting second every time I won the year after. Uh, and I really worked hard and it paid off. So, I'm It feels great. Fantastic. Felicia, I know that you've been watching Nicole uh very carefully. We saw you with a great performance earlier this year as well, but what are your thoughts on what Nicole was able to pull off tonight? It's I mean, I just watching and prejudging. I mean, obviously your amazing stage presence, but your physique, you've added so many so much awesome muscle. Um, how has your tra your training changed this last year coming into the show? My training changed a lot last May when I started working with Hanie. Um, and you know, last year I felt like it was the best look I ever have brought to the stage. And so this year that was my goal is to try to better that look. And we really did a lot of the same training styles. I still trained like a traditional bodybuilder honestly and uh lifted heavy. I I do quite a bit of running because my legs tend to be overpowering. So that was always a focus to bring them to keep them down and even with my upper body and then to balance out the upper uh from right to left, you know, my left side was always a little weaker and with the shoulder injury to rebuild that to make sure that you know from all four sides the physique was balanced and I think that we accomplished that. So yeah, absolutely. Yeah, definitely. You came into this event saying that you wanted to make history and then you did. So now that it's all said and done, how does it feel and what are the next steps for you? H feels amazing. Um tonight I'm just going to enjoy it. I'm going to spend time with my family who has come from Michigan and my friends and clients and it's like 30 of them that are outside waiting and I was surprised when they all wore green shirts yesterday for pre-judging. So it was just the support that they give me is amazing. So I want to spend time with them because throughout the weekend I don't get a whole lot of opportunity to see them. And then I have uh a lot of travel in the next couple months. I'm going to do a lot of seminars and camps and um I'm promoting a show in Finland, which will be the first time the Nicole Wilkins Fitness Classic has been or championship has been in Finland. And um yeah, so I'm just focusing on those things right now and then we'll see what happens next year. Are you going to be taking a vacation anytime soon? A little time off. Well, I guess the next vacation will be Christmas. Um, yeah. I don't have any plans for a a Well, you've totally earned it. Yes. Will you at least go like get a piece of cheesecake when you're in Finland or something? Absolutely. I'm sure I can fit in some of those. Thanks so much for taking the time for us on the post show. Congratulations again. Thank you so much. Yeah. Thanks, guys. More winners coming up. We'll be right back here on bodybuilding.com. There's a moment when you must decide. A moment when you know that you've given it everything you have. Pushing your body and mind to the limit of what is possible. Becoming what others thought was impossible. And that's the moment you push further. It's a push fueled by the allnew Ano Explode. The original preworkout igniter. Now re-engineered for explosive energy, enhanced endurance, and maximum performance. The new NO Explode. Push your limits, then push further. Not every legend is a myth. Some are flesh and blood. Some legends walk among us. But they aren't born. They are built. Legends are made from iron and sweat, mind and muscle, blood and vision and victory. Legends are champions. They grow, they win, they conquer. There's a legend behind every legacy. There's a blueprint behind every legend. I'm Amata. This is my blueprint. And we are live in Las Vegas. It is the post show for Mr. Olympia. The 50th anniversary of course is now in the books and we are standing here with a couple of our big winners from the weekend. Jeremy Bonita, congratulations to you winning physique. Very nicely done. And then of course Flex Lewis at 212. Both you guys with big medals around your neck uh with with this now being behind us. How does it feel to have won at the 50th anniversary of Mr. Olympia? Well, for me myself, um being now the the third title winner, um this was my biggest win in the date. You know, Joe Wea s me as a young 23-y old and um to meet Joe, be brought into his office, have the pleasure then of of knowing him up to his passing and then to win this historical event is is a momentous, you know, part of my career. I don't want to get emotional, but this is a a very very very big part and probably the biggest win of my life. Well, Flex, let me jump in on that word career. Yes. Right. I mean, we we've been hearing the rumors like this is going to be Flex Lewis last time at 212. A lot of us have had the opinion that you should stay at 212 and just try to ride this out and become the greatest ever and set records. What are you going to do? Um, I think there's a lot of room and let's put it at bed. As of now, I want to stay at 212 and I want to create that legacy. I think uh uh there's a lot of people that would love to see me. I know you guys are fans and thank you so much. Um have all supported me on whatever I've done. Um and yes, I am a bodybuilder and I do want to get bigger and I do want to get better, but let's face facts. You've seen the monsters up there tonight. I'll be standing against them. Um now I'm not scared of jumping in in the mix with these guys. I've done it in the past. Um maybe I'll do a smaller show, you know, you never know. But in terms of being a Mr. Olympia, I want that 212 title. And uh for me, I you know, I do a lot of traveling. I travel the world supporting um the bodybuilding world lifestyle and giving back to the fans and doing obviously my contractual obligations. So that does keep me at a certain weight limit. Doesn't give me the chance to, you know, have a crazy off seasonason. So my off seasonason started this year 12 12 weeks out. So, um, you know, if I was to do that each and every year, then I must definitely be staying in that 212 class. So, for the foreseeable future, it's 212. For the foreseeable future, as of now, we ask him next week and be a totally different. There's a lot of pressure you guys give me as fans. I will say that cuz again, the these, you know, how these fans get. there. But again guys, thank you so much for all the support and uh you know not trying to jump in on this whole interview but you know I came into this whole Olympia with giving back to you guys the three pete all about the fans everything all my Instagrams tweet Twitter Facebook was all about the fans so that's why all give you know do we'll be doing Europe up on stage is giving these interviews to to the fans watching around the world um and again it humbles me to be here as a humble driven champion and and saying Again, thank you. May it long continue because I don't want anybody coming after that title for next year again. Well, 212 is obviously a division that has exploded. The competition this year was very stiff. We did not see David Henry right behind you. In fact, he was not in the top six. Was that a big surprise to you? Almost definitely. I'm so used to hearing that name. And that's what one of the guys I trained to beat all year. So, when I didn't hear him in the first call out, I looked around. Um, you know, a lot of people didn't have Eduardo career even in the top five, you know, into coming into this show. Of course, you can never write out a guy who was the hardest conditioned guy in the whole show. Um, I don't focus on athletes in particular anyway going into the show. I've got other um I've got a lot of pressure, self pressure on myself, but I do know who's coming and bringing it and uh I knew Eduardo was was coming in. He had an injury last year and one of these guys that um you know, he's had injuries of all of come and proven to the world that he'll come back stronger and the proof is in the pudding tonight. He came out the all-time best in my eyes and um most definitely most definitely um brought a fight to prejudge in on the stage and um like I mentioned up on stage you know I was battling something for the last three days but I didn't want to let that impede my prep because I come too far and I didn't want to use it as a crutch for anybody online to then focus in on a certain area but I struggled through prejudging. I made it through and again this is why this medal means that much more to me as well as it being the 50th year. Congratulations. And Jeremy, let's talk about your win as physique champion. Did you come into this event expecting to win? That was my whole goal in mind. You know, being a relatively new pro. I've only been a pro for a year and a half, being my second Olympia, taking the the second place spot last year. You know, I've I've always want to improve. You know, every bodybuilder wants to get better. And, you know, my goal was to improve my place and come into the show and win it. And that was the whole goal all year, training all year long, was to come in and improve and to take that top spot. You know, just to be here on the 50th anniversary of the Olympia and be amongst greatness like Flex and and Phil and Nicole up there and Kasana and all the other pros that that won as well. It's just it's overwhelming to be, you know, so young in the sport and to be amongst greatness. It's it's it's a privilege. It's an honor and, you know, I'm very thankful to be where I'm at right now. Jeremy, how much did the chatter coming into the Olympia bother you? Because when you looked at previews and when you heard names, we knew that Mark Anthony was coming back trying to defend. Mhm. But the name on everybody's tongue was Sadique even though you were the runner up last year. Yeah. How much did that affect you? Did it motivate you more? Oh, yeah. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I we have social media nowadays, so we all follow each other. We all see what's going on. And, you know, Sadi is a great athlete. He definitely brought his agame today, and he's got a lot of size. He's very hard and very conditioned. And you know, I knew that um I knew I needed to come in equally as conditioned and I feel I brought some probably my best conditioning to date, but I knew that my shape and my presentation was going to set over the top and you know, I was real confident with what I brought to the stage and um as far as leading up to the show, you know, I did my best to just stay within my own realm and I didn't like, you know, I told everybody just tunnel vision to the O. I didn't want to, I wasn't looking outside. I was just focused on my goal of winning and you know, I knew I got to bring my best and I couldn't have any control of what he was doing. Only thing I can control is what I was doing. So, and I did what I had to do and I came out on top today and I'm blessed. Much like we saw at 212, David Henry was out of the mix there and then we also saw Mark Anthony not make the top five physique. Big surprise to you? Yeah, absolutely. I mean, Mark was is a champion. You know, I was definitely expecting to see him was a champion. I was definitely expecting to see him in that top five. Um, you know, that top five was was stacked and you know, it was it was very uh anybody could have been tossed ins there. Physique's very close. You know, everybody brought their agame today. So, um, you know, I the top five that I that was in there, you know, that was something that I could have predicted. I would have thrown Mark in there, too, though. Steve and Mark, you were the were the toss up for that top five in my opinion. Well, the classes just keep getting better and better in every single division. Congratulations to you two on being the absolute best in the world. Thank you very much, guys. Well done. Pleasure. Pleasure to have you on the post show. We got more winners and the fans choice award also going to be announced momentarily. We'll be right back here on bodybuilding.com. It's time to put before behind you and make after a reality. It's time to join over 8 million people at bodybuilding.com who have transformed their bodies, minds, and lives for free. It's absolutely possible to change your life. I'm a prime example of that. I can go on to bodybuilding.com. I can find a plan and I don't have to pay a dime. It's free. Go to bodybuilding.com today. Change your life for free. Growing up, I always wanted to be a great athlete. I wanted to look the part and perform extremely well. I wanted both. I wanted it all. I would always get a kick out of people that looked like superheroes or, you know, super athletes, but they couldn't do anything with it. Can you swim? No, I can't swim. Can you run fast? I can't run fast. What can you do besides stand there and look in the mirror? There's a moment when you must decide. A moment when you know that you have nothing left to give. It's the moment you push further. The allnew Eno Explode. Re-engineered for explosive energy, enhanced endurance, and maximum performance. The new NO Explode. Push your limits, then push further. It's time to put before behind you and make after a reality. It's time to join over 8 million people at it. Is the official post show here on bodybuilding.com. It is great to have you along with us as we round out Mr. Olympia, the 50th anniversary is now in the books. Uh Juliana Malikarnney is joining us on stage. Congratulations to you on getting a victory tonight. I know that you've changed some things up in your game a little bit to ensure that you got this victory. Talk to us a little bit about that journey. Mhm. Yes. I um last year I played seven and the feedback I got I was too bodybuildish. I should tone down. So I did. I did tone down and I also changed my poses. I adjust my physique and that's what I did to do better this year to go from seventh all the way up to being the champion. Now, did you come into this thinking that you were going to get the win? I don't know about the win. I want to come and show my the difference, you know, like my new package. I want to really uh people see people not see that I was uh I change it. I adjust. I heard I listened to the judge and I adjust my physique for the better criteria for physique. That's what I did. Now Julian and I competed like in the figure days. Um so we have lots of memories with that. So when they when they brought on physique for women, did you naturally just were like you know what that division's for me. I want to I want to do that. Uh yes people actually uh told me I should do that because I was kind of disappointed. I say oh I don't know. So I did fitness for many years. I never did well. I never got a first call out. I did 15 figure shows. So it was very disappointing. Uh say okay I will try. I don't know. I wasn't sure about but I said okay I'll take a shot. So I did and I won New York Pro in 2012 was my first attempt and I did well. So I got excited and I kept on going and here I am today tonight. Wonderful. Well congratulations. Yes. Congratulations. Thank you. so much. Thank you. Talk about getting the win at the 50th anniversary event because a lot of the athletes have said how important it is to them at such a historic event. is amazing and the 50th anniversary is uh something like I have no words to to describe my happiness and be in this amazing stage with so many bodybuilding celebrities and you know represent it's un indescribable. I'm extremely happy. What's next up for you? you taking some time off or are you gonna continue? I think I will do the Arnold. Um, that's my plan. I, you know, I want to do one more. Sounds like a great plan. Yeah. Well, and Dana Lyn Bailey, you know, you know, had had the first female, you know, physique competitor to win the Olympia. What did you feel like you had to bring as far as your package in order to to beat her subjectively, you know, on stage when you guys are being compared? Like for me, watching prejudging, I could see the difference. um in the bodies you had bigger muscle bellies, your shoulders were fuller, your quads were fuller, you had a good amount of more muscle than she did. Um which you you can see it when you're being compared to one another, you know, those those like you said, the weaknesses and the the flaws are exposed. Um what did you feel like you had to bring to this stage in order to beat her? A smaller frame. That's what I thought because um I think we're very different really like you know I didn't know like about beat Dana Dana I think was was harder for me was the DLB brand I think that was like that was more afraid than physique I think technically uh I wasn't too worried about that but beat the DLB brand she's amazing sweetheart very motivational inspiring so many people and you know get that was really like I said oh my god oh my god I hope I do you know but physically um uh I think we're very different and I really want to be compared with her and show the different bodies you know so that happened and I'm super happy well you talk about beating the Dana Lin Bailey brand how important is it for you as an athlete in this day and age to build your own brand like that so that way you're coming in with with two fronts oh I'm I'm excited for that, you know, and especially now after this, I think I can work much better. I'm getting much more exposure. I'm just going to say I went for uh 19,000 followers on Instagram yesterday to 32,000 33,000 followers tonight, last time I checked. Good for you. That's wonderful. So, you know, that's it. It's media that social media what does you So, I'm excited with that. It's a um new world opening for me, you know. So, let's go. We're going to take from there. From here. Juliana, congratulations to you. Thank you so much. Congratulations. Thanks, girls. And thanks so much for joining us on the post show as well. My pleasure. Pleasure to talk to you for having me. All right. The fans choice winner who is going to walk away with that award. Plus, we're talking to Phil Heath. More with Larry Pepe in just a moment. We'll be right back here on bodybuilding.com. Recreating the workouts from phase one of a breakthrough free acid HMBB study done at the University of Tampa. It's the clear muscle challenge. You guys ready? Let's do this. Oh, easy. Come on. Yes. Do you want game? Clear muscle challenge. These guys brought our heart all week. Can you? The results are clear. Clear muscle is the most powerful supplement in sports nutrition history. Only from Muscle Tech. Everyone everywhere. Everything. Day one, motivation's high, gears packed. You're unstoppable. You lose fat, build muscle, transform, but it doesn't last. Days pass, desire drops, fitness goals become fitness dreams again. Because fitness starts on the inside. Your brain is a circuit board that powers your body. If you know how you're wired, you can avoid your pitfalls. If you start with your mind, you can master your muscle. To achieve lasting success, you can't just repeat. You have to rewire. Take the rewired personality test today. Discover who you are. And welcome back. The post show is live at the Orleans here in Las Vegas day fair alongside Larry Pepe. We are talking about Mr. Olympia, the 50th anniversary coming to a close. As you look at the event now, what are what are your final takeaways? What what were the big surprises to you, not just in the men's open, but also in some of the other divisions? What really is standing out to you now that you've had a few minutes to digest what happened here tonight? Well, not from a surprise standpoint, but of course Phil Heath winning his fourth in a row. Very big deal at the 50th Olympia. I think the thing that the other thing that struck me was that I felt like last night the gap between Phil and Kai was wider. I think that that Kai benefited more. I think they both came back a little better tonight, but Kai more so than Phil. I think that I think Kai improved more from last night because I think he was holding a lot of fluid and I think he came back harder and made it more interesting. And I think, you know, we look to set up this storyline for next year. We look to question like who's going to be the contender? Who's maybe going to be the guy? Was Big Remy going to get in much better condition and come back here and make us think like he was going to be the guy to challenge next year? And I think in some ways the way that the contest closed wrote that chapter for us for next year a bit. I think another big story of course is Branch Warren finishing in the top six. I mean that's that's enormous. Uh Victor Martinez back in the top 10. Awan Morell and Steve Klo you know Morell a rookie Klo in his second year both in the top 10 as well. Um, I I think that's what stands out to me in the 212. Flex Lewis's dominance, his announcement with us tonight that he is not going to be moving up. I think that's the smart move for Flex Lewis. I think staying in this division and trying to dominate this division for as long as he can is better for his career, better for his brand, better for everything in my opinion. The shock of course of that 212 has to be David Henry absent from the top six. I mean, absolutely. If you would have asked anybody, I I don't believe that one person who knows anything about bodybuilding, would have possibly said that David Henry, who's never been lower than second at an Olympia, would finish out of the top six. Nobody would have told you that. So, that has to be the most shocking thing of the weekend for me. Let me ask you about 212 specifically because Flex Lewis is starting to build that dynasty at 212 like we've seen some great Olympia champions do in the men's open with the way that the 212 has grown. Do you think that this is a real opportunity for him to become a true legacy athlete in bodybuilding? Well, I think from what we see today, you know, I mean, we only know the landscape as it exists as we stand here right now. And there's no one out there that he hasn't beaten and beaten repeatedly. Now, Eduardo Korea, to flex his own words, his conditioning was insane tonight. We talked about that on the broadcast. Eduardo Korea establishes himself as, I would say, the number one contender, but still Eduardo Korea is not beating this version of Flex Lewis. So, I think Flex Lewis controls his destiny for the foreseeable future. And the reason I say that, Dave, is because there's guys that we, you know, haven't heard of or who are going to make huge improvements over the next year or two and then all of a sudden you say, "Wow, this person is now contending. This person is now challenging flex." But as of right now, one of the reasons I felt strongly that his better move was to stay in this division. As of right now, I don't see anyone at 212 that 100% Flex Lewis doesn't beat. Let's talk about the changing of the guard because we saw a lot of competitors tonight here on the stage for the men's open that were brand new to the Olympia and then also we saw some huge announcement like Iris Kyle saying that she is retiring from the sport. Do you think that we're at a turning point right now where next year we're going to see a whole new crop of athletes and people that are going to excel that are coming basically out of nowhere as far as the Olympia world is concerned? I don't I don't think it's going to be a come out of nowhere situation. I think it's going to be that in bodybuilding now that I Iris Kyle is retired with 10 olymp I mean can't believe I'm saying that with 10 Olympia championships on her resume now that she is out Alina Popa becomes a clear frontr runner in women's bodybuilding. So that's that to me is the changing of the guard in bodybuilder but Alina Popa is not new. Elena Pope has established herself with two runner-up spots here at the Olympia two years in a row to the best ever in terms of titles and across men or women. Right. So bodybuilding I think has changed with the retirement. Um with the retirement of Adela Garcia, we saw Oxana Graina win now here and at the international. So you would have to now say is it going to be the Oxana era? We also have to look at those scorecards. Was it close? Was it neck and neck? Or did she dominate the thing by the routine being so strong? And we know with Oxana, what makes it interesting there is that she's pretty much always going to get outscored in that physique round and the routine round is going to have to be what pulls her through. So, is somebody going to maybe the routine catch up enough that Oxana can't catch her? So, I think we leave this Olympia with intriguing stories, with records, with Nicole Wilkins with her fourth figure Olympia setting a record there. I think we leave this Olympia with a lot of things to be excited about for next year. Lawrence from Diamond Tide is standing by. He is going to present the check for the Fans Choice Award. That's 30 seconds away here on the Po Show on bodybuilding.com. It's time to put before behind you and make after a reality. It's time to join over 8 million people at bodybuilding.com who have transformed their bodies, minds, and lives for free. And I was completely disgusted with the way I had looked. And I told myself, I ain't going out like that. Bodybuilding.com has complete fitness plans from the best experts, athletes, and personal trainers to help you accomplish any goal. My health just started to decline, and I wasn't happy anymore. Bodybuilding.com changed my life. Answer a few quick questions and bodybuilding.com will provide your perfect plan. You can definitely change your life. I'm a prime example of that. I can go on to bodybuilding.com. I can find a plan and I don't have to pay a dime. It's free. Bodybuilding.com has everything you need to burn fat, build muscle, and become your best self. Go to bodybuilding.com today. Change your life for free. And welcome back to our post show. We are live here at the Orleans in Las Vegas. It is time for the Fans Choice Award check presentation. Lawrence from Diamond Ties is here with the biggest check that I've ever seen in my entire life. I totally agree. It's massive, but you're here to present it to the one and only Kai Green. Yes, Kai Green. Uh you won the fans choice award and thank you for being a really inspiration to everybody. You won by the largest amount ever on bodybuilding.com. You got 60% in the votes. Is the biggest lead in history. So, I'm really honored to be able to present this to someone that's been encouraging everybody and inspiring everybody actually in bodybuilding, including myself. So, it's an honor. Thank you very much. Thank you. And I'll hold this huge check cuz you actually have a trophy that comes with it as well. So, I'll set this right over here in front of the other you that's on this poster. Um, congratulations to you, man. Obviously, tonight you get the uh the second place nod. I know that the rivalry between you and Phil really kind of reached a boiling point when you guys were on stage at the prejudging. Take us through that moment from your perspective. How intense was it when you were on stage and you and Phil were verbally sparring? Because from a spectator's point of view, like I I it was palpable. I was nervous. I was I I really thought that things might go arai and that you guys might start trading blows. How close was You never know. You never know. Um I I don't know. You know, sometimes things are just really, you know, you got you got some really wonderful men that behind the scenes in their real life, you know, um, you know, are, you know, in possession of spirits that are very beautiful and their approach to expressing their spirit, you know, um, just because a man may be a fighter or, you know, a world-class marksman, you know, that's able to pay attention to the beauty of his craft, that just might happen to be about taking another target out. Yeah. Um, you know, there's still artistry, there's still spiritual magic that, you know, the athlete, the warrior, the that that champion mind um is able to uh connect with even in something that may, you know, to the world look like something that's not as beautiful. If you look at an MMA match, if you look at a boxing match, um to look at it as a as a spectator that knows nothing about the art of boxing, it may look like just, you know, clubbing and just a whole bunch of violence. But then to someone that is really into the sweet science of of martial arts and you know able to think about the defense mechanisms and and all the wonderful colors that go along with seeing the command of of you know of tools and instruments you know it's a very different conversation. So when you put a bunch of athletes in a room, you know, with some very strong alpha males, you know, that, you know, sometimes things may, you know, be said that don't, you know, um, conjure up the wonderful response that, you know, the lay person at home that's not in the trenches of the experience, that's not in the throws of passion and excitement that, you know, might think, yeah, that's a little inappropriate. I don't know. But I encourage you, don't sit on the sideline. get up in there, put on the full armor, and sometimes you'll be surprised what you may find, you know, um, is extraordinary about the process. I noticed that after Phil was announced the winner, you did walk over, you guys seem to exchange pleasantries, a nice show of sportsmanship on your behalf. Well, well, I mean, you know, at the end of the match, you know, I'm sure that there's some really awesome guys that can duke it out and give it to you that, you know, can get him and shake your hand and still not be defined, the total man, not be defined by what he's doing in the ring or a part of the craft of what he does. You know, it's a piece of the man. The man is a larger totality. So, but Kai, you you've been in that press conference room with Phil and this seemed like a different Kai Green. It seemed like maybe you were pulling your motivation in a different way. You seemed more direct or more aggressive than you have it in the past and you've been in that room with Phil. So, what was different about this year? Honestly, you know, it's very interesting to stand on the sidelines and critique. And that's that's the point that I'm trying to make. Sometimes you just really got to get in the trenches. If you are in the trenches, then you'll see we can look it up. Ah, last year or two years ago, Kai, you know, you should have been a little bit more aggressive. Hey, Kai. Hey, you know, when you were on stage, you're looking like you really don't let him do this. Don't let him push you around. Don't let You know, so my point is that the athlete is really just working to do his best. He's looking at the notes. You know, it's not one of those things where if you've given him three or four different assignments that are supposed to help him improve his game that you you should see those those things manifest in his performance in the future. If you don't, then then you have to question whether well, does this man really want it? you know what's really up with that athlete. So, you know, one of the lessons that I'm learning is is that, you know, you don't want to do the same thing all the time. You know, if you are working and you see that there's some things that were successful or helpful, but then there's some things that weren't and maybe we have to try it a different way, then you have to have the confidence and the courage um and the overall drive and commitment to what you're trying to do to be willing to be open-minded enough and maybe implement something that is different or outside of what you've done in the past. So, you gave me a perfect segue. You're It's almost like you tweaked your mentality like you tweaked your physique, right? And and it looked to me you like that. Sounds good. You like that? All right. So I hear it twice in my in my thinking, too. So So very influential. Well, maybe that might be a good Maybe that might work. It seemed to me use that. Feel free to use that next year. But it it looked to me like you were drier tonight than at prejudging. It looked to me like you were grainier and harder tonight. Did you do anything between prejudging and finals to try to bring more detail in? We're always working. Always working. Mhm. We're working in the offseason. We were working last year. We were working two years ago. You know, this this is not something new. You know, that's that's about the champion mind. That's about the the determined person that's working to get something done. You know, it's not just what you do at point A and point, you know, somewhere in between, but there's a continued progression, the continuation of thinking and working that ultimately you're believing will bring you to the desired end result. you know, now that sometimes we got to, you know, strip away some of those things, you know, um, identify what's helpful and, you know, strip away the things that aren't. But ultimately, the athlete is just really trying to hone his skills, you know, become more proficient at what he's trying to do and at the end see his, you know, his end result, desired end result. So, it it's a lot going on. It's a lot going on. Well, I tell you what, as fans of the sport, certainly appreciate all the hard work that you put in. You're always entertaining. I would say that this hands down is my favorite Olympia to date. That that intensity between you and Phil was fantastic to watch. You walk away with a huge amount of money for all of your efforts. Congratulations and thanks so much for joining us on the post show. Always a pleasure to talk. Thank you for the opportunity. Absolutely. And Lawrence, thank you so much for joining us as well. Presenting the check. Congratulations. Phil Heath coming up next. We'll be right back here on the bodybuilding.com post show of Mr. Olympia the 50th anniversary. All right. Day one, motivation's high, gears packed. You're unstoppable. You lose fat, build muscle, transform, but it doesn't last. Days pass, desire drops, fitness goals become fitness dreams again. Because fitness starts on the inside. Your brain is a circuit board that powers your body. If you know how you're wired, you can avoid your pitfalls. If you start with your mind, you can master your muscle. To achieve lasting success, you can't just repeat. You have to rewire. Take the rewired personality test today. Discover who you are. Get fit for life. The 50th anniversary of Mr. Olympia is now officially in the books. Our post show is winding down, but we certainly couldn't wrap things up before the champ himself, Phil Heath, joined us on set. Congratulations to you, man. It's a four pete now. You match the record that was held held by Jay Cutler in his book. So, congratulations on doing that. But I mean, how does it feel for you to be able to walk away with four consecutive years? A sigh of relief. Yeah. For now. For now. You only get so many days to actually uh let this soak in before you're getting ready for the next one, right? Yeah. Well, talk about the rivalry that we saw this year because you and Kai were at each other's throats. There was a moment yesterday at prejudging where we thought that it was going to go to blows. Was it as close to that as it appeared from a spectator's point of view? I'd probably say so. I mean, you know, you have two guys that want one thing. Yeah. And and with it being the 50th, we knew it was at stake. We all wanted a piece of that legacy. And every time the Olympia comes around, the competition juices get, you know, brewing. And, you know, I'm I'm preventing a guy like Kai Green, that one spot. He just needs that one spot, right? So, it's like what I tell people. It's like if you watch baseball, you think the Yankees like the Red Sox, they hate them. They hate each other, but they respect each other at some point. Have they come to blows? Yeah, for sure. And uh you know, it almost came to that obviously because you know, the fans actually feed into it a lot of the time, you know, throughout the year. Yeah. And it gets people excited and you know, we we did our best to not go there, but uh you know, and keep it classy and, you know, I was able to do that for sure. But and you know, I I have to tip my head off to Kai. I mean, he's he comes in, he works hard. You know, he gives the fans a great show with his posing and uh he comes up short, but you know, I'm going to give myself a pat on the back because it's very very hard to to see someone that is that dedicated. I have to raise my game up every year to make sure that he doesn't get what he wants. Well, and I know that you guys have something in common. I mean, Jay, you just launched your own brand. Phil, you did the same thing this past year. talk about how how tough it's been with all of the work that it's taken to launch your own company in this past year and then still stay on track and focus and make sure that the guys that are vying for your position as Mr. Olympia aren't catching you. Well, it's definitely difficult, but you know, it's always comforting to know when you put other people in a position, you know, that are that are successful people that are, you know, very organized, that are very intelligent, that belong in those positions, that they can, you know, carry the weight while you prepare. my my team at Gifted Nutrition, that's what they did. You know, they've been working very very hard. As much as I've been working hard in the gym, they were working hard in the office, you know, talking to people that need to get things done. And all they told me was, "Hey, just concentrate on the show and uh we'll put you on a conference call here and here and there. You answer some emails, but we're going to lighten the load and then when you're done, you be in the office working your butt off." But uh you know, I I look at myself as a multi-dimensional athlete, multi-dimensional person, just like Jay Cutler. you know, there is a business within bodybuilding off the stage and I would like to strike the iron while it's hot and and actually, you know, do something that I feel is fun. It's fun to know that I can actually make a phone call and say, "This is the type of supplement that I want. Can you make it?" And they say, "Yes, we can do it." And it's mine. That's awesome. It'd be no different than a kid wanting his own shoe, you know, his own sneaker playing in the NBA. I get to have that opportunity, but yet I own the company. So, you know, it's awesome. You know, now that you got me talking about it, I'm thinking, gosh, I got a lot of emails I got to get back to people, a lot of work. But, you know, it does it does um let you realize that you have to be organized. And but that's what bodybuilding is. People that are are watching this, they're no different than us, you know, they go out, they have family, they have to work, you know, 40, 50 hour days, even if not longer, but they still find a way to get their meals and their training and this and that. And that's what they ask. What do you mean 40, 50 hour? I don't know what kind of monster you are. you working 40 or 50 hour days? I will be doing I will be doing that and then some, you know, because hey, let's face it, I'm eating every two hours. I'm doing all this stuff and, you know, essentially I'm I'm willing to, you know, work my butt off. So then one day, you know, I could be chilling on the boat maybe next to this dude and talking about old times, you know, but in order to do that, I've got to work hard at everything right now. Well, there's no question you're obviously working hard, Larry. Phil, congrats. Thanks. I have two questions for you. First, I'm not let you off the Kai hook too quickly. There was a point before You guys were awarded when you were standing in line and you guys were conversing. It looked like an amicable conversation. It looked like you were kind of nodding to each other. What was going on in that interaction? Well, normally I wouldn't want to share that type of conversation between two grown men, but I think it just came down to the fact that we both respected each other. Um, we both acknowledged that. We both acknowledged that what the stage was really about and the position that both of us are in and that he wants it and that he, you know, wanted it and I wanted it and, you know, things here. We both have our camps talking trash to us all the year. Beat this guy's butt. Beat his ass. Whatever. You got the fans on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram doing the same thing. it comes back to us and then next thing you know we hate each other and it was kind of like we both kind of acknowledge that one's the instigators not us. we're not necessarily saying anything and and uh although that you know I know that we really don't hate one another it ain't going to be friendship until probably after we're retired and and that's okay and I think by both of us kind of saying all right you know here we are again remember last year we talked about this and you know we're going to probably end up having to hype this thing up next year as well are we okay with that and it's like yeah say what you got to say you know because I'm going to do what I got to do as well And you know, I respect Ky Green. I mean, he's a great asset to the sport of bodybuilding. I mean, you know, he he's definitely a good competitor and, you know, he he like I said, I I was impressed that he he looked the way he did on Saturday night and, you know, gave the fans a great posing. You know, Dirty Diana is one of my favorite routines that he does. You know, I remember watching him do the New York Pro and actually winning that uh with it. So, I mean, in a sense, I'm still a fan of his yet we are arch enemies. Okay. So, fourth Olympia, you spoke at the press conference about your father passing away and devoting this year to him. Can you compare the feeling of winning this year to the prior Olympus? Where does this one rank for you? It's all different. You know, I think Jake agree with every year is different. I think when I'm retired, I'll be able to look back and really soak it all in and say which one was really the hardest or all these questions. I mean, each year is filled with challenges and it's more mentally than anything. The physical part of getting up, you know, training. I mean, I love to train, so how is that hard, right? Um to eat these meals. Well, it's a necessary thing. Uh it's life's challenges and I think every year I get I get hit with something or my family or my friends get hit with something to where it enables me to put on a better uh set of battle armor to deal with the world's challenges and to face it with no fear and to continually try harder to strive for excellence. and I was able to do it and it definitely motivates me and it's to to credit all my friends, my family, you know, my sponsors, everybody, you know, the sport of bodybuilding itself, but my stories are just about how everybody goes through these issues. Everybody goes through something hard in life. I'm not talking about it as me. I'm talking about it to say you two going through stuff. I acknowledge that, but you have no excuse to get in that gym and to make something positive of it. You could be going out and boozing and doing wrong and this and that. Not to say we don't like to booze every now and again, but you could be really damaging your body in other in other ways, but you could be going to the gym, too, and getting something out of it like what I'm doing. And that's what it's really about. It's really about taking life's challenges and saying, you know what, I'm going to put something positive into working out. Maybe not lifting weights, maybe going for a run, maybe playing basketball with friends, maybe doing something positive. And and thank thank God I have bodybuilding to do that. So Jay, he says when he retires, he'll be able to tell me, you know, which one you have no plans to compete. So when you look back at the four, which one was the most meaningful for you? You know what, you're able to really He's He's absolutely right. I mean, when you're when you're stepped away from the stage and the more uh things that happen in your life that become more important, especially as you progress and you get older, uh which I am, uh it's it's just apparent that, you know, you have a different mindset. Um you don't really look at each one. I mean, obviously, you have specific wins. Probably the first time he won would probably be, you know, the most memorable one as far as like, you know, wow, I can't believe I'm Mr. Olympia. I mean, for me, I I beat Ronnie Coleman, but then I came back after I lost it and won another one. But, you know, we all go through challenges, like you said, on the way through and we train different ways. And what I noticed about Phil this year, and just just to touch upon, I mean, we travel a lot. We're around each other a lot. Obviously, we still converse, you know, you know, week to week. What I noticed about Phil, he really, really was more dedicated this year. He seemed more driven than I've ever seen him in the past. And that's really the question I want to ask Phil is do you think this year you gave you know as you progressively get more and more Olympias under your belt. They say that you know you seem to work harder every time to achieve certain things because it becomes you know okay am I going to win the next one and next one and the numbers start climbing. What I noticed is you trained more, you trained smarter, but when I spoke to you during your prep, you said, "I'm having a very easy everything's just falling into place." Do you think it was easier to prep for this year's contest than the years past? you seemed more relaxed and just you had done the homework I think more in the offseason than ever before to allow yourself to be able to just basically go through the rhythms and not not saying that you don't didn't work hard but you just everything just seemed to click during your training for this Olympia. Yeah, I think um preparation is separation. Um there's an off seasonason in sports and that's because once game time hits um you know how to react and not to panic and and you know we both know that there's a specific blueprint that's you know indescribable you know when you're training for the Olympia. One year this may work and the next year it doesn't and you have to be able to you know respond very quickly. Your body has to be able to respond quickly by knowing what worked and what didn't work during your offseason. So, how do you do that? Well, you ain't going to do it by going out to McDonald's and and drinking beer and all sort of stuff. You're right. You know, I I worked really hard and I and I and I had to because I knew that I was at a disadvantage. You know, being on the top of the food chain, you know, in the sport, you travel twice as much. I traveled 200,000 miles in 6 months. But you were training in the middle of the night. You always trained. Yeah. And you don't sleep. No. You're always like out there. That's amazing. anytime I was trying to get a hold of you, whether what time zone I was in, you never seemed to sleep. I just, it's a credit to guys like you and Ronnie Coleman, to be honest, because I knew that you both loved being Mr. Olympia more than anything in the world. And it was like, do I really love this? If I really love this, then I'm going to be willing to do whatever it takes and get my butt in that gym. The gym makes me feel great. And it was self- therapy really to get in that gym going through life's challenges and just saying, you know what, you know, I train by myself 90% of the time of the year. So, it's like this was great for me and and just me time, me time, me time. And I learned a lot about, you know, different training disciplines. I learned that what works for you ain't going to work for me. Like, I know we joke around, it's like, did Phil use machines the entire workout and stuff like that? And you know what? It actually worked for me. It prevented injury. It prevented this and that and it actually helped me. Now, will that work next year? Probably not because I have to be willing to open my eyes and say, "Okay, what worked last year, won't work this year. Let's just try." And that's what an offseason is. So, I think because of the fact that, you know, I knew I had only a specific time. I had to plan with purpose each and every day. And, uh, that's a credit to guys like yourself who are to me a legend and a pioneer of this sport. Anyone that knows Jay Culler, anyone that has known Ronnie Coleman, anyone that has known any Mr. Olympia like those guys that has trained around them or even watched them train, it made you want to train harder and you knew that during those battles that they had, they didn't take a day off. They had to like slow down. And I know you used to train very late too and it was probably because you wanted that me time. Now that you get adapted that also I would be honest when I when when you're training during the day people want to take pictures all the time and this and that you need time to yourself to focus because as I can talk right now forever I'd be doing the same thing in the gym. I can't do that. I have to be focused because let's face it these guys are hungry and I and I knew that and you know I'm going to be doing my due diligence even even during this off seasonason now I'm going to be going to Spain and going to be on tour with you and hanging out. I'm still going to train. I'm going to eat decent, but I'm going to still train. Maybe not as heavy, but I'm still going to train and learn something from this. Well, as a fan of the sport, it's so cool to see two guys that have each won four Olympia titles just sort of talking about the ins and outs of training and traveling and everything else and just get inside the minds of champions. So, Jay, thanks so much for being here on the post show. Phil, congratulations again. What a huge night for you to win four in a row like this, the 50th anniversary. and Larry, always a pleasure to be alongside you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm Dave Farah. Thanks so much for watching our official post show here on bodybuilding.com. Have a great night. Not every legend is a myth. Some are flesh and