Hey, I'm Andy Spear, performance athlete, and these are three dumbbell exercises you have to try. So, these are going to be very challenging variations on some exercises you're probably already doing in the gym. We're going to start out first with a batwing row. I got my incline bench set up here. I didn't have an incline bench in the gym I'm at, so I stacked a couple plates on the floor, popped the flat bench up on it. I do this all the time. If you're stuck without an incline bench, don't worry. You can make one right here. We're going to get down on the bench just like I would for a normal incline row. Important thing here, we're going to get that posture set. So, shoulders back. I want a lot of tension in the upper back between your shoulder blades. We're going to pull both dumbbells up. Squeeze here. Drop one and row. Drop the other side and row. And we're continue in this alternating row fashion. keeping a lot of tension in that upper back between the shoulder blades. This is a great way to reinforce some upper back strengthening and some postural muscles while still hitting your back and lats in the row position. Next up, we're going to do a half kneeling curl and press. So, I'll take a little pad out. You can use any kind of pad, ax pad, towel on the floor here, whatever you have around. Half kneeling stance to start. Very important. the positioning on this one before you even touch the weight. All right, I got a vertical torso. My heel's right under my front knee. My back toe is tucked in. And here's the kicker. I want a lot of tension in your glutes on that down knee side. This is going to stabilize your hips along with some ab tension to stabilize your trunk. I'm going to grab the dumbbell here. Everything squared up, facing straight forward. Curl and press. Curl and up. And as I'm doing this, I'm really focusing on keeping the glute tension and the trunk tension so hips don't waver and my body doesn't shake back and forth during that exercise. So, you're getting a lot of good ab work along with the bicep and the deltoid in the press. Number three, let's do it. We're going to do a deficit reverse lunge. I'm going to step on this bumper plate here. You can use anything you have. a small box, uh, plate, small step. 3 to 5 in from the floor is plenty. Okay, we're going to step both feet up on the plate. I'm going to frontload these dumbbells, meaning right here in this position. It's going to add a lot of extra challenge for your abs to keep your body up straight here. Dumbbells stay nice and tight into your body. I step back, control to the floor, and press straight back up to the stand. as much work as I can on that front leg, the front foot driving up. Okay, so three new dumbbell exercise variations for you. A lot of core challenge and a great total body workout. So try incorporating these three movements to get even more out of your training. I'm Andy Spear and for more free advice, training, and nutrition programs, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.