We're doing pullovers first, because it's isolating the lats without bicep involvement. Usually the weak link in our lat exercise is our biceps are gonna give way. So we're just trying to work the lats without having any biceps involvement. If we had a pullover machine, that's ideal, because it's full range all the way around, where a dumbbell is only half range, but we work with what we got. That's what we got today, so we use dumbbells. Good, two, good. From there, man, yeah? Good, ten, now if you go, you can count past ten. That's eleven, yeah. Twelve, okay, I'll do it with you, man. I'll do it with you. All right, then. Good on you. Okay, boyo. Is this the same thing, brother? Yeah, nice and tight, then. Good stretch, good pull. Two, three, four, five, good. Come on, six, strong. Seven, go all the way, eight. Big pull. Squeeze, nine, one more. Last one. I got it. We're gonna use a pulldown where the biceps are coming into play. Nice stretch, bring 'em down, squeeze. All the way down, man. There, squeeze, yeah? Pause at the chest, good. Pause, good. Keep the body still, man. There, good. That's better. Nice, two more. All the way down, squeeze. One more, all the way down, squeeze. Nice, nice, nice. Arch at the bottom, yeah? Because if you pull down and you're like this...you're not getting a contraction. It's gonna be like that. You're at 225. You gotta go, man. Stretch that body movement. Stretch out with your shoulder girdle, bring down, squeeze. And squeeze, nice. Two, good. Three, nice, come on. Let's work lats. Four, five's good. Come on, squeeze, six. Arch and squeeze at the bottom. Seven, and again. All the way down. Squeeze it in. One more, big stretch and big pull. Squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, good. One knee on there. The other leg out and back, 'cause you're gonna be pulling in towards your waist, as opposed--no, if you're pulling up here, then that's gonna be more traps and rhomboids. Lats, pull it in, arm traveling close to the side like that, into your waist...and back down again. Up and back, yeah. Hitting the lats for this one. Easy, right here. We're gonna do base rows, and we're gonna do out like this. So we're gonna go up there now, rhomboids, traps. For the first few exercises, you're pulling in here, we're working the lats, yeah...Working lats, the elbows, the arms are traveling close to the body, yeah? Pull down, grow. Those are lat movements. Now with elbows out, we're going upper back. Of course, the lats are still involved, but we're putting more emphasis on the upper back, which is the lower traps, the rhomboids, the teres, and so on. That's why we're having that grip and bringing the elbows out. Nice, you're in there, yeah? Three, four, good. Five, yeah, six. The only reason to use 'em is if the power of my lats is greater than my grip, you know? If my grip's gonna give way before my back gives way, then I'm gonna support my grip, but if it's not necessary, I'm not gonna use 'em, because if you keep supporting your grip all the time, it's not gonna get stronger, you know? Nice and tight, mate. Come on, crunch it right back, double bicep. Flex and squeeze, good. Two, three, four, five, come on, squeeze. Pull it back. Six, pull it back, and again. Half rep, come on, half rep. Man, one more half rep, pull. Good, good set. That's how we do it. I just do the initial one from the floor, then I'm just going here. So if you've got racks, then you can just do it from there to start with, you know? Keep the head up. Keep your back flat. You never want to lift with your back rounded like that. You're putting your back in a very vulnerable position. I like to do it in front of the mirror so I can watch the form. The initial lift from the floor is more quads and glutes. That's why after we lifted it from the floor, just going to mid-shin, so we just keep it on the back. Keep the tension on the back. Good, up, two, up, three, four, excellent. Up, five, up, six, seven. Maybe just a tad higher, you know? That's gonna work my waist? You're working your legs more once you get down to the bottom. It's like mid-shin, keep it nice and tight, just keep it on the back. Come on, then. Get the straps on there, nice and tight. Just do as many as you can where the form is perfect. If you start breaking form, then it's time to put it down. No risk on this one, yeah? Finish it all up now, the whole back. Strong, good, okay. Nice, that's it, man. Two, three, four's good. Five, keep it tight, pull. Six, and again, pull, seven, up, eight. Two more, man, strong. Pull, one more, big pull, yes, okay. Good, perfect, perfect. Muscle growth is an adaptation to stress. If you give your body stress that it's not used to, it's gonna try to adapt in some way, and in this case, we're looking for more muscle. So you gotta go beyond what you've done before. That's the idea. It's certainly the reps that you really struggle on that give you the growth, isn't it, really? When you you're training, you're not just stressing that muscle group, you're stressing your system as a whole also. And legs and back are so taxing, I try to schedule those with a day off afterwards, so you got overall recovery as well.