I'm Craig Capurso, Cellucor athlete, and here's five things that are holding back your progress. Number one: You're doing it for other people. There's a lot of pressure out there: social pressure, dating pressure, maybe a husband, maybe a spouse, maybe your friends. There's a lot of pressure to do something that maybe they think is well but it's not your goal. It's not for you. You have to find out what is your why. Soul search, look deep down in the mirror and find out what is the reason that you got to get out of bed every morning. What is the reason you're going to go for that meal? What is the reason you're going to go to the gym? There's got to be a reason out there that is going to make you go for your goal. You have to find it out. You can't let other people dictate what that's going to be for you. Number two: You're not nailing your nutrition. Oh, I eat pretty clean. My diet is pretty good for the most part. What the fuck is the most part? You have to prepare ahead of time. I suggest this: prepare your meals in bulk, go shopping ahead of time, have stuff prepared, plan to succeed. Number three: You're not following the plan as prescribed. So you're doing the workouts, but you're not following in nutrition. Fail. You're doing the workouts, but you're not following the rest-timing. Fail. You're doing the workouts, but you're not following the intensity. There's a lot of good coaches out there, putting out good content you have to follow to a tee if you want to succeed. Number four: You're not sleeping enough. If you don't get enough sleep, you're not going to have enough energy to go ahead and fulfill your day. Whether it be in business or whether it be in fitness, you're going to fail at that point. You have to have the mental capacity and the fortitude to say no to cheat meals, so you're going to cave to those cravings. And so guys, get seven hours of sleep here. Therefore your cognitive ability to say no to cravings is going to be there, you can have more energy throughout the day, and that hormone that's going to regulate your fat is actually back in check. Number five: You're comparing yourself to media models. They're taking about 25 different photos before they give you, the public, the one that they're going to represent. And guys, I'm actually one of these people to get paid to look a specific way, so when I put out some of my images there's no way I can replicate that on my own, so stop trying. Alright guys, if you have any questions for me you can find me @CraigCapurso on social media: Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube. Alright guys, if you like this content, and videos like it, make sure you subscribe to our channel.