(electronic music) - Hello ladies and gentlemen. We're right here at the iconic Muscle Beach. I'm Ike Catcher, the biggest man on the bars, athlete from Muscle Beach Nutrition, and I welcome you to our arms workout. I like the big arms because they call 'em "think twice", ya know, not getting any problems with big arms. And all the ladies got something to grab on, man. - [Group] Thank you. - Ya know, nice and chiseled, nice and chiseled. It's about a 40 minute workout. It's about building some extra muscle, you know, we're building the muscle, we're not trying to do too many reps today, we're trying to go heavy. Always try to be a better version of yourself. Always try to improve yourself. Don't get comfortable. Yeah let's get it started. (crowd murmuring) You see that? No free entry. At least this much muscles to enter. We start with EZ-Bar curl. I like to keep the pace of three sets, and 8-10 reps. You know, we're training arms, we're not training one of the big muscle parts where I'll keep the volume lower, but 8-10 reps is good to build the muscle and get a nice pump going. (hip hop music) I like the EZ-Bar because the way you grip it it really takes the tension off your wrist. Keep a full range of motion, and then keep that tension in your arm. Don't just let loose, don't just relax, get into a nice groove, a nice rhythm. And then, you know, take a little break and hit another set. (weight clanging) (hip hop music) Hey hey, kiss the bicep, kiss the bicep. - Them biceps are smokin'. - Ah, that's how you do it. Next exercise we're gonna do is the concentration curl, 8-10 reps. (electronic music) So when do the concentration curls, let's say we're doing the right hand, we're placing the left hand on the left leg, and then with the right hand, we try to turn the arm in, get a nice little twist in it, so we can really feel the biceps, and then release. The most common mistake I've seen with the concentration curls is that people lean their elbow on their leg, ya know? You wanna have it suspended in the air. You don't wanna have it leaning nowhere. I like to do one arm exercises, because you can really focus on the concentration of your biceps a lot more than when you do 'em with both arms, ya know? You gotta mix it up, you shouldn't do too much two-handed, one-handed stuff, both is great. Lovely Muscle Beach, man, you know? How could you not enjoy your time right here? is the triceps pull down, 8-10 reps. It's the only triceps exercise in the arms workout because we really trying to focus on the biceps and that massive biceps pump. In a triceps pull down, you wanna trying to keep your elbows tight to your body, and then you just pull out of your triceps. Always advice twist the wrist out, just because better activation your triceps. - About 45 years ago I used to be look like that. - Come on homie. (laughing loudly) Come on bro. - Yeah 45 years ago. - You still got a shake like a grizzly bear. - Oh yeah. - You got a handshake like a grizzly bear. (both laughing) Next thing on our list is the Scott curl, another beautiful one-arm exercise. (electronic music) What we gonna do is we get a bench and set it up, like a little bit less than 90 degrees, and then set the arm on the bench and extend the weight and come back up. (hip hop music) It's such a great exercise because you can't get a better biceps isolation than with this exercise. I'm 6.9" so for all you tall people out there, this is the exercise if you wanna have good biceps on a long arm. (weight clanging) For years when I first started training I'd been struggling to get like a volume on my biceps, this exercise did it for me. So that's the go to exercise if you got long arms. Time for another one. - Thank you so much. - You're welcome. Back to another set, come on man. Pumping iron, again. Once again we're pumpin' iron. (groans) (grunting) - 67 years ago. - 67? - Yeah. - 27. - Almost, almost, almost, almost, almost as strong. - Nice to meet you friend. (laughing) We're down to the last exercise, seated incline dumbbell curls, three sets, and 8-10 reps. I like to put that one the last, because it's really a exercise that incorporates more than just your arms, and what it does is stretches your whole body out. You gotta have a tense core, tense chest, a tense arm, and everything gotta be packed up. (hip hop music) So I like doing that to bring everything together in the end, ya know? With a seated incline dumbbell curls we got a different elbow position in, so we put a different twist on our biceps and we get more of the like, inner part, right here. Just puts another little angle on the arm, gives us more of a shape of the biceps. (weights clanging) (guy yelling) (ambient music) (crowd clapping) Today we attacked our biceps from all different angles, because we wanna really work on the shape like a sculpture, you know? You can't just hammer a stone from one direction and then hope it's gonna look nice. No you gotta come from different sides and different angles so you can totally do this multiple times a week. It's nothing too crazy. It's a nice workout. It gets you nice and chiseled and ripped, swole. Full breakdown for this workout is below on bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions about my workout or training style, you can find me on musclebeach.com or go to my Instagram which is IkeCatcher. For more free videos and free articles like this, come back to bodybuilding.com. Say what? - Featured on bodybuilding.com. - Yeah. - log on YouTube. - You know what's up. (both laughing)