"Before the games, you know, it was still… training because… it's where my friends were; that's  what they were doing, type thing. Never taking it seriously, never putting in long hours, you know It was like… an hour or two in and out of the gym. That summer of the 2014 games, I was working full time I had an engineering internship at an aerospace company so that consumed a ton of time And I think before that, like, I'd never met any other games athletes In terms of like, actually been with them outside a competition So like, I always just assumed they were in another league, you know? I didn't know what they were doing for training, I didn't know what they were…  (unintelligible) Like, I didn't know anything about them, so I just assumed they were these untouchable athletes. And then at the games, there were a couple different scenarios, you know, kind of sit down, like, athlete briefing, and I sat down next to one of the really good guys, and remember kind of thinking "huh, well, they're my size" Like, and like, we're in little chairs and you look at my quad next to theirs, I'm like "oh, our legs are the same size" "you're not like this superhero everyone has on a pedestal" "hm, ok, maybe I can compare with you" And I mean, rookie year at the games, I mean, you don't know what you're about to get hit with But I mean, I held up fairly well Made some really dumb mistakes Had some really good moments and came out of the wash in second place I was like, "ok, I think I can do this 2015 was just like a being dumbass. Getting second again But by the 2016 season, you know I kinda figured my stuff out, kind of figured out what I needed to what I needed to change So that upcoming season, you know, really dedicated myself I wasn't in school anymore So really dedicated Everything, you know Day revolved around my training It wasn't just my time in the gym is when I put in the work, you know I started putting in the work outside the gym as well I think that was a big game changer, and that was when I realized Ok, I can do this Wake up, same time every day On day, off day, doesn't matter how much I have to do that day Same time, every morning Get some coffee, breakfast. *music* I searched to find this Depending on what exercise I'm doing that day I'll either start my training at home I have a, basically, full affiliate worth of equipment but in a tiny space, so I can't do like, metcons at home I can only do, like, single modality stuff Like just rowing, or just squatting, or just stationary stuff "There's certain stuff I'll never do down here cause it's like, I can't get to a point of, like, just suffering But then there's other stuff that's, there's no opinion I really don't like workouts where there's opinion in it Of like "Oh I think I did that correctly" or "yes", "no" kinda I like things, that are  like There's definitive numbers "Hold this number for this duration of time" Check. It's either you did or you didn't, there's no fuckin' opinion left in it Usually do that for probably two hours altogether Finish that up, immediately eat, stretch Then I'll go into Champlain Valley CrossFit I'll do all the stuff that I can't do at home You know, like the metcons where you're running around to different stations type thing Anything overhead lifting Any pull-up type stuff *music* That was a pace I probably could've done two more rounds of that At that same pace Probably should've pushed a little more Finish that up, stretch, eat And then usually when I get home I'll do another hour or two Of like, the accessory work, you know Stuff that isn't hard, I'm not gonna be breathing heavy It's the kind of stuff, you know, do it with a buddy And kinda carry on a conversation the whole time it's all about little nagging stuff that just piles up Finish that, stretch, eat, bed.