You know I think I think before it happened. I never really thought too much of what it Would be like or what [it] should be like anything like that and all the changes kind of Happened in little progressions, you know it wasn't just like an all of the sudden like light switch. Type change like this is your life now you [know] I kind of I have to remind myself a lot of times to like know people people see the highlight reel It's very rare that someone someone will post or like show the world The non glamorous stuff like the stuff that isn't sexy the only posts that go up are the videos of PR's going up in the videos of When things are going well when things are looking good, it's no one post up the video of like oh, man I have all these tears on my hands, and I'm missing 245 snatches over here No one wants to see that shit You know I get a lot of messages. [well], you know like people See the footage of the games. You know see the footage of the 2016 games like oh, that's so cool I'm like you're looking at a five day window of my entire year like That is just like a flash in the pan Is this good content? We're not doing we're not doing too much today Just one quick workout No Barbells or anything like that just kind of put the pedal down high Intensity low impact stuff and then I'll all squat tonight, but that's Basically it, not too much going on Easy day, [but] it feels good. You know I can't take these days of like You know the total workout time is like I can be in and out of the gym in an hour You know try to take a lot of that extra time [that] I don't usually have during the day You know [just] do body work. You know stretch roll out [kind] of fix any of [you] 18 things that kind of accumulated over the last couple weeks Make sure that next week going into training all feeling healthy hundred percent no No, aches and pains just feeling good When I'm done with CrossFit you know I'm not Gonna try to I'm not gonna try to stretch out my career longer longer than I should you know I don't want to stay in the game Longer than I longer than I should you [know] I want to keep my health. I want to I I want to leave the sport still loving it you know Like I did olympic weight lifting for ten years and when I left the sport. I hated it and You know it kind of sucks [cuz] you know what a lot. I had a lot of great friends That I met over the years you know like I [grew] up with them. You know started competing when I was 12 years old and had the same guys at every competition and like we trained together we'd get together in the offseason and Remember for a long time after after I finished weightlifting and it was It was it was really bad on my part [that] Because of my resentment against weightlifting I didn't want to hear from them I didn't want to see them because it just brought up my bad blood whether that was Jealousy Envy and just kind of Disappointed in the way things worked out for me so you know I've kind of Reached back out and kind of rekindled a lot of those friendships, but you know at the time it just wasn't Wasn't happy for me. So you know the day that I decided to stop competing in crossfit you know I Want to make [sure] that I'm still Happy you know like I don't I don't want to leave any bad blood