- [Sunshine] What is happening? - Fish, and what I'm doing, I wrap it in foil and let it cook for a while, and then after it's like halfway cooked, you'll notice all the fat starts coming out of the fish. What happens, it starts coming out of the fish, and it starts soaking in it, and it starts getting absorbed again, as it starts drying out. I don't want that. I prefer it so, if I see lots of flames coming out, like that. That's good, squeezing the fat out. - [Sunshine] Oh God. It does not look like the salmon I'm used to. - No, because I've squashed it up, and I've squeezed all the fats out of it, that's why. (intense music) I'm Kris Gethin. I'm gonna be training to prepare for an Ironman. I'm giving myself six months, and we're gonna do it. So we're gonna hit arms today. It's not gonna be anything absolutely crazy. I am starting to de-load, or taper off I should say, as we get closer to the Ironman. Next week will be very, very light, but this week, just bringing it down a little bit with the weights, and going for a little bit more intensity now. You like that. (heavy metal music) We spent quite a long time here this morning, did an hour speaking with Kenny McDaniel, giving us some fantastic information on how to hydrate and look after our nutrition. for the full Ironman. I'm gonna go into the lake this afternoon for a swim, because I've got things to take care of right now. I've got some drills to do in the lake with the paddles, and with the buoy as well. You can do your swim right now. I do suggest that when your triceps are fatigued, but I'm not too bothered about that now. I am tapering off a little bit with my workouts, and taking it a little bit easier within the three disciplines as well, just to ensure that we fully recover. And I'm going to Texas this weekend, where there will be some big ass bodybuilders, and you never know, I may have to pull out some energy out the bag, just to get in a couple of last insane workouts, before the Ironman. So I got home before sunshine, and I went straight onto the computer, 'cause I had some emails to bust out. And I heard a knock at the door, and I thought, "Who's that? "I never get any knocks at the door." And I went out, and it was the kids on the street, neighbors kids. And I don't really talk to the neighbors here. Partly because I'm traveling a lot and always so busy. So I'm the grumpy bastard, the grumpy old man on the street, and they came to me with this amazing cute little gift. Isn't that cute? I thought it was absolutely amazing. It really put a smile on my face. (intense music) Today we're swapping things up a little bit, today's supposed to be leg day, but we're doing delts instead. Why? Because I fly to Texas, so I'm gonna be hitting legs when at my Destination Dallas. Shoulders I've decided to hit today. (rock music) Alright, that is a wrap of day 156. Crazy thing today guys, no cardio. This is the first time I haven't done any sort of cardio for God knows how long, but we're trying to de-load, we're trying to resist the urge of still hitting the cardio. So I've been told today is going to be a rest day, completely, after the weights. So that's it. We went through the test again, but this is like my fourth test now, and it's interesting to see that I'm able to actually push through higher lactate thresholds now. So it goes to show that some of my threshold work is definitely paying off, and everything in regards to the supplementation that I've kind of been testing, actually has been following through as well. So as we always say, we don't guess, we test. Knowledge of that mileage is bullshit. It's really good to come in here and have somewhere like Tri Town on our doorstep, and be able to get these tests done. (intense music) Finished the lactate threshold test, and pretty much come straight down to Quinn's pond here, which is absolutely beautiful. Not a soul in sight, except for maybe a couple of ducks. But more than anything, as opposed to looking at time, and meters, and speed, I'm just going for the feel of the water. Antonio set it up perfectly when he said, "Swimming really is just like swinging a golf club, "you just have to keep getting a feel for it, "keep getting a feel for it." Once you get your fitness in place to actually sustain, then you just really need to work on efficiency, and getting a feel for the water, propelling yourself through the water, and being as hydrodynamic as possible. Constantly thinking, duck your head down further, breathe out when your head is in the water, just, what I'm doing underneath the water basically is this. (loud blown raspberries) So I'm breathing out relaxed. Because I've noticed, if I kind of just (loud exhales), I get very tense, I get anxious, I get out of breath. So just working on, just being very ripe, very relaxed and efficient in this swim more than the numbers. (rock music) - [Trainer] Breathe Come on, push! - The workout change's little bit different to what I was going to do. I was gonna do chest and back, but the chest workout just turned out to be gnarly, and it turned out to be a bit of a competition, where people just kept going, and going, and going. So now I feel like I've got fuck-all left in the tank to do backs, so guess what, I'm gonna head back tomorrow. So I'm splitting up. As long as I get to all my body parts in during the week, to me, it doesn't really matter. But this body part is totally unrelated to them, chest is absolutely fried. And that's the good thing about training with some other people. You know, it pushes you a little bit further than what you would generally do. You know, obviously as I'm de-loading, you'd wanna hold yourself back a little bit. But how can you hold yourself back when you're in one of these environments? (rock music) Alright guys, we finished the workout, and these gentlemen just buried me so much, that I have to have an IV now, just to bring me back to life. So we're having IV therapy, what, IV drips? Here in Texas, obviously right outside the gym, which is very, very convenient. Now, this is something that I was doing for quite a long time when I was in Florida, but in Idaho I don't really have access to this. So definitely wanna take advantage of this place, as suggested by Guy over here. So definitely gonna take that recommendation. (upbeat music) We're gonna go out for a bike ride this morning. So we've got our bells in our baskets, and Alex is gonna take us out with Ahmed, and the idea is to hit like a bit of a tempo ride today, an easy ride? (heavy metal music) - That's it. Nice. Let's move. Yes! Come on, pull! - Sup guys? Sunshine here, here at Destination Dallas. This is my first time at this freaking gym, it's crazy. Today is Kris' birthday, and I'm not gonna tell you how old he is, 'cause I don't think he's gonna tell you how old he is, but we're gonna go out to dinner later, we're just getting out of the gym scene for a second, we're going to Town Herth. here in Dallas, probably know where that is. I've never been there, but I hear it's so delicious, just so amazing. So that's where we're gonna go. Right now I'm gonna go check in on Kris, I think he's getting IVs. - [Woman] Hi there! - There he is. - You found me. Of course I'm gonna be taking in whatever I possibly can, when I've got the opportunity. - Alright, so it's gonna be tight, but it's a nice little comfy drive here. - Yeah. - But we're on our way. We're gonna celebrate his birthday. - Yeah, we're high rollers man, this is how we roll on the way to my birthday celebration. - Alright, we made it to the birthday party, this place is absolutely amazing. And this guy, we're celebrating this guy right here. - Yeah, as you should, it's about time. It's taken a whole year to celebrate me. - [Sunshine] We're gonna be eating some of this delicious food here. Eating healthy even on his birthday. - [Sunshine] Still eating healthy. - Based on Jason's suggestion, so of course it's gonna be healthy. - [Sunshine] Yeah, of course. - I take care of my peeps. - [Sunshine] Alright, so we're gonna dig in, I have a little salmon. I'm the only non-steak eater in this group. - [Kris] Yeah, when in Texas, get a steak, what's up? - [Sunshine] Yeah, I'm not eating steak in Texas, forget it. So, happy birthday Krissy. We're in Destination Dallas here, and again, as I mentioned before the open house is having a barbeque. I'm gonna drive it hardcore today. It's low body extremity, but I'm taking away the stress from my legs to my glutes, because this girl right here, check it out, has got booty gains. So she's gonna show me, how I can get my booty gains on today. - So try it both ways, remember- - Bloody hell, oh I gotta push down. Wow, that's different. - The key is to push down and out, not just out. - Yeah, that's too heavy for me. - No. - Yeah, they're definitely. - But you know what? The good thing is, now try. - Yeah, that's better. - Brace yourself on the ground, put your head in and thrust up. - Like that? - Yeah. And keep eye-gaze forward. There you go. Yeah, you feel that? - Yeah I feel that. Alright, that is a wrap of day 160 we're at in this jungle. It's a madhouse in here. We were able to go through the glute session. Yeah, you're gonna give me some hate for some of those glute exercises, I know, but I'm doing what is best for me, and if you are preparing for an Ironman, well, even if you're not, you need to learn to activate your glutes. It's a huge muscle group, and a lot of people disregard it, and they overpower themselves within their quads and their glutes, and they get absolute fatigue. He knows what I'm taking about, that's why he's acknowledging me. You're like, this guy's right. - He's right, he is right. - He's coming in to try and get a bit of information here, claiming that it's his own. - I'm not denying it though, I'm not denying it. - The barbecue outside, is staring at me, so I'm gonna go and eat myself a little bit of meat, and recover as soon as I bring back my Re-Kaged. (upbeat music) We thought that we were supposed to be getting a very early flight this morning. But I guess we've been taking so many flights lately, that I got it mixed up. We thought we were flying out at like six a.m. We're not, we're flying out at bloody 4:30 p.m., which is good, because I get to grace this guy with my presence, Mike Rashid, rumor has. - Thank you, thank you. (loud rock music)