I got comfortable and settled in my bank job and I started to be sedentary. I I lost that love for the gym that I used to have and I would not go, you know, I I wouldn't go for some some time and then I go again and it was kind of like up and down and I didn't know how to get get it back together again. My name is Charmaine Diaz and I'm 36. I um was born and raised in Jersey. I'm a Jersey girl. I loved uh being social. Um I loved everything about being active. I ran track. In college, it started to slow down a little bit for me, but I still worked out um not as heavily. Um but when I graduated college, that's when it really took off for me as far as working out goes. I joined the gym and instantly it it was like right away I I loved it. I got a lot of compliments and one of the fitness directors at the gym, you know, he asked, you know, do you have you ever thought about personal training? And he said, I think you really should give it a try. So, I actually did it and um I got certified, became a personal trainer and I loved it. Um about 8 years into it, I started to um slowly feel like there wasn't more for me to um aspire to in that in that realm. Like I felt like I was I was maxing out my day. So I would start training people at 5:00 in the morning and then I would go until 10 11:00 at night when the gym closed. Um and then I I quit. I quit after that. my my dad. So, uh throughout my training, my dad had gotten sick. Uh he ended up with kidney failure. It was it was slow. It was slow and steady and then all of a sudden it you you started to see my dad change and um he my dad had passed away on my mom's birthday and you know he was my dad was everything. He was everything to me and our family. So to to lose him was was tough. And so I started to to think about my um my life and how I was going to now help my widowed mom function and and cope financially and and emotionally. and like I I just felt immediately like there was some type of responsibility that I had and and I needed to to step up. So I ended up um getting a job at a bank and becoming a banker. You know, I felt good about that and I did that for about 6 years. When I got pregnant, I was so excited that, you know, so many people as I'm gaining weight and as I'm just getting bigger, people are saying, "Oh my gosh, you're beautiful. You have such a glow and you just got this this presence and this kind of feeling about you." And and no one cared that, you know, I was growing growing growing. And I think I used that as my my excuse to eat the sweets. And then after it was all said and done, I was stuck with a whole lot of weight. It was um I think 167 was I was like that was the heaviest I had ever been. I started to just go online and just I don't I don't know what I was looking for. I have no idea what I was doing, what I was looking for. I was just trying to figure out something. And I ended up on um bodybuilding.com's website. the last day of their transformation challenge. And I'm like, I could do, you know, I could do this. This sounds good. I was like, I'm doing this. I'm going like all out. Took my pictures. I was ready to go. And that's kind of like all she wrote. And that that's what led me to this transformation. Would you mind if I worked in on a set? Charine, you are the 2016 bodybuilt.com 250K transformation challenge winner. I felt good again. You know, I felt like I had a purpose. I felt like I was pushing towards a goal. Um that I was doing something for me. And I think that that was something that I was missing too. I was focusing so much on being a housewife and making sure that the family was good, making sure my mom was good, making sure that my my baby was taken care of and and supported. And I was slowly losing touch with myself. And with this challenge, it was like a burst of energy. It was like a new light. It was like life. From the day I signed up, it was all in. All in. and and that was it. I didn't want to look left. I didn't want to look right. It was tunnel vision and I just wanted to to complete it and and do it well. When I started the challenge, I was at 145 exactly. And um when I ended the challenge, I was at 108 without the win, without anything. To have successfully put everything into that challenge, which is something that I hadn't done in so long, to complete it was it was overwhelming. It was exciting. It was it was great. Sometimes people just need some type of incentive. People need to be encouraged. And so I I think that challenges allow people to um get an opportunity to prove to themselves that they can be successful. I think sometimes that's all you need. You just need someone to just say, "All right, here it is. Go do it.