It's day three of the muscle building trainer here in the capital of uh Cardiff. So, it's a non-training day, active rest day where you have to perform your cardio. So, um we've been doing 30 minutes of cardio on our training days um twice. So, you know, in A.M. and P.M. I don't care when you do your cardio as long as you don't do it before your workout or immediately before. Um so, you're doing a double cardio of 3030. 60 minutes in total just to spike the metabolism, help um you know burn off uh this fat that we're trying to chew up. And then uh what we're going to do today on our non-training days is do 40 minutes. So you're going to use your heart rate monitor, you know, set the alarm on it to make sure that you know you're going at an intensity all the time that you should be at, which is about 70 to 80% of your maximum heart rate. you know, sometimes you can tap on to the 85 just a little bit every now and again. Um, and then obviously, you know, you've got to stay on top of your nutrition. What you're going to be doing over this first week, um, as I would have mentioned in the overview video, but just to remind you, you're going to be having 1.18 g of protein per pound of body weight. So, you know, spread that out throughout the day. weigh yourself out and then weigh your protein portions out after you've cooked them uh with uh every meal. And basically with your carbohydrates, your complex carbohydrates, you're going to have 65 g per pound of body weight um over the course of this week, you know, per day. Um they will change next week, but you're going to have to tune in next week for that. So, make sure that you have your protein portions and your carbohydrate portions exactly as planned. your fats are just going to be naturally occurring within your food, you know, of your proteins, uh, you know, whether it comes from the red meat or the salmon. And your supplement was, which is going to be your omegas, you know, take your omega-3s in the morning and the evening. And, uh, that's it. So, I've had my breakfast now, digested, and I'm going to go and, uh, hit the hit the cardio, uh, for the day.