Here we are reporting from Cafe Pure in Cardiff Bay. It's a beautiful uh part of the city here. Um which helps me kind of balance out. You know, when you're on a plan like this, a lot of people will become hermits. They stay indoors. They lose all contact with their friends and family and stuff like that when there's no need to really providing that you've got a place that's kind of educated when it comes to health and uh fitness and nutrition specifically, then you can come and frequent those places. Like here at Cafe Pure, I called them ahead and I said, you know, have you got this food in? Yes, they have. So, basically, I'm having 180 gram of tuna that they'll weigh out for me. I'll have like 3/4 of a cup of quinoa that they'll measure out for me, and they'll put out some uh, you know, some green vegetables with it. And with a place like this, when you say no oil, that is no oil. Because some of the places that you go to, you say no oil and it comes out and there's bloody oil on it and they say, "Oh, it's just a little bit just to cook with." You don't need to. If it sticks, it sticks. It doesn't matter. Just keep moving it around whatever you're cooking up. You know what I mean? Or you can have a salad without the oil. Um, providing that you order everything separately. So when I order the vegetables, I say vegetables cooked, no oil, no butter, no sauce. My protein, whether it be tuna, fish, uh, poultry, whatever, cook it with no oil, no butter, no sauce. And same when I have my carbohydrates, if that's sweet potato, rice, quinoa, whatever, no oil, no butter, no sauce. So you order it all separately, so you're guaranteed that you're not going to have any sauce on there. Um, and then to drink then you're kind of limited, but you can have like a, you know, maybe a decaf coffee. I like to have my caffeine before the workout. And same with the water. You know, obviously you can have water, that's absolutely fine, but if you want a cup of tea, have a cup of tea, you know what I mean? Um, so, you know, going out and having a little bit of balance doesn't make the diet or anything like that so monotonous, you know what I mean? Um, so that that's what it's all about, you know, going out and having a little bit of balance there. And um, you know, it doesn't feel like it's such an arous task then. And here we go. We got some coconut water here, you shot. I got a wheat grass shot. So, this is my cheats. I ain't eating all my greens, so I'm drinking them. Awesome. Thank you very much. All right. So, in a wheat grass shot, you, you know, got plenty of antioxidants. It's got some fiber. Got the vegetables. I don't think we're supposed to eat that. There we go. Dan Hatch.