I went through a lot of different hobbies growing up. I was an artist. I was an actress. I was a dancer. I was singer. For some of those, I fell out of love with them because it started to feel like a job. My name is Alex Silver Fagan. I'm a Cellore and Nike sponsored athlete and a group fitness instructor and personal trainer in New York City. So, going way back. I grew up in New Jersey, 20 minutes outside of New York. I was active, but not as the typical athlete who stuck with one sport. So, I was trying different things. I first did gymnastics, then I did dance, then I did soccer, then I did softball and I was kind of just running around and I was a drama club kid. I was president of the drama club. I've always wanted to express myself, but I never knew what I was expressing. Group fitness is very much a performance. You have to perform while you're giving these people an experience. All of this has kind of been a domino effect. I started by just going into the gym. One thing led to the other. I was doing a competition. I was posting on body space. While I was doing that, I found the spokes model search. Cellor had sponsored the spokes model search that year. I did not win, but I made connections with people in that company. Then I came back to New York and I just kept working really hard. I started focusing on group fitness and teaching my classes, building up my clientele, working with people one-on-one. And through that, the global fitness director for Nike happened to be in New York. happened to find my class. She asked me to audition after that. Um, now I'm a part of a wonderful team of athletes and trainers all over the country for Nike. There's no way you can't feel good by bettering your body and bettering your life and bettering your health. As human beings, we're meant to move. We're meant to play. They were meant to jump, explore, and fitness is just an aspect of that. If you're focusing on health and fitness, you're doing what you're supposed to be doing as a human being. And that's what I love about it. My struggles along the way comes from worrying what other people think of you or if you're doing something wrong or if you're doing something right. You have to stop for a second and think, am I doing this because I want to or because I think that I should be doing it? Someone once said to me, "Do you wake up every day and go about your day and do things because you think that you have to or because you want to work hard towards something because you want that goal?" Being a Cellcore athlete is so cool. They're one of the first companies besides.com that really believed in me and picked me up right away, right at the start. And with them, I've been able to reach a very large audience. I'm lucky that I'm able to work with a company that believes in the same things as me and gives me the opportunity to tell everyone that. A lot of people see me as immature or young or naive. I used to be pretty insecure about that. I mean, I'm only 24. I'm I'm young. I'm still starting my journey. And I think that's part of the reason why people connect with me is because they're going through the same thing. Maybe not necessarily as young as I am, but figuring things out. I want to still be figuring things out when I'm 60 years old, cuz that means I'm still growing. My My favorite saying is, I'm never not learning. Don't ever stop learning. Don't ever stop growing. What's next for Alex? What a big question. I have no idea. A lot of people would see that as a downfall that I don't have an end goal or I don't know where I'm going. But I think that's why I've been so successful is I have no idea what's next. It's not that I wait around for opportunities to come. I just work hard at what I'm doing now. And what's next is next. I don't know what's next, but it's next. We'll see.