So today's workout is a lower body leg circuit. And the difference between this workout and most leg workouts is that you have minimal rest between sets. I love this style of training for legs because it will shock your body into change. So, if you're a person that's used to doing a lot of stuff on the leg press and taking a minute rest or a minute and a half, this is a great workout to really shock your body into changing once again. Over time, if you continue to do this workout, you will see a massive increase in muscle definition in the legs. So, the exercises of today's workout are kettle bell side squat, leg extension, reverse lunges, seated hamstring curl, bodyweight squat, and finishing off with a defensive slide drill. So for today's workout, each exercise is going to be 30 seconds. Your rest will be as you're transitioning from machine to machine or exercise to exercise. You're going to complete this circuit three times. And this workout should not take you any more than 15 minutes. So on the kettle bell side squat, you want to make sure that you have proper spine alignment and that your knees are not coming out over your toes. So, those are the two things that you really want to focus on during this exercise. If you don't have kettle bells available to you, don't worry. You can use a dumbbell. On this exercise, you want to select a weight that you're going to be able to perform for the entire 30 seconds. And once you get the weight, you're going to perform a squat. And then on the way up, you're going to side step. With this exercise, you're going to take three steps to the right and then come back and three steps to the left. And just repeat that for 30 seconds. This is going to work the legs in a multidirectional way, whereas a lot of leg exercises only work front to back. So, this exercise is great for definition on the lateral and medial parts of the legs, as well as for athletes because athletes obviously need to move multi-directionally. So, moving without rest right into leg extensions. With leg extensions, the thing that you really want to focus on during this exercise is choosing a weight that is not too heavy. You want to be able to do it in a manner that is fast-paced, but you're not going to blow your knee out while you're doing it. So, make sure it's something where by the end of the 30 seconds, you should feel an insane amount of burn and that you're keeping the movement very, very smooth and not jerking the weight up and down, cuz that does place an completely unnecessary stress on the knee. So, with the reverse lunges, you do not have to do this exercise with weight, but if you want to, you definitely can. The biggest thing with lunges, you really want to be aware of your knee placement. A lot of times I see people doing lunges in the gym and their knees coming way out over their foot. So with this exercise, you're simply taking a step back, dropping down, performing the lunge, and then coming back up, going back to your starting position, and doing the same thing on the other side. For the hamstring curls, kind of the same principles as the leg extension. You want to choose a weight that's challenging, but you're not going to be burned out after the first 10 reps. The second thing is is you want to make sure that you're keeping your butt firmly planted on the seat and you're not sliding all around. It's very important to make sure that you're preserving your spine and other areas that can get injured during this exercise. For the bodyweight squat, you can perform this exercise obviously using no weight. Same principles as the kettle bell side squat. You really want to pay attention to your spine alignment. So you don't want to be bending forward and cheating the exercise. The other thing you want to be aware of is again that knee placement, not coming out over your toes. So that you're dropping straight back and placing the majority of your weight on the heel. That's how you're going to get the movement to really place stress upon the glutes and the hamstrings rather than your quads and your knees. Alternately, if you prefer to use a leg press for this movement, knock yourself out on that. You're going to want to go wide foot stance. And again, same thing. Don't come down below 90°. With the defensive slide, you want to get into the squat position, and you want to transition again explosively out of the turns. For these slides, you're going to be covering about 5 yards of distance. This exercise is specifically for side to side movement and it really brings in the beautiful lines of definition of the sides of the legs, which is what everybody wants and gets you kind of away from getting locked into that front to back movement which most leg machines offer. So again, you're going to go through each one of these six exercises for a total of 30 seconds with no rest in between. And you're going to perform the entire circuit a total of three times. And this workout should take you around 15 minutes. This workout can be integrated into your training split by it being the main stay leg workout for you for up to four weeks and then I recommend switching into something else or it can be an additional leg workout. So if you're up for training legs twice a week, this is a great supplement to doing other things that most people do in the gym on leg day. If you have any more questions for me, you can find me on My Body Space or my Instagram. For more videos or articles like this from me and my entire Clutch Body Shop team, keep coming right back here to bodybuilding.com.