I'm a sponsored athlete for Adidas. I'm a celebrity trainer. My clients include people like Bradley Cooper, Kate Hudson, P. Diddy and some of the world's biggest professional athletes. I'm the CEO and founder of Clutch Bodyshop. My mission is to change the way you think about your body and what is possible. I'm Ashley Conrad. The belief behind the Clutch System is really just to--well, there's a few different things. One is, is that clients are never resting. They're just never resting. So as opposed to programs where you go in, you do a set, you rest 45 seconds, that, for me, is out the window. Whether I'm having to shred somebody down or build muscle, so I've had clients come to me and they need to get ready to play an action star in a movie, my methodology is completely counter to what most people would do. They're moving the whole time which is the only way I'm able to get their body to build muscle and burn fat simultaneously. It's also, for me, a situation where I want to get the most out of them in the shortest period of time. So whereas a lot of programs will take an hour and a half at the gym, a lot of times clients for me are only working out 30 minutes. Because for those 30 minutes, their body is at maximal VO2 levels. After 30 minutes, they're done. And they can't do anymore. So really it's about time management and it's about the way that I structure different exercises together. When I was training to be an athlete, I didn't use any equipment and they were the hardest workouts I ever did was just with my own body weight. When I became a trainer I thought, you know what, I want to train people like athletes and with that being said, I can use anything. I can use a boxing bag, I can use a medicine ball, I can use one set of dumbbells. Anything that has any sort of weight to it and a body is enough equipment to complete any workout that I've ever created for a client. My theory behind that is if you can't move your own body, you've no business trying to move weights. If you watch any person, most people if you have them just hold their hands above their head, they can't even hold their hands above their head for more than 2 minutes. So for me, then, having somebody go into a gym and doing crazy shoulder presses which is just gonna continue to shorten the muscles that are prohibiting them from being able to hold their hands straight above their head, doesn't make any sort of sense. So I like to build. I think of it as almost like building a house. And I think many times people go into a gym setting, they have no idea where the imbalances of their body are. They have no idea where the weak parts are. Weak points, rather. And then they go in and they start throwing around all these heavy weights. Well, they're just perpetuating the problem. So for me it's really about identifying those weak spots and then using your own body to correct those spots. And for me, I can build muscle on somebody without equipment or I can go into a gym and use heavy weights if necessary but I can honestly say, in almost all cases, every client I've ever transformed for a movie, I've never had to set foot in a gym. Every program I build for somebody is actually completely custom. But it follows a certain protocol. The first thing I look at is actually not somebody's body. The first thing I look at is what their lifestyle is. And the reason I look at that is because if I need to take them from point A to point B in a short period of time, I want to know immediately what their hormonal balance is of their body. So if they tell me, for example, "I just came off of a movie. We were shooting nights. I have been really exhausted. I've been feeling exhausted all day and I've been working out 2 hours a day trying to get my body in shape," to me that says--that screams, "Okay, this person probably has adrenal fatigue. Their cortisol levels are probably all over the map which is then gonna suppress their growth hormone and testosterone levels which is gonna make my job much more difficult." So the first thing I want to look at is what's going on inside this person's body because if I can fix that first, then the physicality of what we're about to do is going to be accelerated. The results are gonna come a lot faster rather than saying, "Okay, I need to build out your shoulders and I need to take your waist down. Okay, let's do this." Our bodies are designed to survive. So if you've been putting it under an immense amount of stress and then you go in and throw in these exhausting workouts on top of that, a lot of times it'll work against you. That's why a lot of times I'll have clients that will come to me and they'll say, "I'm working out 2 hours a day. This is my diet," and most of the time they're not eating enough, "and I literally can't lose weight. I'm gaining weight." Well, that's because your body is--you're actually working against your own body right now. So the first thing I do is look at what their lifestyle is. Then I go in and I design a nutrition plan. And a supplement plan because without the nutrition and the supplement plan, the exercise doesn't really matter, right? And then based on that, how long we have, I'll go in and design the workout portion of the program. The first thing that has to happen any time you want to dramatically transform somebody's body in a short period of time safely is you have to remove the stumbling blocks. And what the stumbling blocks are, are the toxins that are slowing the metabolism down. So this is something that I think is one of the most overlooked areas of fitness. If you look at how the body actually works and the liver being kind of the garbage man of the body, processed food, stress, sugar, coffee, alcohol, prescription medication, all those things have to be processed by the liver. Now you throw all these things at the liver at one time, it actually slows it down. Your liver is responsible for controlling metabolism. So for me, the first thing I have to do is purify the body. That is step one, regardless of the person I'm working with. I want to get rid of the toxins. So the first thing I do is put them on just a couple of detoxifying supplements and along with a, like, mandatory gallon of water a day which, you know, most people would say in a program is extremely important because water is gonna help flush everything out. But the other things I do are having them add about two lemons to their water a day which is a natural diuretic and a natural cleanser. So instead of having somebody take a diuretic that's gonna dry everything out, I'm gonna use something that's gonna naturally cleanse out the organs of the body as well. And then, the next step of that is dealing with their lifestyle. So I think that whether you're a celebrity or a business person, professional athlete, everybody today is just pulled all over the place, like, we never actually take time to just sit and be still. After the initial detox and cleansing, things are moving faster. Your metabolism is moving faster. You've gotten rid of a lot of the initial water weight. Now a lot of times, people say, "It's impossible to lose 10 pounds in 10 days." That's true. Ten pounds of fat in ten days can be impossible to lose, but what I have found in my experience is when people are eliminating toxins, things that are, like, stuck in your stomach, things that your body has just held on to, when you release all of that from the body, the weight that people lose, it doesn't come back because that weight was being held for a reason. The cleansing is step one. Step two then is then you get into the intensive part of working out. Back when I was at USC, we started doing all this really heavy powerlifting, right? Which they said was gonna help us with sport, whatever. So there I am, like, hang cleaning and squatting, like, 285 pounds and bench pressing 190 and I remember going through this whole 4-week training program and then we had to go out to the track. And going into USC, I was--I mean, I was like a freak of nature athlete. Like, you put me out on a track, I was fast, I was agile, I could run for 2 hours at a time, like, you could not exhaust me. So I'd go through this whole camp of all this heavy lifting and we'd go out to the track and we had to run 400 yards and I remember about being about 200 yards in and thinking, "I can't move and I'm out of breath." Like, I had put on so much muscle and my body looked so strong and if you took me in the weight room I was strong but I couldn't even run around the track. And so knowing that feeling, then going into training clients, the most important thing for me is not just to make them look a certain way, but to actually make them be legitimately--almost feel like a deadly weapon, you know? Because that's a psychological aspect that's so important. It's one thing to look, you know, ripped and big and all of that but if you can't actually use it, if you could get your butt kicked by somebody like me with one, like, ninja kick to the leg 'cause you can't actually move, it doesn't make any sense to me. And so, you know, in my training I train people who are fitness models or they're bodybuilding athletes and I'll go through some of my training workouts with them and, like, 3 minutes in, they can't even lift a pair of, you know, 3-pound dumbbells. And to me that says, okay, we have to kind of evolve things in a way that makes sense for the body, you know? Because in that, there's so much power. There is so much power in not just looking a certain way but knowing that you're powerful and that you can move and that you can run and that you can jump and you can punch and so often I see these overbuilt bodies and they can't even get their arm all the way out to there, you know? So it's like, okay, you're gonna have all this muscle but if you get into a bar fight, what are you gonna do, nothing, you know? So, you know, when I'm working with somebody like Bradley Cooper for A-Team, the most important thing to me wasn't just to build his body out, but--and I with all my clients is to also take them through a psychological transformation where they are the strongest that they have ever been. And that comes with being able to move and being connected to your own body and being able to move. So keep going to bodybuilding.com. We're gonna get you the tools, the weapons, the content, the truth that you need to make that change. And we're gonna do everything together. And it's gonna be fun.