Today's workout is my insane fat torching workout. It's six exercises. You're going to do each exercise for 30 seconds followed by 15 seconds rest. Today's workout isn't just great for burning fat, but it's also great for anybody looking to get in better shape. So, anybody from an athlete to the guy who's building muscle, this workout is great for all of those things. The other thing that is important to note about the workout is we're not going for reps, we're going for time. So, within the 30 seconds, the goal is to do as many reps as possible and to improve that every single week. Okay. So, today's six exercises that we're going to be performing are the following. Standing medicine ball throws, medicine ball wall throw with a push-up, shadow boxing, half burpees, 5 yard shuttle drill, finishing it off with jump rope. So remember guys, this is a circuit, so you're going to be completing this entire circuit three times. At the end of each circuit, you're only resting 15 seconds and you're going right back into the circuit. This entire workout should take you around 15 minutes, which is great because you can get in the gym and out and get the job done. The weight of the ball that you're going to use for this exercise really depends on the person. I tend to like to go lighter because we are going for 30 seconds and I want you to be as explosive as possible. Um, so a heavier ball may fatigue you within the first 10 seconds, but that's kind of a personal preference. So, probably the most important thing that you need to focus on with the medicine ball throws is keeping your core really, really tight because that's what's actually going to allow you to perform the movement the way it's meant to be performed. The other important thing to note is that you can perform this exercise by standing in one place or by moving in a circle, which just adds another element of movement to the exercise. You want to be performing this exercise at 100%. But when you bring the ball overhead, that's when you really want to focus on tightening the core because that's going to actually allow you the ability to slam the ball on the ground really hard. The next exercise that we're doing is a medicine ball throw with a push-up. So, probably the first thing that you need to figure out is spacing between yourself and the wall and test it out. When you perform this exercise, you're throwing the ball against the wall. As you're throwing, you're going to come back down, go into the push-up. And as you're coming back up out of the push-up is when you're going to catch the ball coming off of the ground, bouncing towards you. do a couple of reps bouncing the ball onto the wall and getting the ball back to you in one bounce. The second thing is is to make sure that you are coming all the way down in a full push-up position. This is a great exercise on the push-up side because it is plyometric cuz you're explosively trying to get back up to grab that ball. On shadow boxing, you want to make sure that you have your feet staggered apart. Normally, if you're right-handed, you're going to lead with your left. And if you're left-handed, the exact opposite. The point of this exercise to really keep your core really engaged and to be throwing punches as hard as you can. You're going to feel this in your shoulders. And it's going to start to really burn. I love this exercise because you are able to achieve shoulder definition without lifting heavy weights, which gives your joints a nice break. The other thing that's really important to mention with shadow boxing is it is people's tendency to want to hold their breath when they're doing this. Make sure that you're breathing during this exercise and during the entire workout. A half burpee, you're obviously doing the second part of the burpee movement, which is you're excluding the push-up. So, you're going to come down on the ground. and you bring your feet in underneath you. The most important thing to do is to really keep your core tight. Make sure that your hands are hitting the ground. You're right underneath your shoulder and you're just standing up as explosively as possible, but you're never leaving the ground. So, this is a great exercise for, you know, bringing your heart rate up, increasing leg definition and strength, but we're not doing a high impact exercise, which again gives your joints a nice break while elevating heart rate. So, remember, you only have 15 seconds rest and then you're right into the 5 yard shuttle drill. This is a drill that I use during, you know, majority of my sports career. It's a great drill for legs. You build strength, definition. The key is is it's multidirectional. So, you really want to get in and out of those transitions as quickly as possible. That's what's going to really burn your legs out, which is exactly what we're trying to do within these 30 seconds. So, don't shortcut it. Go as hard as you can for 30. The last exercise that we're going to perform is jump rope. And everyone has a different skill level of jump rope. The most important thing is you're doing the exercise. Don't just throw the exercise away because you're not the best jump roper in the world. Jump roping is a great exercise to master because it has amazing cardiovascular benefits and you can do it anywhere as long as you have a jump rope. For this workout, you can integrate this into any program that you're doing. You can add it before a workout or after a workout or both. You can split it into 10-minute segments or you can, you know, expand it into 20. That's what's great about this workout is it's a standalone, but can also be implemented into any program that you're doing. So, if you have any questions for me about this workout or anything else, you can find me on My Body Space or Instagram. So, for more videos and articles from me and my entire Clutch Body Shop team, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.