Today's leg workout is going to be focused on gaining some strength. We're going to be doing three sets and 10 reps of the following reverse lunges with back squats. Moving into a super set of Bulgarian split squats and pla dumbbell squats. And the last super set is cable kickbacks paired with cable lunge rows. This is a strength building workout and it's really important that you try to push yourself and lift heavier weight than what you're comfortable with. This leg workout should take you about 45 minutes, so time's wasted. Let's get started. For the first super set, we will be doing reverse lunges paired with the back squats. With the reverse lunges, you're going to start by loading a bar just like you would for your back squat. Standing feet together, you're going to step one leg back and lunge down all the way until your knee almost touches the floor. You're going to press straight up through your front heel, bringing your back foot forward, standing into an upright position. I recommend that you stay on one side until all reps are completed for that side and then switching to the other side. And without racking your weight, I want you to move right into the back squats. Your feet will be a little bit wider than shoulderwidth apart. You're going to squat down, keeping your chest up, your shoulders back, and your core engaged through the entire lift. For your second superet, we will be doing the Bulgarian split squats with the pa squats. Again, we're doing three sets and anywhere from six to 10 reps. And keep in mind again, I want you to try to go a little bit heavier than what you're comfortable with. Putting the weight on your shoulders, you're going to step back, elevating your foot onto the bench behind you, placing your shoelaces on the top of the bench, and lunging down, putting all your weight into that front extended foot, pushing up through your heels. Really making sure you're contracting your glutes and your quads with every press up. After completing all the reps on your one leg, then you're going to transition into the other side. It's really important that you make sure your stability and your balance is in check, keeping your core tight the entire time. Moving right into the pa dumbbell squats. You're going to grab the dumbbell using both hands and your feet are going to be much wider than shoulderwidth apart. Your toes will be pointed out and your heels and toes both stay flat on the floor the entire lift. You're going to squat down grabbing the dumbbell and fully extend. Really squeezing your glutes and your legs just like elevator doors closing. Moving into our third and final super set, we will be doing cable kickbacks paired with cable lunge rows. For the cable kickbacks, you will need at least one ankle cuff. You're going to begin by standing on one leg and the opposite leg that is attached to the cable machine, you're going to extend back, squeezing your glutes through the lift. As soon as you've completed all the reps on one side, switch to the other side. I really like this exercise and in fact it's one of my favorites because it really isolates your glute muscles and you get three reps into it and you're already going to feel the burn so you know it's working. Again, make sure that you're lifting with heavier weights. For the cable lunge rows, you're going to start by taking three steps away from the cable machine so there is tension in the rope. Stepping into a lunge position. The foot forward should be the opposite one of the hand holding the cable machine. You're going to go down into a lunge and as you stand up, you're going to perform a cable row. I know this is a leg workout and although we're doing a row, you're really not going to be able to feel the row that much in your back, but it's providing tension for whenever you go down into your lunge. I would recommend incorporating this training into your split at least once a week. The full breakdown of this workout is provided on the page below at bodybuilding.com. If you would like more information about me or have questions, you can find me on my body space at Ashley herer or you can find me on my website at www.ashleyhorner.co. And for more free workouts, articles, and training videos just like this, check out bodybuilding.com. Ashley Legs content, take one. Do you guys ever do like cutouts where you're like take like the stupid parts out? I just had like a brain fart. Cable on trolls. Rose, your legs work hard. Yeah, let's face. No, let's just take We don't need Hallelujah.