Welcome to another episode of the expert panel. Uh my name is Chris Ellery. I'm deputy editor of bodybuilding.com. Uh once again I'm joined by two phenomenal guys. Uh Dr. Jake Wilson, PhD in skeletal muscle physiology and uh director of the human performances lab at University of Tampa and my man Rob Wildman, a nutrition PhD and chief science officer for Datize. Thank you guys so much for being here. It's great to be here again. It's phenomenal. Yeah. Really appreciate it. Uh for people who haven't seen our first episode, do you mind kind of just elaborating a little bit on uh your positions and what you guys do? Sure. Well, I'll start this time. So, you know, I function as chief science officer for Datize, which means that uh I get to really drive the science of the company. So, you know, we get to um design the products. We get to do and design research around the products to show that they work and they have what they say they have. and and really just um you know create phenomenal products that people love to use and taste great. Yes, it's a probably the best job ever. But uh you know basically what we do is um most of my time is spent in the lab. So like I direct the human performance and sport nutrition lab at University of Tampa and we run through a lot of experiments and the majority of them are centered around changing body composition like you know how do you gain muscle, how do you lose fat and we run through about a dozen studies a semester and I'm also yeah it's it's crazy looking at well how do you optimize fat and things like that but or decrease fat mass and things like that but the other thing is I'm also the associate director of the graduate program uh at University of Tampa in exercise and nutrition science. So we sort of tie it all together. Fantastic. Yeah. Thank you guys very much. Well, for today's session, uh we're actually going to focus primarily on nutrition um and broadly and then actually segue into more popular diets. So this will sort of be a nutrition round table where we cover some basics in general, goal-based nutrition, say for fat loss or muscle building, and then dovetail into certain diets like ketogenic dieting, if it fits your macros, intermittent fasting. And with each of those, we're going to try to discuss the practical applications, who they're best for, some of the limitations, uh, and other factors you should consider if you are going to choose a specific diet to follow. So, I guess to kick things off in a very broad sense, um, if someone wants to lose fat or build muscle, what are the first things they should consider when either selecting a specific diet or just looking over their nutrition plan? Well, there's a there's a number of things. you're talking about gaining muscle or losing fat, you know, you really have to think about one, can you actually do them at the same time? And this is probably one of the more controversial topics there. You know, I've had articles where people like, there's no way that could happen, but I can tell you, we've run hundreds and hundreds of of really high-tech scans and looked at body composition in our lab, and we've seen time and time again that you actually can do both. Um, usually you select a direction. So, if someone's trying to lose body fat, some of the things they'll think about is, well, you're probably going to create a slight calorie deficit, and that could be created through exercise, but could also be created through diet itself. Um, but most people when they're dieting are just thinking about, oh, I need to lose fat, but they also need to spare muscle, you know, or maybe gain a little bit of muscle while they're doing it. So, you have to think of those things as well. Um, and I know Rob's got a lot of stuff. Yeah. Yeah. But, I mean, what's interesting is it's really kind of changed the thought process around this. And if you go back 10 years ago, you would say, well, I'm trying to lose fat. Therefore, I have to be catabolic. I have to break down body tissue. And protein, body protein is going to go along for the ride, which means you will lose muscle mass. So slowly, you know, and to your point, you would try to minimize or spare body protein while you maximize fat loss. How do you do that? But I think over the last few years, and there's been some nice research papers that have come out, that even in a weight loss scenario, you can actually make gains in muscle mass at the same time, but there are there are some things that you have to do in order to make it happen. Well, yeah, let's talk about those specifics a little bit. Um, is it a matter of meal frequency or a certain number of calories or even macro composition? I would say probably all of those. So we definitely know your macronutrient composition is going to impact uh the quality of that mass change that you have you know so protein needs to be obviously higher. Uh the the distribution of it needs to be you know on point. Also your calorie deficit if you're talking about losing fat can't be too drastic because the more drastic that is the more proportionally you'll lose muscle mass. So it has to be somewhat conservative. And then obviously the training as well. You know, if someone starts to increase their cardio from one to one hour a day to two hours a day, our labs actually found like a dose dependent response. The more you do cardio, the more selective, you don't just lose actual body fat, but you're actually losing muscle mass in a dose dependent fashion. So, these are all things that people have to consider. Yeah. And you know, macros are are important, but I think what's interesting over the last, you know, it's really gone on for decades now, but people can go anywhere from less than 10% of their calories and get into more of a ketogenic dieting scenario and go all the way up to 60 65% of their calories from carbohydrate where it's more of a high carbohydrate type of scenario and you can have great results either way. So, there's really kind of a personalized approach to it. you know there's a compliance factor there but I think you know a seminal concept that just threads through both is is really protein and resistance training I mean both have to be strongly considered you need higher levels of protein so if it's one time a day you need to maximize that that uh one meal a day you need to resistance train um but you know I think some of the really fun data that we've seen is even if you split it up into six meals a day as long as your protein levels are high enough at those meals you get great results in losing fat mass as well as keeping your metabolism revved up even in a weight loss scenario. So, what what does the research show as optimal protein intake while trying to lose fat for either yeah lean mass maintenance or even potential muscle building? Is it a gram per pound every day or is it meal specific? It's both really. I I think, you know, because because you you can say six meals a day. You can say three meals a day, but you're going to need probably for most people well over a gram per kilogram body weight, probably closer to one and a half to 1.6 or even higher. So, you need adequate protein. The best way to do is sort of funnel it down and say, if I'm going to do three meals a day, I'm going to do six meals a day. So, if I'm going to break it into six meals a day, I'm still going to need at least 20 grams of protein at those six meals a day. And the reason for that is is that um just protein itself has an anabolic effect. Protein itself will increase muscle protein synthesis. We always talk about resistance training in enhancing muscle protein synthesis, but protein by itself will do that as well, but you need enough just like you need after you train. So 20 grams, I think the studies that have been done where they've split it up into five and six meals a day and haven't shown really good results with that. and they say, "Well, you know, six meals a day really doesn't work." It's because they restricted calories too much. And even though they increased protein percentage in the diet, there still wasn't enough at each of the meals to really keep metabolism high and to keep muscle protein synthesis optional or optimal. Yeah, that's absolutely key. I mean, the main thing is if protein is really high, like Dr. Rob says if you distribute it out, you know, to more frequent meals, as long as each of those meals is hitting a sort of a threshold, you know, uh 20 to 30 grams, if you're one of the bigger guys out there, maybe 30 or 40 gram um per meal, then you're going to get a benefit. Well, and so protein might also provide well, we could talk about um thermic effect of food a little bit. Does protein provide additional benefits for somebody trying to lose fat beyond just anabolism? Yeah, it seems so. I mean just the way that protein is handled in the body uh requires more calories. Uh so typically thermal effect of of uh protein is is said to be around 20 to 35% of the calories that you consume from protein. For fat and carbohydrate I believe it's 10 to 15%. So it's it's kind of double than you know what you would expect from carbohydrate or fat. It's not that simple but in general you can use that as as a easy easy rule. Yeah. And and one of the keys for that is the fact that it's driving protein synthesis as well. So that's obviously going to increase calorie expenditure. Whereas if you consume a carbohydrate, that's not going to necessarily drive protein synthesis. So that's one of the reasons you get a higher you know thermic effect, greater calorie expenditure. Um and and protein actually causes your muscles to adapt like they increase more of your fat burning machinery like mitochondria when you actually consume it as opposed to carbohydrates which could actually suppress that. That's a great point. So, when you're starting even just to look at your calories, um should you begin with a calculator or a formula? How should you sort of begin to just kind of craft your strategy for calories I'm consuming now versus what I should be consuming in a deficit to lose weight? Go ahead. Yeah. All right. So, that's basically obviously this is one of the more difficult questions like in our lab we put people under a metabolic cart and it's like oh boom, okay, at least we get a baseline calorie. But obviously people can't just do that. So, what's the best alternatives? Well, if you look, one thing you could use a calorie calculator. I know bodybuild.com has um some really good calorie calculators. They'll tell you, well, this is what we estimate your baseline is. But one thing we know about humans is that, you know, they have a process of homeostasis. They want to stay at the same weight. If you're kind of just eating and tracking your calories, you're probably at the end of the week going to stay around the same weight if you just let it happen naturally. So, what you do is you track yourself over a week and you're like, "How's my weight fluctuated?" If it hasn't changed, that's probably your maintenance calories, you know, and your body's probably going to default to maintenance. Um, if you've gone up like 2 lbs, you probably need to adjust a little bit down. But once you find that, then you can create the deficit. And that's probably more of the most accurate way you can do. Um, al along with maybe using a calorie calculator, you can do that as well. Um, that's what I recommend. Yeah, absolutely. It's sort of the intersect between the two. You know, if you keep a log, I you know, we always talk about you starting out with a good self- inventory. You know, where are you? And you have to define where you are before you know where you can actually go. And so, you know, it's sort of the intersect between, you know, how many calories are you currently consuming? What types of foods are driving that? Just come up with sort of a a general or rough sort of macro and protein content. And then also use a a calculator which will apply equations like Miffller Centur or even the Cunningham equation which is good for people that have more uh lean body mass or fat-free mass muscle mass and then once you've established that baseline is there a recommended deficit per day to start where should people kind of begin fine-tuning or tinkering? Yeah, I always like to recommend um so once once you know your maintenance calorie load um or level then about 80 75 to 80% of that is a good place uh and if you want to get more aggressive because the big thing is you know there's daily activity and then there's exercise activity on top of that. So um you have to factor that in. If you're expending a lot of energy training like 6 700 calories which is a lot of training then you know you need to bring that up a little bit higher. So, you know, 75% of your total daily energy expenditure is probably going to drive, you know, good loss of fat mass while at the same time helping to spare protein. And if you take your training up and you get your protein levels up high enough, you can actually build muscle or at least maintain where you are. Exactly. And also, it's important for people to understand that uh you know, how much weight they're going to lose to start, how much fat they're going to lose is going to be dependent on their starting body fatness. you know, so if someone has a lot more body fat, they're going to lose a lot quicker than someone who's super lean. So, they have to put that in perspective as well. What's the reason for that? um you know obvious does does your body just cling to those energy stores uh as you sort of start running through them and thus it's harder to use them when you're say 10% or below as a guy or you know strategically speaking there's this one scientist uh Forbes did a bunch of research basically looking at what happens from from when you're obese to just overweight to lean what does your body preferentially select and it seems that the more body fat you have uh the more it will say, "Oh, cool. I can use as much fat as I want, right? Doesn't matter." But as you get leaner and leaner, your body changes its strategy because it actually wants to hold on to some of that fat mass. Um, and it'll change it strategy. So, it'll start to sort of catabolize muscle. The leaner you are, the more in danger you are. Now, I'm not recommending this for people watching, but someone who's has a lot of body fat can go on sort of extreme calorie deficits and not lose muscle or barely, especially if they're resistance training, right? So, if they're if they're like, you know, over 25% or something, for example, they could uh go on a,000 calorie deficit and um they will actually barely touch their muscle at all, especially the resistance training. But then you got a guy who's, you know, um ripped like Dr. Rob. Yeah. And basically what's going to end up happening is he has to be more careful because his body actually will now strategically try and lose muscle. There'll be a much higher proportional loss from muscle than fat if he's not careful. Um and so then he may have to be more conservative. Yeah. I mean I think that's a great point. I think people who are leaner before they begin to manipulate their caloric intake actually have, you know, more to lose when it comes to like lean body mass. So they really have to be careful. So you really have to monitor yourself on a daily basis. Find out if you're being overly restrictive. You know, weigh yourself. Um, you know, I always recommend that people do monitor their body composition more frequently than once a week or once every two weeks. I think if you are in that scenario, especially a leaner guy, maybe a guy that's like 10 to 15% body fat, pretty lean to begin with, who's trying to, you know, trying to knock off just a little more fat, trying to bring the abs out a little bit more. I mean, they do, you know, they don't want to lose muscle mass. So, they do want to stay on top of their fat-free mass and monitor it and maintenance strategies for lean mass. We talked a little bit about, you know, protein intake totals and per meal. What about like branch chain amino acids or just other ways to some other anti catabolic strategies? Yeah, branch chain amino acids for sure. Like um there's a lot of studies um you know a colleague of mine actually one of the top scientists out there Dr. William Kramer has done studies where they've extremely like overreached individuals which would be similar to like a dieting situation and found that branch chain amino acids was able to spare like that decrement that we see sort of in muscle and then obviously you know the one of the main branching amino acids we think about is leucine um and and basically that has a lot of metabolites like um hikah for example or also HMBB um those seem to spare muscle right so those are like anti catabolic. We know if you're in a calorie deficit, they'll spare actual muscle when you're dieting. I was wondering when HMD was going to come on the conversation. Wait for it. We got through like 15 minutes or so. Um a record. It is a record and same timing strategy. Uh would you use the BCAAs as a bridge between meals? Yeah. So I think for sure one of the things that we know actually um so my brother Dr. Gabe Bolson did a lot of research finding that basically branching amino acids between meals will keep you sort of anabolic you know or from going catabolic. So yeah that's definitely beneficial especially you're dieting. But the other thing that is important to realize is that as you cut your calories your calories need to be more efficient. So you need to move to you know if you're having a bunch of excess calories well maybe it's not as you don't have to be as cautious. You're probably going to hit your thresholds anyway. When you're restricting calories, everything's got to be on point in a sense, especially when you talk about protein and the quality of protein needs to go up and the lucine content needs to go up. And branch amino acids, you get you stimulate protein synthesis at a fraction of what it would cost to have a whole protein meal. I I think I can't remember when the study was published. It was probably about a year, year and a half ago where they actually showed uh I think it was out of Stu Phillips lab where they actually showed lower protein intake, lower amounts of whey protein, like six grams of it, but stacked with more leucine to get it up to a lucine content of about 25 grams of whey protein concentrate and they actually showed that you still get good muscle protein synthesis with less protein but with the added leucine. So it's the idea that um you know that you want to stimulate muscle protein synthesis throughout the day. You always want anabolism happening in the muscle all day anabolic. And so how do you do that? So it it's hard to plan out six protein adequate meals over the course of the day. So what if in between it's it's a little bit lighter. Can you come in there with, you know, an amino beverage that drives branch chain amino acids up over, you know, five grams, giving you two grams or higher of of leucine, you know, triggering muscle protein synthesis, you know, that that can only help. Mhm. So, I think that takes us back to one of the things you first said, um, which I want to talk a little bit about before we sort of dive into specific diets. Uh, building muscle while you're in a deficit or while you're losing fat. Um, and I think a lot of people don't think it's possible because they sort of assume you need a calorie surplus in total um, to build muscle. So, can you talk a little bit about how you might be able to build muscle while cutting fat? Well, we think about building muscle and losing fat. It's really just it's signaling. We're trying to switch on the signals for muscle. We're trying to, you know, switch on the signals to catabolize fat mass. And you don't necessarily have to have a calorie surplus to do that. The one thing I will say is that um you could be in maintenance and if you have all you're providing all the protein for example if you're distributing your protein optimally well every time you have protein you simulate protein synthesis that puts a drain on the muscle cell itself and that actually causes it to go oh I need more energy oh increase mitochondria increase fat metabolism so just by optimizing protein you're actually switch on one signal for growth and then you're going to switch on one signal to catabolize fat tissue itself the other thing is you can be real smart in how you optimize like your cardio for example, if you're not doing long duration, if you're doing short bouts, that'll create adaptations in your body that make you sort of have greater advantages for using fat. Again, you're doing like high-intensity interval training like we do in our lab, you'll increase mitochondria. Your body by by nature is going to actually shift its actual body composition. So, it's just switching signals on and and switching other signals off and you'll still be able to cause that to happen. What I can tell you is that if you're trying to lose fat or weight in general, um, which may not be what we should totally concentrate is just weight, but if someone's going down, um, then basically they need to be real careful on how they're structuring their calorie deficit. Again, it needs to be more conservative. They're trying to gain muscle at the same time. The more drastic, the less of a shot they have to do that. Yeah. I mean, because, you know, you're trying to optimize lipolytic processes. you're trying to optimize fat breakdown from fat tissue. At the same time, you're trying to optimize anabolism within muscle tissue. So, you know, I think there's been some really nice work that's done, you know, again out of Stu Phillips lab, but they showed a um that in women that if you put them on a calorie deficit, so they're geared towards fat loss, they're geared towards weight loss, fat loss, but you give them higher protein. And if more of that protein actually comes from dairy and because of the effects of dairy on muscle protein synthesis, you know, seeming to be especially whey seeming to have like really strong anabolic effects that the women with resistance training actually gained muscle mass while they lost body fat. So, you know, it's it can be done. Uh you just have to do it smart. And we've seen it in our lab with really high level trained guys. I mean, guys who are, you know, like it's our lab's somewhat uncharacteristic cuz you you'll go in there and we'll have guys deadlifting like 600 lb and stuff like that, which mostly it's just a convenient population. And I'm telling you right now, those guys, you're seeing the same thing. It can happen even if you're well trained, you can still make this change. Is there you kind of talked about dose dependent cardio. Um, what about resistance training? If you're trying to do that, if you're trying to lose fat, maintain or build a little muscle, can you overreach or is there an optimal frequency for training or or a structure somebody should follow? Wow, great question. What's the optimal level of frequency? Basically, is that's one of the most complex uh not an easy one. Yeah. But okay, and this is this will sound strange obviously like a lot of times you open up a magazine, it's like, well, I did legs on Monday, right? back on Tuesday, you know, uh, arms on Wednesday or whatever, and you do one body part per week. Well, um, it turns out there's there's research out of Norway, out of Rosad's lab that's actually showing that training a body part every day actually is increasing more muscle mass than two to three times a week. But the trick, and this is one of the keys I have to emphasize, that frequency is not the same as volume. They're related. So, if I did 30 sets of legs today, right, and I did it tomorrow and the next day and the next day and next day, yeah, I probably overreach, right? You know, you know, you probably count on that, especially if you're trying to cause a calorie deficit. But what if I trained like, for example, um I don't know, 20 sets of legs twice a week. That's 40 total sets. If I broke that up into four workouts of 10 each workout, I would actually increase muscle size more. uh and this is even in elite athletes um to normal people and I would increase protein synthesis more because what happens is the more well-trained you get the lesser the protein synthesis response last so if someone's untrained yeah the one day a week thing works the two days a week uh works because protein synthesis might last 72 hours 96 hours maybe and someone's untrained as someone's who's highly trained it might last you know a matter of hours you know maybe 12 hours after the training session it's done and they're wondering why they're plateaued. Maybe they need to adjust their training frequency. So, I would say volume you have to be really careful with, but training frequ frequency may be a good way to hold on to lean mass while you're dieting so you get more of a frequent stimulus and being very very cautious and sensitive to overtraining. Yeah. And yeah, what about intensity on a deficit? Should you be lifting lighter or should you still m if you know if you want to still hit a three or five rep max or do five sets of five or something? uh should you be training, you know, for hypertrophy or for strength or a little of both? Basically, one thing like I want to emphasize is that like we know whether you're in a a deficit or you're in a surplus, you still are trying if you're trying to um hold on or gain muscle while you're dieting, you still want to maximize the sort of mechanisms of hypertrophy, which are going to be like uh tension, and that's going to be with the heavy loading, motor unit recruitment, which is going to be the heavy loading, and then of course the cell one. So, I'd have a mixture of all of them. The difference is what we're finding in our lab is basically this. The way that you perceive where you're at in a day might dictate somewhat how you train. So you need to get your work in during the week. I know that if I'm dieting, okay, I have to get a heavy lift in um at least, you know, say once a week. I know I need to train for hypertrophy like once or twice a week, maybe blood flow restriction once a week. But of those, the least taxing, blood flow restriction. Maybe hypertrophy you can zone out. Maybe you need the most focus for strength. Mhm. So basically what we're finding in our lab is if you came in like on a Monday and today was supposed to be your heavy day. You know you got to get that in this week. But on a scale of 0 to 10, you're like at a five, you probably should do blood flow restriction that day because it takes the least out of you and it has a basically no muscle damage. Not a lot. Whereas on Wednesday like oh I feel 100%. You hit your heavy day and then Friday you sort of just get into your hypertrophy. So, you need to vary your workout about how you feel and you need to be more sensitive to that when you're dieting because the chance to overreach and the importance of paying attention to your own own internal cues becomes even more important. It's just not as simple as going to the gym three days a week. A little bit more complex than that. But, you know, I guess the the key is is just to pay attention to your body, you know, understand the signals that are, you know, that are being presented to you and then to adjust your workout accordingly. So yeah, autoregulate a little bit. Auto regulation. That's the next level right now training. Well, and that might be a whole another a whole another expert panel. That's the next one. That's the next one. Yeah. So from here to keep the nutrition focus um I think it'd be great to move into some specific diets and maybe we could start with ketogenic dieting and just talk first and foremost um what is a keto diet? How to do it? How do you get into ketosis? What's the benefit of it? Well, ketogenic dieting it's it's one of the more interesting diets, right? And uh basically what I can tell you from my experience what most people think ketogenic dieting is most people think it's eliminate carbs um you know and typically a bodybuilder will eliminate carbs and then they'll kind of go clean you know basically like moderate fat high super high protein okay and then what happens is after 5 days they're like I feel horrible I try I like I tried ketogenic dieting didn't work and then I ask them what they did well you know my protein was super high lowered my carbs I low fats, you know, and they were all like unsaturated, right? So, but that's actually not ketogenic dieting. Ketogenic dieting, and this is sounds kind of crazy, but over 70% of your actual calories are coming from fat. Like maybe 75%. Uh, and so, you know, and then 20% 20 to 25% is going to come from protein and 5% or less is going to come from carbs. So, basically, your carbs are going to come all from like grain vegetables essentially at that point. Um, then your protein is going to be higher fat proteins, you know what I mean? Bacon, fully fatted red meat, highly marble. Yeah. Eggs, so forth and so on. Yeah. You know, whole cream, cheeses, um, you know, all the stuff that like you you thought was horrible. It totally changes on a ketogenic diet. Okay. But you can't have the carbs with it. That's the thing. Um, and your protein's moderate. So, that's ketogenic dieting. And basically what happens is most people are carb adapted means they use carbohydrates as their primary fuel source right um when you become fat adapted right um or one of the main researchers in the field Steve Finny calls it keto adapted basically now your body's like boom now my main fuel source is fat and what happens is fats get broken down also and converted into ketones and that's I can't emphasize that enough because your brain runs off can run off of and they have a lot of muscle sparing effects. So, what happens, what's going on is that the bodybuilder who does kind of um a bro kind of keto diet, right? The high protein type of thing, what happens is they never get into ketosis. Never. Um and that's why they feel miserable because you've taken away carbs, but and that's what they're adapted to still. And yet, you know, they don't have them. So, basically, that that's the biggest problem. You have to become keto adapted. The other thing is, of course, when someone goes into a keto diet and they're like, "Oh, I tried it for 3 days. I tried it for 5 days. I felt miserable. Well, it takes time to adapt to any diet. And that's one thing that we would emphasize. Any diet you do, you know, you have to adapt. Your body adapts to dieting. Your gut, your body overall adapts to dieting just like it adapts to training. It takes at minimum two weeks before your fat adapted. And the actually the longer you go, the better it actually becomes. So the main benefit to ketogenic dieting is that now fat is your primary source of fuel and ketones are very high and ketones spare muscle mass when you diet and so you don't lose as much muscle. Um also you don't crash normally when you're dieting like oh I can't think I can't concentrate. You you've been around like athletes or bodybuilders contest prepping like I just can't think. I just can't think. Right. Well ketones you're constantly tapping in your fat and producing ketones so you can think. You don't crash. And ketones are very satiating, which means that you're not as hungry, so you can diet have a more sustained diet with that. So those are sort of the benefits that you see. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I think, you know, Dr. Wilson brings out some really really good points and that is I mean, if you if you're going to try ketogenic dieting, if you're uh going to climb in, you have to do it right. You have to keep your proteins at a moderate level, you know, 25% or so because proteins broken down to amino acids, some of those amino acids will become glucose. So, you don't want to flood your bloodstream with glucose. A lot of it's going to go into the liver. Liver takes it and just says, "Oh, let's keep making glucose." And so, you never really generate significant amounts of ketone bodies. And that's where the magic is. Without the ketone bodies, you you really can't reap the benefits. You know, the brain is um you know, red blood cells can only use glucose for energy and so you need about 50 grams of glucose a day for red blood cells. That's all they can use. The brain, on the other hand, will go glucose or it'll go ketone bodies. So, you know, it it just gets a little bit confusing if you go very low carb diet but very high protein diet because you never really get into full ketosis, but yet at the same time you make yourself miserable because you you don't really go hypoglycemic either. It's just it's metabolically it's confusing. You don't have a consistent fuel source for your brain. Yeah. So, you get that nice fog. Yeah. 100%. Yeah. I mean, we're just understanding. We're beginning to understand like so many benefits. But, you know, this isn't new. You know, researchers have been playing around, practitioners have been playing around with ketogenic diets now for almost a hundred years. So, you know, over the last couple of decades is where we've really invested more time. And I think now it's just so much more exciting because there's more food options. Um, there's more people doing it. and there's a better understanding of how to do it effectively that will guide people into it and then help them stay on longer and and reap the benefits. But I think the ketone bodies themselves being having an effect on hunger is really really exciting stuff. And you know there's been a few studies now that have shown that you know over over the course of several weeks when you become keto adapted some of your hormone levels go down that are directly involved in in hunger. So, you know, it's it's playing a direct role there. Plus, the higher protein intake can stimulate higher levels of thermogenesis. So, there's metabolic benefit and and then there's also hunger benefits that go with it as well. So, there's a lot of really cool benefits. A lot of other things too that I think are exciting. I know you're just about to talk about that, but great impact on blood lipids. So, you know, you may have we may have, you know, worked with a lot of clients out there that, you know, and I don't think we look at it the way that Jake just mentioned it. We are carb adapted. So, you can either carb adapt or with very low carb intake and mo you can keto adapt. And you know, the body will run well either way. Um, and you know, some of the reflection that we're not carb adapted optimally might be elevations in blood triglycerides, elev elevated blood cholesterol levels, elevated blood glucose levels, meaning that we are carb adapted and we're overloading the system. We're just not doing it optimally. So, a lot of that gets corrected when you go over to a ketogenic diet. You can lower triglycerides. You can lower LDL and cholesterol levels. and your your your cluster your LDL particles are actually bigger which are less aoggenic. So there's a lot of benefit for somebody who's struggling over here maybe with a little extra body fat and and maybe they're um you know they're hypoglycemic trying to deal with like some medication to try to control blood glucose levels their lipids are up a little bit and their doctor is telling them hey you know you need a statin drug maybe this is a really good option for them. Yeah. And it seems uh paradoxical, right? It's like, wait, is a good word. It's like, wait a second. Wait, you're telling me that I can take in a bunch of cholesterol like bacon and blue cheese and, you know, and ranch and um I can actually lower my, you know, cholesterol levels or increase my like good cholesterol. Yeah. I'm telling you, but basically the the paradox is solved by this. When you think about fats, the paradox is uh basically fats go into the muscle, they go into the mitochondria and they get used as fuel. But that requires a transporter to get in there. Turns out that carbs and insulin block that transporter. Okay. Um so basically now you have if you eat high fat um like if you ate like a huge pizza or something and cheesecake, super high fat. You know, a lot of people, oh, I could eat high fat, right? Yeah. But if you have the the pizza and then the cheesecake, you have super high fat, but now you have the carbs and the insulin and boom, where's that fat going to go? Nowhere. It's it's essentially not going to get oxidized, then that's when you have the problems. But basically, there was even a study where um Bob Wolf, he infused fat at a high level into people and basically with no carbs, it just got used as fuel, uses fuel. He infused carbs with the fat and basically you have an elevation in in blood fats and blood lipids. That's the problem and that's one of the keys that we have to think about. The other thing is um that when we diet we know one of the things that happens is testosterone plummets. Um but we actually did a study where we saw people lose a lot of fat. These are well resistance trained guys. They lost a lot of fat. Um I want to say probably like uh seven or eight pounds of fat and their testosterone levels jumped like a 100 points. Uh yeah on keto. Um because basically you think about it fat is a lipid right? So, um, so it was really cool to see that. That's great results. Yeah, that's that's fantastic. And and I would assume just to kind of touch on the the wellness benefits or the health benefits. Um, good applications for type two diabetes as well, right? Great applications. Actually, that's one of the things that Dr. Rob and I were talking about over dinner last night was like who responds better. I mean, I would say people who are insulin resistant, people who are tended towards type 2 diabetes. um have great great benefits from this, you know, or someone just doesn't respond well to carbs. If you have a guy who can, you know, take in like 600 grams of carbs and say shredded year round, well, you know, I don't know why keto might not be the best diet for that person. That's why it's all about customization, you know, basically. So, but someone who has a harder time, that's where sort of switching over to sort of keto could be something a tool for them. Yeah. And I think that's one of the things I find most interesting is you you have different people that follow different macronutrient ratios and get great benefit. So it really kind of drives home the point that there isn't just one diet out there, but there is just one you and you have to let the diet that's going to work for you come to you instead of trying to go out there and find one that you know all of your friends say works. But at the same time, you know, it is great that if if you are going to try ketogenic or another type zone or or another type of diet, it is great if you have friends and family and whatnot who may be trying it with you because you know that camaraderie and that partnership that can go along with it can really help you know compliance and and success. Absolutely. 100%. And then you know there are concerns people have I know and it's important we address all the concerns with keto. One of the things before like like our lab over the last year has been doing a lot of research with this with resistance train guys. Before is mostly type two diabetics, overweight people or just normal people who didn't like lift or anything like that. And basically what we're we're finding is one of the things is oh I know if I don't have carbs, there's no way I can have the same training volume. I know that for a fact. We found no differences in training volume between uh groups. We found no differences in the ability to gain muscle between groups. We found no differences in the ability to gain strength. So in in some sense that's where it becomes like what what is your preference? What tool do you want to use? Um etc etc. Now with dieting it becomes a little bit more complex. That was a maintenance sort of phase. Um with dieting becomes a little bit more complex. You have different variations of ketogenic dieting. But sticking to the strict one probably is a good idea. So yeah, people are often afraid of dropping carbs um because they think of carbs as the performance nutrient. Um, but you'd say based on that research that there's really no fear u if if you know regardless of how hard you're training of cutting carbs out. Yeah. And we we like I said we basically saw um all the benefits. Now now one of the things that people will do is they kind of will want the best of both worlds. And what they'll do is um they'll do sort of a cyclic ketogenic diet, right? It's very famous, very popular, like oh you know in five days I start to feel horrible so I'm going to carve up on the weekends then I feel great and then after five days I feel horrible again let me carve up. Well the reason why they kind of feel horrible after 5 days cuz the carbs on the weekend never allowed them to adapt. So they're keep going through this vicious cycle. So we just did a study where basically we took guys and we put them on a calorie deficit and we had them go cyclic. Basically, they did keto during the week and they carved up on the weekend. And then another group basically just went straight keto. Now, both of them lost um I guess about 3 kilograms of uh of total body weight. Okay, so about 3 kg of total body weight. The keto group, all of it was fat. All of it. I I predicted because I was I was believing exactly what they were saying. I predicted like, oh, my prediction is the cichlic keto group will actually um lose maybe less fat, but they'll gain a little muscle. That's what I predicted because they have more carbs. They're getting kind of the best of both worlds. Um, but guess what? Two of the kilograms they lost was muscle or lean mass. Two of them. And only one was fat. So, it's like, whoa. I mean, that's why I looked at that and and uh, you know, Ryan Lowry in my labs kind of just was going over the data. He's like, what's going on, doc? I'm like, and then kind of the light kind of just, you know, went on. I'm like, well, it makes sense. I guess we looked at their ketone levels throughout the the week. Basically, they weren't getting back into ketosis. So, like, uh, late Wednesday or Thursday, ketones, spare muscle. So, if you go on Monday, now you go back to low carb and you you don't have the ketone tie to spare muscle. What's your body going to do? It's going to go to muscle and kind of catabolize it. So, you have a fuel source until you can get back into ketosis. So people who do that they I can say this if they're doing cyclic they have to be a lot more careful uh you know and probably even take fats that might raise ketone levels a lot higher. Yeah, I think what's interesting your point about guys who are weight training and who are also following ketogenic diets, they're still able to have great workouts. You know, the um the muscle movement purely anorobic, you know, highly anorobic, but yet they're still able to drive, you know, good good solid resistance training workouts. So, it seems that, you know, there's still glycogen within the muscle even though they're ketogenic and there's probably enough fuel in the tank from a carbohydrate standpoint to really, you know, help them have great workouts. um as long as they're not overly long workouts or you know even like uh somebody who does you know highintensity cardio uh or something like that that's I think where ketogenic dieting may fall a little bit short because you do become a little bit more you become more carbohydrate dependent once you go past your anorobic threshold as far as carb cycling goes it is really popular so based on those results um should somebody give themselves a couple weeks to get keto adapted before cycling carbs. Is that the better way to do it? That's a really good question. So, basically in this study that I talked about, we we we let them get a keto adapted for two weeks and they still had the decrements. But if someone goes maybe six weeks, maybe two months, it's conceivable at that point they could start to cycle because now they're so fat adapted that two days is not going to throw them out of that, you know? So, that could be something that they do or maybe they start playing around with having some carbs around the workout. These are all things we're trying to sort of figure out right now in in the lab. I can tell you that after probably two months I you know um we've done like sort of case studies and so you know on individual subjects and we've seen that after like 2 months 3 months that they can actually stay in ketosis when they throw in a little bit of carbs. Um but at first it's probably not going to happen. It's not it's not the best idea. So moving on from ketogenic dieting um I kind of want to touch just briefly on a couple other popular diets. if it fits your macros first and then intermittent fasting. So, let's start with I FYM. Okay. Uh yeah. So, basically they're they're sort of diff somewhat different versions of um if it fits your macros, but I think basically the general concept if if you go to like uh read the websites and stuff like that. It's basically that the the main thing that matters is your total macronutrient uh content, your calories, so carbs, fats, proteins. And the general premise is that it doesn't matter how you get those, when you get those, how you time them, that's irrelevant so long as it fits your macros, right? So, uh, it's also called flexible sort of dieting. Um, so basically, for example, if I saved up all my fats for nighttime and I had cheesecake and pizza, it fit my macros. that's just as good if if I had like grilled chicken or or if I space out my protein and optimally distributed it. Doesn't matter. Sort of the benefits are that people can kind of eat what they want. Maybe they can stay longer with it. But uh I I have my thoughts on it, but I want to see what Dr. Rob says first. Well, I mean, I think it's I think the beauty of it is is in the simplicity. Uh I I think it's a concept that people can understand and and apply readily. Um, and I think the real key is, uh, will you be successful? Probably. Uh, and I don't think it's any different than, you know, high carbohydrate or even ketogenic. I think if you apply yourself and you you structure it correctly and you're able to be compliant against a calorie level and structure your protein correctly and then optimize your food choices within, you will be successful. But I I think it's very important sometimes when we we oversimplify a program and say it just comes down to one, two, three things that you have to take into consideration the quality of of your choices. So the cheesecake and the pizza, I mean, that may have that may have taken up 40 40% of your calories for the day. Well, what if what if some of your fat came from from fish? So if it comes from fish, you you derive, you know, great great protein, omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids. We know that omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids help optimize muscle protein synthesis in response to carbohydrate and protein within the meal. So make good choices within your within your macro I think would be would be my recommendation that it's just not as simple as you know a simple tally board that you also have to sort of score along the way as to what's the quality of the foods that you are consuming. 100% agree. I think we have like this gap. We have what's sustainable and and also understand yeah macronutrients are important. Total calorie load is important. No question about it. We go what is sustainable and then what is optimal? And you know we have this sort of sometimes chasm between the two. And it's always going to depend on the goals of the individual. How how serious are they? How close are they to their event or or their competition for example or their goal or photo shoot. It does turn out that basically um the premise is is good for as far as following a diet and sticking with it in simplicity, but like Dr. Rob says, it that concept is not optimal. You know, for example, um not all fats are the same. I mean, for example, if you look at um a longchain fatty acid versus a mediumchain triglyceride, longchain fatty acid um takes longer. It's it's more complex process to get used as fuel compared to mediumchain triglycerides. um I actually will oxidize or use more fat. I'll be more satiated. Um I'll have greater concentration and lose more body fat compared to the longer chains. Um if you look at corn oil versus the omega-3s, right? Same thing Dr. Rob said, I'll actually induce more lipolysis, more fat oxidation, increase more mitochondria, but if you looked at the the if it fits your macros, the macros are the same, but it's not the same. And then we know protein quality makes we there's tons of studies on protein quality. Like Dr. Rob said, dairy was better than other sources. Well, if you look at your macros, the same thing. The distribution matters. Um you know, we know there's a lot of good research from um uh Douglas Pat and Jones showing that basically if you look at most of America, they will distribute their protein. to a breakfast, they'll have lower protein intake, you know, like a Pop-Tart or something like that, you know, and then uh then uh you know, Monday night football comes on, throw a few steaks on the grill, boom, and that's they get most of their protein. If you looked at if it fit your macros, protein would be the same, but the body composition is much uh more different. So that's why you have to understand your goal and say what can I sustain to optimize you know the way to that goal and what can I not and and try and find a a happy medium or how far you can actually go. Yeah. So yeah that's so not to oversimplify and try and summarize but but it sounds like if it fits your macros can be awesome for compliance but you have to go a level deeper than the raw macro numbers and still concentrate on choices. I think so. Yeah. Yeah. And and I I even think that it's, you know, for a lot of people it can be a phased approach where they climb in and, you know, they get their macros right and then they, you know, then they continue to make better food choices or or something along those way. But even going back to an earlier point, if you start with a food inventory, I think, you know, it'd be interesting for a lot of people to see where their macros are at that point in time. I mean, a lot of people may may already be at, you know, a macro level like a 40 3030 or, you know, like A-50 3020. whatever it is that you know I I guess one big question is you know how do you you know how does an individual go well this isn't working for me I'm going to dial it down or I'm going to dial it up how do they know how to navigate that path so you know I think starting with a personal inventory knowing where they are and what they've done in the past what they feel has worked for them from a compliance standpoint what could they stick with what was comfortable where you know where do they think they can be successful um and then begin to move in that direction. Awesome. Well, last diet I want to chat about briefly is intermittent fasting. Um, and sort of just the same general uh overview or outlook. Uh, sort of, you know, who's it best for or practical applications? Um, what what is the diet in general or what are the approaches? Well, it's it seems to have evolved over the years. Um, I think some of the earlier concepts uh were that intermittent fasting was was an every other day. you would eat heavy one day and then um you know like a meal a large consumption of food and then you wouldn't eat the next day and then you would come back and and you would do the same thing again. There's been modifications over the years where the second day may include five 600 calories where you get um some essential nutrients in there and some base protein and so forth and then you go back to the next day which is the heavy consumption. Um, I've seen intermittent fasting programs now where it's you consume one big meal within, you know, an hour to two hours daily. So, you're you're almost going through like a 22-hour starvation period. And then, um, or, you know, fasting period where you're not ingesting any any food. And then, I think we were talking last night that, you know, there's a a stretch of time now that some people are following where they won't consume any food for 16 hours. So they'll have sort of a feeding window in there where they'll consume and then they'll let themselves not consume any food for another 16 hours. Mhm. So I think the biggest considerations and I think everything that we really understand right now about how muscle and you know I I always like to focus on muscle first because I think at the you know at the end of the day for most of the people that we work with that you know bodybuilding.com has I mean muscle is the core tissue that you serve. You know it's the tissue that works for you. It's the tissue that works for you in the gym and it's and it's the best looking tissue in the human body. You know muscle is sexy tissue. It gives form and shape. So you always focus on muscle. So what we understand about you know the effects of exercise on muscle protein synthesis and then the effects of protein that you consume on muscle protein synthesis. It's you know I think some of the um some of the issues or or some of the considerations around it is what happens during that long stretches of time to muscle protein synthesis when it's not being stoked up when muscle protein breakdown begins to exceed it. And that happens over a 22-h hour period or you know 20 hour period or or shorter periods or whatever it is. You know I think what we see more of now is sort of a you know every 3 to four hours you want to elevate muscle protein synthesis either you know from food or with exercise then with food adequate protein. So what really does happen during that long stretch of time when that's not happening? Yeah that's that's sort of the concern. So you look at the benefits, you're restricting your time that you can eat, like Dr. Ross said, that could be you can only eat eight hours a day or every other day. Um, one, the benefits are that your calories lower. Mhm. If you create a calorie deficit, you'll lose fat. Um, the majority of intermittent fasting studies have been done in obese individuals. Um, which is difficult because we can't um we can't take that information and apply it necessarily to someone who's lean. Going back to Forbes, remember what Forbes basically um showed is that uh essentially if you're super lean, you're in danger of losing muscle. So those periods of time where you're fasting, we everyone know has heard of mTor, the switch for protein synthesis that gets suppressed when you're super lean when you're fasting. So this is something that you had to be concerned with. If someone's obese, there's a lot of body fat. When they're fasting, they create a lot more ketones. It's easier to create ketones. They'll spare muscle. Um when someone's super lean, those periods of fasting become very careful. So you'd be really careful that in obese individuals that use intermittent fasting, they lose almost no muscle. Um Heelborne in 2005 did a study and basically what he and his team showed was that when you took non-obese people um essentially and you had them intermittent fast, half of what they lost almost half what they lost was lean and the other half was fat. Now uh but they weren't resistance training and they were they were lean but they were sedentary. When you add basically if you take someone who is sedentary, you have them resistance train and do intermittent fasting, it prevents you from losing that lean mass. But if you take guys already resistance training, you're not adding any more resistance training to that. And and and if they're already super lean, then they can lose lean mass. And that's where those periods of time we have to be really careful. Yeah. I mean, so for those individuals in intermittent fasting, you know, may not be the right path. Yeah. Yeah. And if and if it is the path they decide, they have to be really really careful with those periods. They have to pay attention to preventing catabolism. It could be the intermittent fasting. I don't know this, but it could be it works best with a ketogenic diet because you're in ketosis. So when you are fasting, your ketones are super high. You're sparing muscle. You know, that would be that's a hypothesis because that's what's happening with obese people. Well, if you're lean, you're switching over to that. Um you're definitely going to need to take like anti catabolics. And one thing Dr. Rob and I talked about last night was using a modified Yeah. So during those stretches of time, you know, where you know that there is the possibility, especially for a guy who or or a gal who who starts off and who's pretty lean that and they're looking to shave off another, you know, percentage or two of body fat and they're not getting there by other means. So they want to try this. I think if you went intermittent fasting, then you would want to supplement throughout the day. sort of like a, you know, like a customized or modified where you do supplement branched chain amino acids throughout the day, maybe some Hikah and some other nutrients, HMBB, which and MCTs even that will help get you there. 100%. Yeah. And that that that could work, you know. So, um, but that's definitely would recommend is being very cautious of those time periods the leaner you are. Yes. Awesome. Well, I think Yeah. If if there are I mean there are obviously a lot of phenomenal takeaways from this discussion, but one of the main ones it seems um for people watching is there are a lot of ways to skin a cat. There are a lot of ways to diet effectively and obviously compliance is important, but it sounds like optimizing your diet is important um through all the tactics we've talked about. Distribution and macronutrient composition. Um and it sounds like you can do that pretty well with a variety of dietary strategies, whether it's keto or if it fits your macros. Yeah. Well, thank you guys very much for the conversation. Well, that is our time today. Uh, and the next time we get to do an expert panel, we may delve into these topics even more specifically if there are specific user questions. So, as always, uh, please drop your questions and comments down on the page below. Let us know what you want to hear about next time. And also, if you have questions about this particular discussion, uh, so these guys can pop in and answer. Um, huge thanks again to Dr. Jake and Dr. Rob. Uh, if you want to get more content from them, Dr. Dr. Jake has a column on our site called Ask the Muscle Prof as well as the Project Mass Trader. And Dr. Rob has written a number of specific articles. Uh so you can do a search for him and pull up his author page. And for more articles and videos from experts like this, please keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.