Welcome to bodybuilding.com's Ask the Pro panel. Uh my name is Chris Ellery. I have the distinct honor and pleasure of of hosting two fantastic experts here today. Um I'm joined by Dr. Jake Wilson, uh who's a PhD in skeletal muscle physiology, as well as Dr. Rob Wildman who's a PhD nutritionist. I think both of whom are also certified strength and conditioning specialists. Uh we're going to cover a wide range of topics today. We're going to talk about nutrition, uh supplementation, timing, uh basically anything under the sun uh that we can cover in about 30 minutes. So, it should be a great conversation. Um guys, I I know that was a brief intro. So, if you want to just add a little bit to it and kind of talk a little bit about where you guys live in the in the world of fitness, that would be awesome. My lab's at University of Tampa. So, our specialty is basically skeletal muscle, how how do you gain muscle tissue? How do you lose fat? You know, can you do it at the same time? And the latest in supplementation and also training variables that go along with that. So, that's kind of like our it's a 247 thing. Best job in the world. Best job in the world is what you're saying. Best job in the world. Next to my job, of course. Forgive me. Forgive me. Yeah. So, I'm based in Dallas, Texas, and I'm chief science officer for Diamondiz Nutrition. So I have the pleasure of designing products that you know that people can use and get benefit from. So it's really exciting for me. I also have the pleasure of working with researchers like Dr. Jacob Wilson at University of Tampa to prove out that the products actually do what they say they do. Absolutely. That's phenomenal. Well, uh since we're kind of already just as to segue from the supplements, um let's just kickstart it and go right into that realm. Um there's a lot of talk and numerous questions from our users about specific protein intake and I think people often target and talk about you know a specific number of grams per pound like one gram per pound of body weight every day. Is that the most useful way to think about it in terms of building muscle or is it better to think about a minimum maximum range or what are your guys' thoughts on the ideal protein intake? Well uh that's a real interesting topic. You know, basically, I think if you look at like the original research on protein, what they were looking at is like what happens what happens over a 24-hour period, but really if you look at protein balance, like protein synthesis, protein breakdown, it's regulated on a per meal basis. So, what I always recommend is how much protein should you get in a single meal and then how many meals should you have in a day? And we know it's probably anywhere from depending on the quality. If you have whey protein, you might need as little as 20 grams. you know, if you have chicken, you might need 30 to 40 grams of protein in that meal. Um, and then, you know, you're going to have that fairly frequently, probably every 3 to four hours. And that will determine your total protein intake of the day. Because you got, look at typical Americans. They wake up in the morning, they'll have like a bagel or whatever, and then at night it's it's football, which I'm pumped up that's coming out. And they'll have, you know, a couple steaks. So most of their proteins with dinner, but a bodybuilder might spread that out. Same amount of protein, the bodybuilder is getting more effective dosing. So yeah, is that the best way to think about muscle protein synthesis um in terms of peing it every few hours? Is that kind of the intent with that 3 to four hour meal timing? I think so. Yeah. Okay. So you're sort of looking for the right amount over the course of the day at specific times. That's right. And and so if you look at the number of meals per day, if you go from five meals a day and you go down to three meals a day, that means that you need more at those three meals per day plus at the same time and then you just add it up. So you know what Dr. Wilson was saying, I mean it's very easy for somebody to get well in excess of 100 grams of protein. And this is really just focusing on muscle, you know, and the and the getting the maximum benefit out of a training session or, you know, a training lifestyle. But there's other benefits of protein as well that, you know, people would want to consider. there's uh an effect of a thermogenic effect. It's the most thermogenic nutrient. So, it's very strategic if you want to burn more calories throughout the day. It's the most satiating of the macronutrients. So, if you're looking, you know, if you're looking to sort of minimize and pull back your caloric intake because you are trying to either cut some weight or or whatever, you need to bring your protein up not only to meet your your needs for muscle, but you got to go beyond muscle and meet your other needs as well. Exactly. Well, and so let's talk about um dosage for different weights. Uh I think you kind of mentioned based on the source, say 20 to 30 grams. Um but if I'm a 200 versus a 250 lb guy, you know, do I want to increase that or as soon as I turn on muscle protein synthesis with the right dose, you know, do I need to go over? Is there any benefit to adding more protein per meal? That's a great question. Well, I think Dr. Rob definitely brought us some other benefits besides protein synthesis like satiety the thermic effect um and you know we're always thinking about protein synthesis protein synthesis um but if you look what about staying lean you know overall you know there's body fat issues as well and one of the things that bodybuilders deal with all the time is they diet down they lose a bunch of body fat and then most of them rebound in that next month and gain a ton of fat. Well, there's a recent study that came out out of Dr. Joey Antonio's lab where basically what they did is they overfed people on protein. I'm not saying I recommend this, but they gave like four grams per kilogram, four and a half grams per kilogram. It's like, you know, over two grams per pound and they didn't gain any fat. So, someone's coming out of a contest, it's hard to gain fat eating more protein. So, maybe if you're you've been in a calorie deficit for a long time, you raise your protein intake up to get your metabolism back up. you know that's irrespective of maximizing proteins synthesis. Yeah. And certainly the timing of the next meal as well. So if if this is if you train in the afternoon and this is your meal after and you're not going to eat again until either right before bed or not at all. I mean you definitely will gain greater benefit by having a higher protein intake at that meal. And we didn't we haven't even begun to touch on on like nighttime. Oh yeah. And you know 68 hours of sleep when you know most people aren't digesting and absorbing protein at all. I mean, how strategic do we need to be right before bedtime? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's chat about that a little bit. Um, I suppose the other end of the protein spectrum for muscle, um, not necessarily synthesis, but minimizing protein breakdown, especially overnight when, yeah, you're kind of devoid of nutrients, um, for that period of time. What is the right approach before bed? what's the ideal meal, I guess, um, you know, to sort of hopefully keep yourself anabolic or at least minimize that breakdown so you're in a good position the next day to train again or, you know, before you break your fast. Yeah, I think the word that you used is right to consider it more of like a meal and and to think about it along the same lines that you would think about other meals throughout the day. So, you're going to want to hit a minimal protein intake level. You're going to want to drive leucine up to above 2 g during that time. I mean because it it's going to be a long stretch during the overnight period. I think where things will move to in the future is how do you potentiate that you know how do you extend it out? Is there time released options? You know, because it is a pretty significant period of time and I don't know if we really understand that whole nighttime, you know, what's happening at night and how much protein we really do you um break down over that period of 68 hours. But, you know, we did some back of the napkin mathematics on it and it came out around 10 to 15 gram for an average size individual like myself um that you would lose over the course of it doesn't sound like a lot, but when you start, you know, adding it up over the course of a month, then it equates to about a pound of of protein that you would lose during sleep. So, you know, then you're then you're thinking first thing in the morning and how important is that morning meal almost as soon as you get up and then what what should that look like as well? Exactly. Right. Yeah. You know, the thing is we really have very little studies on actual, you know, protein balance throughout the night and stuff like or how to optimize nutrition throughout the night. What I can tell you, the studies that we do have tell us that your gut and your metabolism functions at night like it would in the day. You know, I remember when I was in grad school, you know, like a lot of people just trying to put on mass, you wake up in the middle of night and have a protein shake, right? Well, maybe there's something to that. You know, we really we haven't tested that, but um that's one of the studies we're thinking about doing in our lab. Just real simple, just middle of the night, just have guys chug a protein shake or a placebo and see what happens. Right. Yeah. Very common practice. A lot of the bodybuilders that I worked with, you know, when I was faculty is that's exactly what they do. They'd set their alarm clock, hit this, you know, hit the button, knock it down, and go right back to sleep. Yeah. So, in terms of the composition of those meals when you're bookending your sleep, can we at least say, you know, different sources are better at those times like casein is more ideal before bed because of that slow release and whey would be ideal in the morning or is it too general to say that there's like two schools of thought I would say, you know, short end of it. No one's really there's not a lot of studies putting them headtohead before bed. Okay, that's what I say. There's some kind of new recent research coming out on it, but not like a ton comparing the two going before bed. I mean, whey protein is is great for, you know, increasing protein synthesis. The theory behind casein is that it's longlasting. You know, how that pans out in the middle of night, I don't know. M um but I I think you have to apply like some of the other studies that were done putting different proteins headto head whether it's whey casein soy and then maybe other vegetable proteins and looking at the impact you know how quickly do the amino acids rise and do you get above a like a lucine threshold. So it would almost seem like you would need um you know an extended acting protein uh that would get you know that would definitely get your leucine up over a threshold level. So, you know, if you use casing, you might need to use more of it. If you use if you use whey, then you might want to blend whey and cing to get it up and then let the casing carry it for a couple of hours. Yeah. And and Dr. Rob makes a great point on this. Uh if you look with casein, you know, you look at weey, you give 20 grams of each, you know, casein's going to be down here, weigh going to be up here, but casein is longer lasting. So maybe if you double the dose, maybe you had 40 grams or something like that, 30, 40 grams, it hits that threshold and it stays elevated for a long time. You know, one thing I will say about nighttime feeding and and I want to emphasize this for all the any athlete who's out there, any any recreational athlete, they have to, you know, uh be in a contest or or or things like that is the importance of sleep in general. So maybe the best thing for pre-bed is something that's going to enhance your sleep overall. So like we know for example magnesium before bed uh enhances sleep. You know I always recommend maybe even there's sleep monitoring systems that people can get to see how well are they sleeping. Black everything out before you go to bed. You know like dark completely black. You know don't be don't check your cell phone a 100 times in the middle of the night. You know if you wake up in the middle of night yeah um you most people do at one point down the shake go back to bed. you know, but really try and set up an environment. Your bed should be comfortable, but what happens is if you don't sleep, you become insulin resistant. You're hungrier the next day. What you eat is has a greater probability of turning into fat. So, what you do for bed can impact your nutrition and your metabolism the entire day and that can impact your training adaptations. And so, that's all endocrinology. Is that hormonal? Because you're not getting the same hormonal response with a lack of sleep. Is that the idea? A lot of it could be. And you become the main hormone that gets impacted a lot of is insulin. You become insulin resistant. And we all know that you don't want to be insulin resistant if body composition is the goal. When you guys talked about leucine specifically and the importance of you know hitting a certain threshold or getting a certain amount to go past that threshold. Um so lucine one of the branch chain amino acids. I just kind of wanted to cover why is leucine so important? What makes it kind of uh you know why are you focusing on that specifically? Go ahead. All right. Uh so you know here's the thing. We have 20 amino acids right that make up a protein. And um for years scientists were trying to figure out is it just protein um or is there certain you know aspects of the protein that are doing it. So this one scientist Dr. Garlic came out. um he actually worked with my brother when he was doing his doctorate and what he did was he took all the amino acids and basically line them up and the only one that could stimulate protein synthesis by itself was leucine. So that's one of the branch chain amino acids like the side chain branches um and what so basically now we know protein quality like Dr. Rob said is seems to be based on this lucine content. Like you can give the same amount of protein um for months and if one's low quality and one is higher quality has more lucine body composition will be so different drastically different just with this one amino acid. So uh you know there seems to be sort of a threshold which Rob was talking about. Yeah. I mean the bottom line is muscle is just highly responsive. You know, I think of the tissue in the body that is most responsive to either stressors or or nutritional balance or whatever it is. I mean, it's atapost tissue and it's skeletal muscle. I mean, skeletal muscle a lot of times it just reacts and based on the challenge, it it changes to get bigger, stronger, faster, more enduring, whatever it is, it also responds to nutrients and nutrient intake because it has to it has to be signal as to when food is coming into the body. Um so and you know leucine the highest content of leucine as in a protein is milk. So it makes sense that there's a signal in there that babies bodies received when they consumed milk. Uh and this is across all mammals. So you know it makes sense that there is some type of signaling amino acid in there that was found in milk that was part of our first food that is also important to us throughout our entire lifespan. And it's becoming even more important as we age as well because the the signal for leucine and the impact that it has may actually be desensitized as we get older. So there's a lot of research going on in that area now and looking more specifically at leucine. How, you know, how aggressive should we be targeting it? Do older individuals need more leucine to get that same trigger effect as maybe somebody who's young and sprry like Dr. Wilson here? For those of us on the other end who aren't looking through binoculars, they're kind of looking more through a magnifying glass at the rest of their life. I mean, we're we're hyper aware of, you know, getting more leucine into our diet. Well, and so this may be um yeah, slightly hypothetical. Um but knowing what you know now, given all the protein research, all the research on lucine, what would the ideal protein supplement label look like? What does it contain? Well, one thing it definitely contains like pure protein. I'd say that's one of the number one things that you can have because you can put a lot of stuff in there um as sort of fillers. So, I always look is this actual protein. Um and you know, then look for the lucine content. Every serving should have two to three grams. I think those are the two of the simplest things that I would recommend when looking on a label. when you mentioned pure protein and I don't want to go too far into this topic but um you know there's been some press recently about amos spiking or protein spiking um so how do you sort of look beyond the label to figure out you know that my protein is actually 20 gram of whey and not necessarily 14 or 15 grams with a lot of extra glycine or torine or something to make it look like it's 20 grams of way Dr. Rob's expert on this one. Well, I you know, we just have to be detectives. You know, as consumers, we we have to, you know, look at the product that we're buying and ask the basic questions. You know, if a product is $5 cheaper or $10 cheaper for like a, you know, three pounder or a five pounder, why is that? Is it just on discount or is there, you know, is it formulated less expensively? One of the ways you can formulate a product less expensively and still hit um you know a protein level on your your nutrition facts panel is by adding other amino acids or other factors like creatin derived from amino acids that has nitrogen in it. So really you just have to look at the ingredients that are on the back. And as Dr. Wilson said if it just says you know like whey protein or soy protein or whatever protein you're you're targeting and then it goes into things like flavors and sweeteners you're golden. But when you begin to see, you know, the list just sort of broadening out, you begin to see things like creatin or branch uh not branched chain amino acids but creatin or glutamine or um or glycine or tarine, then then you have to ask some questions, you know, how how much is in there and how much of the protein claim is counting for that. So, you know, recently there's been some good guidance laid out by CRN and OPA for how brands should be labeling protein on their package and um they've also submitted those recommendations to the FDA to help change how products are are labeled in the future. I think it's really going to help consumers um and you know to buy exactly what they're buying because when you buy a protein supplement or you buy a protein product, you are targeting protein. I mean that's what you want, right? Exactly. But Dr. Wilson's right. I think the best barometer is specific call out to leucine content because nobody's going to add leucine to spike it because lucine's more expensive than the protein that's in there. So if if it calls out two grams of leucine or 2.5 grams of leucine, that's really helpful information and that that should be the barometer at which somebody looks at this and almost determines the value of that protein. Yeah. Is that great? Well, let's dive into your shaker bottles for a second. Um, just kind of take me through a day in the life of of each of your shaker bottles. What's what's in your shaker bottle throughout the day at specific times? Yeah. Okay. Well, you know, I'm a scientist, so like I'm always putting a lot of stuff in the shaker bottle. A lot of stuff people are not aware of yet. But, um, I would say obviously, you know, I'm I I'm a big fan of whey protein. Um, so I, you know, I have whey protein definitely in my shaker bottle. Um, I have a lot of different supplements. You know, people who know me know I have HMBB in the shaker bottle. Um, you know, um, and other metabolites of leucine, I will put in there. Creatine, I, you know, we were talking earlier, Dr. Rob and I, it should be, honestly, I think it should be a nutrient. Has so many different impacts. Everyone just thinks muscle. So many other things besides that to actually go in there. And then I have things that enhance my cognitive function. Um so you know there's certain phospholipids which we can talk about later like phospatidyl serarene um helps cognitive function helps buffer stress um and other phospholipids as well that I'm looking into like phospatitic acid um and uh so before bed my shaker bottle has those uh sleep aids as well like magnesium um you know and things like that. So that's kind of like what I usually have in my shaker bottle any given time. That's great. Yeah. So, uh, my kids, they they kid around with me and, you know, they they they can hear that sound several times over the like, "Oh, there's dad's music again." Yeah. So, I mean, I I'd like to have it in a holster because I'll use my my shaker five to six times a day easily. So, um, usually it's in the morning it's it's a pre-workout. And in that pre-workout, I'll have things like pomegranate extract, beetroot extract because I want the polyphenols and some nitrates, uh, a caffeine source in there, maybe some natural tea sources in there. Uh, I think that's fantastic. Plus the creatin I'll have in there and some branch chain amino acids. Usually, you know, 3 to five grams of branch chain amino acids I'll have in there as well. Um, and just shake that up before I go to the gym. And you know for me most importantly you know I just want to dial in concentrate focus. I want the uh the amino support you know going in. Plus I want you know to sort of get that pre-irirculation going uh that that the um the pomegranate and the beetroot seem to do so well. Very very exciting area of of sport nutrition moving forward is you know pomegranate and beetroot. Um exciting stuff. After training usually it's protein shake whey protein. I may add a little extra uh creatin in there as well. um pretty simple at that point and then I'm off to a meal about you know an hour hour and a half later. So usually for me that's a bridge the post-workout period just get my lucine up you know sort of spike it out and um and then move into my my meal after that and then throughout the day what's really important for me is um really just you know as I consume beverages I want to maximize the value of the beverages throughout the day. So I'll use um you know branch chain amino acids combination of um you know different products that that will have branch chain amino acids a little bit of citrine torine. I like to get torine throughout the day. Uh I think there's some really nice data on the combination of of um of torine and branch chain amino acids throughout the day during a workout and then throughout the day to help in the recovery process and reduce soreness. for, you know, somebody like me, you know, making my day more comfortable, but being able to train hard is everything. You know, I just I I moan and I groan every time I get up now. So, if I can minimize that and I can get back into the gym as quickly as possible and have a, you know, a great workout, that's really really important to me. So, the the shaker cup is is always active. Yeah, that's a good thing. Dr. to rub right up was the branch chain amino acids, you know, like we travel all the time, you know, and it's I love being home, but it just doesn't happen as much. Um, and when you're on the road, you might only be able to get three meals, you know, breakfast, lunch, dinner. So, what research um has shown, like uh my brother, Dr. Gabe Wilson, Dr. uh Doug Pat and Jones has shown is that if you have branching amino acids between your meals, you basically stimulate so much more protein synthesis throughout the day. It's also another way to be calorie efficient. You know, you can trigger the same response of muscle growth with less calories, maybe 30 calories or something like that with the branching amino acids. So, I typically will at least one or two and if I'm on the road, three times have branching amino acids between my meals and five to 10 grams or Yeah. about about that you as long as I have usually it's a you know the two uh to one ratio of leucine to isoline just because that's the composition of muscle. Mhm. and that's what all the research has been done. So talking about specific applications for BCAAs versus WHI, you kind of talked a little bit about using BCAAs to bridge meals. Um would weigh have the same effect and you're just using BCAAs because it's more calorie efficient or is one better than another in that sense? Well, I think it just I mean you know we've talked a lot about uh you know looking at your total day. You know we talked about sleep or what and and you know how much you should have at different meals. So, I really just think it's it's a matter of surveying your entire day and whether or not you want that extra protein in there or do you just want to kind of raise your your um your branch chain levels in your blood a little bit more. You may have already had a big meal like two hours prior and and you know you got another one coming. So maybe another way shake may not make the most sense at that point. maybe just the, you know, the bridge BCAAs and that's where, you know, a lot of my focus is a lot of times when, you know, when I hit the shaker with the BCAAs and, you know, in the in the afternoon and in the early evening. Yeah. Like the cool the I guess not so cool things, but 3 hours after you eat a meal, you kind of stop synthesizing proteins, right? You know, and but so but the thing is you have all these amino acids in your blood left over from the meal. So all you need is the signal. You just got to turn the signal on and that's where branching amino acids is. So if you had whey, you're just kind of adding to the pool. Don't me wrong, that would turn the signal on as well. But if you already have the amino acids, why not just trigger protein synthesis since you already have the building blocks in your blood? Gotcha. Great point. Yeah. Well, and I don't want to go in So, uh, people with intermittent fasting talk a lot about, you know, fasted autophagy, right? Like using what you've already got in your body. Um, but it's seems like it's kind of an undisussed subject when it comes to intermittent fasting. So, it's interesting to hear you bring up using what you've already got, right? So, that's kind of a neat point. Um, random tangent. Yeah. You talk briefly about uh pre and post-workout shake and the composition of those shakes. Um, for a long time it feels like the anabolic window, this, you know, post-workout time, 15 to 45 minutes post-workout was the thing um for supplement manufacturers. But is there still that same emphasis? Um, or is there, you know, a more important shake pre- or post-workout? What's kind of the strategy there? Well, this is probably one of the more controversial topics that are out there. I'll tell you that for sure. There's actually only been really two studies looking at this. And one of them, probably the highest end one was done by Dr. Paul Crib. And basically what Paul Crib did was uh he gave protein and creatine before exercise and after exercise or he gave it with breakfast and dinner. And the group that had it before and after exercise had larger muscle fibers um larger muscles using MRI. And so this was gold standard. It was published in the top journal in our field. Based on that, I would say certainly can't hurt, you know, having, you know, but one of the things uh that Dr. Rob and I have talked about is that, you know, if you wake up in the morning, have a big breakfast, and then you're going to train like an hour and a half later, that was your pre-workout meal. You don't neess, oh, I got to down a shake because of the Paul Crips. you already have amino acids in your blood at that point. So that is a timing issue, you know. Um but if you wake up cold fasted, you know, like um you know, he's training in the morning, then that preworkout is going to be huge because you probably should have nutrients. One thing we do know is that if you train on an empty stomach without nutrients, then you will actually um not optimize protein metabolism. In fact, you'll be in negative protein balance. This means you're losing muscle until you get nutrients. So, a lot of people will go, "Oh, the window lasts for 24 hours." Yeah, but it fades. And you know what? Let's say it was the same amount for 24 hours. Why not take advantage of every minute? That's always my thought. So, like, oh, I could wait 3 hours cuz it lasts, you know, 24 hours. Okay, but why are you not taking advantage of those three hours, you know? Gotcha. That's my thought. I think the right way to look at it is um is there sort of a post-workout period uh where the muscle is um primed to optimize muscle protein synthesis and have an impact of of nutrition? And the answer is clearly yes. So is there potential for nutrient timing? Absolutely. And then Dr. Wilson makes the point that if you had a big meal before you trained, you know, you still have the residual effect of that meal for a few hours afterwards. So, you know, do you have to run and and knock down a quick shake immediately after? Probably not, but it wouldn't hurt. Uh and and you should be thinking about your next protein dense meal, you know, soon after you train anyway because that would be part of your normal day anyway. So, you know, I think nutrient timing is very very real. Um but the t, you know, actually, um putting the food in there or the supplement in there really depends on what your day looks like. Sure. Yeah. You know, so one of my uh top guys in my lab, Ryan Lowry, is doing a lot of research on what to eat in the morning, you know, uh what to eat for breakfast, what to eat before your workout. And there's he pointed out a recent study to me. It was real cool. You know how a lot of times like uh especially college students, you know, I'm University of Tampa, so they're like, I'm going out tonight. I'm going to party, right? And so they'll go in, they'll train like as hard as they can. It's like, oh, I can go eat whatever I want, drink whatever I want. Um, well, there's a recent study where they basically had people eat kind of like that, but they did it before they trained or after they trained. And the ones that did it before they trained after several weeks had like half the body fat, you know, their body fat was much lower, you know. So, um, my point is it seems that having a lot of your nutrients before you train can prevent negative things in fat gain, you know. Um, and I think so that's important. That's kind of a nutrient timing thing, you know. Mhm. And that's cuz you're utilizing that fuel when you train. Yeah. Yeah. Possibly that, you know, um maybe training just turns on signals that prevents you from storing a lot of that. Um whereas maybe when you're in recovery mode, you're more prone to store certain nutrients. You know, we're really trying to look further into this. So, kind of talking about, you know, you mentioned a lot of studies. it kind of bridges the gap to a topic I'd love to chat about for a little bit and that's sort of science versus bro science. Um and and one being you know specific measurable stuff in the lab with the desired outcome and the other being doesn't have to be derogatory. A lot of people say bro science and you know they're kind of demeaning it but there's probably a lot of value in what guys are figuring out and trying in the gym. Um so I guess just broadly to start you know what's your thoughts on the the topic itself kind of on that conversation? Well, you know, I'll tell you what. Um, it's real interesting. You know, we were talking about this earlier, but basically, traditionally with scientists, you have the guy with glasses, the lab coat, who's never been in the gym, like doesn't know what a weight looks like, and they're studying protein synthesis, right? So, you have this guy over here and basically like, oh, if I give if I tube feed this or give a cell this, this happens, right? Then you have the bro over here and they're like, what what did he just say? Right? So, how is that relevant to me? This molecular pathway. So, what Dr. Rob and I are trying to do is say, "Hey, wait. What is this guy interested? What, you know, what is a practical question?" He has some practical questions. He's living it in the gym day in and day out, maybe two times a day, maybe train six, seven days a week. You know, giving everything he or she has. We want to find out what are those questions they need to be answered. So, we're trying to do is bridge the gap between science and application. We actually want to know what are they interested in? What what what are they going through? It's important to know like hey like even if it's somewhat bro science like hey bro like I'm telling you this works like I'm telling you dude this works. Well we actually pick that up. We listen and go maybe that could be true and let's test it. Sometimes it works sometimes it doesn't. So uh that's my take on it. Yeah. And a lot of times I think the uh the bro science can lead the laboratory science and I think this is probably the case with uh with like nocturnal nutrition or the idea of I mean guys have been doing this guys and gals have been doing this for decades now you know setting the alarm clock and knocking down protein in the middle of the night you know they've they look at an opportunity yet you know and they they see what's happening during the night and they're like how can I reverse that you know how can I address that? Well what does the research say? There is none. there's no research in that area. So they go ahead and they they're just going to do it. They're not going to wait. So you know that's an example of um you know where where sort of that what's happening in the real world eventually is driving you know the the laboratory studies that you know Dr. Wilson is doing and and other labs are are now doing. And and I think that you know this is one of those really really fun times where there's more practical research happening and I think there's more interaction between industry and universities more now than ever before. Usually um in in the past it's been more separated. You know coming from coming from an academic background industry was looked upon you know in a completely different way than it is today. Today as you know federal funding kind of tightens up for research grants industry becomes more of a driver for a lot of research programs in sport nutrition there is more uh dollars going into universities to test out some of these more practical applications and finished products because I think that's what we really need to know is you know the claims that are made on packages is there actual research on the finished product which could be a blend of ingredients instead of one specific right that's right I mean it's it's just incredibly important And I think, you know, now we're just seeing more and more research on finished products that that include multiple ingredients that, you know, is really helpful to consumers to make smart decisions. 100%. Yeah. So, they they really sort of are both essential in that they might fuel one another. I think so. I I think they're they're they're melding. Oh, 100%. And I, you know, like a lot of where where I came from, scientists would look down like on, oh, they're just training. They don't know what they're talking about. No, they do. And you know, I mean, they've actually been going through this a long time. They're saying some valid stuff. You just need to pick up on it and and test it out. You know, some of I can name probably, you know, a hundred things off the top of my head that was considered bro science that now we know, oh, that's the mechanism people grow. Like, look, Arnold talked about, oh, you know, the pump, right? And a scientist 10 years ago would laugh at that. Oh, yeah. Uhuh. Whatever. Now, we think that's one of the three major mechanisms that makes you grow, actually getting a huge pump. And actually, it's something that Dr. Rob and I are doing some research on and seeing what happens if you maximize the pump. Will that increase maximize protein synthesis? Um, you know, we know if you take cells and actually cause them to swell, they stimulates protein synthesis right there in every cell type, including muscle. Um, so, you know, I definitely think it's something that we we as scientists have to consider. And I would say that to the person in the gym, you know, try and interact with us as much as possible and let's feed off each other. I do kind of want to talk a little bit about new research because we've kind of gone into that territory a little, but you brought up um you know mechanisms of muscle growth. Yeah. And the pump or you know metabolic stress. You kind of want to cover the other two and sort of their in gym application for somebody looking to build muscle how they would apply those. Yeah. Sure. So we have obviously the pump like I say Dr. Rob's doing a lot of research on that right now. Um so that's going to be uh you know higher repetition short rest period length just trying to drive fluid into the cell could be hydration status you know um the other mechanism is going to be like metabolic stress you know people talk about they feel that pain you know when they're doing super sets giant sets that's things like lactic acid and a lot of other things besides lactic acid a lot of what we call metabolites that we know actually trigger growth one of my friends Dr. Dr. David Gunderman took cells, muscle cells, put lactic acid on them, and it's simulated protein synthesis. So, we know the more you get in there, the better it goes. Then the last thing, which you kind of say is one or two different mechanisms, is mechanical stress, um, which leads to muscle damage, um, and inflammation. You know, you could say, well, are all of three of those things mechanisms? You know, the actual mechanical stress you have on the muscle, the damage you have on your muscle, the inflammation, are they three separate? Does the mechanical stress lead to the other two? You know, we're not sure, but we know those are important for growth. And so, that means that you basically need to go in the gym and lift heavier weights. That's one thing. Yeah. You know, it's one thing William Kramer, one of the top strength conditioning scientists in the world, said. He's like, "Look, uh, you know, I even tell my daughter this, you need to squat heavy." So, I was like, "That's awesome." So, you know, the thing, it's true, though, right? So, you know, lifting heavier weights is going to be a stimulus. Training to the pump is going to be a stimulus. Um, you know, building up metabolic stress is going to be a stimulus for growth. And you need to factor all those in. Yeah. I think if we know anything now, we know that muscle is highly complex and there's numerous factors which uh trigger internal signals which causes the muscle to change in the direction in which it's being challenged. So muscle is just highly responsive that way. If you train you know highintensity aerobic then a lot of the protein synthesis that occurs will become you know in the area of more aerobic enzyme systems and so forth to make you better at that. If you train highintensity, you know, resistance training, then then you gain, you know, gain proteins uh that that will help you get stronger, more powerful, and and bigger. So, um it doesn't it actually doesn't make sense for muscle to miss an opportunity to see some type of metabolite or to register some type of event or mechanical damage or whatever, not register it and not feed it into the the processes that will help it adapt over time. So I mean this is it's great. It's almost like a buckshot approach. All these different factors feeding in and you know helping drive muscle in in the direction 100%. And you know one of the things like I really want to emphasize you talk about like nutrition and sport nutrition you talk about training. A lot of athletes will view them almost as separate entities but they interact with each other. You know oh I got to stay hydrated. Well if you're a bodybuilder why you're maybe it enhances that pump that cell swelling. So you want to think why am I doing this and how does it interact with training all the time you can't separate the two someone might go oh this supplement doesn't do anything for me it doesn't work I've tried it and then you look at their training split and it's kind of pantheist right so it's like they're not causing enough damage to to warrant the use of it exactly yeah recovery aid you're not training hard therefore don't expect it to work right so you know that's always the thing is you got to emphasize there's this interaction between the two well I think we've got time for probably one more question. I think we might be a little over, but uh I do just since you're kind of both on the bleeding edge of research, just want to ask um what are you most excited about sort of in the research world, whether it's, you know, a supplement study or something more directly with training or nutrition. Oh, wow. That's a We're excited about a lot of things. Gonna Okay, I'm going to try and narrow this one down. Top three. Yeah. Nutrient programming. What we think is that basically you can program your metabolism when you wake up in the morning and it's very controversial because people nutrition is very controversial in general. I talk about training like oh yeah that's it that's awesome. Um you talk about nutrition if it's different than what someone's been thinking it's like oh my god no that's false religious yeah nutrition is like religion. So the thing to think about though is that what you eat for breakfast does program your metabolism the rest of the day. And so actually you lose 15 grams of protein overnight. You know, I know Dr. Rob says, "Well, you wake up in the morning, you should optimize protein intake." Um, but what do most people do in the morning, they wake up, they have a ton of carbohydrates, right? Because you need energy. You drained it overnight. Um, well, in actuality, if you're lifting weights, your muscle glycogen, your muscle carb stores are intact. Your liver's somewhat depleted, but your muscle's kind of intact. So, um, what we found is what we've been testing in our lab, Ryan Lowry's been doing a lot of work in my lab on this is basically, uh, wake up in the morning, you have a lower carb, uh, higher fat breakfast, things like mediumchain triglycerides, eggs, um, you know, things like that, and the rest of the day you will use more fat as fuel irrespective of how many carbohydrates you have throughout a whole day. Yeah. So basically I'm talking about like people are like oh you know doesn't matter if you know as long as you hit a certain macronutrient range doesn't matter when you hit it. But we're finding with research that's not actually true. So if you have low carb for breakfast doesn't matter irrespective of how many carbs if you had had 300 grams of carbs for the day. If you had most of them breakfast you'd actually fix your metabolism to use carbs the rest of the day as fuel. So what we're trying to look into a lot is what should you do to optimize breakfast and nutrient programming? Hm. And before I know you've got an answer too before we hop off that subject um of kind of meal composition um is there an adaptation period or is that 24 hours you know if I say for example woke up and had highfat high protein breakfast would I automatically program the rest of my day or is there sort of an adaptation period required where kind of like keto adaptation where I need to do that for a certain amount of time before it really takes effect. Yeah, that's actually something we're also doing research on. We look for this. We we just did a huge study on ketogenic dieting. But yes, so you have acute adaptation and long-term adaptations, you do see effects that day, but it gets better because you become more insulin sensitive. You become more we call metabolically flexible and that only improves over time. Uh but any diet or any intervention that you use going to take a couple weeks and actually like with ketogenic dieting with our research we found after the first week they felt horrible after two weeks like oh this is great I'm eating like bacon and you know the world of fats this is awesome and I'm like leaning up um you know but there's always a period of adaptation but one thing just anecdotally when we've worked with ketogenic athletes 6 months they actually feel better than the two week it's it's a long process for sure. And how low do they is there a carb threshold for that 6 months? Do you you know gradually increase it or does it stay pretty low like an induction? Yeah. What we've definitely found is like to get in uh for most people their fats got to be like and everyone's like what the hell you know to get in you got to have 75% fat, 20% protein and 5% carb right? So it's you know keto friendly foods are like bacon and eggs and whole cream. Your body Yes. There's a two week maybe two week adaptation period but it gets better with time I would say. That's great. What about you Rob? Any uh exciting research insights? Yeah. You know I think for me I mean the top three would be um one that we're we seem to be in a decade of protein. I mean we we're finally focused on protein. Um being in nutrition being schooled in back in the 80s being a registered dietician you know protein was sort of you know that left behind nutrient. can't go above 15% of total calories. Can't go above 08 grams per kilogram body weight. Why? Because you leech calcium from your bones and your kidney shut down. You know, it was, you know, it was basically um the forgotten nutrient of the three. Uh we went through, you know, lowfat, high carb, we went through low car. I mean, we've gone through all these, but I think the thing that we're really focused on now is is the importance of protein throughout the day and trying to better understand how to make it work for you because it's a nutrient that wants to work for you better than any other nutrient that we're ingesting right now. You know, beyond muscle, you know, satiety, thermogenesis, and and others, you know, hair, skin, nail beauty, you know, uh recovery from injury, whatever it may be, the foundation of all that is going to be protein. So I'm really really excited that that we are um you know in hyperdrive when it comes to protein research and protein research in more practical applications. The other things that I that I really like before I get to creatin which is my outside of protein is one of my favorite nutrients is that we're beginning to look at ways to potentiate protein. So, um, and I think this is really important that as we begin to realize that we need more protein, especially as we get older, you know, our needs for protein are are probably increased over, you know, the younger years by percentages of like, you know, 20% or so. So, but at the same time, we may be sort of calorie restrained or, you know, we may not want to eat that much food or whatever the reason is. So, how do we potentiate the protein that that we ingest so that maybe you know what was 30 grams of protein yesterday may only be 15 grams of protein tomorrow with the right potentiating factors. And I think like Stu Phillips lab has done some really nice stuff with lower amounts of whey protein but that has been augmented with leucine and you get you get sort of a comparable impact on muscle as you do with 25 grams of whey. So the idea is that trigger nutrients like leucine may be able to reduce the amount of total protein that you need to consume. Um so I think that's really really exciting. in the last is um you know I always like to talk about creatin and just as you know a creatin consumer for for 20 years get your creatin in your diet. I mean there's so many things that we now understand about creatin um you know beyond beyond muscle um and even even application to muscle sarcopenia metabolism bone health um neurodeenerative diseases later in life you know all of these things may be you know positively impacted by um you know prophylactic creatine consumption over over the decades before and you know I just think that's absolutely critical and we be you know Jake made the point earlier maybe we need to begin to look at it more of as kind of an essential nutrient because it's very very difficult to get efficacious levels of creatin um you know in the diet on a regular basis. I mean if you're trying to get five or six grams I mean it becomes you know fairly challenging. So you know how do we you know how do we do that? Supplementation seems to be the way to do it. Awesome. Well just as kind of a quick ending takeaway we talked about efficacious dose. So, not even to get into different forms of creatine, but just with creatine monohydrate for people who want to harness and take advantage of all those benefits for, you know, performance as well as health. Uh, what's sort of the just dosing strategy long term? Do you need to cycle off it or can you kind of maintain? I think you maintain. I I think there's no reason to to, you know, let go of it at all. And and I mean, you can go through lapses and that's the beauty of creatin. If you look at, you know, muscle saturation of creatin, you can go through periods where, you know, and I asked you earlier, do you have some creatin? Because I I didn't pack it, you know, and I if I go a day without it, I'm okay. If I go two days without it, I start to get worried. But you do actually have a few days that if you miss it and you you can come back and, you know, not, you know, for average individuals, I'd say anywhere between like three and six grams, depending on size is probably, you know, women probably sliding more, you know, down towards three. Um, and then as as you train harder and as you get bigger and accumulate more muscle mass or you know I I think you're you're up in the five to six gram. So somewhere around like point 06 gram per kilogram body weight will will get you there. And you know I think that's good. I don't think there's any reason to cycle off of it. Yeah. And and it's safe you know I mean there's been a lot of research. We did some research, some cardiovascular research using loading doses. And if anything, the effect that we found on the heart, maybe it strengthened the the contraction of the heart. It's an inotropic effect that, you know, that was really kind of interesting, but there was no negative effects of it whatsoever. And there's been a lot of long-term studies that that suggest that it's, you know, that's benign. Well, thank you guys so much uh for joining us um on this edition of the Pro Panel. If you've got any questions whatsoever for our pros or experts, please just drop a note in the comments below. Feel free to sound off. Um or connect with these guys on their social channels if you guys kind of want to share those. Yeah. Um on Twitter, it's Jay Wilson PhD and just Jacob Wilson on like Facebook. Um or you can always hit me up any other way. I'm looking forward to your guys comments. Yeah. So it's um the nutrition doc on Twitter. So it's it's doc um and um and then uh I have a website which is the nutrition.com and it's Dr. for So it's the nutrition dr.com. Awesome. And for more great content like this uh keep coming back to bodybuilding.com. Awesome.