I'm Stephanie Tumi. I'm an Optimum Nutrition sponsored athlete, a mother of a very active six-year-old boy. I'm a CrossFit athlete. I was a former United States Marine, and I'm a motivational speaker. I've been in sports my whole life. I became a sponsored softball player. and I played travel ball and I started traveling all over the state of Florida, which is really good because I had a really big passion for sports, but my mother was diagnosed with brain cancer. She couldn't bring me to practice, but my coaches would come and pick me up, make sure that I made it to practice. So, um, I really believe that athleticism was my gift. In high school, I went to a really big school in Jacksonville, Florida. We were a 6A school, over 4,000 students, and I was in hopes to make a division one softball team. Going into my senior year, my mother had another brain surgery, another tumor, and it got put in impatient therapy. Um, my father, who was never around, came home and ended up emancipating me and left all those scholarship offers behind. So after I graduated high school, I ended up enlisting in the United States Marine Corps and didn't play any sports. Wasn't active other than my training for the Marine Corps. I wanted to really challenge myself physically with weight training. So I went out before deployment and bought Arnold's Encyclopedia of Modern Bodybuilding. And I had all my sea bags, my pack, my rifle slung, and we're manifesting onto the airplane. And I had Arnold's encyclopedia in hand. Every single day was training um weights. I would just read. I had no really clue how to train or or isolate body parts or groups. And we were very limited on equipment. So I demanded that they brought me a barbell and some weights. So I had 45s, 25s, and a barbell. And I just became very creative with doing um reverse hyperextensions off of front of a Humvey or I did a lot of pull-ups. Um anything with a barbell. That's how I train. I came back pretty strong from that. When I was 21 years old, I got a phone call that my mother was having um that the hospice came in, was taking over with her care and um I went to see her and she sat me down and told me that she was going to die and I had dealt with her being sick my whole life. 3 months later, I showed up and she was in our living room and I told her that it was okay and she died in my arms. Fast forward a year after that, I found out that I was pregnant. So, I uh took the news when the doctor told me that I was pregnant and I I felt my life was over. I didn't tell anybody and continued to do all my duties as Marine. And about 5 months into it, my son's biological father showed up and said he wanted to be a family and moved into my apartment and I fully did everything in the house, financially, everything. And one night he didn't come home. And he showed up in my house, choked me, and poured a hot coffee over my head and said, "I don't ever want you to ask me where I've been or what I'm doing, and I'll come here when I feel like it." And from that day on, I lived in hell. I was captive in my own home. I couldn't love being pregnant. I could never tell him that I felt my son move. I was very detached from the motherly elements of being pregnant. In my third trimester of pregnancy, I was in our shop. I had that nesting feel, but I was the floor. We're going to paint the shop. So, I was on this 15t ladder painting. And um my water broke. I called my doctor like, "You need to come in. You're in labor." So, I called my son's father. He was like, "I'm not a doctor. Go to the hospital then." So, I drove myself to the hospital. I didn't really have anybody to tell. Ended up giving birth alone. He never came. And I was with my new infant who I didn't even know really what it meant to be a mom. All I knew is that I had a big responsibility and I was going to do it alone. And I promised him that no matter what, I would do whatever I had to do to give him an opportunity. All I could do is promise to give him a chance to do whatever he wanted to do in life. It really took me having my son and seeing him to realize I'm not just responsible for my own reputation, my own health, my own anything. It was all about him. He's such a great little boy. He's active. He goes with me everywhere. He trains with me at the gym. We've been doing it just he and I and and trying to make it happen. And I don't want people to see my pictures or see me stage perfect or whatever and think, "Oh, I could never do that because I'm going through this in my life." Everybody has a story. Everybody life's hard. So, if I can be a inspirational voice or tool for them to be better, then I want to I want to use that. I don't want it to go un unnoticed. I competed in figure three years ago and ever since then I've just been really training a lot heavy weights and um my quads are overdeveloped. I'm just bigger and I like to train that way. So I wanted something that would really embody how I train and that was real. I didn't like being restricted when I trained um as like a figure athlete in bodybuilding where you did sets and reps for an aesthetic purpose. I wanted performance. I've recently within the last 3 months transitioned completely into CrossFit, which if you talked to me four months ago, you would have thought it would never happen. Now I don't go anywhere without my Nanos, my Olympic lifting shoes, a lacrosse ball, my straps. Once I finally looked into what CrossFit really is, I had to do it. I walked into Blackprint CrossFit in Jacksonville, Florida. And I walked up to the owner and I said, "I want to do CrossFit. I want to compete in CrossFit." And he's like, "Well, how long have you been doing CrossFit?" He He's like, "You look like you've been doing CrossFit." And I was like, "Never done CrossFit, but I want to compete in CrossFit." And he's like, "Okay, let's see what you got." And 70 lbs. I couldn't snatch. I look like like a 4-year-old trying to do something. I was humbled quickly with I thought I was strong until I tried to do CrossFit. So, my training now is a program training where I do several workouts through the day. I go in really early in the morning about 3 to four 3 4 days a week. I do a long row. I'll row anywhere from 2K to 10,000 m. I do a lot of running. Those are my forms of cardio. I'll I'll do long runs. um anywhere from 6, 8, 12 mile runs. I do a lot of skill training. I'm really trying to learn the Olympic lifts. Um in one lift, you can do it from several different positions. So, just trying to master those from every point. All the squats, all the big lifts, I do that separate from that I wad. I'll do several different wads. I try to get a programmed in something I'm very weak at in the middle of a wad to highlight it. CrossFit's great for me. me. In my personal opinion, it's it was great to show my strengths, but it definitely highlights all my weakness. I think the constant challenge of CrossFit's made me really just love it. Every day I want to lift heavier, move faster, jump higher, more pull-ups. There's never like I've made it in CrossFit. I think no matter where you're at in CrossFit, you can always be better and you always want to be better. You're you're competing against the clock. You're competing against yourself primarily and you're competing against everybody else. CrossFit changed my life. It gave me a competitive aspect that I wanted again. Gave me that sense of camaraderie with the other CrossFitters. Anywhere you go, you see CrossFitters or the box that you train at. And it also gave me new goals. Every day I have a new goal. In my opinion, fitness is strength and flexibility, endurance, all those things. Not just a picture that says I'm fit cuz you might not be. I want someone to say put that 400 lb and pick it up or 300 lb on your back and stand up with it. That to me is beautiful and it's strong and it's and nobody else can tell me that. I only eat to either fuel or refuel for my workouts. I don't say six times today I'm going to eat. I plan what I'm going to eat off of how I trained. So, if I'm not training that day, of course, I still eat, but it's just very limited or um probably something smaller scale than what I would eat if I wasn't training. Also, I believe in that 8020 rule. 80% of the time you eat for, you know, functional purposes of um refuel or for hunger. And 20% of the time, nutrition is a social thing. You go out to dinner with friends and there's something extra yummy and you want to try it like 20% of the time, you know, unless you're really like dialing in to to compete in something. So my son, I let him every time we go to the grocery store, he knows he gets to pick his one treat. And I call it that. I don't like that dirty, filthy word of cheating. Like you can cheat on a lot of things in life, but I don't think that nutrition should be something associated does something with your mind. Therefore, if you ever fall off that wagon and you eat something that looked so tempting, then you feel like you've just failed. I just cheated. Instead, I treated myself to, you know, the company office party that had those nice, yummy cupcakes, and then you just say, "Oh, I guess I can't treat again later in the week." I think people go away from good intention when the convenience is there for something that's a little bit more handy and the drive-thru and they don't want to go home and they got all the kids in the car and they just rather just make it happen. One trip they pull in and all the kids are fed before they're they've even eaten before you got home. So, I don't ever leave the house without food ever. um things I pack in my bag. I have chickens. I do tunas. I do nuts. I do larars. I do um carrots and baggies, stuff like that. Um I cut celery up. I chop up a bunch of vegetables and put them in. Avocados. I like to eat. They're not very handy to cure around avocado. But I do like to One of my favorite recipes, cucumber salad. It's just dill, lime, sesame seed, and cucumbers. and it takes literally like 3 minutes. You can always control what you put in your mouth. Always. Nobody forces you to eat poorly. So if that's one thing that you control when you have all these other uncontrollable elements in life, you should take the time to 80% of the time to eat the right things. I like to use the analogy DTS. Diet, train, then supplement. Supplement should fill in blanks. I think supplements are definitely things that should be used by everybody. So, the biggest thing is to figure out what your body is naturally not producing enough of or um where you might be losing it during your training and supplement that back into your your nutrition. So for myself, what I I supplement, I supplement quite a quite a few things. I take in fish oils. I take an whey um away isolate. I normally take that post-workout immediately after I'm done training or I take it when I'm on the go. Um I like to use it in cooking, too. I like to throw away scoops into make pancakes um with almond flour throw away to have a complete meal. Um I take in HMBBS. I do ZMAS at night, CLA's and of course I take in all my micro minerals. So I do I do a multivitamin but I make sure I get enough zincs and seleniums and all those micro minerals that you need. Now I I do so much of um performance stuff. So I'm not just training for strength. I train for endurance. So there's different things I need to take in. You know, fast absorbing carbohydrates. So products that have fast absorbing proteins and slow digesting proteins to fill me up or to continue to fuel me through those long workouts that I have. So it has changed. And also I did a lot of more preworkouts like caffeine stimulants throughout the day. Now, I I really try to cut back when I'm not training so that when I cuz I train so much and so hard with CrossFit that I try to use those stimulants definitely around the times that I'm going to work out with um casein protein at night. I love to make ice cream with it. So, I take all my milk and casein and I mix it. Sometimes I only make it to the pudding stage and I don't get it into the freezer cuz I'm that hungry. If I can, I leave it in the freezer for about 10 minutes and it's just perfect consistency to eat it like ice cream. And supplements can be expensive. So, make sure you're taking in what is good that can balance into your budget, what can balance in for specifically what you're doing for training or call me and I'll send you a whole bunch of free stuff. I never want anybody to look at my story and and ever feel sorry for me. I don't see myself as this incredible person or somebody that has even done anything extraordinary. I just feel that I am a a normal very normal person that has challenges that I've been through and challenges that I'm are still unseen to me just like we all have. When I was in the Marine Corps, I sat in this class and there was this crusty first sergeant and he sat up there and told us motivation the worst word I've ever heard. It's like it's like a shot. You take it, everybody's happy, runs around, and then after it's wore off, you're either worse than you ever were or you have this really bad hangover from it. And I was like, this guy just likes to run his mouth. Like, that doesn't make any sense. And he came back with it and he said, instead, look for something that inspires you cuz being inspirational, that can last a lifetime. It could be listening to someone talk for 5 minutes and be like, they did that. I can do it, too. So, I try to find things that I'm inspired by and I try to, you know, set an example of things that are inspirational and achievable. I'm definitely achievable and I'm not something to think that is anything beyond beyond that. So, just take your goals if you've got to write them down and stick them places that you see them and and remind yourself often of why you're doing what you're doing and always stay true to that. I'm Stephanie Tumi and if you want to contact me further or follow me, you can follow me on Bodyspace. My Body Space name is ST14 Supergirl or Twitter Stephanie Tumi or you can find me on trrength.com on the opt nutrition true strength website or you can follow my personal blog site which is just Stephanie.com. And for more videos and content like this, come back to bodybuilding.com. Holy. You just got drop kicked by a bird. That thing came and set on you.