I get a text from my coach last night saying, "You need to add fast cardio four times a week." You all know that I work Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and normally don't get home until 5:00 a.m. Normally not sleep till 6:00. So, in order for me to do that, I got to start getting up a lot earlier. It's uh 8:20 a.m. And I'm going to do faster cardio. Let's do it. That's a wrap. Woo. I want to talk to y'all about staying prepared. I know a lot of people fail because they weren't prepared. It's been cases where I fell off my diet. I fell off my workout regimen just because I wasn't prepared. I didn't schedule out my day. I didn't schedule out my meals and I had to settle for something. So, one of the big keys to success is staying prepared. Today, I got to go to work. I got a meeting at 6:00. I got training right after my meeting. And then after training, I got to go to work and I'll be there for the rest of the day, rest of the night. So instead of guessing what I'm going to eat, I'm going to prep my food and I'm going be prepared for the day. So my next meal is turkey, which I've already cooked with some four red potatoes. My meal after that is 8 oz of sirloin and Brussels sprouts. Then I'm doing 8 oz of ground turkey. Then I'm doing 3 oz of chicken and 6 oz of steak. Know what you're eating. Don't guess it. It's It's 24 hours in a day. You know, if you spend 10 at work, eight sleeping, it's 18 hours. You got 6 hours left. What are you going to do with them 6 hours? If you got kids, say you spend 3 hours with your family. You still got 3 hours. You know what? Take an hour for the gym, an hour to prep your meals for the next day. Still got an hour of free time, watch TV, read a book. So, I'mma cook all my meal for the day. And as I'm doing it, answer questions, reach out to some some of my followers. Me answering a question might help somebody reach their goals, might help them start their journey. I got a message last night on Snapchat from a follower just thanking me and I replied back and he tripped out. Like I got to show you this. He he tripped out. His sister recorded him and posted him on Instagram which I'm going to repost because I just thought it was like the dopest thing. Possible Pat replied, "I'll snatch that to my brother's freaking out." This is why we do it. Being able to make somebody feel happy, being able to, you know, encourage people to work out, encourage them, motivate them, inspire them. Like, there's no better feeling than that. And in this industry, I feel like a lot of people, they go away from that. You know, it's all about them, them them them them them them them them them them them them them. The end of the day when I was 600 lb I had nobody to look up to. I had nobody to reach out reach out to. You know I felt like I wasn't in anybody's league that half these dudes didn't talk to me. I didn't wrote multiple people that they never got back to me. I'm never going to be that person because I know what it feels like. It's kind of emotional to be honest cuz you know that right there that's why we do it. That's why we should be doing it. So for this next meal I know I got to do 8 oz of of turkey. Dang. That's it. We going to throw a little bit extra in there. There we go. And then my next couple mills. So I need 3 oz of chicken. And then I'll throw 6 oz of steak in there. So that's one, two, I've already had one, two, that'll be three. And this will be four. And two shakes. My my six meals for the day. I really want to thank everybody. You going to hit me in the middle of the outro? I really want to thank everybody for tuning in every week. Um, I really appreciate y'all support and love. The countdown is still going. 141 days out. Making myself accountable, staying prepared, and do whatever it takes. See y'all next week.