Yo guys, what's up? We have finally made it to that last week of your program. Let's do it together. Here we go. We are here filming the 30-day fire trainer, Find Your Reason, which is a 30-day high-intensity interval training program, an RSP trainer here at bodybuilding.com's headquarters in a small little room making happen. Uh-uh. That's nine. Come on. I wanted to make sure that I created a program that was accessible for anyone. there was no barrier of entry. No matter what level of fitness you're at, no matter what you want to achieve, that this program would be fine for you. Whether that means losing weight, gaining muscle, trying to get fitter, trying to maintain, whatever it is, there's no ceiling and there's no level of fitness necessary. Forward to go back. Working with bodybuilding is kind of like still feels extremely surreal for me. A year ago, I was able to do this. I was in an RSP trainer with two other fellow RSP athletes. when I got the opportunity again, they probably got to know me a little bit better as as a person. And I think that they were able to really bring that to light in this trainer because there was no acting. It wasn't a script. It was real life. You have 50 seconds to chill the out while I show you what's coming next. I remember getting a creative brief from uh the guys behind behind the scenes and reading it and being like, "Holy how did these guys get inside of my head and write this and put this from a bunch of words over these random phone calls into a solid plan of how we're going to make this happen?" And when they chose the title of the trainer to be find your reason, it was like holy moly, this is like really touching home and this means more to me than any job that I have ever done because it's come full circle. Like in my gym at home, the big thing across the wall is find your reason. I know my reason and I understand what fitness has done for me and how it's changed my life. And I want to be able to give that experience to someone else and show them that they are also able to do so much more than what they think they can. Can you believe it? We made it here. The content that we've shot this week, I'm 100% sure will save and change so many lives than I will ever understand. And that is something that I reminded the guys because we're doing full workouts a day, man. We're filming a 30-day program in a week. Swing. Switch hands. It It's not easy. It was never going to be easy. Try four workouts back to back as it is, but then bring in cameras, bring in microphones, bring in lights, bring in no AC, bring in everything else. It's just so super overwhelming. But something that kept me grounded and I think helped the other guys behind me is like when you want to quit, just understand that this is not about you. This is so much greater than you you will ever imagine. Like this will reach so many more people and affect more people's lives than you could ever dream of. That is something that helped me get through it. People see that we're struggling that it's okay to struggle, too. This is real life. Showing the reality behind this program is is so key. If you want what you dreamed of, then you got to put the work in to get there. Counter four and five 11. The work and the effort that went into it was huge. And I think the fact that these guys allowed me to bring my weird, awkward, wonderful world of fitness to something that is so huge as bodybuilding.com and they believed in what I had and they kind of gave me the opportunity to make it come to life and now we're here and they've seen it and it and it really worked is an incredible feeling. It every all all the hard work has like come full circle. Stay tuned for my 30-day find your reason fitness program exclusively on bodybuilding.com. What's your is in.