#CHANKLAFam, because I wore Chankla's and Bodybuilding.com familia What's Up! My name is Nsima Inyang. from the Super Training Gym and Mark Bell's Power Project, and today I wanna talk to you about my best tips for back activation. Now, one of the biggest tips I have for back activation is this. When a lot of people are doing rows, by the way, these are called The Shake Straps. They're unreleased yet but you'll see about them soon. People are doing rows, they're usually just pulling here and the elbows are coming back, right? One good way to increase activation of your lats is doing something called the pistol grip. Now, when you grip like this, you actually get a little bit less forearm and bicep activation and when you pull with the elbow you will get more back activation. So, use the pistol grip on a lot of your back movements, you’re gonna reap the benefits. Now, a second big tip for back activation is a cue that I like to call the reverse shrug. You shrug right here, right? Shruggin' The reverse shrug, you are here. Now, to see the reverse shrug in action, we're gonna use a movement the lat pulldown where most people when they lat pulldown they just pull straight down, just pull straight down. Well, with the reverse shrug, you'll lean back a little bit and reverse shrug This is also called scapular depression. Then you'll use the pistol grip and pull down with your elbows. Way more back activation there and way more useful. Make sure that when you come up, you don't let go of that depression. Keep the reverse shrug and keep the movement going. And our third and final tip for amazing back activation is to crouch down and touch yourself We all do it. Don’t Worry about it, but also I wanna talk to you guys real quick. The shake Strap is gonna be releasing on MarkBellSlingShot.com on July 27th so make sure to keep your eyes out for it but let me tell you why I want you to crouch down and touch yourself especially on single-arm back movements when you crunch down you're able to get a little bit of activation in that lat okay and when you're touching the muscle group being worked it increases something called proprioception which is your awareness of what the muscle is doing in space so I do any movement like this, I like to focus on the muscle group tap it and then do my movement don’t forget I’m still using the pistol grip here and I’m still pulling with the elbow but now I’m just using my fingers for a little bit of extra muscle mind muscle connection. So a quick recap friends. Make sure that when you're doing any type of back movement, try to use the pistol grip. As it will take out activation of the forearm and biceps. Allow you to get more lat activation. Number 2 Make sure that when you're doing any type of lat pull movements do not just pull. Pull at the elbow. Number 3 Scapular depression or what we like to call the reverse shrug. When doing a pull-down or pull-ups, do the reverse shrug, maintain that position while your doing the pull-downs and you’ll get even more back activation. And number 4 Crouch down and touch yourself. Whenever your doing any back movements, try to activate or pre-activate the lat and touch it and you'll get a little bit of extra lat activation So thank you Bodybuilding.com for letting me talk to the people about back activation. This is Nsima Inyang from the Super Training Gym, Mark Bell’s Power Project Follow me for more tips on becoming a stronger human and I will talk to y'all very very very soon.