Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. If some say happy hump day, but it isn't bums that we're working. It's the next best thing. It's arms. We'll be hitting biceps, triceps from various angles. We'll be hitting some supersets here and we'll be doing the same sort of theme with the pyramids of the DTP extreme. I feel good this morning. Decided to go for a jog as my 40inut cardio last night. And uh who knows what cardio I'll do today. I I find it instinctive depending on how I feel. depends on if I put on some trunks, go for a swim, or get on the steer master, which is the majority of the time, or get outside and uh enjoy a run or a mountain bike ride or or whatnot, you know, right? It's an early morning workout for us. So, I woke up early, made sure that I had my breakfast, got adequately hydrated, and took my pre-caged about uh 40 minutes ago. So, I am pumped, jacked, and ready to get into this. So, let's talk more action. in caged. So, I've just done a couple of warm-ups here to get the sinovial fluid and blood into the connective tissue and throughout the joints. Now, we are going to be doing a superset with DTP extreme today. The rep ranges will be slightly different for biceps than triceps, though. The reason being when you're doing biceps, you're going to have a lot of time under tension where you're gripping the bar. So, we're going to go slightly less repetitions with the biceps as opposed to the triceps. Triceps, we will be doing 30 repetitions to failure and then 25 repetitions and then uh 20. With biceps, we'll be beginning with 20 repetitions, going down to 15 and finishing with 10. So, we'll be doing 30 with the extension and then 20 with a bicep curl and then we'll be resting. And we'll be choosing our first as our rest period. So, 30 repetitions we'll be getting with the tricep extensions. We'll immediately follow up with the curls and then we rest for 30 seconds. Okay, let's hit this. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat up here. Okay, we are halfway through this pyramid superset of the DTB extreme of the first exercise. So, I started off with a tricep extension. You'll notice that I've put a couple of nylon sort of handles on the end there so I can get a full range of motion or free range of motion. I chose a right that allowed me to reach failure at 30 repetitions there. And then I immediately came over to the curls, but chose a weight that allowed me to reach 20 repetitions here. Once we rested for 30 seconds, went back and uh reached failure at 25 repetitions on the tricep extension. Coming over here and reaching failure on 15 repetitions on the dumbbell curl. And then after that 25 second rest went back did tricep extensions again which allowed me to reach failure at 20 repetitions following that superset coming over here reaching failure at 10 repetitions. So now got a couple of minutes rest which is pretty much up now cuz I've been talking to you. And now I'm going to start off with 20 repetitions on the tricep extension and coming over here 10 repetitions before going back down in the same pattern as we came up. Okay, so I've just finished the first super sets of biceps and triceps. Obviously, antagonistic superset going straight from a tricep movement onto the bicep. However, the rep range is different. So, take note. If I screw up, look at the page below just in case my head's not with it. preacher curl to begin with. Again, I had the nylon straps on there. I learned this from IFBB Pro Ben Pakowski when I was over at his gym for 6 weeks last year in Tampa, Florida. It just helps alleviate any stress from my wrists, particularly my elbows. It helps. Uh but if you don't have any problems, you can use an easy bar, straight bar, easy bar, I prefer. I started at around uh god, what was it? 20 repetitions. 20 repetitions. As I said, I didn't want that time under tension. And then once I had that 30 seconds rest, increase the weight. Same theme as on all the exercises. So, I'm pretty sure that you'll get the gist of it. So anyway, there that's done. Let's move on to the third and final exercise. Heat. All right, that is a freaking wrap. Again, a superset antagonistic tricep to bicep. I started off with a dip machine, 30 repetitions to begin with. Then I came over and did 20 repetitions with a hammer curl and I did 20 repetitions there. After my 30 second rest, I went straight into uh 20 reps on the dips and then 15 here, finishing off with 10 reps on the dips and 10 reps here. Exactly the same as every other movement here. I don't have to keep repeating myself. All right, I'm going to catch you at the uh entrance here because I really got to get my cardio done, get it over and done with cuz I got a conference call waiting for me soon. I'm going to wrap this up relatively quick because I've really got to go and do my cardio as soon as I finish my recaged here. Today's arm workout. Just like with any body part, make sure that you do gauge the weight that you should be picking up as accurately as possible. Very often people message me say, "What weight should I be using?" I freaking know. I have no idea what weight you you should use. All I know is that you should use the weight that allows you to reach failure within the rep guide that I've put on these pages. We're halfway through this transformation now. Well, over halfway through. And uh even though this is supposed to feel like a bit of a break, arms are less taxing obviously than say legs or back for instance, but it still is taxing as you experience today. Okay, so that is it for today. Um I got some work to do. I got my cardio to do. I'm going to go see Dr. uh Jason Watson again for my cryotherapy, working on my elbows, my PNF, and thankfully I have my massage today. Every Wednesday 5:00 I'll be having my massage again to assist with recovery because tomorrow it's going to be lower back and hamstrings for sure. And we got calves in there. So, I want to make sure that I'm completely recovered and rested and uh ready to attack tomorrow's workout. So if I don't see you at the cryotherapy later, I'll see you during my massage. So Leticia's working on my arms here now. You know, normally you'll choose a few body parts and concentrate on that for an hour. You know, dig really deep into those. And this time we're working on the arms, triceps, and biceps cuz I just started having some crazy ass cramps earlier. I don't normally cramp. I'll do I I will cramp in my biceps a little bit after a bicep workout. Like when I come back here, have a shower as I'm trying to wash my hair, my biceps will cramp a little. Uh but I really did cramp bad earlier when I was on a conference call. And uh I couldn't even when I straightened my arms, my triceps started cramping. I bent my biceps. So this is yeah another form of recovery getting a blood in there breaking down the scar tissue improving the elasticity to the fascia and uh this is this evening's wrap-up. I didn't do a wrap-up last night uh because I totally forgot my head wasn't with it. I am starting to feel the effects of uh the diet a little bit. I'm missing the ball on a couple of things and doing the uh last night's wrap-up was one of them. I woke up this morning and I thought, "Shit, I forgot. Can't do it now. It's too late." So, uh, you get it today. Man, my this arm workout today was a killer. I cramped pretty bad um a couple of hours later. Well, when I got back trying to wash my hair, I was like, "My biceps are cramping a little bit." And then I cramped in my triceps as well when I straightened my arms. I've never had that before. So, I I uh made sure that I've increased uh my hydrocharge consistency now and u make you know to make sure that I get plenty of electrolytes in there, plenty of minerals. I actually uh bought some extra raw minerals to put in my water as well. Uh because I am sweating a lot now. It is hot and I I am sweating bullets during the workout and through these double cardio. Um, so I'm putting a little bit of salt on my foods uh now as well. And uh yeah, I'm at the airport now. I've come to pick somebody up. I've got everything prepped for tomorrow. Tomorrow morning, I'm going to get up early, have my breakfast, then do my cardio, and then I'm going to go uh hit a motocross bike. Motocross is fantastic uh form of cardio as well. I'm not going to have that as my central source of cardio, but it's definitely going to be pushed within there. Uh, as long as I can stay uh, you know, because I can't stay consistent enough. I'm not fit enough as I used to be when I was race fit. You know, my forearms get a little bit too pumped now. So, I'll just go have a bit of fun, enjoy myself, and then after that, um, I've got a conference call, then I have a meeting, and then I'm probably not going to be able to get to the gym until late afternoon, early evening. So, that's when we'll be training uh hamstrings, lower back, and uh calves. And I've got a doozy, baby. All right, I better get in there and pick up this person. And uh ciao for now.