All right, kids. It is day 38 of this video trainer. You know what that means? Guns. We'll be hitting arms, biceps, and triceps. Especially the biceps. Biceps being a mirror muscle. People generally focus on a bicep more than a tricep. You want to make sure that you do balance these two muscle groups out. Don't overpower one. Remember, the tricep makes up 70% of the arm. So, you should put just as much focus, effort, and time into your triceps, if not more, because you got three heads as opposed to the body, meaning two heads. We'll be hitting these uh muscle groups doing kind of like a giant set fashion as we've been doing like the 30 reps, 20 reps, 10 reps, and and we can do that for biceps for instance. And then going back up with a rep range, we will be swapping to tricep. We'll be putting in a lot of volume, but we'll be going heavy weights as well to target all the muscle group. Got a busy day ahead, so uh it's earlier than normal. It's still dark outside, so let's get this done. Heat. Heat. Yeah. Heat. All right. So, first exercise, preacher curls. And then the second exercise being rope extension. So, we started off with a weight that allowed failure at 30 repetitions with the preacher curl. Making sure that the back of the arm, don't overextend on this particular movement because it will put your bicep tendon under unnecessary strains. And after the 30 second rest, then I go for 20 reps. After 20 second rest, then I go for 10 repetitions to finish rest. After about a minute's rest, went on to the rope extension. 10 repetitions there to absolute failure. And then 15. After 15 second rest, finished off at 20. Making sure that you really part and extend uh the rope as far as you possibly can when performing that tricep movement. Then when I went a little bit lighter on the 15 and 20 repetitions, you'll notice that I started to put my hands together towards the end because I was reaching absolute failure and I couldn't get out another rep. When you put them together like that, you can generally get out another one or two repetitions to finish. Now, to make sure that both the biceps and triceps have equal opportunity for those rep ranges, I'm going to start with triceps this time so we can give it a good mix of balance. Heat. Heat. Heat up here. Heat up here. Okay, second exercise done here. We did a reverse tricep extension. We did a 30 repetitions. after 30 second rest down to 20. And then after 20 down to 10 and then I did the same with easy bar in a reverse curl to really target the coro brachiialis right in there and the forearm a little bit more and get the thickness of the bicep. And we did 20 repetitions after uh rest 25 and then finishing with 30. All right, let's get on to our final exercise here. Heat. Okay, completed the drag curl. I've done it in a Smith machine. You can do it on a barbell or whatever is appropriate to you if you don't have a Smith machine. The reason why it's called a drag curl is because you are dragging it up your body. Your elbows retract back and you get a very good contraction. So I selected a weight that allowed failure at around 30 repetitions. Following the same sort of theme as before and then after 30 second rest went to 20. I went a bit heavier and I felt strong again. So put it up after 20 seconds for the 10 repetitions. And now we're going to go to the close grip bench press. Hitting the triceps for the 20 reps, 25 and 30. Okay, that's arms done. Making sure that we're working all three heads of the tricep here. Obviously, it's a compound movement. And number two, making sure that you keep your elbows as tight as possible. If you do feel a little bit too much uh chest involvement, slide down the bench a little bit so your hands come towards your head a little bit more as opposed to closer to your chest. So, I did 20 repetitions first and then I lightened the weight after 20 uh seconds. I went 25 and after the 25 repetitions, I finished off at 30. Yeah, I need to get catch my breath and get my head together. I'll talk to you in a bit. on an incline bench here and doing an overhead extension. Find that I don't have to go as quite as heavy on this exercise and I get a lot of strain placed upon my muscles and not so much my elbows. Did 30 repetitions to begin with. After 30 second rest, did 20 and then I stuck to the same weight for the uh for the 10 repetitions as well. Stuck to the same weight all the way through actually. First exercise or last exercise I should say for triceps done. So, we're going to use the same bench and machine now to bend over face down and isolate the bicep with 20 reps. Rest for 20, go 25, and finish with 30. So, it'll be over and done with done with within a couple of minutes. That's it for bicep. Thank God for that. 20 reps, 25 reps, 30 reps. Felt more like 500 repetitions. Very short rest periods here. Did 20 reps, rested for 20, 25, rests for 25, finish off with 30. Making sure that I'm keeping my upper arm completely vertical. Yeah, I can contract a little bit, but try not to swing throughout your front delt and try not to squeeze your shoulder blades back. Isolate the biceps. This is a real isolating movement and you'll finish with a massive pump if you get this exercise correct. I'm sure I've got some other talking points to speak upon, but my head is just not functioning at the moment. So, I'm going to have to collect my thoughts and speak to you at the entrances. Uh, we're not running out of time because you're on point. Hopefully, you should be on point. You're right alongside with me. You haven't [\h__\h] up with your supplements. You haven't missed any meals. You haven't slackened on your cardio. and your workouts have been intensive. So, you're right there with me neck and neck, but we don't have any time to waste. Tomorrow is going to be furious and you know, we're going to have lower back. We're going to have hamstrings and uh we've got upper abs. This is a time that a lot of people do collapse if they haven't collapsed already. You're not. If you're a loser, yeah, finish. Do something else. You know, go and uh throw your justification out the window and justify complacency elsewhere. Time for cardio, baby. You don't have to do the steer master, but I'm going to do it. If you want to go for a walk, you want to go for a cycle, you want to go for on the elliptical, then do that. Whatever means necessary to keep you uh consistent. All right, I is out. Good evening guys. It is the end of day and uh first thing in the morning I uh head on out to Tampa. So yesterday or today I should say I did uh two workouts in one shot. I did one early in the morning and one later in the evening because the whole time tomorrow is spent flying. remember that your nutrition obviously has changed because of the recapulation of your weight if your weight has in fact uh changed. So when it comes to traveling, you know, I've got my meals packed from Nutrition Solutions in my cool bag. I've got half of them frozen and the other half uh just uh you know out of the fridge so I can eat along the way. But you know for tomorrow or the day after I should say I will need them to be frozen. I'm only gone for a short period. I don't have any check-in luggage, just hand luggage. Uh but I do have some supplementation and uh my food obviously with me. Yeah, short and sweet tonight, guys. Sorry, haven't wrapped up uh as of late. Uh my head's just been all over the shop and um yeah, can't think of what else to say at the moment, but I shall see you on tomorrow's journey.