Whit and I have been talking about or we're always talking about different gyms that we used to train at. They were, you know, had that small hardcore vibe, which most of those don't even exist anymore, you know, a gym that was really a bodybuilding gym. It wasn't a it wasn't a health club. I thought of this gym. This is uh this is about 20 minutes outside of Miami. It's called Physique World Gym. Now, it's a little dungeon of a gym, but it's infamous. If you want to if you're looking to train for a bodybuilding show, this is the place you come to. We're going to be hitting some back and biceps today. This is a big back, big bicep day, triple B. So, right, start off with some pull-ups here, and then we're going to go jump over and do some lap pull downs. Now, I'm excited to get this started. Let's uh let's start it up. Cool. Ready? Let's do it. Go. So, we'll start off with two sets of pull-ups here. Pretty much just take it to failure to warm up. You know, the thing I like about pull-ups, guys, is that uh it's a nice way to warm up without without overdoing it. You know, you can't load it load it up too heavy on pull-ups. It's just your own body weight. So, good way to pre-exhaust the lats before you really get into work with them. There we go. What we talk about? We're going to do three sets of uh three sets of left pulls. Pull downs. And then on the last set, the last set we're Let's do those partials. Partials. Yep. Halfway back up, back down, and full. Really focus on the lat. Let's hit 12. Pretty cool angle on this bar, right? Yeah. It allows you to really pull nice and low. That's something different. Now remember on lats, you see a lot of people cheating this by really swinging backwards. Now you're just using momentum. You want to try to stay nice and upright. Keep your elbows back and pull them as low as you can. There you go. I like to add a nice little squeeze at the bottom, too. That little squeeze really makes all the difference in the world. It's all about that quality contraction each rep. Absolutely. I felt make everyone count. Felt every one of those. Hey, hey, hey. So, now we're going to jump down. Drop the weight down. This one's all about really controlling the weight. So, you can bring it all the way down. Get a good squeeze. Halfway back up. squeeze it back down and then all the way back up. So, you're literally having to use your muscles in the eentric phase to act like a break and stop it. That right there puts a lot of stress on the muscle and then to pull it back down. There's no cheating on this one. So, I know you felt that one. All right. So, now let's super set some heavy dumbbell rows, bend over dumbbell rows with some low cable rows. Low cable row. Absolutely. Get a great stretch on those. Man, these old stacks are just twice as heavy as new ones. It's a guessing game, dude. You never know. You never know what's going to be. They don't look any heavier, but No, dude. They feel it. Oh, yeah. That feels pretty good. So, pre-exhaust on the cable cable roll, cable roll, cable row, and then we'll do a dumbbell. Dumbbell row. Yep. So, I'm going to do these maybe a little bit lighter and a few more reps. Just really uh really feel it. Those cables keep constant tension on your back, so it's great to use this for for pre-exhaust motion. He's getting a great stretch there, too. See how that dumbbell's coming forward almost in front of his face and pulling it, like you said, right into the right into the pocket there. Nice pull. By pulling through your back pocket. Same thing over there. You use less of your biceps. There's more lats. If I grab this thing and pull straight up like I see most people do like this, that's half my bicep. Look at his the flex in his rear delt when he does that, too. That's just a heavy rear delt. That's a heavy bicep rear delt exercise. Your biceps are a smaller muscle. They're going to fatigue faster. So, your biceps are going to burn out before your lats do. And remember, we're hitting biceps today, too. So, you don't want to destroy them on a on a dumbbell row that's meant for your meant for your lats. Notice I keep a pretty loose grip. I find when I grip that too hard, then I start wanting to use my arms, my biceps. I like to pretend that from my elbow to my hands, that it's just a hook. And I'm pulling from my elbow, not my hand. If you focus on your hand, you're gonna pull from your hand. Focus on your elbow, you're gonna pull your elbow back. Focus more on the lats. That's like my little mental trick. Like Whitney said, you can focus more. Better quality squeeze, really pre- fatigue those lats. By the time you jump over here, your lats are already burning. Like I said before, they're a stronger muscle in your biceps. So this way, your lats are already already worn out. And that way, your biceps don't give up before your back does. Oh man. Fall through that one. That was only like 15, 20 minutes. Not even 15. That was brutal right there. What we got next? All right. All right. Is that same thing? Arch in the back. That back up all the way back. See how it's getting a great stretch. Squeeze at the back. Great stretch on the lats here. you know, similar to doing like a like a dumbbell pullover, but I think you get a better range of motion with this. Well, plus with a pullover, you end up hitting a lot of chest. Yeah. This is all lat here, which is why you don't want to arch your back when you do that. You're going to start pressing with your chest, your triceps. Triceps getting involved in that in that that motion when you bend over. Good. I went to 14 there. All right. All right. Wasn't feeling it at 12 yet. There you go. And now the pull. So where he's pulling it down to his hip. Kind of like a, you know, similar to a to a a lat pull down, but you can just pull down a little bit further. I know that sounds like a dumb explanation, but that's what it is. Come on. Stretch. You know, the problem I think most guys have with building a big back really is twofold. One, it require don't realize how much work it really requires. You got to uh you got to really get a lot of different exercises, a lot of volume. You got to lift heavy weight. It's a big muscle. And to do a good back workout, it's exhausting. So, if you're not if you're not walking out of the gym just completely fatigued, ready to fall over on a back day, then you're not doing it hard enough. So, I think a lot of it just comes down to effort. And two, a lot of it's bad technique. To really hit your lats, got use good form, you know, keeping those elbows tight, not using your bicep, keeping that arch in your back. There's a lot of subtle nuances that you got to do to really feel those lats contract. I had that problem for a long time. For me to get my back to grow was really tough. It's just because I was slinging a lot of weight. I was heavy heavy pull downs and heavy rows, but I was using every sister muscle that I could to to get the rep. It was it was more about getting the rep than it was about the quality of the rep. You know, you got to focus more on the contraction than about how much weight you're pulling. That was bad. That's a pump, right? You Oh, dude. I'm ready to go home right now. I know. I know. Let's crush these biceps, though. Let's do it. All right. So, don't whip back. Let's start off with biceps with some curls here. Yep. Let's do 21s. Seven full, seven at the top, seven at the bottom. At the bottom, seven partial. Yep. Let's do it. Do that. Absolutely. All right. You know, best advice for getting arms to grow, same exact advice I just gave on back. It's all about the quality of contraction. Come on, Whit. It's not about slinging the weight and just getting the reps. It's about really getting that muscle to contract. So those little things like the pause, that's going to do it on those second set of sevens, coming down, getting that eccentric, having to control the weight, and then actually stop it. That's stretching those muscle fibers. It's tearing them apart. That's what's going to really break down the muscle. That's crazy. I And then in turn, that's what's going to make them grow. I haven't felt my biceps like that in a long time, dude. We're just getting started here. You know, Wendy and I kicked our ass here with a back and bicep out. We're almost done and we're still only maybe 40 minutes into this thing. So, come on, dude. Come on. Let's go. Yep. So, spending an hour and a half, 2 hours in the gym, to me, it's not just overtraining, it's a waste of time. Let's go. As far as overt training, you know, to come in and really do an over the top workout, as long as you're not trying to lift too heavy, which we have lifted heavy, all this is a lot of technique to really make the muscles burn, not just slinging heavy weight. It's good as long as you get the recovery. That's when people run into an issue of overtraining is when they train hard all the time. They're trying to train seven days a week. They never give their body a rest. You know, they're just busting their ass all the time. Your muscles grow in the recovery phase. Yep. Not here in the gym. Absolutely. You got to come in here. You break the muscle down. But then you got to go home and you got to recover. That's from sleep. That's, you know, nutrition. Nutrition, your supplementation. Yeah. You know, get your branch chain amino acids. That's what I'll do first thing after we leave here. You know, I'll get my BCAS. I'll drink my weight protein. I'll get my carbs. So, that's, you know, it's in the recovery process that you grow. you don't give yourself that recovery process, then eventually you're going to end up breaking down muscle. So, you want to hit just three sets of reverse curls right here. This boy right here. Right there. All right. All right. You're up. Let's do it. All right. I'm gonna finish this workout strong here. All right. So, one thing, thumb over the top of the bar. And you can't go heavy on these. You're not going to have the same strength you do as a regular bicep curl. And there's no need to. Like you said earlier, we've done so many rows and different different pulls for back. Your your forearms are already going to be pretty exhausted. You're going to feel it. You're going to get a pump immediately. So, you don't need a lot of weight here. Come on. Squeeze. There you go. Pull. Oh man, form's getting a little sloppy. Getting a little tired. I know. I'm starting to start down here. Really should drop the weight down. Come on. Whip. Hel. Oh, yep. I'm feeling that. That's three, right? Yeah. Yeah, that's three. Done. All right. So, last uh last thing we're going to say run the rack, but I don't know how you have to kind of jump around the rack here. The term run the rack means, you know, jumping from high down low. So, you start with a heavier rep. Do as many as you can. Drop it. It's basically just a drop set, but you're doing a couple drops here. dumbbells are spread out. So, this is uh more like hopping in the rack. Yeah, we're going to have to actually You know what we should do? We should just pull out some of the dumbbells and just set them so we're not It' be a lot easier. All right. What do you want to start with? I'd like to start with like a heavy weight to start with, but use correct form. So, whatever you feel you can get like, you know, four solid reps with per arm. 5 lbs. That's about all I have left. All right, let's see. So, we got uh 45s, 35s, 25s. So, basically just going to take it to failure each one. And uh and that's it. That'll be it for bison. That's it. I'm I'm I'm spent now. It's going to be interesting to see what I can get out of this. But, uh you'll be done. Just squeeze here. Get what you can get. There you go. Pull it. Come on. There you go. There you go. That's the flip ridiculous. Pull. Pull. That's all you That's all you. Good job, dude. Hell yeah. You are done. You are done. All right, my turn. My turn. You know, that's how I first found this place was getting ready for a competition. Uh it was actually the last time I ever competed. I was coming down here and I was training with the owner and I it really was just to take my training up another level, just another notch, just pick up that intensity and coming down here. Come on, Whit. And training with other guys that were competing in the same show, you you feed off that. You feed off that competition. You see guys, like I said, they were in the same competition and you could kind of see where they were at. So that's it. That's uh I'm spit, dude. Yeah. Yeah, we hammered through pull-ups into lat pull downs, partial lap pull downs as well with that extra squeeze. We superseted our low cable rows with a dumbbell heavy row. We did superseted our uh rope push downs with the low pulls. Jumped into biceps with our 21s. We did our spider curls. We did our reverse curls. And then we did our dumbbell drop set. That's it. That was a uh kickass workout. I love it. Awesome workout. I do. That was good.