So we're doing a full press like this...you know, locking out at the top, and your shoulders go up and in like that... That way you're not doing that last third of the movement, which is mainly triceps. So you're going up, boom, like that. Boom, yeah? That's it. Perfect, two, three, four. Eight, two more, nine, ten, perfect. When you do this, do you want me to go down a pound or just below? Just to get a bit of a stretch? Whatever feels comfortable, man. Don't overstretch, you know? I usually just bring it down, touch the delts, and go back up again. I don't normally go in. I normally go straight up. Going up there, you're kind of taking attention off. Have a bit triceps at the top, you know? You might as well just keep it on the delts. No need to lock out at the top. All right, big Chris, come on. Don't need a spots on this one, man. Okay, oh, good. Two, strong, man. Three, four, five, six, boom. One more, bam, okay, good. Drop 'em down, man. All right, this is the one, man. Let's get 'em up. There's your one, okay. Line 'em up, man. First one, yep, first one. Okay, let's go now. Two, three, four is yours, five's yours. Come on. Squeeze it up. Okay, drop 'em down. Good, six, man. Good, good six. Strong, man. There's nothing wrong with pre-exhausting on shoulders. Do your lat pulls first, do your presses second. You don't always have to stick to exactly the same script. You know, I don't like to change things too much, because I like to keep a track on the poundages and the exercises. If you're going up in your workout weights, then you're doing something right, you know? Standing, up to parallel, keep your palms down, yeah? Good, two, three. Stop the swinging, the body's still. Four, eight, two more. Up, nine and again, up. Keep your body moving down a little bit. You got a little bit of a bad habit of doing this... It's a lot less than I normally do. I'm ready, brother. All right, come on, then. Rock and roll then, man. Try it a little bit in front of you. All right, let's go. Good, one, two, three, four is good. Come on, five is good. Six, nice, come on. Up, seven, keep 'em tight, eight, two more. Keep tight. Nine, and again, up. Ten, halfway now, halfway up, up, come on. And again. One more, up. Good, good. Just another way of going beyond failure, half rep, three-quarter reps, just to take it beyond failure. I gave him a little tip on the last couple, but it's hard to spot beyond that. Everything you've got, yeah? Everything, up and squeeze. Nice, control the negative. Good, that body still, man. Four, that's better. Five is good. Come on, squeeze, six. And again, up. Squeeze, seven. Four more, all the way up, all the way up, all the way up. Okay, slow it down now. Slow it down. I'm taking it to the top, up, slow. Last one, everything. Try and stop it. All right, maybe not. Watch that form, yeah? Good, two, strong, man. Three, nice. Four is good. Come on, I'm watching. Come on, five, that's yours. And again, squeeze, one more. Everything, everything, squeeze it up. Squeeze it up. I'm gonna take you up. Hold it there. One more, hold it up. That's it, nothing left. Once I've done a couple of forced reps and he's got no positive strength left, then I'm lifting it to the top, and he's just trying to control it on the way down. Once you can't control it, then it's finished. Game over. Try and bring your elbows forward a little bit. That's good. Six, pull, seven, and again. Pull, eight, two more, pull. Nine, again, half reps, let's go. One more, go. Good. It's so much harder when I pulled my elbows forward. Yeah, because if you come back, you're using your lats. We're working, that's a small muscle, man, you know? So if you're coming straight out, you're working more rear delts. You don't need to use as much weight. You've already done the lats, you know? There's no point in duplicating what we've already done. So try and isolate it on this one. You don't need a ton of weight. Soon as I said that and you started pulling out to the side, you can see your rear delt come right out. Feel like about 20 pounds heavier. Rear delts, come on, think about it. Good, good, perfect, man. Three, four, keep that form. Five, up, six, good. Seven, and again, all the way up. Eight, halfway, and one more. Squeeze, great. Job done, man, job done. Sweet. Thanks, man. So we're gonna come from here, yeah? Elbow stuck by your sides. From here, lower chest, lot of people do this... Push out like that. I want you to keep your elbows by your side from out here. Down and in there. You get a much better contraction at the bottom. Bring it into your legs there. I'm just using triceps, but I'm keeping this locked in, letting the weight come out to there, yeah? Down and in, much better contraction at the bottom like that. Right in there in the bottom, squeeze, yeah? Good, three, four, five, six, seven. Control that negative a little bit more, yeah? Good. I find it easier to balance if you've got one leg forward and one leg back, instead of, like, standing like this if you're wobbling about. You don't want to start leaning in and letting your elbows come out, because then it becomes a pressing movement. Okay, don't forget to bring it right in there and squeeze the [bleep] out of it. Two, three, four, five's good. Six, keep it tight now, come on. Keep it perfect. Seven, eight, keep tight. Nine, and again. Push, ten, two more. Drive it down. One more, keep tight. Come on, push, push all the way. Squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, good. Okay, good set. From here, from that position, I want you to angle back, yeah? So from there, we're going back to there, yeah? Letting the weight go behind your head, bring it back up, but don't bring it over. Keep it on. That way there's more in the triceps and less strain on your tendons. Straighten your arms out, go. Okay, from there. No, don't pull it over. Don't pull it over, just extend it. Okay, go down, up...There, that's it. Okay, now you've got it. Two, three, four, it's good, man. Come on, eight, two more like that. Keep the form. Nine, one more, squeeze. Got you. Well, we're not trying to put all the stress on your triceps without overloading your tendon, you know? Lot of people get tendonitis going too heavy on this one. Come on, this is the one that counts, Chris. Come on. The grip and the angle, everything's tight. Squeeze, good. Two, three, four, five. Come on, six, good. Seven, come on. I'm watching you, tight. Eight, these are the ones. Nine, one more. Push, squeeze it up, squeeze it up, squeeze it up, all the way, lock it out, triceps. Good, I got you. We're gonna do something directly overhead now, 'cause to really activate the long head, which is the biggest head of the tricep, you gotta kind of get a stretch on, get it overhead. Got it? Nice and tight, then. All the way down, all the way up. Good, one, two, three, four. Eight, two more. Big squeeze, nine, and again, easy stuff. I got it. Stretch and blow, one, two, three, four is good. Come on, five, squeeze, six. Let's work, now, last exercise. Seven, one more. Come on, push, push, push, push, push, push, push. Good, okay. Look at that. Blown-up triceps. Don't worry about the burn, man. You can do Jane Fonda classes if you want to get a burn, you know? As long as the muscle's going to failure, it doesn't know how much is on the bar. The weight's a tool, man. The weight is a tool just to put stress on the muscle. You know, now we're taking enough time between sets in order to stay at the same weights. Like, if I was doing 100-pound press-- That's called pacing yourself, you know? That's exactly what I'm used to doing. It's a big mistake. Don't pace yourself, man. Just go to failure and get the job done to get out of there. Six sets and three of those were warm-ups. Three working sets, your triceps.