So, let's go through just the rest of these real quick. Body stats. So, this is a great little calendar that kind of lets you know what's going on. Bird's eye view for the month. So, you can go ahead down here and enter your body stats. So 5t 6 in we'll say 125 body fat 13%. Um I don't have any of these measurements currently. A lot of people don't. We've actually incorporated really helpful videos to show you how to measure these properly. Everybody always tries to measure things so they either look smaller or bigger than they should. Um, but in order to keep it legit, um, please do watch the video if you're not sure so you know how to record these in. I'm going to go ahead and leave these blank for now. Enter your lifting stats. Um, here's basic lifts that you will be doing or you can be doing. Um, these are pretty standard. So, here we're going to say how much you lifted, how many times you lifted it, and your one rep max. And then here is going to be a video to watch if you're not sure how to um do these exercises the correct way. Once again, please make sure you're using correct form when you do these things because you're only cheating yourself if you don't do it right. Save stats. Now, in your profile, you'll notice over here, um there's fun little questions. We did our personal info, um photos and videos. We can actually upload photos and videos of ourselves. There's gallery pics, there's profile pics, and there's videos. Now, you may be asking, why the heck do we have more areas for pictures when I just did progress photos? Well, those are for your progress photos. Those are for ones that you're going to track your different changes over time. Gallery pics could be something of you at a fun fitness event, at a running event, um something where you're working out, you're just doing something that's just more of an everyday lifestyle, um not really a comparison photo. And then your profile pics are going to be the ones that will actually be displayed over here in your right-h hand column once you upload it. Um, this is going to be the profile picture that everybody finds as default when they go to your page. So, it's going to be the first picture they see to identify you. So, we can either go to profile pick here or profile picture here to pick out a picture for this page. Um, also you can see under here these little stats that are tabbing up friends. These are the fan clubs, the friends that want to be your friend that you haven't added or accepted yet. Mutual will be the ones once you've accepted them and stalking are the ones that for some reason you don't want to accept and they really want to be your friend. Um private messages people can send you an email through here and these will be showing through here. You will also get a notice in your um actual email account you're registered with. Somebody sent you a private message. Profile comments. If somebody leaves you a comment on your page, you'll see those here. Um group invites. Like I said, we have body groups. So people may see your profile and see you'd be perfect to join their group and help everybody in there. Um, and those will be shown here if you have those invites. But we're going to go ahead and focus right now on the profile picture. I'm going to go ahead and click on here. And then we're going to want to go to edit profile photo so we can put one in there. Go to upload a profile picture. Say that you understand it needs to be a photo of you. Now, you need to pick a photo. It's best to pick one that's of just you. Um, so people can look at it and they know who you are when they come onto your site. And then hit save. And this will be the photo that is displayed in my control panel on the sidebar always when I log in until I change it again. And it will be the same one that is displayed to anybody that's going to look at my profile. You can also do videos. Lots of times people have fun workout videos that they want to upload. If you want to do that, go to your video section, follow the directions there. For gallery pics, it's the same thing as doing a u profile picture and the same thing as doing a progress picture. Um, except for the difference on those is in your gallery settings, people can actually make ratings and comments on your pictures. I'm going to go ahead and allow that. People rate how good of a picture it is or how well you're doing on your progress. Um, receive an email notification on all comments. I'm going to leave that as a yes cuz I want to know when somebody says something. Um, and then you can go ahead. It says to upload one now. And remember, these are going to be like a photo album. So, now that we have all these different photos uploaded and we actually have some stats and stuff on our page. Like I said, there's so much more you can add into here. So, feel free to go through here and really take your time. Do it in bits and pieces. Do it all at once. It's up to you. Um, but let's go ahead and look at our profile. So, go ahead. You can click on your profile over here and it will show you right to your profile page. This is what anybody's going to see when they go onto your page. Up here you have your profile picture and then over here you have your body space name. You will also notice that your bodypace name is easy to put right into the URL. It's after bodyspace.building.com/youname. So it's always in there. It also makes it really great and searchable um if somebody's looking for you on the network. Uh so here you have your overall goal, my little fit status, my motivation level, you have your name, um your gender, your age, where you live, um what your occupation is, personal website, that would be go there. Your primary gym, college, high school, if you filled those in, they'd go there. When you started, how I started, why I love it, and people will literally put it all out here. This is where you share your story. So, take your time on these questions when you answer them. This will show what I'm up to. This is what I've been doing. I uploaded a new photo gallery picture. I uploaded a new profile picture. I changed my body fat. Um, if anybody wants to come to your page and see what you've been up to and what your activity has been, it'll be in here. Here I have my progress pictures. Like I said, I apologize for not having better ones. Um, you have down here your body stats, your height, your weight, your body fat. This is where your lifting stats will go. This is where your goals will show. And then down here you have your body answers. These are fun ones. These are great things that are what's your favorite workout in the gym. Um what's the biggest no no that somebody can do um when you're working out, etc. So there's fun ones, there's helpful ones in here. So make sure to go through here and do your answers. If you haven't done them, it's really easy. You can go to your dashboard page or you can just go right here to edit. your contest history. Um, videos of body space, favorite bodybuilding and fitness videos. These are ones that are going to be of other people that I just like to watch. And then your body blog is where you can go to actually write notes and use it as a diary. Current supplements. This is where your supplements will be listed that you use. Here's your supplement reviews. Workout program. You'll put it in here. Favorites. And then this is where your friends will go. Um, down here we already have a visitor comment. This is where you'll see all your comments from what people leave for you. So, in a nutshell, this is how it is. This is what it looks like. There's so much more you can build out from here. So many things that you can do. Um, go ahead and leave you with