Fitness isn't a phase. It's not a fad or a passing trend. It's a lifestyle. I compete in bikini, but I live fitness. I'm Janelle Maguire. What's your reason to live fit? Ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to be hitting the glutes, the booty, glutius maximus, whatever you want to call it. We want to work on strength and we want to work on size and we want to work on shape. Today we're going to do about five or six different exercises for our glutes. I like to start out with an isolation movement, more high volume, so anywhere from 15 to 25 reps. And then I like to bring it down to heavy heavy weight compound movements, low rep range, anywhere from about 8 to 12. And then I like to wrap it up again with some high volume movements again with the 15 to 25 range. All right, so let's get started. Let's get this booty popping. So our first exercise is our glute cable kickbacks. This is just a warmup just to get that mind muscle connection between you and your glute. It shouldn't be too strenuous. Our second exercise is going to be our glute bridges with a barbell. This is going to be our first actual working exercise. Square up. Bring your torso all the way up so you have a nice tabletop. Push through and up through your heels. Hold and pause at the top. Really push that barbell all the way up to the ceiling. You should feel that deep squeeze in your glutes and all the contraction should be coming from there. So, our third exercise is our static lunges on the Smith machine. These are really great. You get a lot of isolation here as opposed to walking lunges. So, that's why I prefer these a lot when I'm trying to just concentrate on my booty. Take a big step forward and a big step back. So, we want to make sure that your knee isn't extending past your toe. Drop all the way down to the floor to almost where your knee is tapping the ground. That way, you get that full range of motion. Hold at the bottom. Bring it back up. So, our fourth exercise is one of my very favorites. It's our sumo deadlifts. You're going to want to get a real wide stance with your legs, toes pointed out about a 45 degree angle. Hold the bar with a narrow grip. And you want to make sure the bar stays extremely close to your shins and to your legs. So the whole time the bar should be almost grazing your lower body. So, our fifth exercise is another one of my personal favorites, fire hydrants. Focus on keeping your body lined up. So, your hands are underneath your shoulders, your hips are square. You should not be rocking back and forth when you're doing these. Just go as far up as your flexibility will allow you to bring it back down and repeat. So, that's it for our booty workout, our glute routine. I recommend you do this at least once a week and a lot of these exercises are great to incorporate with just your traditional leg workout as well. It should take about a minimum of an hour. Uh really push yourself, really have that confidence. If you can lift heavier weight, then go for it, especially when we're doing our low rep range. And uh for more inspirational videos and more cool workouts, check out bodybuilding.com.