Hello guys, my name is Baz. I'm teambodybuilding.com athlete from Brazil. The three times I'm a lawyer and a guitar player and I'm also an IFBB men's physique competitor. When I was younger, I always liked playing sports, but I was a skinny guy. I weighed like 120 lbs. Really wanted to get bigger. What drives me every day is the desire to be my best self. Since I entered bodybuilding.com, I always like it to get on stage because there are a lot of guys that do this thing and I so cool, nice. But I was in the middle of law school. So I didn't have that time to like uh focus on the prep and once I finished it I said if I don't do it now I will never do it. Then I started prepping for my first show December last year. In the offseason I usually do weightlifting four times a week. Work two days take one day off or two days take the weekend off. Then when it start getting close to start my prep I go up to 5 days. And when it's prep six to seven days a week, I do one body part per week. When I in offseason, I usually do triceps with chest and biceps with shoulders or back and legs. I do it only once a week. If I feel like I can push it more, I go for like 1 hour and a half. If I have to do cardio, of course, it's going to be longer, but my training doesn't go longer than an hour. Your protein shakes through the day helps you a lot. If you're like a busy guy, you don't have time to eat, you have the mirror placements, the protein shakes, you can easily have any time. I really want to improve my shoulders size because I have really my arms are big and when I get on stage, they oversize my shoulders. I really look at to Chris Getting 12E program. I saw all the videos and of course Body Space helped me a lot and the super site with the articles of dieting and training. Yeah, you really need to organize yourself. I mean, prep your food before. I always wake up earlier, prep all my food. I get in my six-pack, six meals, get it with me through the day and makes it easier to eat where I need. And when I don't have time, I drink some shakes. Live the healthy lifestyle. Don't make the looks the most important. Your healthy is the most important for sure. You need to love what you're doing. If you're don't like it, you're not going to succeed. So, that's the way you're going to find your bands. Uh, you can find me at Instagram. It's @bo andrique. And also Facebook. It's facebook.com/boenrique. and body space also and always update in it. It's B and R the same.