I'm Brendy Scheerer. I'm a National Bikini Competitor, the Franchise Relations for BPI, and I'm also a BPI Team athlete. Well, I definitely grew up in a very interesting family where health and fitness was not high on our list of priorities. However, I was an athlete so I was always active and, you know, into sports, into stuff like that but I never actually understood the part about diet, nutrition. I'd grab a Kit Kat bar out of the pantry, hop in my car, and head off to school and I thought that was a healthy breakfast. It's definitely come a long way since then. When I first kind of realized things were a little bit different is when I stopped playing sports and all of a sudden, you know, your body changes a little bit as you start getting older and putting on a few extra pounds and that Kit Kat bar turned into 5 pounds here and the Reese's 5 pounds there and eventually I just realized, you know, something had to change and my lifestyle was not what I wanted it to be at all. After I finished high school, I went to college and stopped playing sports, put on a few pounds and my life wasn't going the way I wanted. I had some personal family issues. My family was actually pretty concerned about my health at that point. I was doing a lot of things that wasn't the best for my body. A lot of girls go through it. A lot of self-image problems. But it came to the point where my sister who suddenly passed away unexpectedly, she was always kind of my inspiration and after I lost her, it was kind of a wake-up call, like, what are you doing to yourself, you need to get healthy. My sister believed in me when I didn't. And when she was no longer there, it was kind of like I wanted her there in spirit. So that was kind of my first intuition I needed to do something and I got a trainer and I got someone to help me with nutrition and that's kind of where it started and it kind of became an addiction almost. Instead of eating food and being unhealthy, it was going to the gym and doing cardio and actually eating stuff that made me feel good. Not really knowing anything about sports nutrition but I saw 'em in the magazines, I saw pictures of these beautiful girls and they kind of became my idols and I just said I wanted to look like them. And I remember taking this magazine to my trainer and saying, "Hey, I want to do this fitness competition," and he kind of looked at me, he goes, "Oh," you know, "maybe next year, maybe next year." And I was like, "No, it's in 30 days. I want to do it. I can do it. Let me try." And he's like, "You know what, we'll do what you can." So I worked my butt off. I entered this competition. I ended up taking third and fourth. It was one of the best feelings ever 'cause I never ever thought I would be in that position. It kind of started this whole inspiration of something that I could look forward to and a goal and a competition and I'm always looking for a new challenge, for sure. For me, training, I really like variation in it. Compared to most girls, I actually really like to train heavy. To me, it's kind of a challenge and I tend to be on the leaner side sometimes so I really have to work to build that muscle so I definitely prefer the heavy lifting, the maxing out, but I also get bored easily. So I'll do the--I'll be the girl doing the random, like, cardio ballet or, like, rocking Pilates or, you know, I just really like to mix it up but definitely heavy lifting is probably my first choice but then kind of doing fun things on my days off would be kind of what keeps me motivated and keeps me going. There used to be a point where I could definitely squat over 300 pound. For me, considering my body weight, I'm almost doubling it, which--well, actually, I'm over doubling it. It, to me, I think, is a pretty big deal for a girl. Now some of the women body builders could probably shut me down but it's definitely, to me, I just--I really want to be able to build that max, build that--even if it's only 2.5 extra pounds, to me, I'm like, "Yes, I can do it. I can do it." And it definitely is--it's a challenge and it's fun. Cardio, I definitely 5 days a week. If I could do it 7, I surely would. Lifting, I try to be in the gym at least 4 to 5 days. Usually, I'll try, you know, Mondays I'll do maybe back and biceps. Tuesdays I'll do legs but maybe more quad focus. Wednesdays is definitely my cardio day. Thursdays I'll do shoulders and tris, and then Friday, my favorite day, definitely is butt day. I'll spend a whole day working on my butt, for sure. And then Saturday is usually where I throw in something a little unique, Pilates, ballet, kickboxing, a circuit training class, and then Sunday is definitely my rest day. However, occasionally, you might see me doing a little cardio just for fun. I definitely used to dread cardio but then I kind of realized it's a moment in time where there's nothing else you can really do. So it kind of clears your head, kind of makes you feel good and I used to kind of turn that negative into a positive. And everyone jokes around, especially at the office 'cause we're fortunate enough to have a very large, nice gym. I'll be out there doing cardio twice a day. And everyone kind of jokes around, "Oh, she's doing cardio again. Oh, she's doing it again." But it's that time where I can get away from everyone in the office and kind of clear my head and at the same time, you know, burn a few extra calories from the Skittles I probably ate 10 minutes ago. I try to mix it up. Usually, I'll do slow burn a couple of days a week but I definitely, like, you know, I'll do 3 minutes, kind of take it easy, and then 1 minute I'll go, you know, absolutely crazy, kind of vary it as it goes, but ideally I'm--you'll always find me on the StepMill or the StairMaster. Anything that involves working your butt, you'll find me on that machine. Honestly, if I don't work out, I don't quite feel like myself 'cause it always gets my endorphins going, it always makes me feel good, and it just kind of gives me that positive energy for the day and when I don't I just feel like something's a little off. Granted, if I work my butt off all week and it's my rest day, I'll surely enjoy it but if it's one of those things where I'm just like, oh, I didn't get a chance, or I wasn't--didn't give my full effort to work out that day, then I truthfully feel like I'm missing a little part of me. Time is always a battle when it comes to a crazy schedule but, for me, I am very strategic when it comes to making the best use of my time. I will return emails and do conference calls while I'm on the treadmill or I'll be the random girl in the hotel at 11 o'clock at night doing whatever cardio machine they conveniently have. Definitely make time for it 'cause the fact of the matter is it's a choice. And it's easy to get off track when you decide, "Oh, I don't really need to do it today, I'll do it tomorrow," and it kind of starts that snowball effect. And I'd rather do the snowball effect of where I have to do cardio every day versus putting it aside. Nutrition is a tough one because I do have such a crazy schedule. In a perfect world, I try to eat five to six times a day. I'm definitely big on lean protein and veggies. I love, love vegetables and I try to keep, you know, my carbs in morning and lunchtime but if I'm not doing a higher carb routine, I'm definitely gonna up my fats for sure. I'm a big fan of avocado, guacamole. My easiest meal that I found is the best as far as, like, you can eat it cold or hot, turkey and zucchini is kind of my go-to meal that you always find me eating. I'm a huge brown rice fan. I try to stick with rice when I'm packing. I tend to eat a few protein bars here and there. Unfortunately, with a crazy schedule, you can't always have the perfect food available for you so I'll do the best I can whether it's a protein shake, whether it's a protein bar, it just kind of varies. I try my best to keep a clean diet but it's really tough. It's really tough on my schedule. My go-to spices, black pepper, cayenne. Those are what I put on every vegetable, fish, chicken, steak, you name it, that's kind of my staple item. Now my kind of, like, for oatmeal, a lot of people put cinnamon but I actually get the pumpkin pie spice. It doesn't have any sodium in it so it kind of changes it up a little bit. So those are kind of my hidden spices I guess you could say. Since I am on the go all the time I do tend to eat out. And the easiest way for me is--kind of my tip is I always, anything I order, I always order dry. I ask for no salt, no oil and I always ask for sauce on the side. It's the easiest way to kind of avoid those extra calories that you may not necessarily eat if you're at home cooking it yourself. Any time I order chicken or something on a salad, I just ask them to make the chicken fresh. I don't mind waiting but usually if the chicken has been premade, a lot of times it's sitting there in a lot of salt and preservatives so I just try to avoid that as much as possible. I'm the type that usually I have Skittles or Starburst or something kind of hidden in my office or my bag but now I know with moderation, you'll see me eating that candy but you also see me as the first person on the treadmill in the morning. So it's kind of where I've found that balance but I'm not willing to give it up. Dieting definitely doesn't happen all year long with me. It's just impossible because I have such a crazy work schedule and I like to have fun and I like to have a life so for me of course when I'm training for a show or an event or something, you know, where I have to look a certain way, I will definitely kind of put aside my candy addiction, at least wait 'til after the event. I have what I call my dessert, egg whites. It's kind of my hidden little trick at night-time. A lot of the times we have kind of the sugar cravings or those late-night hunger cravings so I'll do some egg whites. I'll put a little Stevia and cinnamon in there and scramble them up and I kind of call it my dessert for the evening. And it kind of helps kill that craving and I'm able to go to bed with, you know, pure protein in me at the same time with no extra sugars or--especially when I'm avoiding my candy. That's close but not quite, so that's kind of my little secret that I tell people. I will never say to take supplements over real food any day. For me, it's real important to get in your multi-vitamins, get in your CLAs, get in your aminos, along with real food. Of course, you know, being traveling all the time, it's tough to always get the real food in but, by all means, that's the number one thing when it comes to actually health and fitness in my opinion is real food versus the supplements that may be available. You can never kind of trade that off. Ideally, you want to use it and make it work together. Protein is huge. Usually, I do whey protein. For me, that seems to work the best. Everyone is different but that's what I prefer. Of course, I take a multivitamin, and then definitely I'm big on pre-workout. I usually need something to kind of help give me that little energy, that extra boost, to get through my workout. Definitely the focus is huge. I'm really big on that. And then, of course, my silk aminos that I add to Jell-O so I do--it's kind of a block sugar-free Jell-O which I make as my post-workout treat. So I get my aminos and kind of get that sugar fix in there and kind of dessert all in one. Everybody's different. That's why there are so many companies out there, there are so many product lines. You have to find what works for you. It's one of those things where it doesn't matter what one person says, it may not react the same for the other. So all I can do is say what works for me. The difference that I see when I do take the supplements, I don't think there's anything you could compare it to. I don't think I'd be where I am, and matter of fact, I know I wouldn't be where I am, without the supplements, without the fat burners, especially with the crazy schedule. It's really tough to be able to do it without the supplements that are out there. That's it for me. That's a little bit about my lifestyle, my training, nutrition, supplementation. If you have any questions about anything I talked about today, please feel free to contact me on Twitter, on my website, Brendyscheerer.com and, of course, you can find me at bpisports.net. For more videos and content like this, please check out Bodybuilding.com.