My name is Chrissy Kendall and I'm the science editor here at bodybuilding.com. I received both my master's and my PhD in exercise physiology from the University of Oklahoma. In today's product review, we'll be discussing BSN N O Explode. Noo Explode is a pre-workout supplement designed to increase energy and focus as well as improve muscular strength and power. This is a complete pre-workout product that contains all the ingredients you need to get you through a workout like caffeine, citrine malate, creatine monohydrate, beta-alanine, dme by tartrate and electrolytes. To get the most out of your workout, you want to feel energized from start to finish. This product contains a thermic energy blend which has both caffeine and hydrris and pure energy, a combination of caffeine and terrace, both of which can improve energy, alertness, and focus. Additionally, caffeine has been shown to reduce perception of fatigue, which could help you train harder and with more intensity. This product also has beta-alanine and creatin, both of which been shown to improve training volume, strength, and overall performance. Add citrine malate to the mix, which can help reduce the buildup of metabolites that cause fatigue, and you'll be setting new PRs in no time. Dimethylaminoethanol, or DAE, is a pretty unique ingredient that you don't find in too many pre-workouts. DMAE has been shown to help improve cognitive function, memory, and focus. This, combined with caffeine, can help keep you alert and on top of your game when you're in the gym. This is a great product for anyone looking to take their training to the next level. You can expect increased focus, enhanced endurance, and improved muscular strength and power. Even if you're not a fan of stimulants in your pre-workout, you can get a stimulant free version, which contains all the same ingredients minus the caffeine. For me, this is a great option to have when I move my workouts to the evening. I still get a boost of energy to power me through my workouts, but I don't have to worry about staying up all night while the caffeine wears off. BSN Eno Explode costs about a dollar per serving and comes in great flavors like green apple, grape, and cherry limeade, a flavor you can only find on bodybuilding.com. That concludes my product review of BSN NO Explode. For more customer reviews and ratings, check out the store. And for everything you need to reach your health and fitness goals, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.