What's up guys? Jason Whitrock here. I'm an EAS athlete. I'm here today at bodybuilding.com taking you through my chest workout. Today, we're going to declare allout war on our chest. To do that, we're going to use conventional training methods mixed in with my secret weapon, isometric training. All right, let's rock and roll. All right, guys, let's get going. We got our incline dumbbell press here. First set's always going to be a warmup. The purpose of this set is to engage our mind to the muscle. Okay, pick a light weight. You're going to go 15 to 20. I want you to really focus on the negative portion. Explode on the way up. Get yourself comfortable. Then we're going to move on to our isometric set. Now we're getting down to work, guys. Pick a weight you can do 10 to 12 times. You're going to take it to failure. As soon as you're done, we're going to go all out. We're going to do a high incline chest flex. So, to do that, hands together, above eye level, shoulders back, chest up. You're going to squeeze at 75% for 10 reps. One, two, three. Make sure you keep your arms up, shoulders back, all the way to 10. On the 10th rep, you're going all out, man. You're dropping bonds on your upper chest. Squeeze as hard as you possibly can. You should be shaking like a leaf. That's muscle potential. That's the goal. You're going to hold that for 10 seconds and then you're done. So, for the last set, we're hitting a shocker set. So, you're going to really push yourself here. We're going to failure. Six to eight reps on this. Make sure you control the negative. So, I want you going down and nice and controlled. And then squeeze up. Really feel your chest opening and stretching. As soon as you hit muscle failure, you're dropping down 50% and you're going again. It's not about how many reps you can get on this, it's the quality of those reps. So, now we're moving on. The focus is on the middle of the chest. So, we're going to hit our machine bench press. For this, make sure that your back is completely up against the pad. I don't want you leaning out like this. All right, keep your shoulders back the whole time. First set's our warmup. Again, 15 to 20 reps. Calibrate the mind. We've shifted the target. Now, we're here. You need to make sure that you're hitting that target muscle. Okay, we're just shuttling blood in through there. So, if you don't have a machine press with a neutral grip, you can find any flat bench machine press and use an outside grip. Or you can simply do dumbbell presses or barbell presses. Just make sure you follow the protocol. Once you're done with your warm-up set, we're going to move right into our isometric set. We're going to hit it hard here, guys. So, 10 to 12 reps to muscle failure. As soon as you hit failure, now we're going to go midchest isometric chest flex. So, hands together, shoulders back, chest up. Mind is on the middle of your chest right here. 10 squeezes at 75%. As soon as you get to the 10th rep, you're going to go all out 100%. You should be shaking as hard as you possibly can. You got to show everybody how bad you want it. Then we're doing another drop set. So, six to eight. Go heavy, man. Soon as you hit failure, drop the weight 50%. And start pushing out more. Again, guys, it's not about the reps, it's about the quality. So, focus on that negative portion. Really connect your mind to the muscle. Feel it stretch out and explode. Moving on to my decline press. One of my favorite. stimulate so much muscle activity in the chest. Also, a lot of people have shoulder issues. A lot of people tend to use shoulders more than their chest. So, the decline press is good because it's going to take your shoulders out of the movement. So, the first set here, 15 to 20 reps. Then, we're going to move on into our isometric set going all out. Increase that weight 10 to 12 reps. As soon as you're done, as soon as you hit failure, you get off that machine. The target lower chest. So now we're going to do a low chest iso flex. On the 10th rep, all out 100%. You're going to squeeze your hands as hard as you possibly can and stimulate all that lower chest. Then we're going to move on and hit the shocker set. If you have a spotter, I want you to hit negative reps. Okay? Okay. So, you're going to go for six to eight reps. And as soon as you hit failure, have your spotter hold up the weight. You're going to go and control the weight preferably for a four count. You're going to do three negatives. Your spotter is going to help you up. If you don't have a spotter, I want you to do a drop set. So, simply drop some of the weight off, get back on the bench, and again, pump out as many as you possibly can. So, now we're going to move on to our fly movement. So, again, first set warm-up, 15 to 20 reps, connecting the mind back to the upper chest, making sure as I go through my 15 to 20 reps, all I'm thinking about is stretching that target muscle and squeezing it up at the top. We're moving right into our isometric set. After that, as soon as you fail, you get off the bench and you're going to go down into an isometric half push-up hold as long as you possibly can. You should be thinking about nothing except for your chest. Soon as you're done and you fail on that, we're moving into our drop set. I want you to feel the chest stretch out and then feel it squeeze on every single rep. All right, guys. We're going to finish the job here and we're going to hit a super set of dips and push-ups. Dips are like the upper body squat. They're very, very critical to creating a solid physique and a solid chest. So, you're going to get up there, you're going to do as many dips as possible. When you're doing dips, make sure you're leaning forward a little bit. Again, you want to engage your mind. You want to be able to feel that stretch on your chest. If you're sitting too much up like this, you're using too much triceps and we're not hitting the target. So, blow out as many dips as you possibly can. As soon as you fail, you get your ass on the ground and you do as many push-ups as you possibly can. So listen, if you always do what you've always done, you're always going to get what you've always got. So try this workout out, you know, to change it up. If you have questions or need any advice at all, you can find me on BodySpace, Jason Witrock, or on Instagram, Jason.witrock, or also on YouTube, Jason Witrock. And for more free articles and expert advice, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.