4. Let's go. Five. Let's go. Come on. Six. Seven. At the start they said that I've got it. I still don't really know what it is. You know, I did have a strong vision or an idea in my head that I knew I'd love to be in America. I'd love to be able to train and work out at Gold's Gym. It's been one heck of a ride and it it hasn't been easy the whole time. There's been a lot of challenges, a lot of hardship, and certainly made a lot of sacrifices and work my ass off. You know, sometimes you got to take a leap, not be afraid to to take the risks. I was definitely one of the kids that wanted to stand out and and make something out of this life and be unique and and different. And I didn't want to ever have an ordinary life, I guess. So, I was always driven towards trying to make that happen. body. Bodybuilding, it's it's not a task for me. It's not it's not sure. I enjoy it, you know, and I balance it out with everything else that's going on around me. But really, it's just about sort of having fun on the side and and not taking it too seriously. This is the mega reverse shoulder leg press. What you do is you just sit on the seat like this and it's just good for the legs. Hamstring develop. Have you ever seen this one? It's a great variation. This sort of program, you know, it's ideal for anyone who's been training for a while and anyone that really wants to just prioritize certain workouts, you know, you can sort of manipulate the program a little bit to suit your your needs. It's very straightforward. I just go to the gym. you just take out, you know, at least 2 hours out of your day and devoted to going to the gym and training, which opens up, you know, the rest of your day to to do whatever you want. So, it really is a uh balance program. It works the whole body in a week. I've got two different workout weeks. So, I do week A, there's a set of workouts for that week, and then I change it for week B. So, it's actually each week is different. And I'll do that for for six weeks and then I'll probably change it up completely altogether. So just to keep my mind fresh, the muscles fresh. You get to a point where your body um knows what's going on and uh you need to sort of individualize and start finding ways to make programs work for you instead of you work for those programs. This is like a Friday ritual. every Friday. Come here at 3:00 to my favorite spot down here at Venice. And yeah, get a little pump on. So, I just here at the Gold's Gym, Venice, California, and this is the the home gym. I have a sort of a skeleton nutrition plan. It does involve obviously getting in enough carbs, proteins, and a little bit of fats every meal. Just about sort of knowing your body and knowing what works for you. Half buffalo patty and half chicken breast and a side of barbecue sauce. Sounds like gains to me. Paleo cross builder builder. They're the bodybuilder bagels. You should never shop when you're hungry cuz you just buy so much [\h__\h] Head tilt rod back. Open up the thro straight down the hatch. See you later. Oh, that's some good milk. That's good. Yeah, everyone says, you know, everything happens for a reason. There's so many different ways you can look at it. You know, some people call it luck, some people call it hard work, some people call it fate, destiny, faith, anything. You know, it's just utilizing every single chance that you get. It's just just take it, take it, as my dad would say, go by the balls and run with it. You really do get one good shot at certain things at life. and and this one came up and you know I did leave a lot behind uh back home in Australia all my friends family and things like that. So I just wasn't satisfied. I felt like I was in a little bubble and I wanted to go and experience a lot more and see if I can make a difference somewhere. So still try still seeing if I'm going to make a difference somewhere. I guess we'll see what happens. High five. Yes. These are all my toys. Which one's bigger? Just playing milk straight from the tip. Hungry. Eat food. Eat protein. Eat carbs. Lift some weights. Enjoy it. If you don't enjoy it, what's the point? So you hang your heel over the edge like this. Yeah. Yeah. It's called a toe race. I want to have champion front calf against, you know, 12 reps. Yeah. Two sets. Yeah. A drop set.