Hi, I'm Carl Roberts. I'm a Marine and winner of the Military Transformation Challenge for Bodybuilding.com. Growing up, I was always a scrawny kid in high school. Basically, when I graduated--I graduated weighing, basically, like, 98 pounds. So it was just--it was always pressure and it was always being small. Tried out for football ninth grade. No, stayed on the team for about a month. Well, it wasn't--growing up, it wasn't never really a big concern of mine. I just went to school and had fun, you know, it didn't really bother me. I just did whatever I had to do and just, you know, went about it just like that. It didn't really become a pressure until I was into the Marine Corps. And in the Marine Corps, it was a big thing to stay active and to stay in shape so that's when it became a big part of my life too, to try to get more active or try to put on mass, something like that. I got stationed in Okinawa, Japan, and once I got to Okinawa, Japan, you know, just being new, fresh out of school, tried to find out where I fit in, I just went out for boxing. I did that with a coach for about a year. After that, I would say, probably towards my last year in Okinawa, it was a 2-year deployment, I started transitioning from daily boxing to basically weight training. I had a roommate and a couple of guys that I stayed with that were big, you know, gym rats. At first, I would go with them and basically, like, I had no knowledge of what I wanted to do, like, lifting weights, usually I'd go in and try to put the heaviest weight I could lift, you know, go in there and push it four times, go to another machine. But basically, they would give me the basics and the guidelines, like, these are the compound movements, which you're supposed to do. Over time, I was doing it on my own so it became just a daily routine in my life. I would go to work, go sit at a cafeteria, go grab a chow, and gym. And that was just basically, every day I was at the gym. I just kept that same routine when I came back Stateside. I would go to work and then chowed and gym. The same thing. Once I transferred to Reserves, I was activated and deployed to Afghanistan for a year. Once I came back from that deployment, I basically transitioned out of the Marine Corps and I sort of got, again, I'd say depressed. It was a hard time for me to accept once I got out of the military. You know, it was a big part of my life and it's all I had knew and I stopped working out. I was just sitting home, hanging out, and basically I just got out of--got into real bad shape. So it took me just to, you know, take a look at myself and just, like, man, you know, I really need to get back in a gym. And I just kicked myself in the butt and got right back into the gym. Basically, I was on the Internet one day just Googling and obviously I was looking at some military stuff and I came across the Military Transformation Challenge on Bodybuilding.com so I figured, you know, why not choose this as a beginning to get myself back into shape. So it gave me a goal to reach for, something to motivate me. I'm the type of person if someone tells me that I'm not gonna be able to do something, that's gonna motivate me more to try to do it anyways. But once I set my mind to something and anybody can attest to that, especially my parents, I'm just a different person so I'm gonna try it out, you know, try it out for myself here. So me having that goal to reach for, I'm gonna do whatever I can to reach that goal. So that's basically how that happened. Just searching round the Internet, came across it and then--and just like that. Everyone's body's different so what will work for me will not work for another person. Like Arnold Schwarzenegger, I mean, 18, I was looking at his workout and trying to do his workout, expecting to look like him. My body structure is not like his body structure. So basically, what I would do is, I would work out and keep a log of what I would do and if it--you know, how I felt after that workout or the day after. If I felt good about it, then I'd keep it. If I didn't, then I'd just toss it out. So basically, you got to get a feel of what worked for you. With training, I constantly try to switch up my training, try to keep my muscle confused. Everybody--every 2 to 3 weeks I try to come up with something new whether it be weight training, change up the reps, I change up the sets. I basically just try to keep a constant change in my workout routine, period. When I first started, I would do basic bodybuilding routines. I would do, you know, benchpress, the incline, decline and things like that. Now, over time, I transitioned into incorporating, like, more resistance, like I would put the resistant bands on the--on my benchpress or just doing more super sets, drop sets, negatives. Like I said, I constantly try to switch up the routine. I don't like to do the same thing every day and every week but I try to keep it--constant, keeping it switching. Say if it would be CrossFit one day, you know, stuff like that to try to keep a constant change in my training. I try to keep my reps and sets based off my goals. So, if I'm trying to build mass, obviously, I'm gonna increase the weight, drop the reps, and increase the sets. I try to do nothing less than, you know, eight reps. I try to keep a split, just like a 3-day split or a 4-day split. Right now, I keep my split at 3 days which is usually chest, shoulder and tris; back and bis; and legs on another day. And then I throw upper abs so within three of those days as well. For those 3-day splits I keep most of my training based just free weights, basic squat, benchpress, military press, deadlift. I mainly incorporate machines so I keep with the basic bodybuilding, you know, bodybuilding style, weight training, and then those--the extra, like a Saturday, that's when I do a--something like high intensity training, CrossFit, stuff like that. Now cardio, it varies. Sometimes I may do cardio in the morning. I try to keep--when I do cardio, I try to keep a good break in between it. If I do cardio in the morning, I'll give myself a 4-hour break before I do weight training. I don't really need too much cardio so I just limit my cardio to about 15-20 minutes a day. My rest days, I basically try to stay away from the gym on rest days. I just refuel my body from all the abuse I gave it throughout the week so I just try to stay away from the gym. I don't do any cardio, any avenues like that. Strictly rest day. My motivation for weight training is just--I just like the feeling of just being there in the gym, just going out there and just taking out the stress of the day, just going to the gym and just laying it all out on the weights. I get the natural high while I'm working out. Just being dedicated so even though I'm have to sacrifice going out at night with the guys one day of the week or stuff like that, it's just basically it's keeping that mindset and just staying motivated. Nutrition is the main thing. The most important part. You don't really grow in a gym, you grow out of the gym so my most important meal is my post-workout meal. I base my diet off of what my goals are so whether it be lean eating, gaining mass or just maintaining what I already have, I stick with whole foods. Whole foods have been a big part in my transformation. Over doing research and reading, I've learned that whole foods are, you know, more beneficial for your body so most of my proteins come from lean meats. My carbs comes from grains, rice, grits, cereal. And then I get my fat from almonds, peanut butter, almond butter, and things like that. I incorporate a whole lot of veggies in my diet. Fruits, I keep to a minimum. Basically, I use those as my dessert at the end of the day. I just try to switch up, you know, switch up the meals every week or something like that just to--something a little bit different. Instead of just baking it, sometimes I may just cook in the Crockpot, just basically try to switch up how I prepare it and just go from there. With seasoning, I try to stick to two to three seasonings, salt, pepper, maybe seasoning salt. Hot sauce definitely. I love hot sauce on my food. I don't try to incorporate a lot of ingredients. I try to keep it to a minimum so I can know what I've put in my body. I stick to six to eight meals a day, depending on how my schedule plays out. But I start eating approximately 6:30, 7 in the morning and I try to eat every 2.5 to 3 hours. Going to restaurants, a big part of keeping track of what I'm consuming is a app--it's called "Calorie Counter," and you can basically there's a bar code you can scan, you know, something that you pick up at the store, if you're going to a store. You can type in a restaurant and it'll pull up all the items that they have on that menu and that's--you can see what--how many calories is in there, how many carbs, sodium, you know, things like that. So I can still, you know, keep myself on my nutritional goal. Cheat meals, I do love my cheat meals. I go to my mom's. She has the soul food. You know, come back from church, having a big--the big dinner, so I look forward to those, you know, Sunday feasts where there's rice, macaroni, fried chicken, you know, stuff like that. So I still, you know, I still consume those meals but just keep them to a minimum. Depending on what my goals are, if I'm preparing for something then I may limit my cheat meals to once every 14 days or something like that but I at least give myself one cheat meal, basically like a reward for the hard work that I've done throughout the week. I pit myself based off what I need in my daily diet to reach my fitness goals. Most of my supplements are based on what I'm not able to get throughout, just consuming daily foods or natural foods. Usually I stick with protein, creatine, multivitamins, you know, healthy fats like fish oil post-workout, glutamine, things like that. I started out not being very knowledgeable about what I was taking. I would buy something, take the thing and it was gonna do the work for me. Over time, I've learned to read up on the supplements. I do a lot of research. I go on the Internet, read reviews, look up the ingredients. The main thing is basically what--reading what's in the supplements. A lot of supplements have a lot of junk in them, like fillers. So basically I look at what the supplement does as well as what's in that supplement. When I wake up, the first thing that I do take when I wake up are my BCAAs. I take my multivitamins. I'll consume a protein shake in the morning, sometimes in place of breakfast. Before I work out, I take my pre-workout. I don't take a pre-workout that often. I try to cycle that. Mostly, I'd stick with a black coffee and some BCAAs before I work out. I take the creatine obviously before and after I work out. I like to take my protein and mix it with peanut butter, oatmeal, sometime I throw some berries in there just to give it a different feel, just like the, you know, you give it a different taste instead of having the same, you know, plain protein shake. So I like to throw different things in there to increase the flavor. Everybody's body reacts different to different supplements so what, once again, what work for me wouldn't actually work for another person. So but the--I basically tell everyone start with protein, creatine, multivitamins, basically are the most important to start off with. I would never go back, back to being out of shape. This has been a big part of my life, even my job now and I'm a personal trainer at the gym, so I try to keep the gym as a big part of my life, period. I feel that my goal here is just to be--help and motivate others, you know, like myself. If it wasn't for other people out there for me to look up to, I probably wouldn't be where I'm at today. So if anyone has any questions or need any help or information, you can visit my BodySpace at clrobertsjr, or Twitter @letmesculptyou, Instagram as well. For more videos and content, keep coming to Bodybuilding.com.