- Chef Robert Irvine here for Bodybuilding.com and today I'm going to show you how to make a beautiful Mahi-Mahi sandwich. Fish is a great source of protein, and it's fresh, it's beautiful and it's simple. I'm using Mahi-Mahi today but you can use anything you like, salmon, trout, swordfish. A lot of people overcook fish. I'm going to tell you that we have the Mahi-Mahi that I've just taken off the grill here. And it's been literally 3 minutes, either side, and I've let it rest. Now resting is something really important that you have to do with any protein. The minute you cook it at high temperature, imagine squeezing your fingers together and all the blood stops, right? When you relax those fingers, all the blood rushes back into your body and that's what we're doing with high temperature cooking. We need to sear or bake or grill at high temperature then allow it to rest so all the protein relaxes and all the juice flows back in. That's what we're doing with our fish right now. First of all, we're gonna make a dressing with cumin, some yogurt, this is vanilla yogurt or you can use plain yogurt, a little honey, there we go there, a little rice wine vinegar, and I use a lot of rice wine vinegar in all my cooking simply because it's a great acid. It helps digestion really fast. A little bit of citrus, in this case, lime juice. And a little bit of jalapeno. Now remember, jalapenos are very hot so when you've touched them don't touch your face or any other part of your body. It will burn. Okay, there we are. We'll mix that together. Start off slow and then you can become a little bit more vigorous with it. There we go. Okay, we got some red cabbage that's been shredded. I'm going to take a little bit of garlic, shredded or minced garlic, some mango, and pineapple. All citrus that's great flavors. Now remember, it's going to add a great texture also, to this salad because the fruit is soft and yet the cabbage is nice and coarse. Okay, take a little bit of our dressing into our salad here. Mix that up. So we're gonna add a little salt and a little pepper. That's ready. Now we've toasted a BUN, a whole wheat BUN, here. Gonna take the base of the whole wheat BUN, add a little bit of our dressing onto there. A little butter lettuce. A little bit of out salad right into the middle there. Make sure we get some pineapple. Right onto our plate. Our fish then goes on top. And the top of the BUN like so. That's how to make the fish sandwich. But I'm going to show you how to do something a little bit different, if you wanted to take the same components and put it onto a plate as an entree. So we're gonna take a little bit of our sauce, really simple, put it down, take the bottom of the spoon, and just move it. We're gonna take our salad and our fish. As simple as that. If I take a little avocado, you got a lot of friends coming over, you want to show off a little bit, this is the quickest way to do so. Peel the avocado, take the ends off, you can put it in the salad if you wish, like so. And we're just gonna fan this out to make it look pretty. It's adding another component to the dish but it also makes it look pretty. A little bit of pepper. So there we have the Mahi-Mahi fish sandwich and then Mahi-Mahi on a plated version of the fish sandwich. I'm Chef Robert Irvine for Bodybuilding.com. More simple and easy recipes. Stay tuned. (light upbeat music)