- Hey Chef Robert Irvine here for BodyBuilding.com and today we're going to show you how to make some grilled asian chicken wings. Very good, spicy, and great flavors. Unlike normal chicken wings where we can either barbecue or roast them, we're going to do something a little different. We're going to take our chicken wings and we're going to boil them in either water or chicken stock, just so they get a little bit of the fat out, and you can see them here. They are totally cooked, but the fat has come out, therefore, the sauce that we make is going to adhere to it much, much better. Give us that golden brown look when they go on the grill afterwards. So the first thing we're going to do is take some ginger into a hot pan, some garlic, mustard seeds, and some rice wine vinegar. Just gonna get all those toasting nicely 'cause we're going to blend them. Oh yeah. The aromatics are coming out and what I'm going to do then is actually put them into a blender. We're going to blend them up nicely. (blender motor sound) We'll do that for a couple of seconds just 'till the mustard seed breaks down and gives that nice flavor, the garlic and the ginger. Okay, meanwhile, we're going to take some sambal oelek or some sriracha, something's that nice and spicy. Some regular barbecue sauce, a little honey for sweetness. The honey also helps this sauce adhere to the chicken wings when we get it going for the grill 'cause you want that great golden brown look. In goes our ginger mustard seed and garlic. Okay. Alls we're gonna do is coat now our chicken wings in the sauce. We want them nice and liberal obviously. Now remember, they're already cooked so when they go on the grill, because it's got barbecue sauce we're going to be very careful the grill is not on a high temperature because, we will, well, we'll burn them and all that sugar will be ruined. Okay, so now I'm gonna put these onto the grill and I'll be right back. So here we have the wings that have been boiled, put into the sauce, back on the grill. We're going to finish them with a little sesame seed. After all, they are asian wings. Add a little scallion, chopped scallion. Again, we always just want to make it look pretty and here's the finishing touch. Remember we want a little citrus so we're going to take a little bit of lime and just grate the skin over the top and then squeeze the juice just before it goes out. So there you have it asian barbecue chicken wings. Great flavor, little heat, great crunch, simple for you to do. I'm Chef Robert Irvine for BodyBuilding.com. Stay with us for more healthy and fun recipes. (upbeat music)