- Hi, I'm chef Robert Irvine, I'm here for bodybuilding.com, and today, we're gonna talk about burgers. Now you know burgers are an American tradition, and no matter what you do with it, or what type of protein you use, you always get a great, great taste. Today we're gonna use lamb. I know, you're all out there going, "lamb?" Lamb is a great, great flavor. Sometimes it gets a little bit too gamey, in which case we can add pork, or beef, veal, or even pastrami. We're gonna keep it clean, it's 80% visually lean lamb, and we got 20% fat, and that's the flavor. All we're gonna do is season this with salt and pepper, and literally put it on the grill. It's that easy. Because the accompaniments of this dish are gonna give it its zing, it's real pop. So, that's gonna go outside on the grill, simple. While that's cooking, we're gonna make a beautiful dressing. Starting with a little bit of sour cream, some hot sauce or sambal oelek, again you can use sriracha, you can use chili paste, whatever you like, some chopped parsley, and lemon. Trying to keep it in the kind of Greek tradition if you like, with a twist. Lemon juice inside, and just mix together. Get a little heat, a little citrus, and that's what we have right there, simple. Now we want some good fat from an avocado. Our toasted BUN, beautiful brioche, we'll take a little bit of our dressing here, right onto our BUN. I'm gonna take my avocado, and I'm just gonna literally plant it out on the base, like so. When you bite through a burger, you want to get the fat, you want to get the crunch, you want to get everything you need out of a burger. Here we have some that have just literally come off the grill. Put it right on top. We have some grilled onions, charred onions, on top of that. Now, you saw me make earlier, this cucumber salad with olives. This is a great accompaniment to it. If you've got a lot of people coming over, you can make this salad, the grilling is the last minute thing with the burgers, you can actually make everything else to order. But I mean, if you talk about something simple, and healthy and quick, that is a grilled lamb burger with a cucumber salad. Simple, easy, refreshing, and anybody can do it in a couple of minutes. Chef Robert Irvine for bodybuilding.com. Simple, easy, fun recipes. Till next time, take care of each other.