(upbeat music) - Hi, this is Chef Robert Irvine from BodyBuilding.com and today we're gonna how to make something really simple. It's called a tomato sandwich but done with a difference. There's nothing more amazing than a simple tomato sandwich when you get beautiful, ripe tomatoes and nice aioli and a crisp crunch from a whole grain bread. Alright, so, we're gonna start. Really simple, in my pan here, I put a little bit of grated oil and butter, just a touch of butter, to give me a nice, crisp on one side of whole grain bread. Again, you can use sour dough or you can use any other type of bread. There. Beautiful color. I'm gonna take that out cause I only want one side done. And you can see I only use a little bit of oil. The pan is dry. Let that go there. I'm gonna make an aioli. Aioli is like a mayonnaise with egg yolks and oil. Now you could, if you want to get big muscles, do it in a bowl and whisk and add the oil gently. I'm gonna make the quick way. I'm gonna put it into a little blender, some oil, grape seed oil. You could use olive oil if you wish. Not my idea of some fun. I like grape seed, better for us. I'm gonna take a little bit of pepper, a little bit of salt, a little bit of lemon juice. Again, this is the quicker way, I think. (blender running) Instant lemon aioli. It should coat the back of a spoon, like so. That's called aioli. We'll get back to that in a second. So, we've got aioli made. We've got our breads toasted. Now we take our tomatoes. I want a nice, thick slice of tomato. One, two, three, I do one more. You want 'em about so thick. Because you want that when you bite through that sandwich, you really want to taste the tomato. Now, tomatoes, no matter were you come from, do not come seasoned. So, pepper, and salt. We've got our bread. We take our aioli. Onto the base of the bread. Now remember, this is the egg yolks and oil. I like a lot of it. We're gonna take our tomatoes. I'm gonna take a little bit of basil, cause basil obviously goes with tomatoes. Chop the basil. And if you wanted to, you could'a put this into the aioli. I don't. I like the fresh basil right on top of the tomatoes. Nice. And you can just smell this intense flavor of the basil. Here's the twist. We're gonna take some radish and some red onion on top and a little bit of arugula. Now with the arugula, I'm gonna put it into a bowl. Take a little bit more of the dressing, just a tad. Mix it together. Onto the sandwich. Ooo, when you eat this, when you put this in front of people, they're gonna go nuts. Squash it down. I mean, just look at that sandwich. There we have it. A simple, toasted, whole wheat bread, tomato sandwich with aioli made fresh, radish, onions and arugula. Simple, healthy, fresh and vibrant. Chef Robert Irvine for BodyBuilding.com with more fun and healthy recipes. Stay with us. (upbeat music) Hi, this is Chef Robert Irvine from BodyBuilding.com and today we're gonna show you how to make a tomato sandwich but done with a difference. In my pan here, I put a little bit of grated oil and butter to give me a nice crisp on one side of whole grain bread. Beautiful color. I'm gonna take that out cause I only want one side done. I'm gonna make an aioli. Aioli's like a mayonnaise with egg yolks and oil. Gonna put it into a little blender, some oil, grape seed oil. I'm gonna take a little bit of pepper, a little bit of salt, a little bit of lemon juice. (blender running) Instant lemon aioli. Now we take our tomatoes. I want a nice thick slice of tomato. I am gonna add a little pepper then salt. I'm gonna take our aioli. Onto the base of the bread. We're gonna take our tomatoes. I'm gonna take a little bit of basil right on top of the tomatoes. Here's the twist. We're gonna take some radish, and some red onion on top, and a little bit of arugula. Take a little bit more of the dressing, just a tad. Mix it together. Onto the sandwich. Ooo, there we have it. wheat bread, tomato sandwich. Healthy, fresh and vibrant. Chef Robert Irvine from BodyBuilding.com with more fun and healthy recipes. Stay with us. (upbeat music) Hi, this is Chef Robert Irvine from BodyBuilding.com and today we're gonna show you how to make a simple, toasted, whole wheat bread, tomato sandwich with aioli made fresh, radish, onions and arugula. Simple, healthy, fresh and vibrant. I mean, just look at that sandwich. When you put this in front of people, they're gonna go nuts.