Hey, Chef Robert Irvine here with Bodybuilding.com and today I'm going to show you three simple recipes with chicken: a marinated herb and mustard chicken, a curry chicken, and a garlic and fresh herb over here. We're going to start with the first one, which is our mustard. Now, mustard is a great emulsifier or a great flavor. We've got a protein from the chicken, but also every cup of mustard that you use is 11 grams of protein added. Really simple. We're going to take some fresh dill, chop it up nice and rough. Over here we've got some stone-ground mustard, but you can use any mustard that you want. Into the bowl. Take the dill ... Put that in there. Now, I'm a big believer in Citrus, so I want to get some lemon over here. Citrus helps digestion. It also helps with flavor. Remember, when you're using mustard, you've got to add lots of flavor to overcome the power in the mustard. Simple as this, look. Mix it up. I'm going to add a little touch of water. Because after all, we're marinating chicken now. And you can make this in the morning, which is really good. Takes about 5 seconds. Put it in a refrigerator with the chicken in the marinade and when you come home ... Simple. 5 minutes on the grill or in the oven, bingo! Now look, it's finished. No salt, no pepper. We don't need that. But brush the chicken nice and liberally. Boom. There it is: marinated mustard and dill chicken. And this is what it looks like when it's actually cooked. Simple right? We look for lots of different flavors. I'm going to show you how to make a curried rub--a dry rub--that goes on chicken that will help you, again, enhance that flavor, give us a different take on chicken. And it starts with curry powder, already made. Cumin. I'm going to take--a spoon over here--a little garlic, and mix together. Now, the juice from the garlic is going to actually wet this dry powdered mix. You can see it starting to crumb up there. And if you could smell this right now, it's very, very intense. Now, we're looking for--the heat in curry powder is what we call a thermogenic. So it helps you burn fat while you eat. Here we are. All we're going to do, take our chicken breasts, rub it in, dip it in, and when it comes out, give it a little rub. We can put this onto a plate, plastic wrap it, leave it in the refrigerator till you come home from work.... Grill it. Simple. This is what it looks like when it's grilled. Very simple. Very easy. The last one is one of my favorites. I love fresh herbs. Now, when we use fresh herbs, we don't need to use salts or peppers or anything like that. We take fresh herbs. In this case we've got oregano, Thyme, and rosemary. Into a bowl, already chopped, roughly chopped. Now here's a little trick. If I take a knife, and look at the stems of the rosemary. If you break the stems of the rosemary with the back of the knife, it actually releases the natural oils in the actual herb. Lots more flavor and it's really intense. Add a little bit of garlic to this--chopped garlic--some lemon juice, and some oil. Again, they're simple marinades that help you give flavor to what would normally be a very dull meat or a dull protein, which in this case is chicken. But we could do this with steak, we could do it with anything else that you like. Into the refrigerator, leave it till you come home, grill it. Again, this is what it looks like when it comes either off your grill or from an oven. Simple tricks: Using citrus speeds up metabolism. The thermogenic from the curry gives us that great, great, intense fat-burning property, and the mustard adds to the protein of the chicken. Well, that's three simple ways to use chicken. For more information on healthy foods, go to Bodybuilding.com. See you next time.