Hey guys, today I'm going to show you how to make healthy high protein oatmeal protein bars using casein. We are back in the caged muscle kitchen and I've got an awesome recipe that I'm putting together which are chocolate nut oatmeal protein bars. We all love protein bars, but a lot of the time we don't want the crap and the artificial that goes in it. We want some healthy natural ingredients. So that's exactly what I've got here. And we will be cooking this bad boy protein bar recipe with caged muscle casein. So the ingredients that I've got here, oatmeal, casein, chopped walnuts, almond butter, almond milk, vanilla extract. We have some coconut sugar and we have some unsweetened cocoa. And we have some coconut butter right here. So we're going to start off with really these three bad boys. We are going to melt these in a pot. But starting off, let's put the coconut butter, which is half a cup in there so you have some healthy fats. So, we've got the coconut sugar. We're going to be pouring half a cup of that in as well. And then half a cup of the cocoa. And we're going to melt that all together on a high heat. We'll stir that in. All right, that is melting pretty quick. So, make sure that when it's melting that you continuously stir that around to make sure that it all binds together. You can see it's starting to create a chocolate-like consistency now. Let that melt a little bit more before I stir it again. Here we go. Now it's come together. Just make sure that all the coconut butter is completely melted. And so if there's a couple of lumps here, keep stirring it in until it's completely absorbed all the sugars and all the cocoa. All right, that should be enough there. So I'll take that heat off. I'll let that sit just for a second. Now, while that sits there like that, I'm going to add the oatmeal or the oats, I should say. We got three cups of oats. You can use quick oats. I'm just using rolled oats. And then I'm adding one scoop of the casing in there. I'm going to mix that together. All right. So, that's mixed together. Ready. Now, I'm going to take the rest of these ingredients. Starting with a cup of the almond milk. And I'm going to throw this in here. And then I've got a teaspoon of vanilla extract that is going in there as well. Chopped walnuts. And I got a tablespoon there. And then I'm going to stir in 2 tablespoon of the natural almond butter here. Okay. So, now that is in, I'm going to turn the heat back on and make sure that this melts in properly, too. That's it. That almond butter will soon heat up and it will easily mix in. Of course, it's going to be a little bit lumpy from the nuts, but that's absolutely fine as long as we melt that almond butter. So, it's evenly distributed in the liquid. So, then when we do pour over the c the casing and the oatmeal, it will bind a little bit better. Wow, my stomach is rumbling while I'm stirring this. So then I just pour this in that bowl. All right. So that is completely melted through. So, I'm going to take that off the heat. And then I'm going to pour the entirety of this contents over the oatmeal and casing. And then I'm going to mix this together. So, you need to make sure that you thoroughly mix this in to make sure that the casing absorbs a lot of that liquid as well, so you have a real thick consistency. Because then we're going to have to lay this out into the tray into protein bars or one big protein bar before we actually put it into the fridge to let it settle. So, all right, that is mixed up pretty well. The casing has absorbed a lot of that moisture. So, now it is quite thick. So, what I'm going to do is spray this pan with a little bit of virgin oil. You can use coconut oil. I'm using olive oil. And then I'm going to just lump this mixture in there. Lovely jobly. Anyone want to lick the bowl? Okay, you can lick the bowl. You can fight over for it. And then I'm going to spread this out nice and thin. So then if I've got it nice and thin, it will actually settle better in the fridge, making it a little bit easier to cut into protein bar portions. Okay, so we're just going to spread it out as much as we possibly can so it's nice and thin. All right, I think that's pretty much done. This coconut butter has really served us well. It's a nice consistency of healthy MCTs, mediumchain triglyceride fats, which is our body's preferred source of fats, but it makes it so much easier to present and spread and cook. All right, so we're going to put this in the fridge now. We'll let that settle for uh probably about 90 to 120 minutes and then we'll take it out and enjoy. Voila. It is about that time to take out the chocolate protein oatmeal bars out of the fridge. Aha. And it really does look different. It does look like it is set. That looks pretty good. Probably didn't even need that long. I'd say 60 minutes would be maximum that you need. Wow, that looks pretty good. M. That tastes really good. Much better than any protein bar that you'll find on the market, for sure. That is good. And this is a real convenient treat. You can put these in some Ziploc baggies when you're traveling, when you're at work, anytime. You got high protein, healthy chocolate protein bars with oatmeal. You got to try that. Thank you very much for watching. If you like this video and you want more from the Cage Kitchen, like, comment, and subscribe.