Hi everyone. I'm Imagin Parit. I'm an athlete for bodybuilding.com. Um, and I was asked to give you a little bit of an insight into my life. And there are a few things that I could do. And I want to do something that I perhaps do in my spare time. Coffee. We're going to go and get coffee, but we're not just doing any kind of coffee thing. So, we're going to do a little bit of a coffee bar crawl. Now, I'm a coffee snob, so it takes quite a lot to impress me, but I'm going to be training afterwards. So, I thought this is like the perfect preworkout thing. Get buzzed. Um, and find the best coffee in Reading. So, that's our mission today if you choose to accept it. So, let's go. This is the Lincoln Coffee House of Reading. Let's see what it's like. So, the first one is about to go down. It smells like coffee, which is always a good start. I'm going to give a six. Let's go on to the next one. We today are the David Atenburgh of the coffee world. I'm going to taste it. I'm going to review it. Getting a little bit carried away. I'm just going to put you down here. I hope you don't have a boob shot. So, the hunt continues. Workhouse coffee. Hello. Hello. Hi. I'm filming for bodybuilding.com. Do you mind? No. Look at this, please. Right. So, I'm going to get another espresso. Um, this lovely chap her has recommended the butterscotch one, which sounds absolutely delicious. Yes, I have buttercotch, please. Cereal coffee. They gave me a china cup, so automatically I've got points in my butt tasting. Oh, no. Here it comes. Good. So, that that is an eight for me. 15 minutes. Oh my god. and some caffeine. It's like a six scent when I've had that much caffeine. Can smell it. So, this is where I come most often for my coffee. It's tap culture in Reading. And before I even came, they knew what I wanted. Organic. Lovely. Look how pretty. There we go. Lovely job. And that's why I'm such a happy customer. This place, these guys showed me their best bikini girl butt hose. So, you know, that's all part of the service and that does go towards your score, ladies and gentlemen. That's a solid nine. If you're ever in Reading and you want to have the best coffee, this is the place to come. Terren now train. I've come to my gym, bus gym in Reading. Um, going to hit some shoulders and arms. It's either going to be the best workout or I might pass out. Who knows?