rest days few and far between. So when they do come around, you know, I really try to cash in on them. Um, you know, I get up at the same time. uh try to go to bed at the same time. You know, I don't want to get off my training schedule, but uh you know, I really try to take advantage of it, you know, and just really relax. You know, it's more of a mental break than a physical break, I think. You know, it's just kind of I get to just lounge around all day. Uh I love that feeling of going hard all week and just being so tired that I'm okay with not getting out of the lazy boy. Um, so you know, like the day before rest day, you know, I usually add in a couple extra things that I wouldn't normally just to kind of make sure to bury myself so I'm okay being completely unproductive the next day. But, um, yeah. So, I mean, up at the same time, same breakfast. I usually eat the same on a rest day. Um, and it usually just revolves around watching movies and stretching all day. You know, I'll have some rest days where I stretch like three or four hours and then some where it's like eight or nine hours. Like I literally won't leave my living room floor just stretching stretching and rolling out all day just so I'm good good to go for the whole next week. Pretty much all my days revolve around coffee, motorcycles, guns, and crossfit. Uh, you know, if uh if the weather's good, uh, usually take my motorcycle out for big long ride. You know, we got some beautiful, beautiful roads around here going up through the through the mountains. Uh, so I get lots of time in on the motorcycle. You know, there's really good shooting range. not too far from here. So, it's, you know, pack up a lunch and and go go have a day at the range, you know, out enjoying the sun and working on target practice. Heat. If it's a day of or just like an afternoon knowing that like I'm not leaving the living room, um it's pretty much guaranteed it's going to end up on the office. You know, I've watched the show a h 100 times. It's the type of show you can watch without watching it. You know, you just hear the audio going, so you're not really concerned about watching it and missing something. It's just that familiar show. I don't need to think about it. It's cheap laughs. Um, and I mean, I've seen every episode of 20 times, so it's kind of that mindless uh mindless show to watch. Um, you know, I like uh like crime movies. Like I like a lot of those. Um, stuff like like The Town, Boys in the Hood, stuff like that. Um, it's pretty rare that I'll like gamble on watching the new show. Um, I mean, I'm home so little and like I have so little time to like actually just like, okay, I have an hour to sit down and just turn off my mind and relax. It's pretty rare that I'll like gamble on watching a new series. I'm like, I'm going to what I know what I know will make me laugh. Uh so yeah, usually ends up on The Office.