How's it going guys and welcome to the bodybuilding.com live workout today. Your host today, Dr. Thor. My name is uh Dr. Caleb Redden. I'm a sports medicine physician and also the team doctor for caged muscle. And today I'm going to take you guys through a workout that I love. And this is based around time under tension. So time under load. How long are you actually doing work during your workouts? So today we're going to be doing sets. We're going to do three sets for biceps, three sets for triceps, and each set is going to consist of one minute. And it's going to be as many reps as possible with a 30 to 45 second rest in between. The reason I like this workout or this training principle is because if number one, if you just need a change something different from the out of the ordinary, this is going to be longer than you're generally used to training for each set. In in in the case of most bodybuilding workouts, say you're doing three sets of 10 reps, that's probably going to take you about 30 to 35 seconds. If you're in a powerlifting uh work uh working set, you know, say you're doing seven sets of three or seven sets of five or whatever, that's about the same amount of time doing work, about 30 35 seconds. So, today we're going to try to double the amount of work you do in that amount of time. So, this is a very good workout if you're someone who's pressed for time like I am generally with my schedule being crazy. I can get it in, get it done, and do a lot of work in the amount of time that I'm in the gym. Or another really great reason to use this is if you've had injuries. So, when I'm helping people rehab after injuries, orthopedic injuries, a lot of times they're not quite ready yet for the heavier loads, but they want to get that solid pump and that uh, you know, that deep tissue burn. This is an exercise or these these exercises will help you to increase the eccentric load which is the muscle lengthening under tension that helps break down muscle tissue and helps you hypertrophy or gain size and strength. So this is a great a great tool to utilize if you're recovering from injury. So way to shake it up and a way to to train after injury. So um again want to thank bodybuilding.com for for having me today. Uh love that site, love the information that they provide to people. It's definitely way more than just supplements. It's a place where you can learn about nutrition and health and get great workout ideas, things like this. So awesome. Lovebody.com and uh cage muscle. Of course, before I got started today, uh I had a a pre-workout supplement that's got caffeine in it and some vasodilators that I got enough blood and oxygen moving to my muscles today so that I can get the most out of my workouts. And today throughout my workout, I'm going to be sipping on um some Amino Synergy. It's what I like to drink during my workouts to keep me hydrated and keep me focused. So, we're going to get started. I usually start every workout with a dynamic warm-up. And today, since we're doing biceps and triceps, um we're going to work on wrist, elbow, and shoulder mobility to start with. So, just going to get some and dynamic. By the way, dynamic warm-up is just movement really kinetic. You don't want to do a static warm-up. So, just doing static stretching is not the right way to warm up. So, we're going to hit a couple of curls here till you start to feel some warmth in the biceps and the triceps, and then we'll move on, some wrist mobility. I broke my wrist when I was in college and did not go see a doctor. Um, which Trek, I'm sure you're watching this. I apologize for not telling you about this 20 years ago when I should have my team doc in college. Um, I work with that guy now. It's really awesome. He's one of my mentors and one of my partners now at work. But anyway, I broke my wrist and did not go see a doctor about it. And so now I have some clicking and catching and some pain when I when I lift. And so it's important for me to really get some good wrist mobility before I get started. Hey Caleb, we got a question that come in from YouTube. What are the benefits of a dynamic warm-up? Hey, yeah, benefits. So, we've learned, thank you for the question, obviously YouTube, shout out. We've learned that a static warm up, so just stretching, right? So, if I was doing a static warm-up, it'd be like stretching my flexors. Um, we've learned that actually decreases the elasticity on the muscle group and actually reduces your ability to perform. So, a dynamic warm-up where you're moving the joint is going to be a lot more it's going to assimilate the motion that you're going to do. Gets blood moving into the joints, into the muscles, and it helps you to be a lot more um flexible during your training sessions. Oh, I got to speaking of YouTube, got to shout out to my boys, uh Titan and Carter and all their little buddies that are at my house today watching this workout. Love you guys. Better be doing some push-ups while you're watching this. All right, that feels pretty good. Going to hit some jump rope, some burpees. Get moving. I try to keep my workouts uh moving hard enough that I'm breathing heavy the whole way through. So, I apologize if I'm huffing and puffing on the mic, but that's my goal. I always want to be having a hard time talking during my training sessions. All right, cool. So, first exercise we're going to do today is going to be just a regular cambered bar curl. And remember this workout today, we're doing biceps and triceps, but this training modality, you can use this for anything. So shoulders, legs, this is really tough with leg day, back, it doesn't matter the body part, you can do these minute long AM wrap sets. And it's a it's a great training modality. So, the other thing is if you're someone who's working out at your at your home, this is something that hopefully you'll be able to do at home, too. So, I'm just using really simple things today. Dumbbells, a camber bar, some rope press, but you can do that with um you know, the other stuff we do today, you can do with bands as well. So, all right. I'm going to wait for this as this clock's warming up here. I'm going to start it at a minute and go a minute and try to do as many reps as I can. And then I'm going to rest for about 30 45 seconds and then start again. Yep. Huh? Wow. Man, you'll feel it after about 30 35 40 seconds. It starts to get hot. Woo! Getting hot. on YouTube. Paul wanted to know, just jumping back to that, how much time do you spend doing a dynamic warm-up before you start working out? Depends on the body part I've So, if it's back or legs, it's a 15-minute warm-up, easy. If it's shoulders, it's 15 minutes. Biceps, triceps, I'm like 2 minutes to 5 minutes. And then I usually do a a ramp up set, so I increase in weights up to my working sets. That counts as your dynamic warm-up. All right, that's been about 45 seconds, so we're going to get into it again. Okay. Down. Man, about that 354 second mark, it really starts to burn. Uh, Omar on YouTube wants to know, can you over uh can overtraining reduce arm growth? That is not a 30-cond question answer. Um, can arm training, overtraining reduce growth? Short answer, yes. My guess is you're not overtraining. That's pretty tough to do in reality. Here we go. Last set. Oh yeah. Heat. Heat. Heat. Come on. All right, that's three sets camber bar curls minutes at a time. You notice that my cadence slowed and I had to take some breaks in the middle. That's tough, man. That is a tough tough way to start. And you're going to feel it on that eccentric as you're coming down. So, right, the the muscle is lengthening. The more reps you do, the harder that gets. That is double tough. All right, moving on. Hey Caleb, a question coming in on YouTube from Jim. On the camber bar, should we supenate or pronate the wrists to take tension off the elbow tendon tie in area? Okay, I'm going to reiterate your question a little bit. So elbow tendons, there aren't any elbow tendons, right? So you have muscle tendons, bones, ligaments. So there aren't any tendons that are holding the elbow together. Ligaments hold the elbow together. How do you take the pressure off of the tendons in the elbow joint? So, and we'll talk about supenation. So, the main supenator of the upper extremity is your biceps break eye. This is supernation. This like you're holding a cup of soup. Supenation. Bicep is responsible for supernation. Main supenator. Okay. Flexion is just bringing the elbow closer to the body. Is not the biceps. It's a brachiialis. and the brachio radiialis. Those are the two big elbow flexors. Okay. So, with a supernated grip on the camber bar, I'm working on trying to improve my So, that's actually just flexion really is what I'm working on. Just flexion. The next one we're moving into is a hammer curl. Again, just flexion, brachioialis, and uh brachiialis. And then you've got the coroco brachiialis, which is a muscle at the top that helps you to flex the shoulder, but we're not working on that today. I'm going to hit a crossbody supenating curl that's designated just at isolating the biceps. So those are the exercises, right? So the mechanism of action of the flexion is going to be brachiialis and some biceps, but that's with your hands. Doesn't matter if they're open or closed, pronated or supinated. Flexing at the elbow, that's one thing. Slowing it down at the end ranges of motion are going to protect the tendons. So, if you overextend and you do a jerk motion, that's when you're going to tear tendons. Ballistic motion tears tendons. And then the mechanism of action that we're working on with each of these individual groups changes the muscle group that we're focusing on. So, uh, next we're going to go to the hammer curls and that's going to be arm flexion again. So, brachio radiialis, biceps break eye, and brachiialis. Here we go. Moving on. I talk way too much. It's part of my blessing and a curse. Um, so I'm probably going to answer way more than you might need in those questions, but I want to make sure you're getting the right information. So again, tendons go from muscle to bone. Ligaments go from bone to bone. So the the big thing you want to work uh look at when you're training is protecting your tendons. Your ligaments for the most part are going to be okay in these less dynamic motions. If you're doing a CrossFit workout where you're running and moving a lot, you have a higher risk of tearing up your ligaments. I think we're going to hit the 25s on this. Also, not not a big ego day, right? So, I'm not curling 80 lb dumbbells. These are small dumbbells, but after a minute worth of a load, you're going to feel it. I'm sitting on these because I want to be able to try to isolate the swing on the motion. So, if I'm doing them at the same time, right, I want to try to limit the amount of swinging. So, I'm going to sit so I can put my back against this. All right, we'll go for a minute. Heat. Heat. Woo! Breathing heavy now. How much rest between exercises? Question from YouTube. YouTube. Shout out to YouTube. So, I'm trying to go 30 to 45 seconds in between my sets, in between my exercises. It's whatever you can do to keep moving. So, like I set this up all today so that I could move from one to the next quickly so I can have this workout done in time for the live. But really, you want to try to improve efficiency, right? So, I try to like line things out before I go in so that I know where I'm going from one to the next so that I'm not wasting time. Okay, here we go. Got about 10 seconds. So, I would say the v it varies between exercises, but I would say between sets, don't rest more than about a minute. Yeah. So, I'm going to do double arm until I can't, and then I'll switch to single arm if I have to 30 seconds. Oh man, this shirt's going to have to come off. It's getting hot. Yeah, man. Those arms are tight. About 10 seconds. We're going to hit this last set and then this shirt's coming off. you. That's three of those. Moving on to some bicep supernation curls. Hey Kayla, we got a question coming in from on Twitch from Demac 88. For these AM wrap sets, how important is form toward the end when you're starting to become more fatigued? Should you try to cheat the motion a bit? You noticed that, did you? I mean, I think that if you can try to stay clean on your reps, that's obviously better. Um, don't worry, I'll be careful with my mic here. I was given strict instructions to be cautious when removing any articles of clothing. Obviously, you want to try to maintain form as much as you can, but I'm telling you that after 30 seconds, you're going to get pretty smoked. And it's better to go for the time. It's better to maintain the time on this because if you can cape keep that cadence and maintain the time, it's going to be better. So you can see that like on the end there as I was like my the eccentric motion, right? So like as I'm letting the weight down, my arm is so fatigued. It's been at the end it's like just dropping and then I'm trying to swing it just to get it up there. But the truth is like I'm I'm dying. Like this is just destroying my muscles. So, am I going am I going for to try to look like look pretty on my curls there for the last 15 seconds? No. I'm just trying to hang on for dear life. So, if you can do it strict and make it beautiful the whole way through, do that. Maybe in a couple more months if I keep doing this every week, maybe I'll get to that point where I can go a minute and then at that point I'll go from a minute to a minute and a half on YouTube. Crafty F8. Crafty F8. This is Caleb's son, Carter. I want to say hi to him. I love you, brother. Love it, buddy. My boy Carter. Hopefully you guys are doing push-ups while you're watching this, huh? All right, here we go. Bicep soup curls. Focusing again this on bringing my pinky towards the the ceiling, right? So, supenation going to really isolate the bicep. Try to get a good pinch in there. Again, as I get fatigued, it's going to end up just being holding on for dear life, but and I might have to drop the weight down to the 20. Again, no ego on this one. Here we go. And I'm going to do alternating arms so I can really get that pinch. 30 seconds never fails. Starts to hurt like crazy. Oh man, there's some blood in there, that's for sure. We got a few comments about the wrist straps. Uh benefits of them. You're using them at first and not now. Yeah, I've got I had a fracture in my wrist and so sometimes movement at my wrist causes pain on heavier weights. These lighter weights it doesn't bother me as much. And I noticed about halfway through that my hands were starting to fatigue. Like the actual grip strength was decreasing on me because of the pressure. So I got rid of them. But if I'm going on a heavy day, I got to wear wrist straps because otherwise the next day I'm wrecked at work and I can't hold needles and syringes to, you know, just my wrists hurt. So, one of those perks of being old and being an injured athlete. Sometimes you got to wear a bunch of safety gear. That's a whole another topic though. We can talk about what wearing that gear does to prevent injury. Very little. But what it may do to improve your function, it's good good outcome. Good data. Oh man. Oh man, I think we got the most important question from YouTube just now. What is the appropriate number of sets to train before removing one shirt? Who asked that? When you feel that heat, when you're getting warm, when you feel like you got something that uh is worth looking at. I might put the shirt back on later. All right, last one. Let's do it. Yep. Oh, hello. Man, another part of why this workout's good is you just have to stay in it, right? So, like at 30, 45 seconds, my arms are on fire and I just want to drop them. And it's working on the mental fortitude, right? So, building that mental strength to stay through it, to stay committed. Let me tell you something. Inspiration and motivation come and go. You're going to wake up some morning, you're not going to feel inspired. You're not going to feel motivated. But if you're committed, if you're committed, truly committed, that's how changes occur. So, I made a commitment to myself to come in here and do this workout today. One minute sets, commitment. Now, halfway through that last set, my motivation was gone. I already felt like I was used up, but I'm going to stay in it. Stick with it. And building that mental strength in the gym, you can then parallel that into your life so you can get stronger outside of just lifting weights. All right, so we've hit our camber bar curls, hammer curls, our bicep iso curls. Now, we're going to move on to our tricep exercises. We're going to start with the tricep press down. And I'm going to wrap up my wrist again just to make sure it doesn't hurt with that er deviation. So, as your pinky comes towards the ulna, that's called er deviation. The wrist bone that I broke is up in here. Sometimes that bothers me on that ulner styloid. So, I'm going to wrap up again and we'll see how this goes. Question from YouTube. Doctor, what are your thoughts on static stretching in between sets? Um, what are my thoughts? I mean, if it's something that uh need a carabiner. Here we go. If it's something that you want to do, nothing wrong with it. It's uh I mean, I guess you should preface the question on are my thoughts, you know, do I think that it's going to help you get bigger and stronger? Probably not. Is it something that may make you feel better between sets? Absolutely. So, you can stretch. There's nothing wrong with a static stretch in between your sets. Um it's not going to reduce injury prevalence. it's not going to uh you know necessarily make you grow unless you're stretching under tension, right? So there's some evidence that stretching under tension can improve work. So like if you're doing calf raises, right? So you're doing calf raises and you your rest period in between your sets, you keep the load on your calves and you have stretch stretch receptors, gogi tendon apparatus that are being activated. I think there's some evidence that supports that improving training quality. But as far as just stretching in between my sets in here, I'm not going to worry about it because I know that now I'm moving from, you know, to an antagonistic muscle group. So if I'm truly getting a tricep extension, I'm stretching my bicep to its max capacity. When I'm doing my curls, I'm stretching my tricep, so I'm not too worried about stretching in between my sets. Perfect timing. One minute rope press downs. And again, you can do this with a band. If I brought a black band, you can just throw that over a door frame if you're working out at home and you're just doing a tricep press down. I will mention kind of as I'm talking here, people are always asking me how to isolate the different heads of the tricep. I got bad news for you. You can't isolate the head of the tricep because it all forms into one conjoint tendon that inserts on the elbow. So, as long as you're extending the elbow, you're activating all the heads of the tricep. The way you manipulate the tricep muscle group is by orientation in space at the shoulder. So whether you're flexed, flexed at the shoulder or extended at the shoulder. So right now I'm extended at the shoulder. My elbows are towards my body. Towards the end of this workout, we'll diff we'll differentiate the length of the tricep. Hold on. That's a minute. So right. So, if the tricep inserts up there on the scapula, shoulder blade, right now I'm in AI'm in a shoulder extended position, hyperextension, extension, flexion. We'll work on a flexion position where I'm doing a tricep extension overhead stretches the tricep to its full capacity. That's the way to vary your exercises with the tricep is by lengthening or shortening the muscle based on its origin at the scapula and the humorris. That's 30 seconds. We're going to jump back into it. Set number two, tricep extensions. 30 seconds never fails. That's when I start feeling that burn. So that means these are the reps that make it really different than my other workouts. This is that space that I don't really get into as often. That's the type of pain that's physician recommended, medically advised pain. Pain that helps you grow. on Twitch. Um, yoga loves star asked, "Is it okay to work out biceps and triceps on the same day?" Absolutely. Synergistic or antagonistic, push, pull or pull, pull, pull, push. So, today I'm doing a flexion extension. People will do both. So, they'll do like back and buys on the same day. That's an that's a synergistic chest and tries on the same day. Synergistic. Or you can flip that and do antagonistic like I'm doing today. But yes, short answer, you can work biceps and triceps in the same day. Here we go. Third set. All right. Come on. Yep. Come on. Yeah, buddy. Come on, man. I felt it on that last one. All right, that's that. Now, we're going to do some standing uh overhead extension. So, that one was keeping that tricep in a more neutral position. Next, we're going to walk and do an overhead position. on Facebook. Tiger Gillette wants to know, "How many times per week are you doing this workout?" This workout like just biceps, triceps, just once, but this training modality like every day. So, I'm trying to hit these minute long sets every day, whether it's back day, bicep day, leg day, because I'm trying to increase my aerobic capacity, train my short or my fast and my slow twitch muscle groups. And uh I've got an opportunity coming up in the spring that's going to require me to be able to hold a contraction a little bit longer. And so I'm really working on right now my training focuses on not necessarily getting bigger but getting faster, getting more agile, and being able to hold that level of aerobic threshold a lot longer. Yep. So overhead tricep extension. You can do this with a dumbbell or with a band or with a rope like this. I'm going to have to adjust this weight. It's not going to be too much. But this puts the tricep in a fully fully stretched position overhead like this. Oh yeah. Have to drop the weight a little bit. Leave your ego at the door on this one. Yeah. Those triceps are feeling hot. Make sure you're getting that full extension. You don't want to leave out the anonius. Look that one up. It's my favorite muscle group. The anconius responsible for the last 3 to five degrees of extension at the elbow. Look that one up. Nope. A N C O N. I think it's EU S. Maybe I O U S. And conius. I'm a doctor, man. I can't spell and I can't write. 15 seconds. Oh man. One more of these bad boys and we're going to move on to some diamond push-ups. So again, I had tricep press down, overhead press, and when I'm doing my diamond push-ups, you can see the triceps going to be in three different orientations in space to try to maximize as much of that muscle fiber as possible. All right, let's get it. Let's have it, as Chris Gin would say. Let's have it. 30 seconds. Almost on the dot every time. All right, Kale, this is a great general question from Nick. Uh, what is the benefit of using time rather than reps on these sets? just a different modality. I'm not counting my reps, but I think a lot of times when you set your workouts based around reps, you short change yourself. A lot of times people aren't using enough weight. So they'll hit, prime example, they're going to do three sets of 10, right? They get to 10, then maybe they could have done four sets of 10. Maybe they could have done five sets of 10. Maybe they could have done three sets of 15 without weight. So that it takes one of the variables out of your training, right? So like here, I'm not worried about changing my weight. It's the same weight. I'm not worried about changing the number of reps. I'm just going for time. So it's just one way to isolate the muscle group a little bit differently and allow you to get a different uh a different feeling. So really, I wouldn't say one is better or worse than the other. Okay. So this last one we're going to do some diamond push-ups. Um, you can use a a ball, you know, like a a medicine ball, a Bosu ball to do this. Um, you can do it just on the ground. I have a It kind of bothers my joints to do push-ups just straight on the ground. So, I'm going to use the dumbbells so that I can keep my wrists in a more neutral position. Um, again, just working around my injuries. So, here we go. This one's going to be a little harder to look up and see. Hey, hey, hey, hey, oh man. hey. A that's really tough. I'm going to probably end up having to drop down to my knees to finish these. Oh man. Either that or end up with a face plant, which that'd be real good. Yeah, nothing but comedy here today, guys. Watch the doc land on his face. What does your uh daily nutrition look like? Protein, carbs, and fats. I eat plants. I eat animals. I try to eat healthy fats. I try to limit my processed foods, packaged foods, try to limit my sugars. Um, but really my nutrition is very, very balanced and very, very basic. We can talk about that till the cows come home. But most of my nutrition isn't going to be, "Wow, holy cow, he's doing something so different than everybody else." And maybe I am doing something different than everybody else, but I just eat a balanced diet. And not the not the 1980s Kellogg's commercial balanced diet where they're like, "This is part of a balanced breakfast and they've got white toast with butter and cereal with milk and orange juice and you know that's not a balanced meal. That's all carbohydrate and sugar." So that's not what I'm talking about. About 5 seconds. We can hit this again. Can one of you guys give me a like a a minute so I don't have to look up? So, give me like a 30 second mark and a minute mark. All right. Yep. Yeah, I figured. Yeah. Oh man, smoked sweating. What's next? Give me another question. Uh, we had a question. Uh, should you take creatine pre or post-workout? Uh, that's a good question. Um, it doesn't really matter though, to be honest. Um, I like to take it before because that's what fits my lifestyle better. If I try to remember to take it any other time of the day, I'll forget it. And PS, I do use creatine, but the only creatine I've been able to use is Creatlear. The rest of the time, if I use creatine, I make it about 3 months and my kidneys start to to hurt. I start getting a acute tubular necrosis and my creatinin level goes up too high. So, um, for the last 15 20 years that I've been trying to cycle through creatines, I usually can only make it about 6 weeks before I have to stop, but I've been using Creatlear for the past 6 months um, off and on and have yet to have any bump in my kidney elevation. So, so that's my go-to. I'm definitely sandbagging on this last set. This is the last one right here. Give me that minute mark. Man, I was about to ask for one of you to come spot me. All right, there it is. Minute long sets. AM wrap working on the biceps, triceps, brachiialis, coroco brachiialis, bracha radiialis, and conius, triceps, and actually I felt a lot in that in my last set of my chest as well. Like, oh, those diamond push-ups, my chest was getting burned up. Anterior deltoids, telling you, that's a heck of a workout. It's quick. So, we finished, you know, at 55. So really about 50 minutes if you take out all my blabbing and sandbagging and explaining different things. So you can get that done quickly. You can get that done efficiently, very simple exercises, and I promise you that your eccentric load will increase. You can have a gnarly pump. I mean, right now my my arms feel just like they're like a Cherokee drum, man. They are tight, tight, tight. So excellent workout. Super fast. Hit me up. Let's hear some questions. Uh here's a question that came in. Should I hit failure every set when training biceps? No, you don't need to hit failure every set when you're training biceps. I like to because it's what I like to do. I feel like if I'm not hitting at least failure or getting close to it, then I'm not working as hard as I should or could be. But do you have to hit tricep or any muscle group? Do you have to hit failure? No, you don't have to hit failure on every set. Uh this question from Liza on Facebook. Uh, any starter tips for all the ladies out there wanting to build their buys and tries? Liza, that's awesome. I have a patient that's 55 years old, never lifted a weight in her life. In the last 2 years, she's lost 150 lbs. 150 lbs. She's no longer on her blood pressure medication. She's no longer on diabetic medication. She's no longer on cholesterol medication. Her back doesn't hurt anymore. Her knees feel a lot better. And I wrote her a program that was very, very basic. So, as simple as it gets, just moving through normal ranges of motion, right? So, if you have a joint, it has a normal range of motion. So, the knees flex and extend. The hips are going to flex and extend. Biceps, triceps are going to help flex and extend at the elbow, chest, shoulders, back. Everything you think about the joints that you have, moving those joints through normal range of motion and doing so with resistance. So, if we grab this band, in reality, if you're just starting out, just learning how to do mobility work, right? Stand on a band to see what that feels like to just flex at the elbow. Then you can even just stand on it like this and extend at the elbow, right? Same thing with the shoulder above the head. press down, forward raise, side raise, bend over, rear raise, like all those things are very simple motions. That's a great place to start if you're a beginner. Just bring your joints through their normal ranges of motion with resistance. Do it every day. Uh Dr. Ren, thank you so much for uh coming out. Uh one last question. How can people find you? Excellent. Yeah, I really appreciate the opportunity to be here. Bodymilling.com. Um amazing company. I love the product that they present to people, to the public. It's not just products that you can purchase. It's the information. It's the sense of community. It's the inspiration. It's the motivation. So, bodybuilding.com, thank you so much for having me. Cage Muscle, a company that I believe in. Um, again, with the products as well as the information and the content that they provide. You can check out BB uh BBOM and Cage Muscle all week. They're having tons of deals, sales for Black Friday. Um, to help out with information, content, products. You can find me on Instagram. So, my Instagram handle is muscle_kr. And I try to put out quality content for people that's unbiased, that's objective, and that's very hopefully simple. I try to bring complicated subjects and break them down. I try to provide training exercises and nutritional advice. And then I sneak peek into a day in the life of a doctor and what it's like to try to get to this position that I'm at. I'm a non-traditional guy. I started out working in construction and in the oil field and um moved into medicine and and tied athletics and family into that as well. So, muscle_kr and um I have a clinic here in town in Boisee Sports Medicine and Orthopedics and uh I train at all the gyms. I love coming to train down here. I train at the Mecca. I train at Axim. I train at Crunch at Berserkers. I mean, I'm all over the place. So, you can catch me did a workout. Say hi. love to chat with you for a minute, but don't interrupt the doc's workout because usually if the headband's on, it's getting real. So, wait till the headband comes off before you ask your questions. Awesome, guys. Y'all have a great day. See you later. This program was designed to develop your overall athleticism. We created MindBody Fit to help women achieve all over wellness. You'll find tons of articles on nutrition, exercise, and even beauty. Shoulders define your upper body. Just add these two workouts into your split each week to build bigger and more defined delts. With Mike King program, you'll build muscle and a special kind of mental toughness that can overcome any challenge. With Metaburn 90, all you'll need is a few dumbbells in 30 minutes or less a day to burn fat and achieve peak fitness in a very short, concentrated amount of time. Everything is laid out for you in detail. For positive, you'll find unique pieces that will help you feel your best every single day. Control your world, but it all starts with you. Only at bodybuilder.com. All access.