I love it. I love it when people discount me because of, you know, my build or my my sports background or anything like that. Like anytime someone says something like that, I think good good. You think you think you can't touch me because of the way I'm built. And so in your mind, all that's saying is I can never be as good as him because I'm too tall. I can never be as good as him because I didn't have 10 years of Olympic weightlifting background. And in my mind, I know that's not the case, but I think good. You've already told yourself I'm going to win. So, it's the same same thing when when everyone comes out with like the whole steroid argument. People say, "Oh, he's only that good cuz because of steroids." Good. Cuz you just told yourself without you taking steroids, you can't compete with me. Go ahead. Keep that mentality. See where it gets you in life. People see an ounce of adversity and they and they shy away. Berson actually sent me a sent me a thing the other day and it was like cowards and champions have the same fears, but the difference the difference is how they attack them. And and so like I was saying with with the with the track workout, you know, if I didn't think I'd be able to complete that workout, I was genuinely scared that something was going to go wrong that I was going to fail. But then at the same time, it's like, well, if I fail, good. I have something new to work on. I have something new to get better at. Um so, you know, it's like that with anything I do. It's like worst case scenario this goes awful and then for the next two months I have something something to aim my sights on. So, you know, it's the same as after the 2015 games. You know, that pig flip could not have gone worse. Yeah, of course. In the moment, yeah, I wish I figured out that deficiency not on the competition floor in front of how many people, but after the fact, good. I have something to work on. So, I mean, I think it's that keeping that 2015 season fresh, you know, remembering my mindset during that season, remembering the things I was doing that I shouldn't have been, remembering the the corners I cut, but then at the same time remembering what happened in the 2016 season. and not just the good stuff, keeping the whole season fresh in my mind of like, you know, how how did I deal with injuries? Um, how how did I deal with being tired? How did I deal with this, that, everything? you know, keeping that stuff fresh in my mind, watching footage, reminding myself, you know, when I'm having a bad day at training and I don't feel like training, I don't feel like going hard. Going back and watching watching some video 2016 season and reminding myself how good that felt, reminding myself like all this hard work right now will pay off. Like it it's worth it in the end.