Hello there and welcome to the bodybuilding.com podcast Monday morning. We're here bright, cheerful, and fat adapted with our coffee. I'm the deputy editor, Nick Kolus, alongside Dr. Chrissy, Keto Kendall. Today we are discussing everybody's favorite underground macronutrient, fat, the ketone. Or the ketone. The ketone. The ketone is the nutritional equivalent of some legendary experimental music band that you've heard its name. You know, people swear it's the most amazing thing ever. The most amazing thing since sliced bread. You can't have sliced bread. No. Avoid. But may maybe you're a bit scared of the ketone. You're afraid maybe it's not for you. Or maybe you're afraid it will make you rethink your very nutritional existence. Sounds sounds important, doesn't it? Uh our guest is going to be Dr. Dominic Diagostino from the University of South Florida. Chrissy, can you please tell us a little bit more about Yeah. So, uh, Dom, he's a professor in the department of molecular pharmacology and physiology at University of South Florida. He is also the senior researcher scientist uh at the Institute of Human and Machine Cognition. Uh, most of what Dr. Diagosino's lab focuses on is developing and testing metabolic therapies including ketogenic diets, ketone esters, ketone supplements, intermittent fasting protocols and metabolic based drugs. Uh a lot of his research explores the use of these therapies for a broad range of disorders and some of what we'll uh kind of pick his brain about uh seizures, neurological disorders, wound healing, muscle wasting and cancer. uh a lot of his work is focused on uh or using animal models but has also uh explored obviously the effects of ketogenic diets uh ketone supplements in uh human participants as well including himself. He's he's a he's an accomplished athlete who I don't know if he still does he once held the um the the record for the most the highest amount of weight lifted in 24 hours. Yeah. Yeah. Fascinating guy. So we actually just spoke with Dr. Dr. Dustinino about an hour and a half ago. Um, and we talked about yeah applications that both ketogenic dieting and to a lesser degree fasting and intermittent fasting can have for athletes, medical populations, and even just for, you know, normal people. So, let's listen to the conversation, shall we? Thanks for being with us. Hello. Hello there. Is this Hello? Can you hear me? Yes. Can you hear us? This is bodybuilding.com calling. Your delivery is going to be late. I'm sorry. Hi. Hi. This is Nick Kolius, Dr. Diagastino. I'm here with Chrissy Kendall. Very, very uh we really appreciate you doing this, especially so early in the morning. I think it's just early for us. Feels early. Yeah. What time are you guys on? Oh, 8:30. But, you know, Oh, 8:30. Okay. It's not that bad. Not bad at all. Rip you out of bed. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And you guys are in Idaho. We are in Idaho. Okay. Land of potatoes. Gotcha. Potatoes and trout. Oh, beautiful trout here. Yeah, I tried to catch one this weekend even and it did not work out very well. No, but um any anyway um well, so we we want to cover a broad range of topics. We've both been spending uh a lot of time reading up on you. Maybe not you've been on so many podcasts. I try not to listen to all of them. I'm afraid that they'll just I'll discover they asked all the questions I already have. Right. But uh are you are you fed or fasted at this very moment? That would be my first question. Uh yeah, actually uh I ate breakfast this morning, so just a little bit. So a big bowl of ketos. Uh I what did I have? I had uh kind of like the run-of-the-mill breakfast I have when I'm kind of uh I had to do some teaching early in the morning, so it was real quick. It was like four eggs and coconut oil and a can of sardines in olive oil and my coffee with some Quest uh coconut oil powder in it. Nice. So now, how how do you eat the um the sardines with that? Do you put do you mix them put them on the eggs or you just eating them right out of the can? Cuz I'm a big canned fish person myself. I'm always curious how people do it. Yeah, today I just dumped them right on the eggs. Like I just cooked my eggs kind of over easy, put it on the plate, a pinch of sea salt, a little bit of pepper, and just put them right on the eggs. Uh last night though, uh I had a salad and I put it I put it on my salad. So yeah, they're great great for that. Yeah. Yep. And do you do that with oysters as well or you Cuz I used to eat oysters. Oh, I have to eat them a certain way, but I'll just eat those right out of the can all the time now and make my colleagues disgusted. Yeah. Yeah, we're very similar. Okay. They're so delicious. They are. They are. Yeah. And uh I guess, you know, it's foods I never ate growing up really. So, I just kind of stumbled upon them and tried oysters at a restaurant one time and I was like, "Yeah, they're not too bad." And then, you know, uh started looking at their nutritional content and I tried them in a can and you got to I'm kind of picky about what brand that I like because they have a particular taste. But, um but yeah, I do like them. They're good travel food, too. Yeah. Have you ever tried fresh smoked oysters? Like, um Yeah, they're they're very different than in the can, but man, so good. Okay. Yeah. Well, now it would be really easy for us to jump right into um ketosis and fasting related topics, but let's let's start the story a little bit further out. I wanted to get a little bit more about your nutritional life story leading up to this, like uh what what were you like as a as a as a young person leading into this and just developing these interests, but also, you know, your life history of eating a little bit. Yeah. Uh, I grew up in an Italian family, so uh, pasta was kind of like a a staple growing up. Like every Sunday we'd have all the family over for a big Sunday pasta dinner. Uh, and I ate, you know, I ate uh, candy and sugary fruit juices and things like that. Probably not so much, you know, as much as the kids do now. if we went out to a fast food restaurant, it was like sort of like a big deal, you know, like we we didn't go out as much as the kids do now, probably. But, uh, I think my mom tried to cook, you know, pretty much what's considered balanced meals, like a meat, fish, uh, vegetable, and a starch growing up. So, I think generally speaking, I had a pretty good diet. Uh, but it was not a low carb diet by any means. And I grew up on a potato farm. So uh on a farm so and some of we grew wheat and potatoes and soybeans and everything. So I always had uh potatoes like every morning. Uh and it was you know just right from the backyard basically. Uh fried potatoes and eggs were kind of like my staple growing up or oatmeal and eggs. So carbs were always thought of as like really important. I I started mountain biking I think when I was 13 or 14 and uh really into that. I even did some racing and big fan of like Gatorade and uh Cytoax at the time and uh carbing up a lot, you know, two or three days out even for big events. So really much pretty much a carb centric diet uh all my life and until I got into weightlifting and then I became at least aware of a low carb diet for a you know body composition uh alteration effects you know in cutting and it wasn't you know obviously not a ketogenic diet but a carbohydrate restricted diet was on my radar and it was talked about in some magazines But I didn't think very favorably of it because I was always under the impression your brain needed 60 to 100 gram of carbs a day and these like zero carb diets could be dangerous or put you in chronic hypoglycemia which was not a good state to be in. And I learned, you know, learned more as I got through college and and it eventually ended up uh as part of my research. Um, so yeah, I guess I mean going into uh high school and college, I started experimenting seriously with low carb diets probably in in college. And my low carb diet would just be switching out the starch for vegetables, you know, for like a steamed vegetables or something like that. And uh I think it it worked pretty pretty well for for my purposes for just getting leaner. And I think I I adapted pretty well to a low carb diet. Although I did feel uh I felt like my blood sugar was kind of fluctuating and I would have periods of lethargy and and just foggyheadedness and I just remember being tired maybe from the calorie deficit too. And it wasn't until I started studying systems physiology and advanced nutrition courses in college that I really started looking into the ketogenic diet. And uh I did in passing in one of my classes realized that it was more of a clinically based diet for seizures and just put kind of put it on the back burner until after my my doctoral work in college. I did a post-doal fellowship that was funded by the office of navy research and the project that I was most interested in that I worked on was understanding the cellular and molecular mechanisms of oxygen toxicity seizures that were a consequence of breathing high oxygen with a closed circuit rebreather that the special operations guys use or the Navy Seals. And in the process of understanding the cellular and molecular mechanism, I realized that you know I was really looking at the pharmarmacology of it. But I realized that it was a brain energy sort of problem and a glucose the handling and the transport of glucose to preserve brain energy metabolism. And then I realized that the brain could use ketones and that and that fasting was a way to put yourself into a state of ketosis, fasting ketosis, and that and that blood sugar was low and ketones were high. And then that actually was very effective for for managing seizures. And this goes back like a hundred even a thousands of years. And about 90 years ago, uh, fasting was also used to manage seizures and they they developed the ketogenic diet which mimic the physiological state of fasting. Um, so that's the history behind that is fascinating to me and I incorporated some of that into my research. I studied biology and nutrition as an undergrad and then physiology and neuroscience as a PhD student and it allowed me to bring nutrition back into my research again which I was pretty excited about uh because I was mostly focusing on anti-seizure drugs and antioxidant cocktails to prevent oxidative stress. So, uh, interesting hearing you talk about this sort of tension between therapeutic and and you as an athlete, like you you kind of go back and forth and it sounds like yeah, you were studying it very much in a clinical perspective for a long time and then maybe started to realize, okay, maybe as Yeah, as an athlete there's a place as well. Um, I don't know. That's that's an interesting Yeah. an interesting tension that you can um I don't know that you that you sort of learn by looking at yourself a little bit there as well. Yeah, there there's so much that we can garner, you know, just by watching other people follow a diet and and our own personal experience. Uh I did stumble across a Mike Dancer from bodybuilding.com and Mike uh was an epilepsy patient. He had severe epilepsy and you guys wrote a story on him. It was like uh rip rest in peace to ripped and look it look it up with the catchy titles. I you know I don't remember that headline but I'm going to take credit for it. Yeah, this is like uh I mean going back at least 5 years ago and you know I connected with Mike and he had tried every anti-epileptic drug and was going to have brain surgery on his hippocampus to remove an area that may be the locus of the seizure like generating the seizure. And you know, I was just getting into this topic and I said, "Mike, maybe maybe give this ketogenic diet a try. You know, bodybuilders use it, so it's not going to really set you back, so to speak." And um and he was a natural bodybuilder and wanted to do competitions. I was like, "Yeah, you could use it as part of your cutting." And he did. And it and I didn't I didn't actually get in touch with him until about 3 or 4 months after, but as soon as he implemented it, it it rapidly controlled his seizures. And then we connected a few months later and he was like, "I have not had a seizure." And this was uh 180 degree from what he was used to. I mean, he was kind of stuck at home uh bedridden for some times just because his seizures were so bad. and bodybuilding.com did a big story on him and uh and then it kind of took off a little bit like my research took off because I've you know I uh got more into the literature and I connected with it John's Hopkins University and the Charlie Foundation and the Charlie Foundation you know is is uh was a foundation based on the observation of uh the Hollywood producer his his son Charlie had drug drug resistant seizures and he was made aware of the ketogenic diet only after trying a lot of drugs that had very bad side effects. And in because he was he because this was such a grossly underutilized metabolic therapy, he uh was angry and you know decided to start a foundation and uh Mel Stre was his friend and she did the movie First Do No Harm and that brought a lot of attention to the ketogenic diet for epilepsy and datine NBC did a story with Jim and uh um and talked about, you know, his experience with the diet. And I've connected with Jim and kind of talked on behalf of the Charlie Foundation and different events. And the more kind of I I started understanding the science and the application of it, I incorporated it into the government sponsored research I was doing by studying the ketogenic diet and looking at the mechanisms of the ketogenic diet, but also developing ketone supplementation that could rapidly put someone into therapeutic ketosis, feed the brain specific ratios of ketones, and those ketones can enhance brain energy metabolism under periods of in the face of it oxidative stress which would be oxygen you know toxicity and we developed that did the pharmaccoinetic studies on it did some metabolic work on it and uh confirmed that it does work remarkably well for oxygen toxicity in our rat model which is a pretty good kind of surrogate model for what what to expect in humans And now we're in the position where we've developed lots of different ketone supplements and we're doing safety studies on them. We're doing kind of pharmacocinetic studies on them. We're looking at a lot of different disorders including uh different seizure disorders. We're looking at cancer. So it's interesting that cancer cells use glucose very rapidly but they don't use uh ketone bodies efficiently for their energy. Uh we're looking at cancer cexia, muscle wasting associated with cancer. Uh sar sarcopenia is something that we're interested into. Uh and rare disorders like glucose transporter type 1 deficiency syndrome. Uh Angelman syndrome uh we have a project you know looking at anxiety and being in a state of ketosis seems to lower levels of anxiety and it promotes exploratory behavior. uh we think this has tremendous implications for uh things like PTSD or just I mean anxiety in general, right? And PTSD. So I think that that's actually some of the most robust data that we haven't even like presented yet. I'll be presenting in Europe like next month. Uh but it was like unexpected, you know, things that come out of our ketogenic diet research. So, as we induce ketosis, we're real we're handling animals and realize they're just much more calm, you know, and they just we realize, well, maybe we should study this. That's interesting because when I when I talk to people about the ketogenic diet, their their anxiety level goes up when I bring up the idea of not eating a slice of bread. Yeah. Yeah. Around here. Well, it's adaptation. The adaptation to the ketogenic diet is really uh kind of important. And uh if if we talk about sort of you know how to implement the diet, the pros and cons, then there'll need to be a discussion about adaptation. And I I want to take a quick step back uh especially for those who may have never even heard the words ketogenic diet or this is completely new to them. Uh what you know for dummies, how would you explain the ketogenic diet? And then what makes it you different than okay, it's a low carb diet, it's a Mediterranean diet, it's a high protein diet. What makes the ketogenic diet such a powerful tool for clinical populations for uh individuals with seizures, cancer, um some of the diseases you just mentioned? Yeah, that's a good question because that gets the the term gets thrown around a lot, but it's not properly defined. Exactly. So, the ketogenic diet by definition is a diet that elevates blood ketones. And it's interesting even a lot of the literature uh even you know exercise studies or even clinical research that is done on the ketogenic diet does not properly measure ketones or even attempt to do so which is pretty remarkable. They just you know set they set the uh carbohydrate to a certain threshold and and think that you're on a ketogenic diet if you do that. So, I would say first and foremost that the ketogenic diet by definition is a diet that elevates the ketone levels in your blood. And you could measure urine ketones. You could buy keto sticks at any CVS or Walgreens, right? And it measures the acettoacetate in your urine. And if you do measure in the mild to moderate and high range, you're likely do have an elevation of blood ketones, but you don't really know. The gold standard is just to measure your your blood ketones. We have a meter uh there's several meters out there. Abbott Labs makes the precision extra which we use and I I have a couple other ones I use personally but uh but so an elevation of blood ketones uh is sort of the first thing to focus on. And the ketogenic diet is a low carb highfat. It's important to recognize that it's a highfat diet uh that's low carb. And then the protein is more or less adjusted to fit the individual. So for the pediatric population, the protein would be probably like young growing kids somewhere around just 10 to 12% maybe up to 15%. And that would be adjusted based on the growth of the child and the management of the seizures. Uh for the fitness community, most of them use what's called a modified ketogenic diet, which would be up to about 20 to 25 grams of of percent calories from protein. And that's adequate enough to promote, you know, growth and recovery uh from from workouts. So, but there's there's a lot of of fuzzy u guidelines in between. So the clinically based ketogenic diet there's there's the 4:1 the 3:1 the 2:1 the modified Atkins diet that Eric Kosaw from John's Hopkins has been advancing and for all intents and purposes for the for the fitness community I would say when they talk about the ketogenic diet they're talking about the modified Atkins diet or the modified ketogenic diet which is much more liberal in the amount of protein uh up to 20 20 to 25 up to 30% fat or protein. And that's that's kind of like almost low for some people in the fitness community that go up to 40 and 50% protein. Um but for the world of ketogenics, that's kind of a higher protein. Uh so as you increase the protein percentages of the ketogenic diet, it will it will lower the ketone levels. So you will protein is gluconogenic up to a certain point and it can also stimulate to a smaller degree than carbohydrates but it can stimulate the release of insulin which can is negatively correlated with with ketogenesis with ketone production. So uh so the adding fiber and fat can help buffer the release of glucose into the bloodstream. Uh, so there's some athletes, especially high performing athletes, that can get up to, you know, 200 grams of protein a day and still be well into ketosis, uh, if they're large and active. U, but it's really the protein level is the variable that needs to be adjusted depending on the clinical scenario and the individual and the athlete. Okay? And we hear people talk about ketosis as being like pregnancy basically. Oh, you're keto or you're not. But the way that you're describing it, it sounds like there's almost there's a spectrum. It's not necessarily an onoff switch. Is or or am I wrong in understanding it that way? Which which which uh image is more accurate, do you think? Sort of a you are, you aren't, or a whole spectrum. Uh it it's variable. Even for the individual that's on a pretty strict ketogenic diet, his ketones will vary during the day. like uh me for example I'm 0.5 to 6 in some mornings and then later in the day but my my blood beta hydroxybutyrate levels and then later in the day I'm about three or four times higher blood ketone levels as sort of as I get a little bit more hungry and the fat that I've consumed maybe in the form of MCT uh or if I eat breakfast that morning will be fueling you know beta oxidation in in the liver. And it's, you know, as your system gets kind of revved up and insulin stays low, uh, you have enhanced fat oxidation, especially in the liver. And the the acceleration of of fat oxidation will contribute to the production of uh the generation of acetal coa which you know forms into acetal acetate and then generates ketone bodies primarily beta hydroxybutyrate which is the most stable form that we measure in the blood. Uh fasting will put you there. Intermittent fasting I know is kind of big in the fitness community can put you there. Uh I kind of like uh ketogenic intermittent fasting where you would sort of fast throughout the day and then eat ketogenic at night. Uh but what a lot of bodybuilders do and fitness athletes do is that they do a modified ketogenic diet that's supplemented. And that's supplemented I say uh they'll use coconut oil or more commonly mediumchain triglycerides. So, so the modified ketogenic diet can elevate your ketones slightly, but if you add a supplement to that in the form of mediumchain triglycerides, you can further boost ketone levels and that can further enhance the efficacy of your diet for whatever purposes you're you're using it for, whether it be the management of seizures or for for performance. And I think the advantage to supplementing a more liberal ketogenic diet with something like MCTs is that it's elevating your blood ketone levels and that's sending energy to your brain. So, so during periods of hypoglycemia, you're going to have a stress response. You're going to you're going to crave glucose. You're going to crave carbs. Uh, and if your ketone levels are elevated, that more or less abolishes or significantly attenuates the the reactive hypoglycemia that you would otherwise have. And that reactive hypoglycemia will trigger a craving for sugar. It will trigger a sympathy response. So your sympathetic nervous system will be activated. Uh, epinephrine will flood your system. You'll start to get shaky, sweaty. So being in a state of ketosis can literally, you know, abolish that. And that's something that I had when I followed a lowcarb non- ketogenic diet. I would have periods of hypoglycemia where I would literally be shaking and you know I would feel and yeah so that's the real advant one of the major advantages of ketones is that you have physiological resilience against hypoglycemia simply by feeding your brain an alternative energy substrate. That that's absolutely fascinating because I know a lot of our readers uh who try to attempt the keto diet. Uh the first few weeks are challenging and uh I think that's where you lose a lot of people on the diet and especially our audience which is more geared towards performance uh what their PR in the gym is going to be. They're more concerned about building size and strength versus you know any sort of health benefit. you know, who cares what what your your heart and the rest of your body are doing in a few. Do you have a specific person in mind here? You sound like you're describing somebody. The one next to me. No, not at all. Um, but that that brings me into because you kind of talked about it. MCT oil, uh, coconut oil, possibly ketone supplements. What would you what advice would you give for someone who is going through the keto adaptation period? How long does that last? And is there any way to get through it faster? because I think that's where people just fall off and and quit. Yeah. Um it's a good question, one that I get a lot. Um so there's different ways to do it and I think you just kind of have to grit your teeth and get through it. For me it was a little bit of a process because I didn't fully embrace a ketogenic diet. I was kind of really skeptical about its use for athletics and just general daily use. Uh, I probably followed like a low carb paleo approach, that's what you would call it, and then transitioned to a ketogenic diet. So, I think I was relatively fat adapted. Uh, but so my recommendation would be to uh lower your carbohydrate intake to under 50 grams per day. Uh, and I would uh reduce protein. Probably the most important thing is to reduce protein down to one gram per kilogram per day. I know that sounds pretty extreme. You're breaking the hearts of all of our readers. Yeah. Yeah. But you can you'll you'll be able to titrate it back in though once your body is making right now I'm like at 1.5 g per kilogram per day. Uh and I would use uh coconut oil is okay. I use that more for cooking things. Uh, but I to really get your ketone levels up, you'd want to have an MCT oil. Uh, there's Quest makes the MCT oil powder or you could get something like uh caprillic triglyceride which is the 8carbon MCT and essentially like it's it's split in the liver to produce ketone bodies. So MCTs are transported to the liver uh via hpatic portal circulation and it and because you get because they go right to the liver, they get oxidized very fast and they're kind of like a very quick burning fat and be because they enhance fat oxidation liver so much, it contributes to ketogenesis. And those ketones will help you uh uh help your brain sort of uh manage the I guess what you would call glucose uh withdrawal symptoms that you have. So if your brain is it's more than just kind of feeding ketones because if your brain is used to using uh glucose as an energy source, even if you supply ketones, there's going to be a little bit of a transition to using that energy source. Uh but having them elevated in your blood uh they readily cross the bloodb brain barrier the ketones do and it will help you uh power through that glucose withdrawal that your brain's going to have. And uh and most people if they do it right they can they can get through it. It it's also important because when you lower your your carbohydrates and get on a ketogenic diet, your insulin goes pretty low and it has a diuretic effect. So, you're losing your liver glycogen. You may lose initially some muscle glycogen, but that will come back uh over time. Uh but the suppression of the hormone insulin contributes to the release of sodium and so it's important to get a lot of sodium in your diet. probably have soups, uh, low carb soups or beef broth, something or bullion cubes, and make sure you have adequate sodium in your diet and you stay properly hydrated. And because as soon as you're if you become dehydrated, your blood volume drops and you become lethargic and uh you'll have what's called uh like orthostatic hypotension. You're sitting in a chair and you get up and you feel dizzy. And this happened to me and it was just a matter of getting getting more sodium, getting more more fluids in the system and uh and and MCTs and just um and making sure that you get a lot of fat. So don't it's hard for a lot of fitness athletes to th start throwing in fat into the diet. Start throwing like for years I ate egg whites but now like I literally will eat a egg yolk omelette. like I'll give the whites to my dog. So, I'm very curious about this. Yeah, I' I've wanted to try that same thing, but also I've been looking around. Have you Have you Is there anybody who um makes an egg yolk product? Like, can you get cartoned egg yolk? But like just the opposite of an egg beater. That's the That's the product that needs to be made, don't you think? Yeah. Yeah. Um I don't know. I don't think they do. That's a good That's a good idea, though. I think I saw one once in a b in some sort of baking site. Yeah, that would make sense. But I would have felt like a weirdo for doing it. You know, I do have a preference for uh eggs that are from freerange chickens because the yolks do taste different. Uh ducks also have huge yolks. I had access to uh eggs from freerange chickens kind of growing up in college. And the first time I had them, I was like, "Wow, these yolks are like orange and and they're really buttery and creamy." And so I will make an effort, you know. Uh, so the whole nutrition thing like GMO versus what I I don't get involved in that, but I just know that, you know, uh, grass-fed beef and eggs from freerange chickens, they do taste better to me, so I tend to seek them out at the store. And but you can eat, yeah, pork fat. When you get on a ketogenic diet, it's really important to bump up your hydration, bump up your sodium, get in lots of fat, you know, pork, beef fats, nuts, whipped cream. I get ice cream made with coconut cream actually and I have that every night. It's like a big fat bomb. Uh and it's so it's really important to like pump up the fat and get that going. But some people may have some GI issues with the fat initially. So you have to kind of titrate it in gradually. But my body always did really well with high fat. So uh I didn't have any any problems adapting to it. But it's the fat that your your own body fat and your dietary fat that's making the ketones, right? So now there's there's another element in this period though. If this person is training in any capacity during those two weeks period, it sounds or however long it takes for them. Sounds like that could also present some complications. Um yeah, what does somebody need to keep in mind about their training? And I and I I know I've heard some people say like heart rate is a concern when you're adapting to ketone to fat adaptation versus glucose as well. I know there's a guy named Phil Mafetone who has a a low carb system and he says no you really really have to watch your heart rate because if it goes too high then your body starts scrambling for glucose like what what what considerations does somebody have need to have in their training? Um so yeah if your heart rate's high I mean heart rate I mean your heart rate can get elevated if you get on a ketogenic diet if your blood volume drops you know you kind of get tachicardia some people experience that and that could be the hypoalmia or kind of a the uh the naturetic effect that you have like your electrolytes could be uh not optimal. So I would suggest you know maybe initially getting adequate magnesium a magnesium supplement helped me prevent me from getting cramps. If I train certain muscle groups I would be prone to get cramps when I started the ketogenic diet. Magnesium in the form of glycinate or chlor u magnesium chloride uh would be what I would recommend. potassium citrate uh although like chicken and and vegetables have adequate potassium and heavily salt your food uh initially in the beginning and make sure you have a lot of hydration. So you're I guess you were talking about high heart rate during exercise. So that would be kind of the activation of your sympathetic nervous system. uh when you activate your sympathetic nervous system, it tends to break down existing levels of glycogen in your liver. So you'll be kind of, you know, stimulating the release of whatever glycogen you have and and sometimes post exercise you can get hypoglycemic and that could be uh an issue for some people. I think it's those periods where you need to supplement with MCT. And I think uh you know people ask me, well, if I am an MMA fighter, if I am a sprinter, if I'm doing this or that, can I, you know, do the ketogenic diet? And I say, you really just need to experiment with it. But you have to keep in mind that it's going to take months for you to adapt. Think about it. you're changing your whole metabolic physiology from a carbohydrate-based system to a fat and ketonebased system and that takes time. Uh I didn't really get into my stride so to speak until about 6 months to a year after being in ketosis. the benefits are really real like uh you know and and I just was traveling for four weeks continuously in Southeast Asia and there was some periods where like I just didn't really have food cuz we were hiking and things like that and I would have completely like bonked and because I was adapted um I was uh much more resilient against you know uh limited food availability too. So, I I think uh you know, you really have to force your body to get through it to to start getting the benefits and everybody's going to be different. I think when you say you're more resilient, does that just mean you were not hungry? Like, is is hunger just not a familiar sensation to you at at a certain level of uh ketosis? Yeah, the hunger doesn't control me like I control my my appetite. So instead of I remember in the past I would just get really completely like hangry like hungry and angry and just brain fog where that doesn't happen actually when I'm a little bit hungry that's kind of when I feel my best mentally and most lucid and that's that's the real world practical benefit I think of being uh adapted to to the ketogenic diet. Now whether you know in our modern day society you know food availability is not usually an issue but I think uh you know for me it is like sometimes I get busy I'm in the lab um in meetings you know and it's I've several days I can remember in the past month or so which I just could not eat. So I just didn't have that that luxury. I was in kind of you know in an environment in the animal viarium where you're not allowed to have food or something you know. So um so that has definitely can can help me. So is that why you also or correct me if I'm wrong but you also do follow intermittent fasting to a point and you eat breakfast you eat dinner but typically during the day you don't eat much other than you know coffee or drink that is was one the byproduct of the other so I'm a ketogenic der I realize I'm not as hungry as much or I don't want you know I don't crave food I don't need to devote half my day into making food and eating food or is there or are there additional benefits to doing both ketogenic diet plus fasting or intermittent fasting. Yeah, I I think there's a benefit to getting your body into a state of hypoglycemia with elevated ketones and doing that every once in a while definitely has some health benefits and doing it on a daily basis that's you know that's kind of subject for debate whether or not that can confer long-term health benefits. I believe it can just by looking at my blood work and just getting feedback from other people. Uh, you know, I lived my life kind of I guess going back to high school and college. I was definitely had an unhealthy preoccupation with food. I was pretty much an extreme ectomorph. So for me to gain size and strength, I had to eat every two and a half two to three hours on the clock. And I mean, I remember having like, you know, nightmares about not being able to eat and just being hungry. And I always I mean, I had like chicken sandwiches in in my side pockets of my khaki pants and I was like pulling bars out and just kind of eating constantly. So, it's very liberating not to be preoccupied with preparing food, eating food, cleaning up, and just eating sitting down and having a nice social kind of breakfast, which I do, and a nice kind of like social like dinner at night. We could just sit down and kind of eat whatever and not not have to count macros and things. I pretty much know what I eat anyway. Uh and and from a practical point, I just get more done during the day and I have more energy throughout the day if I don't stop and consume a meal. So if I consume a meal in the middle of the day, which I do sometimes, like we'll go out to lunch for the lab or sometimes I'll eat and it doesn't throw me off, but I just don't eat that much. If I was to eat a big meal in the middle of the day like I do kind of at night, I I wouldn't have the sustained kind of energy and focus that I typically have during the day and that I try to use to my advantage to get as much done as possible, if that makes sense. Yeah. No, you hear you hear people talk about that sustained focus a lot as a as a benefit of this. Um, but when I when I talk to some people who who try uh ketogenic dieting or fasting, they all they often say, "Yeah, it's great dot dot dot with enough coffee basically." Um, where where does coffee fit into this is and caffeine? I mean, and how prevalent is appetite suppression in in this approach, do you? Yeah. Wow. Just as you said that statement, I was drinking coffee. Uhhuh. Exactly. Wow. I I swear uh coffee is uh I think has a ton of health benefits. It's like drinking a really potent antioxidant cocktail. So um although I I can do fine without it. Uh but I enjoy it and it's part I think of it as like a an MCT delivery system too. So, I will put my powdered MCT in it with a little bit of stevia and that's what I have in the morning. And then I put whatever I make in my uh my French press. I'll bring in my thermos to work and then I'll pour it into a cup. Uh and then sometimes I have in the middle of the day, typically not after 400 p.m. I'll have I'll brew another uh small cup of coffee. Uh but there's some coffee in the mix here. Yeah. I I don't like to be I I hate the idea of being sort of dependent on something. Uh when we were traveling actually uh and maybe because just just being outside and and active and everything uh I didn't have caffeine withdrawal. Maybe if I was at my desk, you know, my office actually doesn't have any windows or anything. So I'm not like stimulated with light. Um, but when I was traveling, I completely kind of got off coffee and I forget where we were at just recently, like Cambodia, the middle of Southeast Asia or something. We stopped in the uh at some kind of specialty shop that had that had coffee and it was like super strong and I got a large coffee and it had like the LD50 of caffeine in it and I didn't and I drank it and I survived but I was just like super wired like it just hit my brain like I thought I was going to have a seizure or something. Uh your body becomes very sensitive if you kind of take caffeine and uh and kind of go without it for a little bit. So, you have to wean yourself back into it. But I am I'm a big I think coffee has a lot of benefits health-wise and and the caffeine is uh has been so well studied by the military. You pull all the like the military records on caffeine and that's why they incorporate it into their you know all the guys are you know on lots of caffeine milary. Yeah. You said something else interesting a little while ago and you said, you know, when you were a young when you were a younger man, you had you had to eat to great excess because you were any sex because you're an ectomorph. Know knowing what you know now about fuel systems and how all these things work. Do you do you think that if somebody is looking to add even just a little bit of muscle that they have to sort of eat in that unrestrained way or is there a way to do both of these together where you can add a little functional muscle and still be um something near to one of these systems that you're describing fasting or ketogenic? Yeah, good question. Instead of like six or seven meals a day, I could have easily the energy density of fat is much higher, right? So, I could have easily took it taken out all the rice and the pasta and bread from my diet and put in more healthy fat sources and backed off from six to eight meals a day to four and probably grew the same way. And uh and my I looked at my some of the blood work I had. So, so when I was, you know, 1920, I was I felt bloated all the time. I was gassy. I had like acne. uh you know and I think I could have reduced or eliminated all that by being on a low carb a higher fat lower carb diet. So uh I think the ketogenic diets have a profound anti-inflammatory effect and I think things like uh I think there's even like a publication out there the ketogenic diet for acne or for definitely for inflammatory disorders. We published a nature medicine paper uh on the NLR P3 inflammosome. and that that pathway is activated with a lot of chronic inflammatory disorders. Uh so I think I could have made the same gains and probably probably not put on as much fat as I did when I was trying to bulk bulk up and I probably could have did it in a more healthy manner instead of literally force-feeding bananas and and pasta and bread. Um, I kind of want to Oh, sorry. I didn't mean to cut you off. Um, you can finish what you were saying before I jump to the next thing. Oh, yeah. I went back and looked at some of the the dietary records and I was easily getting like 5 600 grams of carbs a day. Wow. So, back at that time. So, um, I would be interested uh or curious to what would happen to my body if I tried that again. definitely would need to adapt to it. All right. Uh I'm going to change subjects a little bit here. Uh because there is something that I do want to talk about, make sure we have time to talk about it. Um are exogenous ketones or ketone supplements. Um starting to see more of them, hear more about them. Have a ton of questions on them, but um I guess just to start simple, what are they? Um and how do they work? So my guess is they are not a means so that I can eat pizza and take these ketones and then somehow magically still be in ketosis. So not necessarily a way to reverse or compensate for eating carbs or a higher protein diet that would then you know could elicit uh an insulin response. So how or what are they how do they work? Okay, so exogenous ketones, I stumbled across this um you know that these were being produced and have been around for quite some time and they completely circumvent the need for dietary restriction to put you into a state of ketosis and for our for our purposes it was therapeutic ketosis for controlling seizures. So uh they essentially are a ketone molecule or a precursor to uh a bio identical ketone molecule that when it's consumed the ketones are liberated into the bloodstream and they are elevated and are used by your brain and your heart and peripheral tissues. So if for example I was to take a ketone esester which we have done the most of our research in our lab has been been on ketone esters. If I was to cons, if I'm on a high carb diet and I would consume a ketone estester within 15 minutes to 30 minutes, if you looked at my blood, it would look like I fasted for a week if I took, you know, a pretty hefty dose of it. And a physiologist that would, you know, take a blood sample would be convinced that I had just fasted uh for a week. So, not only does it elevate blood levels of ketones, beta hydroxybutyrate and accetoacetate, but it also uh large bololises of exogenous ketones also lower blood glucose. And we don't we don't know why that's happening, but it's it's become a really important aspect of our research. It seems to reduce hpatic glucose output. Uh but more importantly, what I think the exogenous ketones are doing are enhancing insulin sensitivity. So it actually assists with the transport and utilization of glucose into tissues. How it's doing that we don't know. We're looking at perhaps activation of peruvate dehydrogenase complex PDH uh enhancing the the the insulin receptor facilitating glucose transport in some way. Uh so that would be so there's ketone esters. You take a ketone molecule and you can combine it with a lot of different molecules out there like glycerol or 13b butane dialol or various things so that when it's consumed the esester bond is broken by eststerase enzymes and that ketone molecule is liberated to be used. So and then you have what you see pretty common on being commercialized right now is ketone salt products. So a ketone salt the ones that are out there are beta hydroxybutyrate and they are combined with monovalent or dvalent cations ions which could be sodium potassium calcium and magnesium typically other ones out there. So it's a it's a simple ionic bond between the ketone molecule and the mineral and when they're consumed uh the mineral and is liberated from the ketone and um and the ketones get in the circulation they can be very efficient fuels for the heart and the brain and uh and if it's combined with different fats you can slow the absorption. Uh I think there's products out there by Kegenics, by Prove It, Forever Green. Uh there's different companies out there developing this. These technologies actually were developed kind of in our lab, the mixtures of the salts. Um so I I think they have incredible application. I think the products that are actually out there right now have not been tested in our lab. So the actual product, so the formula that's incorporated in some of these products have been, you know, tested in our lab for efficacy for quickly elevating and sustaining ketosis. But uh what I'm interested in doing is actually you know working with the companies to do very specific pharmacocinetic studies performance enhancement studies with their actual products to make sure they're they're of their purity and their potency. So that's what we're kind of in the process of doing. We're negotiating with these companies to do that. And uh it's it's pretty it's it's nice because these companies unlike some other companies out there, they're really sincere about they want to create the best product they can. So they seem pretty sincere about supporting the the research that's necessary to further develop and and validate their product. So, so sort of speaking to this uh athletic population, sort of the athlete of the future who's wondering like, okay, yeah, what is the what is the athletic keto supplement or um or ketone supplement going to look like? What am I when am I going to take it? Um what do what do you envision like? Is this a ketone preworkout that somebody could be taking or is it something they're sipping on during the day or uh what do you what do you see happening down the road? It's a good question. I think when your body is fat and keto adapted, it will more efficiently transport and utilize ketones as an energy source um for your brain and your heart. So, I think you'll probably get more benefits from a ketone supplement if you're low carb. Um, but that's some of the the work that was done with the u the monoester of beta hydroxybutyrate from Richard Vichch's lab at the NIH and the research was done at Oxford University and it looked at elite level rowers and they were not on a ketogenic diet. Uh they're primarily on a carbohydrate-based diet. when they took a dose of the ketone estester uh it enhanced power output uh significantly and that's uh not sure that's published but it's you know in the patents patent reports. So there's a little bit of discussion too about the the uh the form of the ketones that are being sold currently. So there is something there's recemic ketones which is are the the D and the L or the R and the S anantimer. So if you look at your hands, right? You know how there's L amino acids and D amino acids and there's, you know, llysine and L arginine. And if you were to have a steak out of a D amino acid, you probably wouldn't absorb it and utilize it very efficiently. But that that really does not seem to be the case with ketones. So if you have the R uh or D depending on what kind of chemistry uh how how you characterize it uh form is the physiological form of ketone that our body makes uh and the the salts that are being sold are recemic. So there's there's the uh R and the S or the D and the L that are being sold and the other anantimer actually breaks down to acetal COA and can interconvert back to the physiological anantimer the R and there was a podcast I think on uh Dr. V did a podcast on bulletproof radio I think and just talked about the recemic salts that are being sold out there right now are ineffective and dangerous but that's really not the case uh the because there's you know you could just look for various disorders for uh MAD is a disorder that's it's an inborn error metabolism where they gave kids uh even very high doses of recemic salts the same salts that are being sold and it not only managed their their disorder but had no side effects. So we know that the recemic salts there's I know there's been a big safety issue uh going on but there's a mountain of safety data uh even showing the efficacy of some of the salts that are out there uh even the sodium salt. So, even taking a large dose of sodium, I think sodium has been demonized, but it's probably more important if you're in a state of ketosis cuz we talked about when you're when your ketones are elevated, typically you're excreting more sodium. So, you definitely need to bump up sodium a little bit, especially initially. Uh, so the sodium salts that are out there, if you're trying to be the best athlete you can, what I would recommend is taking them preworkout and intraworkout to fuel your workouts, especially if you're already low carb. And if you are on a high carb diet, there's pretty good evidence to suggest that it enhances insulin sensitivity and it enhances glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent. Uh ketones do. So, and this is very obvious in our studies. If we administer by mouth a ketone supplement, the blood glucose reliably goes down and then comes back up. it almost has the inverse pharmaccoinetic profile of the ketones. So as ketones go up, you get this hypoglycemic effect. So it's actually facilitating and enhancing uh glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent. So that would almost like taking a little bit of insulin before you work out. So actually pushing more glucose into into the cells into the skeletal muscle. So with that being said, is there when do you know you've gone overboard? When do you know you've taken too many ketones or the higher dose? Yeah, that's a good question. Well, I think with the products that are out there now that that's highly unlikely because you'll have GI issues way before you'll have uh keto acidosis. That's your warning system. Yeah. Yeah. So, your GI So, for example, like you you know, if you take too much mediumchain triglyceride, MCT oil, you'll have disaster pants, right? So we know this um so you know the future it's a great name uh but as these technologies advance and then you know you can you can develop ketone salts also out of alkaline amino acids. So you could envision a ketone salt that has a spectrum of monovalent and dvalent cations ions and then a kind of like a panel. They're combined with a number of different uh amino acids. So they could be formulated into a drink that's tolerable and palatable and it could put your ketone levels very high. Uh that's not the state right now. So the technology has not kind of evolved to that point now. But with ketone esters, it's a very real possibility, but they taste horrible. Uh so you'd need to consume they need to be diluted into a mixture where you'd probably have to drink up to a half a liter to a liter or more. So it's you'd have to consume a pretty high amount. Uh so diet ketoacidosis has been thrown around a lot and some people say the ketogenic diet could be dangerous because you risk diabetic ketoacidosis. But it's important to recognize that that's only a that's a metabolic derangement specifically associated with the absence of insulin as it would apply to a type 1 diabetic. So without your body's ability to produce insulin, you have runaway ketogenesis. So your liver will just keep pumping out ketones if you don't make insulin. With that said, I think a ketogenic diet could be a great option for a type 1 diabetic because it reduces their their need and their reliance on on insulin. So, if you can get a type 1 diabetic to use, you know, 10 IUs of insulin instead of 80 IUs of insulin, that's a good thing. And generally speaking, they don't go into keto acidosis. only if they were to become dehydrated or you know undergo some kind of physiological stress. Um but so as far as safety is concerned with the supplements, you would have to consume, you know, a lot of it, too much of it to to really put yourself into uh into a state of the the levels of ketones that you would need to be in a state of keto acidosis with normal blood glucose or low blood glucose would be about 8 to 10 millmer. then you'll start to get into kind of the danger zone. And currently the products on the market barely get you to like 1 millmer. So you're magnitudes of orders away from the potential even to to get into keto acidosis. So when when when people talk about, oh, this is this is my keto life. This is what it feels like online. You hear about two benefits um primarily is what I see. People talk about, you know, body composition benefits and they talk about how they feel this sort of feeling of mental clarity. Do you feel like um ketone supplements have potential to be of value to that to that person who isn't isn't a high level athlete? Isn't somebody who's looking for it in a therapeutic setting? Isn't isn't type 1 diabetic but just thinks, "Yeah, I'd love to be a little bit leaner. I'd love to feel good during the day and not have this up and down um you know, blood sugar roller coaster. Uh I don't really want to eat super low carb. I want to eat reasonably, but oh, if maybe if I took this supplement along with it, I could have some of the some of the ketogenic diet benefits." Do you think that that that person um might benefit from this? Yeah, I think they may benefit the most kind of like your average everyday person, even like you know the business executive who just wants to have steady more or less fuel flow to the brain in your body throughout the day. And when you're on a ketogenic diet, that's really the benefit is that your your glucose and your hormones are pretty much stable throughout throughout the day. So you have this sustained focus and energy and that can come in handy, you know, if you you don't want your glucose to drop right before kind of a meeting or or you have to write a paper or something like that or get some kind of report in. Uh so I know kind of if I'm following a ketogenic diet and I'm going into a pretty demanding day at work, I know that my energy is going to be sustained throughout the day and uh and my focus will be sustained. And I think in the beginning, you know, you may it may be a little rough and maybe you'll be drinking more coffee or whatever to get to get you through periods of glucose withdrawal that your brain is going through, but once you're adapted, the benefits are really really pronounced, I think, for most people. And then you get people that the ketogenic diet can just be difficult for them to follow. There's some people who just can't tolerate the high fat, you know, of the diet. Some people can't tolerate MCT at all. Um, and also once you become once you get keto adapted, like very subtle variations can make a big difference for some people. You know, there's there's some people that even a little bit of carbs can throw them off and then they start getting kind of hypoglycemic responses. But I'm not one of those people. But I think some people are like that. And you know, other other people have kind of commented there's women who have concerns about hormonal alterations, you know, with carbohydrate restriction. And I think females, their physiology tends to be reactive to stressors. And if they become hypoglycemic and they start a ketogenic diet, it can throw maybe their hormonal uh balance off a little bit. So this needs to be studied. I get this question asked a lot like if I'm a woman and an athlete, can I follow Ken diet? um just from the observations that I've made in the lab with students and everything when some of them will just try fasting like basically more than half of the women have been unable to fast whereas the guys I don't know if it's an ego thing or what but they kind of chalk it up and grit through it but I mean some of the women I mean they'll just faint you know they'll have they'll have it'll be really difficult for them to to to power through that the carbohydrate restriction or fasting. So, I think men just tend to be hardwired for that a little bit better. And I think that needs to be studied especially if we want to if women are interested in using a ketogenic diet for weight loss or or health benefits or performance enhancement and and and now we are actually doing studies uh the national institutes of health the NIH is actually requiring investigators to do male and female. So it's maybe it's not known in the general community but like all scientific research almost all of it is done in males because if you study females they have the estrus cycle and it gives more variability to your data. Uh so for years investigators have been you know they will buy male mice or male rats but now uh the NIH realized well women are important I guess. So so now we use male and female animals in our in our experiments. It makes things, you know, more expensive because we need more animals. But we are starting to get, you know, more information now on the effects of nutritional ketosis on females and that's really important. Yeah. Why are women so complicated? I don't know. Yeah. I just say they're just more more variable, more that's the the nice way to put it. So, so this um this this person that we're talking about who's, you know, kind of a normal person with normal diet, normal goals, very very normal, would they see the same benefit from just adding a bunch of MCTs to their diet as they would from taking an exogenous ketone supplement? Yeah, they would see some benefits for sure. Uh but I don't think they would get optimal benefits unless they were kind of low carb really. Uh, I think when you're adapted to low carb, you're also you become keto adapted. So, I think it's assisting with the transport and utilization of the ketones that the MCT is making. So, that's that's my hypothesis, but we haven't really studied that. So, I'm just kind of speculating based on feedback. But regardless, uh I don't think a clinical type strict ketogenic diet is probably a good idea for athletes out there. But a modified ketogenic diet that's supplemented in some way with ketogenic fats. And that could be coconut oil, MCT, or the C8 oil. U Pillo Nutrition makes one. Um Keto Sports makes the C8. uh Dave Aspbury cells, Brain Octane, that's C8. So there's a couple versions of the the powerful kind of more or less you can think about as the most ketogenic MCT out there. And that's that's really beneficial. I mean, you can you can get your ketones up. I can get up to about 2 millmer, which is pretty pretty high relatively speaking with just an MCT. Um. Mhm. And you feel that. That's that's like some especially if you're in a fasted state and you take a dose of MCCT. I mean, you feel it kind of hit your brain. You feel the real world. Yeah. You don't you don't have to It's not hard to convince someone once your body is kind of hungry and you take an MCT or ketone supplement. You can feel it the effect. There it is. My brain. And I think it's it's actually further enhanced with a little bit of caffeine. M so and that's something that we want to do research on is start formulating these things. So you have kind of like uh various types of exogenous ketones in a formula with various co-actors that help the cell transport and utilize them more efficiently and then maybe some mild stimulants that could further augment sort of the the bioenergetic energy producing effects of the ketones. So these are I have various things on on paper that we're formulating and we want to test and you know it's mostly for military applications but uh but hopefully you know you can envision sort of bodybuilding supplements coming out you know that are formulations of this. I want to touch on real quick um any possible preventative effects of either the diet or supplementation ketone supplementation. So for someone like myself or I would say a lot of people, we may not be dealing with seizures or self or I may not be necessarily a bodybuilder who is using this diet to get lean uh or or trying to improve my body composition. Is there any other reason why this diet or lifestyle would be beneficial? because I believe I've heard you talk about um or mention before some protective uh effects on the brain for possible brain injury and I could be completely wrong so please just stop me when I am wrong or if there's any uh benefit let's say I have cancer that runs in my family um is there a benefit of me taking the step ahead and getting on the diet or getting on supplementation and and potentially reducing any you know increased risk Yeah. Yeah. Abs. Absolutely. Uh I think so just going back to brain health. Um I'm really a believer that your brain health, your long-term brain health has a lot to do with inflammation. So we know from the scientific literature, anything that's healthy for your heart is going to be healthy for your brain, right? And we know that uh the work from Richard Vich's lab uh who was a student of Hans Kreb you know the the Kreb cycle uh he did some ele elegant studies showing that uh ketones enhance you know ATP production and reduce free radical production in the heart in a working profuse heart preparation. So you generally get more ATP per oxygen molecule consumed up to like 25 30% more. Uh and we know we published a study uh actually I formulated the diet with a ketoneester and and it was the study was run by deep dixit at Yale University uh looking at the effects of inflammation on cancer. So uh Dr. Dixit at Yale did did a lot of remarkable work on the effects of fasting and fasting reducing various inflammatory pathways. And we he found that uh just simply elevating ketones uh suppressed an inflammation pathway associated with chronic illnesses. and and it did it in a metabolic independent mechanism which means the ketones were were functioning purely as as a signaling molecule independent of of the known metabolic pathways. Uh which is very interesting to me because uh it's very interesting that these key these exogenous metabolites actually have drug-like effects. you know they they uh function as class one and two histone diaetylase inhibitors HDAC inhibitors and the pharmaceutical companies are all over developing these HDAC inhibitors for for Alzheimer's uh for cancer especially so uh and it just makes sense right these exogenous metabolites that our body makes have important signaling properties so as it pertains to brain health being in a state of nutritional ketosis will provide an alternative energy substrate for your brain that will likely enhance bioenergetic function in the brain cells. That's been established pretty well in in animal models and in vitro and in vivo. It will lower inflammation and chronically keeping inflammation low will probably pay big dividends as we age. So I think chronic inflammation you could probably trigger the formation of amaloid and tal plaques right with chronic inflammation that happens with concussions right so repeated concussions or subconcussive events which can happen during football can contribute to the formation of amaloid and tal plaques which are the pathological harm hall hallmark for Alzheimer's disease so so yes I think being in a state of ketosis could be prophylactically protecting the brain. And we know that cancer as it pertains to cancer being in a state of nutritional ketosis requires suppression of the hormone insulin and low blood glucose and high ketones. Right? So insulin, if you already have cancer, which most people do in some way, shape, or form, our immune system has pretty good checkpoints to deal with precancerous cells. uh and cancer develops very slowly over time. It's not that it's just spontaneously forms you know. So we are cancering you know it's like a verb really. So, uh, if we do a therapeutic fast or we follow a nutritional protocol that puts us into nutritional ketosis and we do what's called a glucose ketone index, which is the glucose in millimar over ketones in millimar and Thomas safe has wrote a paper on this and we we basically for for simplicity we get our ketone levels up to the level of our blood glucose. And if we do that, you know, two or three times a year, I think we will we could potentially purge oursel from existing cancer or precancerous cells that we have. And I think, you know, it's it's my theory and and other people's could theorize this is that that that could be a very uh effective preventative approach to a lot of different diseases, especially cancer. That's that's really interesting. Yeah, that was one thing I wanted to ask you about as well. It's so easy to think of this as a lifestyle, but what about a sort of a periodic reset two to three times a year? Do you think that that's that's something that's going to um have value as well? Yeah. Yeah. I I definitely think so. It's been shown by investigators like Mark Matson at the National Institutes of Health that intermittent fasting or even periodic fasting can have long-term uh health benefits. you know, even from an epigenetic standpoint. So, we have the acute effects, right? We have a profound decrease in inflammation, uh, you know, elevation of of blood ketone levels, suppression of hormone, insulin, things like that. But that can activate a genetic program that can confer protection against a plethora of chronic illnesses. And I think doing that periodically could be very beneficial. say, you know, when cancer cells are healthy cells that gradually transform to what's called a Warberg phenotype, a Warberg phenotype is basically the cells are fermenting in the presence of oxygen. So, they continue to ferment and they and they suck up massive amounts of of glucose and in some cases glutamine, too. uh being doing a therapeutic fast or getting getting into nutritional ketosis would lower their preferred fuel source and elevate the fuel source that they can't use, right? And that would put tremendous metabolic stress on these precancerous cells and uh and they would likely trigger what's called apoptosis, programmed cell death. If a cancer cell cannot meet its energy needs, it activates a pathway that causes the cancer cell to basically spontaneously die. We call that apoptosis. And they're very sensitive. Even a even a tumor that's growing healthy, there's all sorts of necrotic and apoptoic cells inside u inside the tumor itself. You can cut it open and see it. So uh so that's you know the cancer is a very complex topic and it's genetically very heterogeneous but it has the same metabolic phenotype you know at least 90% of the cancers do. So it has a very high appetite for for glucose and it's driven the growth and proliferation of cancer is driven by the hormone insulin and IGF-1 and that's suppressed when you do the therapeutic fasting and and nutritional ketosis. So, I think that's that's definitely could be a beneficial thing for people to periodically do uh do short-term fasting or maybe periodically just do intermittent fasting uh or just the ketogenic diet. So, there's there's different approaches that they could take. Yeah. And you see many different approaches online where people say, "Oh, yeah. You know, once a week or once a once a month you do it for uh there's one I heard I saw a lot of attention on recently. Once a month for 3 days you basically have broth and have a little modified fast. Does it does do you think it needs to be that often or can somebody do it? Hey, you know what? It's New Year's. I'm going to fast my my annual fast and actually see any benefits from that. Yeah, I I think it becomes more important as we age, right? Because as we age, these things, it's kind of inevitable. These chronic illnesses tend to creep up on us and I think our carbohydrate tolerance decreases with age. So, it's probably a good idea to transition more into low carb as we age into this kind of eating lifestyle. Uh, you know, when you're 19 and your early 20s, your carbohydrate tolerance is so high, you can most, unless it's you have type 2 diabetes in your family or you're an obese child, you you generally, especially if you're an athlete, a young athlete, can tolerate carbs really well and probably doesn't need to do this. But as we age, I think it's a good way to stave off uh chronic illnesses that tend to creep up and especially inflammation. And that's that's probably the biggest thing that I see. Uh and even gut health. I don't know. It's the ketogenic diet is kind of like an elimination diet, too, right? Because you're eliminating some foods that could be problem foods. But the I get several emails every single day about the keto health how healthy ketogenic diet like restored a person's gut health or decreased inflammation associated with their with their gut. Um so I think that's a real thing that needs to be studied. What the ketogenic diet does to the gut microbiome is something that um we need to study too. Okay. And yeah, from an from an athletes perspective, what what else do you think we need to study next? what's uh or what what do you think is exciting that's happening in that in that direction? Well, I think from a basic science point of view, we need to determine how nutritional ketosis impacts u metabolic physiology from you know we need to do metabolic card studies and understand how the fuel source changes with time from the initiation. You take carb burning athletes and put them on a ketogenic diet and you measure week one, two, three, all the way out to uh well, if it was unlimited funding, all the way out to 6 months and find out uh how their body the rates of their keto adaptation and how that changes and and even do a genetic kind of profile on them with 23 and me to determine what SNIPS may be preventing keto adaptation or enhancing it and uh and what athletes may may benefit most. So, we study it be good to study endurance athletes, sprinters, and then power athletes like like powerlifters. Of course, this is all great in a in a in a world where there's unlim unlimited funding, but um the the military does have a pretty keen interest in transitioning their guys uh in understanding, I'll say, in understanding the uh the benefits of the ketogenic diet. I know the defense science board put in a recommendation, you know, at the level of the the president essentially put in a recommendation to look at ketones and low carb diets for the military. So, and I' I've given talks at NATIC and I've given talks to the military and there and they're serious about doing this, but there's some entrenched dogma that they need to overcome before that happens. Well, there there is a world of unlimited experiments out there happening online every day. It seems like you see every every type of athlete has a keto discussion happening online. But the problem of course being anything that can happen online can be totally butchered, right? Um what what what would you what would be your your parting words maybe to to that person online like here's how you can stop butchering the ketogenic diet? Um okay. Are you talking about people that are like promoting it or kind of dissing it or both? Pro I would say promoting it. Promoting it but not for what it really is. for example, a lot I see a lot about uh keto cycling or where you're keto for a week and on the weekend you you eat the carbs again or you come back to it. So just a lot of misinformation I guess uh is what we we see a lot of probably some of it's good some Well yeah and I'm also Yeah I imagine you if you look around online at um the the keto um casual literature online you probably see something every once in a while and go uh dude that's not keto I don't know what you think you're doing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Well I think it's you know first and foremost people need to be educated if they want to give this an honest try. Jeff Volic has a great book, Art and Science of Low Carbohydrate Performance. It's kind of like the a go-to book. It's like mandatory reading for like students that come to my lab. Uh, and you know, I I think it's it's really important to check your your ketone levels. You know, a lot of people do this process and they don't check their ketone levels or they they don't even track their macros. So, there's this kind of a misunderstanding that if I do the ketogenic diet, I don't have to track my macros. I could just eat this and I'll be in ketosis or whatever. I think especially for a person who's serious about their fitness is to to track their macros with a simple app or just, you know, write it down on on paper or whatever. And then once you do that, you don't have to be obsessive about it, but it you understand kind of like right now I can kind of look at a meal and under and kind of calculate the macros in my head. So you don't have to go around with a calculator, but it's really a lot of people when they start the ketogenic diet because it's so energy dense, they underestimate actually how many calories are eating. You know, they'll sit down in front of the TV with a a big tub of cashews and like eat it. I'm eating ketogenic or whatever or macadamia nuts. They don't realize they just, you know, it takes a while for your stomach to tell your brain that, you know, you've just eaten a lot of calories. So you can pack away a lot of fat pretty fast. Um, so it's it's really important to kind of to uh if you're going to set up your meal to like set aside x amount of food and not, you know, force-feed yourself a ketogenic diet, you need to pay attention. It doesn't you don't throw calories out the window or macronutrients out the window. A lot of people think you don't have to calculate that. And if you do the cyclic ketogenic diet, uh it should be in a calculated way, not a free-for-all. all you can eat carbs on the weekends cuz that can do a lot of damage. Uh you need to have it like sort of calculated and do more of like a slow carb approach, you know, uh be kind of picky about the kind of carbs that you're consuming preferentially and just, you know, not not an all you can eat sugar frenzy because you could do a lot of damage as far as taking in excess calories if you're not you don't have some kind of control over it. I mean, I remember years ago being on a restrictive diet and then giving myself like a cheat day or a cheat meal. You can consume like person can consume I've seen a person consume about 7 to 8,000 calories I think in one meal. Oh yeah. You know when they come out damage on that thing. Yeah. Yeah. And they don't realize terrible. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's really unhealthy. And so if people are doing the cyclic ketogenic diet and then call it a cheat meal or cheat day, I think they should calculate, you know, how much they're going to eat and be pretty not restrictive, but a little more reserved in kind of their carbohydrate feedings. And understand too that if your liver glycogen's topped off, it's going to take you about two or three days to get back into producing ketones naturally again. So that gap in time may be a good uh opportunity to use ketone supplementation uh as far as you probably less likely to feel the effects of hypoglycemia. But if your liver glycogen's topped off, you probably won't go hypoglycemic, right? So um but it does take a while for for you to get the benefits of ketones again after you've given yourself significant carbohydrate feeding. Okay, good. I think that's a great place to wrap up the conversation. Thank you very much for talking with us. So I feel like yeah that that was a great takeaway at the end there. Absolutely. Great to be on glad you guys are covering this topic. So I get I get a lot of probably most of my emails I get are from the fitness community. So yeah and I I think that's a great um that's a great place for this topic to grow too sort of organically in the future. Yep. Well great. Thanks again. Thank you so much Dom. Thanks for having me. Take care. Thank you too. Bye-bye. Okay. Byebye.