All right, good morning everybody. We all froze up in this piece in Boyisee, Idaho. Uh, you are listening to the bodybuilding.com podcast and for the first time you're actually watching it as well. If that's your if that's your thing, you're into peeping peeping podcast. Yes, I'm thoroughly thoroughly striped. Nick Kolius, I'm an editor at bodybuilding.com. I'm also thoroughly surrounded. We have Chrissy Kendall, science editor at bodybuilding.com. And wait, what? Who's that? It's Lane Norton over there. Who Who let that guy in? I think we're going to have a science fight right here. Yeah, she's the big beta-alanine lobby. I don't know if she sold out to Big Beta Alan a long time ago. Creatin. Big Ba. Huh? Big Ba. Creatin has my heart. Lane needs no introduction to most of you. Uh, or many of you. He's a Cubs fan first and foremost. That's what he's known best for. Cubs. uh record setting powerlifter, natural bodybuilder, physique coach, PhD, chief dude at Carbon by Lane Norton, and Avatar Nutrition. Had a new study accepted yesterday. Yeah, congratulations on that. Yeah, only took six years. Yeah. Oh, I know. I know that, Dylan. I I just had my uh dissertation published earlier this year. Yeah. So, I know that all So, I was like, why' it take so long? I'm like, well, you know, like you get working on making money once you graduate. And sorry, just being real. Uh, and then it just kind of takes a backseat. So, it was like, and then Layman is uh, Professor Emoretus, so he's semi-retired. And so, it' be like we do a revision and then six months would go by and we'd do another revision and six months would go by. And so, you know, we started about three years ago really working on putting the manuscript together and uh, but just goes to show how far ahead the research was at the time. Is it still novel? So, yeah, that that was my question is like, okay, yeah, no, I don't I don't believe this anymore. Yeah. Yeah. No, it was uh it was a good study, but it was uh very involved. We weren't really worried about many people replicating it because it had been very difficult to do. So, Okay. Well, we'll dig into that a little bit. Um but yeah, he's in he's in town hanging out with bodybuilding.com. Did you shoot a video? Yeah, we did a we did AI don't know if I can say it, but we did a resolutions video. So, nice. Uh you guys can block that out if I if I wasn't supposed to say it. No, no, no. We're going to we're going to It's like top secret, you know? So, we're an open book around here. Okay, cool. Yeah. Um, yeah, you also put up a really solid YouTube video yesterday I saw about volume, which I thought was interesting. I wanted to dig into that a little bit and how some people kind of miss the point um about about volume. Um, and I don't know, there's a there's a larger discussion in there just about making good decisions and applying a good level of scrutiny to to what you do. I think the main thing that I see in anything uh politics, finances, fitness is context is completely lost on people. Um so it's not good enough to ask a question. You have to put it in context, you know. So um that was the training volume video was trying to to elaborate on that. And basically I've had people recently I'm I'm dealing with a few injuries and people have said oh well see your your training volume was a bad idea and it wasn't a bad idea. I won nationals twice, got a silver medal at worlds and set a world squat record at the time. So for me it was worth it. Maybe for you it's not worth it. Maybe you just care about being healthy and being able to play with your kids. And there's nothing wrong with that if that's your goal. But if your goal is to be the best you can possibly be at whatever sport it is, injuries are associated with that. But it also takes you have to train a certain way. So I knew that going in and I made a conscious decision. So I think and I talk about that with a lot of my clients whether regards whatever the goals are fat loss, muscle gain, all those sorts of things that there has to be a a very defined discussion about what your what your expectations and your goals are and then that shapes how everything else works. Sure. Well, yeah. I mean, especially at this time of year, people gravitate toward a little bit of magical thinking about these sort of things, right? Oh yeah. Oh, this is the this is the year I'm going to do this uh this magical program. I'm going to do this magical diet, magical technique. Even even more people ask me, well, should should I track uh my macros during the holidays like at meals? And I'm like, well, it depends. Like, you know, uh if you if you don't want to if you really just want to enjoy the time with your there's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with that. But if you yolo and you just eat whatever, don't be surprised when you've put on 10 pounds, you know? Don't act like like what you don't want to do is be completely mindless about it and say, "Well, I'd really like to stay lean, but I want to eat whatever I want." Like, you don't get something for nothing. You know what I mean? So, having an idea to say, but if you say, "Well, I'd like to maintain most my leanness, but I'd also like to, you know, back off a little bit on being so strict," and you kind of have like some cognitive restraint in there, that's fine. But again, it's a discussion. And if you say, "You know what? what I value is being lean as hell and I don't really care about having dinner with with you know I'll go to the the I'll go and be around my family but I don't want to eat that food then that's fine too you know there's your values don't have to extend to other people and vice versa so I think just but as long as you have prepared explain it to grandma yeah as long as you have that conversation and you know this is what I value and that's okay. Yeah. Yeah. And how do you balance I mean because you work with kind of both spectrums. You worked with or you work with currently and in the past with kind of the extreme of competing uh prepping on the top elite professional stage versus you know just someone who either getting ready for their first show uh maybe not even a uh bodybuilder but also powerlifter completely different diets. How do you I mean wrap your head around all of that and because it's personalized. You don't do that cookie cutter. Here is your program and I'm going to you know give everyone the exact same 6 o chicken, five almonds and three spears of asparagus. You can smell the cookie but you can't eat. Shout out to all those online coaches out there. You can chew the cookie, you just can't swallow it. Yeah, exactly. Um, yeah, that's I mean I think that's a really big part of of like talking with your clients and having like making sure that your expectations and their goals are are the same. I mean, I've had people who are, you know, they want to lose 30 pounds in 12 weeks and they're maintaining their body weight on very low calories and I have to explain to them, well, this is not a reasonable expectation for what you want, right? Here's what I think is reasonable. And I have to make sure that okay, they're either going to meet their they're gonna lower their expectations to match mine or we're not going to work together. Right. Right. Because the one thing you don't want is their expectations to be here, yours to be here and you hit yours, but not theirs. And even though you did the best job you could, they're unhappy still, right? So that's a big part of it. And also, like I said, context. I mean, um, I I'm a fan of moderation for the most part, uh, in most of these situations cuz I think moderation makes you I'll give an example. When I was younger in my 20s and bodybuilding was like my entire life and consumed me, um, you know, I would be trying to be like really strict during the holidays and what would end up would happen is I would uh when I was not able to be strict, I would just yolo and say screw it, you know what I mean? and go into hell with it mode and eat whatever I wanted and or days on end or for just a for a meal or you know that sort of thing. But I mean anybody out there who says you can't gain body fat in one meal is they do not know what they're talking about. I I I always do seminars. I'm like how many people you know have heard that people say, "Oh, you can't gain body fat in one meal." I don't know where this came from, but I mean people raised their hands. I said, "How many all know that's bullshit?" And everybody raises their hand because they all know that, you know, you can go out and have a real big meal, be two or three pounds up the next day, and people say, "Oh, it's just water weight." Well, water doesn't stick around for a few months. You know what I mean? If it's water, in a couple days, it's gone. You know, so it's poop weight. Water or poop weight. Yeah, exactly. See, just the solution is coffee. Just drink some black coffee and, you know, run it right through you. So, or as also affectionately known as poop juice. Um, so it's it's one of those things that I found that if I allowed myself to relax a little bit, I actually became more adherent rather than less adherent because I took those firm restraints off and it made it a little bit easier. You know, I'm I'm a fan of flexible dieting. A lot of people know about that. It's not it's not because I want to eat candy and stuff all day. That's not why I'm a fan of flexible diet. I'm a fan of flexibility because it improves sustainability and improves consistency. That's why I'm a fan of f flexibility for most people. If I thought that eating quote unquote clean foods was the best way to get to my goals and only do that, I would do that because I'm all about my goals, but I also know that adherence is the probably the number one thing for success with regards to nutrition. And a lot of people just aren't honest with themselves about what they'll be able to adhere to. I mean, I I see this all the time with people who are like they're like, "This is my last cheat meal ever." As they're plowing stuff down their face, you I'll never cheat again. It's like, "You cheated three days ago. Like, stop it." You know, you need to set yourself like stop setting yourself up for failure and start setting yourself up for success. And I think we need to stop looking at, you know, especially with like the obesity rates in this country. People go, "Oh, it's just willpower. People just don't have enough willpower." I think that's probably not true. I I used to be one of those people. was like people are just fat and lazy and they need to put the fork down. You know, there's definitely an element of that, you know, but I think that that's a pretty simplistic way to look at a pretty complex problem. And um I think we need to lower the barrier of entry to dieting for people because a lot of people they'll look at like their Fitzpow on Instagram posting pictures of chicken and broccoli every day and they'll go, "Well, I could never do that. So, what's the point, right? Well, no, that you don't have to do that. Like, if you could just, you know, cut down a few hundred calories a day or get maybe you can't get in the gym 2 hours a day, but can you get in 45 minutes? It's better than zero, right? You know, one of my uh I think Les Brown said, "Start where you are with what you have where you are right now." Some something to that effect. Or do what you can with what you have with where you are right now. Mhm. And I I think that's a a a huge thing to understand. And for some people, you know, I'm fortunate enough I work from home. I've got like if I want to go train 3, four hours a day, I can go do that, right? Some people don't have that that that uh that benefit. But um you know, I value being a high achiever in my sport. And some people say, "Well, you don't make any money from powerlifting. Why why is that?" Because I want to. Because that's I don't you know, money. I can always make money, but having people get to say they went to a world championship and got a silver medal, you know, that that sort of thing. So, um, yeah, having those conversations about, okay, what's important to you? I mean, I even told people, I'm like, listen, I'm a libertarian. If somebody wants to be fat, if they're happy being fat, who am I to tell them, hey, you should lose weight, right? I've met, we all know people in the fitness industry who are the most miserable people you've ever met who have unbelievable physiques, right? Like you look at when people go, "Oh my god, if I could just be you for a day." They're miserable. Like they're they're a miserable human being to be around. Not not all of them. Not all of them. Not all of them. Most of them fine. You know, I have most my friends in the fitness industry. But we all do know people who have great physiques or a lot of money or pick whatever your what or uh you know some job that seems really attractive and people go, "Oh, I just wish I had their life." Right. No. Well, I think at the end of the day, I like what John Lennin said when his teacher asked him when he was like in fourth grade. what do you want to be when you grow up? And he said, I want to be happy. And she replied, you didn't understand the question. He said, you don't understand life, right? So, like that should be the goal, right? To be happy. So, like I said, that's my long convoluted answer to your question. It's a good it was a good finish to the question, but if like I said, if somebody's happy being fat, who are you to tell them that they need to lose weight, right? Or who are you to tell somebody what their goal should be? And I think, you know, getting away from that and lowering the barrier to entry and stop being so fit shaming, fat shaming, like who cares what somebody else wants to do something if they're not hurting you, why do you care what their goal is, right? Well, and I think the barrier of entry is interesting way to put that when we're talking about macros, too, because that is sort of uh that's the dividing line between, you know, uh somebody who's like maybe a longtime bodybuilding.com reader, somebody who like what what the [\h__\h] does macros mean, you know? Yeah. What is that? Um, but yeah, it's funny cuz even back, you know, like that was something, okay, I'll take credit for it. I was a big pusher on the forums of flexible dieting. We didn't call it back that back then. It was just people, it was like me, Alan Argon, and a few other people. And people would ask us, "Well, is this food okay?" And we basically say, "Well, can you hit your macronutrient goals for the day? Then yeah, it's fine, you know." And so it became like, if it fits your macros, because that's literally what we kept saying over and over, right? I think Eron Eric Kernich uh uh labeled that term and then that became later flexible dieting which was a little bit you know they're the same things. People think they're different for some reason. They're the same things. But um yeah, because you know lowering the barrier to entry and just sustainability and I really get tired of the you know I went to I did a PhD in nutrition, right? So I went to I went to school wanting to find magic foods, right? I wanted to find because if I did I'd be AI'd be piecing out because I'd be a multi-billionaire by now if I found magic foods, right? But there aren't. There's really not is there's no good or bad foods. It's all just about context, you know? Like you can eat too much of a quote unquote good food, right? And you there's certain amounts of bad foods that you can have and they aren't going to hurt you, right? But there aren't necessarily magic macros either. No. No. For sure. And right like it could be easy to say, "Oh, yeah. No, this these numbers when I eat this, it's it's 100% accurate. I know exactly the macros of what I'm eating." But that's not really the case either, is it? No. I mean, everything works on like a a bell curve, you know what I mean? So you can you can come up with um this is actually an interesting segue into uh here's Pipology 101 uh my program Avatar Nutrition that I helped design which is basically um an an artificial intelligence algorithm that we use to determine uh macros for people based on their goals and body type and whatnot. But when I was putting it together, I remember the guy who started it with me, it was originally just going to be like a calculator. Mhm. And I thought, you know what, I don't like calculators because I can come up with something that's going to work for about 60% of people, but based on what I know about Gaussian distributions and bell curves, there's going to be 40 30 to 40% it's not going to work for. Right. Right. So, what do we do for those people? So, that's why we made it something to where depending on how they would have to check in with weights and body fats and whatnot and how they responded, the program then adjusted to them, right? Because I can I always tell people this is like training volume. Uh same thing. So high carb low carb or high calorie low calorie it's all individual right? High calorie for me may be low calorie for somebody else right? Uh Alberto Nunes I don't know if you guys are familiar with him. So Bernto diets on like 4,000 calories a day and he's like 170 pounds. Right. I'm 205 pounds. If I eat and I'm more muscle mass than Berno. Sorry Bernto. Um, if I eat 4,000 calories a day, I'm going to gain body fat, right? He can lose weight. So, so again, there there it's not high calorie, low calorie, and you can just flow a blanket statement out there. It depends on the individual, right? Same thing with training volume. Um, I had to squat get my squat volume up to about 40 to 50,000 pounds a week for me to squat uh 668 pounds uh at Worlds. Whereas my friend Ryan Doris, he got close to that and he his volume was like twothirds of mine, you know. So that's one of the things I tell people. It's like, you know, it's like genetics matter, you know, they do matter. And uh as much will as you have, they do matter. But it doesn't mean you can't get better. It just means that, you know, you might have to work harder than the other person. And I hear people lament that all the time. And what I'll tell them is like, well, it's freaking life. You know, Billy around the street was born and his family had $3 million saved and you were born into a broke family. It don't mean you can't become wealthy at some point. It just means you're going to be starting at the 20 yard line. He's starting at the 50. You can still get to the goal. You know, it just a little more work. Mhm. Yeah. And I I guess for me the frustrating part and you explained it well is that you can look at someone and think you know you know the example you gave with you and Alberto and you see someone extremely two extremely fit people and you think okay they must be dieting the same training the same completely different um you go on forums and everyone's like okay you've got to eat one gram of protein per pound of body weight doesn't matter what your training is doesn't matter what your body size is and we just give these absolutes all the time and it just drives me insane and no matter Or how many times you try to tell people, you know, look at this literature, look at this research and it's different and you know, we come from very similar academic backgrounds and it's like we try to tell people like look at this and read this and sometimes it just doesn't it goes through one ear and out the other and trying to educate people and open them up to experience kind of different sides of things. that just doesn't seem to connect or click or they only want to listen to one person or believe one thing or even going back to if it fits your macros. Somehow that got spun to I can eat Pop-Tarts and that became a big thing of oh if it fits your macros means I'm going to eat Pop-Tarts. That's not what it was originally about. And it like things get spun. That was kind of a proof of concept. Well, Right. Right. And I get that. But it's like we take these one thing and I get where this one gram of protein, one gram of protein per pound of I get where it came from. But it was like one small thing and then it became this end all beall like everyone has to do this and if you're going to follow that one thing you've got to do that right or the same thing could be said about carbs or fat or depending on what diet you're going to do or what training program you're going to do or if you want us to have this sort of success you've got to do this sort of program this sort of thing. How do you when you work with people and you have a new client, how do you get them to not necessarily change what they're going to do? I mean, maybe depending on where they're starting from, where they want to go, but to shift kind of their focus or the way that they think, um, or can you even do that? I mean, can you get them to um maybe rethink some of their old training habits, nutrition habits, and the way that they process? Yeah, it's a good question. And uh one one thing I think that's apparent when when you were talking is you know when you do uh a higher education like graduate school or PhD one thing is it humbles you at a certain point like you realize wow I'm an idiot for sure I don't know hardly anything I know get that education I know a little bit about my the my corner of the universe what do they call it the Dunning Krueger effect or whatever where it's like it's like basically the effect is if you have no knowledge you know that you have no knowledge and the most dangerous person is the person who has a little bit of knowledge because your confidence level is very high and then as you learn more your confidence level goes down right and then you get to a point where it starts to go back up right so that's that PhD area right but you know we've we've been either I remember the first time I went to uh uh present an experimental biology uh this was in 2008 and I got reamed by a professor I mean just absolutely I knew what I was talking about but I couldn't I hadn't had that experience of verbal jousting with somebody who was very intelligent and it was just like a complete it was like jab jab left hook uppercut you're out you know and I remember thinking I never want that experience again so it made me get better you know and it also going through those uh being challenged you know my adviser Dr. layman was really good about that about challenging everything I believed you know and it made me it humbled me in terms of realizing that context is so important right and that's basically what I was trying to say is you understand the importance of that because of doing a higher education like that and I think one of the things in terms of working with clients like how do I get them going on the right path first off it depends on the client and their goals Right. So, if it's if it's if it's somebody who's like your average Joe, for lack of a better term, and they just want to lose some body fat, they just want to look better, they just want to be healthy, I'm going to try and mess with their stuff as little as possible, because I if I blow up their lifestyle, if they're used to going to McDonald's three time or two times a day and then cooking dinner at home or whatever, or you know, they're they're used to just living this complete like what we would think is an unhealthy lifestyle and I'm just going to throw at them, all right, well, I need you to cook four egg whites and two whole eggs in the morning. Um, I need you to have a salad for lunch and like they're not it's not they might fall for a few days or maybe even a week, but eventually they're just they're going to go, you know, my friend uh Dr. Corey Propes, she has AI recommend you guys check out her YouTube videos. Um, she's great. She's the uh director of wellness at the diet doc uh which is owned by my friend Dr. Joe Klitski. And Corey has a PhD in psychology and I think she puts it really well. She goes, you know, it's not like your willpower all comes from the same place. It's not like you have willpower for your kids and willpower for your spouse and willpower for your job and willpower for your diet and willpower for your training. They're all separate bubbles. It's all from the same pot, right? So, when do we find ourselves like really having trouble adhering to a plan? It's when we're stressed out and the holidays are here. Hey, what do you know? Um and and uh some we have death in the family and you know, work is work is piling up and all this kind of stuff. So, do we want a plan that requires the maximum amount of willpower or do we want something that requires the minimum amount of willpower? So, I've always said I want something that requires the minimum amount of willpower. Somebody can stick to it. Now, if they can go and cook every single meal and pack their meals and take them and all that kind of stuff, sure, great. But we need to be able to have something that they can stick to even when everything goes to [\h__\h] Right? So, that's that's where I start for that person. Now, if I'm dealing with an elite athlete, that's a little bit different right now because that last 1% or 2% starts to make a difference. That's why when people ask me about supplements, I get a lot of people say there's a really big backlash of supplements right now. It's supplements don't help at all. You just you don't need supplements at all, which is true. You don't need because by definition need is a requirement. You don't require you don't need supplements. But to sit there and say that there's absolutely no benefit to any supplements out there, that's just wrong. That's just completely wrong. And maybe for the person who's just looking to get their get themselves get their life together, you know, lose 30, 40 pounds, maintain that and be healthy. Maybe and and they're don't have a lot of extra cash to spend. Maybe it doesn't make sense for them to buy supplements. I'm never going to sit here and tell somebody, "Oh, don't pay your health insurance or rent because I I need you to go out and buy creatin." You know what I mean? like no apartment crates and crates. But if you know if it's if it's if you've got the extra cash and it's something that's important to you and you're a competitor, those sorts of things, then yeah, then you make that call of what's important to me and what am I willing to to to to give up or sacrifice to get to that. Sure. And that and that can definitely apply to training too, right? And we're talking about volume. You can kind of have two approaches. cuz I heard you outline recently in a video basically the max recoverable volume or the minimum effective dose and I'm trying to think of like you know PH3 that's a high volume program um maybe you know a beginner might approach that and think like well I can do it just because I've got I want it so damn bad. It's funny actually I had somebody reach out to me and they're like oh well I tried PH3 and uh I made good progress on it but then I backed off to a lower volume program and I made better progress so obviously you know low volume works better for me. No, you weren't ready for PH3. That was the difference. PH3 is not for the person who just started lifting. It's not even for the person who's intermediate. In fact, as Chrissy knows, I wanted the Wilks entry score to be 350, not 300. Oh, I recall that. And the guys at the big wigs at.com came back and said, "There's nobody at the office that really fits these requirements. So, we feel like we need to relax them a little bit." So, okay. So, no problem. We relax them. And obviously, people have had great success with it. The average increase, we did a statistical analysis of over a survey of 100 people. And the average increase on um the three lift total over 13 weeks is over 100 pounds. And that includes women put on an average of almost 80 pounds on their total. That's pretty awesome. Uh men was like 114, something like that. Women actually responded better to it than men did pretty interestingly. Um, but my my fear was I knew I was going to have people who were just beginners who were going to start this or you know the hard part about the program too is we tried to make it flexible you know with AM wraps and that changing how that affected your next week's setup of weights. But at the end of the day it is a little cookie cutter. You know you can't be completely flexible with it. And you know people say oh Lane do you do PH3? Well, the concepts that are in PH3 I absolutely use. But do I use that specific program? No. When I was getting ready for worlds, that program would actually be too low volume for me. Now, that doesn't mean it's low volume for everybody, right? For a for most people out there, that's going to be a really challenging high volume program. So, and people we did have people say, "Oh, well, I got, you know, I had tenonitis come up while I was on PH3. I had this come up." Yeah. I mean, that's, you know, when you train hard, those things happen. And uh this is some criticism I've gotten is people will say, "Well, look, you know, I have dealing with lower back issue uh issue right now. I have a bulge disc as well as a herniated disc. Um last year I had a hip injury as well as a herniated two herniated discs in my neck." And people said, "Well, you you see what happened." I said, "Well, yeah, but you forgot about the world record." I said as well as the silver medal at worlds, you know. So, if I if I just wanted to look good and and um and be pretty strong, then I would train a completely different way, you know. I wouldn't train like that. Yeah. I think that's a huge problem we have is we don't think about goals and we just see something. We don't assess our initial starting point. So, it's like, am I beginner, intermediate, or advanced? I don't really care. I want to do this program and I'm going to do it. Those are fairly arbitrary categories, too. You don't know who, right? Like, how do I assess that? Well, you got advanced you've got advanced people who make progress on low volume because they're genetically less vice versa. Diet or whatever. I mean, as we discussed before, if you know what what is my goal if it's just to lose a few pounds, I I don't think I should be doing a diet that a IFBB pro is doing two weeks out from stepping on stage. Like, if that if I'm going to see they're going to post what their macros are two weeks before and I see that on Instagram and I'm going to say that's my starting diet. Yeah. that is setting me up for failure just like I would if I was say this is my first day ever and this is an extreme case but first day ever in a gym I'm going to do PH3 very extreme but I mean you do see people in the gym every day who will probably say you know what I feel good I'm going to push it so hard today tomorrow I don't feel good I'm going to dial it back this much when you do this yeah right it's just that idea I'm wondering how do how do you get that on yeah just like kind of seeing all these like fancy shiny things and being like I want that and I want that. Yeah. And then not knowing like bring it back in and how do I know what works for me and like you call it the sniff test and I love that is like is this for real? Well, that's why I like for a program minimum effective dose, right? Like that's why I like that because so for gen pop you like the minimum effective dose even for advanced athletes because it I think max recoverable volume and minimum effective dose are actually really close together. Yeah, I think they're really close together. Okay. But um I know how the personalities are in the fitness industry and in bodybuilding and powerlifting. And if I say max recoverable volume, people are going to go apehit, right? Whereas if I say minimum effective dose, they'll pull themselves back a little more. Now that that doesn't have to be static either. When I was four weeks out from worlds and trying to peak, we were going for max recoverable volume. In fact, we were probably o I was definitely overtrained heading into the last week. But that's I mean that's what elite athletes do is they overtrain purposefully and then they do a taper and they have like a rubber band snapback effect and you get some you actualize gains as I call it. Um but yeah, this is why I don't I don't post like my macros that often or my diet or my training. I I'll post my training every once in a while and people will go, "Oh, well what about this?" And it's like, "No, no, you don't understand. This is this is mine. You don't have to copy it. In fact, it probably shouldn't look like yours. You know, that's the that's the that's the biggest thing is the individualization of of things is you really, you know, and like I said, that was my really my major struggle with PH3 and why I'm so proud of Avatar is Avatar is basically nutrition that's personalized but automated, you know, and uh and that was so I felt so comfortable with that, especially now we've had over 7,000 members. Um, and it's really worked really well for about 99% of people. But with with designing programming, it's tough, you know, like there's a lot of inputs that you have to go into that. And uh, you know, without knowing what somebody's This is the same thing, like I tell people, I need to know what you're eating right now. If I don't know what you're eating right now, I I I can't make recommendations for going on in the future. Same thing with training. If I don't know what you're doing right now, how am I going to make recommendations for moving forward? if I don't know what your current training status or volume is because I could look at somebody who's really advanced and say, "Well, they must be on high volume." They might not be. They may be very genetically blessed and able to make progress with very minimal uh minimal dose, right? And so, this is also the same thing with um with looking at proathletes or professionals and saying, "Well, I want to do that." Well, there's two situations. A lot of these guys are so genetically blessed. They don't have to train that. Not to most of them do train very hard, but some don't have to train that frequently or that high volume to make progress. And with regards to IFV, drugs also come into play as well. You know, you don't have to up the volume, you up the dose. You know what I mean? No offense to anybody out there. I'm not saying they don't work hard. I I know I have friends who are IPV pros who are some of the hardest working guys I've ever been around and gals. So, I am not trying to dismiss hard work by any stretch of the imagination, but it is a confounding variable. Yeah. Okay. And it doesn't mean that what they're doing applies to you. In fact, I would because people will say, "Well, most IFPB pros train each body part once a week and you're training like everything two, three, four times a week." I say, "Yeah, I'm natural." Mhm. Okay. So, they're going to have artificially elevated levels of muscle protein synthesis all the time, right? the effect that training is going to have is going to be a drop in the bucket sometimes compared to that, right? Whereas this is this is what is going to be the impetus to change my body composition is training. And and people want to say, well, steroids don't work without training. I'm sorry, that's not true. There are studies out there showing they did a study where they took people, put them on steroids, training alone or training plus steroids, the group doing steroids alone gained more muscle than the group training. Mhm. Now, the group that did training plus steroids obviously did even better, right? But that's that's that's you know, this is one of the I hear I I hear this a lot. It's kind of a side tangent, but it drives me insane. People go, "Well, you have to actually train harder when you're on steroids." No. Really? So, steroids are somehow catabolic, right? Oh, well, that's interesting. So, you guys are just so good, you're just trying to make it even tougher on yourselves. That's what you're saying, right? It's like the people who argue that sumo deadlifting is somehow cheating. It's like, no, if sumo deadlifting were inherently easier, every single powerlifter, without exception, would do it, right? They're not purposely trying to make them it harder on themselves, right? It's just that the people who are genetically predisposed to being very good deadlifters tend to be conventional pullers. Actually, if you look at the data, um, most world record holders are doing that conventional. So yeah, but that's another great example of what works for one person might not work for another person and you can't, you know, same thing. It' be the same thing of me trying to squat like Tom Plattz. My squat form is very well known as me having a lot of forward lean because of how my levers are put together. I have femur lengths of somebody who's about 6'2 and I'm 5'10. So I am not how you would draw up a great squatter. I make it work because I'm really hard-headed and I got really I have I have very strong lumbar as well, a very strong posterior chain. But if you look at me in the bottom of a squat, I mean, my back angle is about where you'd started a conventional deadlift, you know? So, but there there's telling me to try to squat like Tom Platz where he's completely upright is like telling uh Chrissy to grow five inches. Mhm. Yeah. It just it's not going to happen. We tried. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. No, I I heard something else in there though, too, implied in there about full body training versus this strict brolit. We uh we had a piece from Charles Staley recently where he said you should you should be training basically full body until you hit the 300, 400, 500 on uh bench, squat, deadlift, I think it was. And that he said that's that's the the benchmark he uses. What's what what sort of benchmark would you say to someone like you know what stay full body until this? I I think I would disagree with Charles. Um I think that you don't have to be full body. I I in fact I think for beginners I think that again you're going to need minimal training. I think training everything a couple times a week as a beginner is just helpful in that you are learning the movements like you because people don't think about weightlift weightlifting as a skill but it's a skill. And so I would say you have one day that's like a harderish day because if you're a beginner you don't even need to train to failure. Like you just you're gonna get so many gains just from actually picking things up. Yeah. Lifting things up. Chrissy knows we call these newbie gains. Sure. Well, it's just it's movement practice, too. Yeah. It's also why a lot of the studies use untrained people because they positive findings. Yes. They get they're easier to publish. Yeah. That doesn't negate those findings, but it just means in that population that's what they found. It doesn't necessarily mean the same thing. But um yes, you know, I think that now I think whole body training may have a benefit for people who really crunch for time. So, you know, maybe you do a a squat movement, um a press movement, and a pull movement, and that's your that's your day because you're hitting all your major muscle groups, right? Even your biceps, triceps are all getting worked, right? And you could do that in an hour. You do that three times a week. And that's maybe better than going in and doing one day where you're doing legs and one day where you're doing chest and shoulders and one day where you're doing back and arms, you know, like that might be better. And there's there's evidence that you could take the same volume and spread it out over multiple sessions and there seems to possibly be a benefit to that. It looks like because we know with regards to protein intake that there is an upper threshold where just pumping in more protein does not further increase anabolism. We think training is probably the same way, but we don't know where that threshold is. And to be honest, it's probably different from person to person. So, um that will be something interesting in the future to see what the research shows on that. I know my friend uh Bill Campbell, he has a graduate student named uh Andreas and uh Andreas did a a uh recent uh DUP study uh that's daily underloading periodization for people who aren't familiar which is what PH3 is based on and um they did it where they trained three days a week squat bench deadlift or six days a week and they cut the volume in half and it was either four sets on each or two sets on each and they found no differences in the outcome. There's no differences. Um, but the question becomes, okay, well, if you pump that up to eight sets versus four sets, would you find a difference? Well, maybe then you do because maybe then you're going over that cap with the eight sets, right? Whereas four is under that and you're still getting some benefits from spreading it out. So, you know, we don't know the answers to those questions. That's, as Chrissy knows, when you do research, um, usually you'll answer one question and then you get 10 others with it. Yeah. Well, yeah. And and one thing I wanted to ask you about also is aside from thinking about just big programming, nutrition, there also new techniques that come up all the time and blood flow restriction training is one of them that you've done a video about with us. But but I I wanted to uh to ask you about that just because you know it it's not it's it's relatively new you know and you when you encountered it you probably were a fairly experienced lifter academic even at that point. How did how did you go about finding out number one is it is it safe? Number two, is it legit? Is it appropriate for you? And then how do you use it? You know, like something new comes along, what's what yeah, what's the story of how it So my little shout out there was to my friend Dr. Jeremy L. Hi Jeremy. Who who did did his PhD same time as you were at Oklahoma together. So Jeremy sooner. Yeah, Jeremy is what what day is it? Saturday, he will be laying on his floor because he believes that uh laying on his floor actually gives the Oklahoma football team a greater chance of winning. We we usually start our texts back and forth um about like 5 10 minutes into the game. Um and then it just continues on from there. They won the World Series for the Cup for me. We do our normal like are you wearing what you wore last week? What did you do differently? Jeremy Jeremy's like will be texting me like I I hate this. I can't stand this. Why do I feel this way? Like, why do I let something like this affect me so much? And quite possibly one of the most intense human beings. Jeremy is the most intense human being I've ever seen on the earth. I I could do a whole podcast just on Jeremy's stories. Who's this is a professor at Old Miss, by the way. So, um, but yeah, Jeremy is the most intense and probably funny individual I've ever been around because he dead pens everything. Yeah. But when I was a a graduate student in 2007, uh Jeremy was an intern, is it intern the right? Uh he was doing I think it was an internship in Dr. Kim Huiey's lab at uh Illinois right across the street and he trained at the same gym as me and he knew me from the forums and we hung we hung out a little bit and uh we really got along well because I'm intense and he's like me times 10 you know and um I had just got done reading like a 40page metaanalysis of hypertrophy uh training and as I was reading through it there was this section on katsu training and I kept reading this katsu training and they're they're they are showing like measurable hypertrophy benefits in six weeks of this katu training in trained individuals which that's that is very hard to show that's very hard to show and I'm thinking damn I want to try out what what is this actually well it ends up it's where they restrict not blood flow to the limb but the venus return of blood to the heart and using these cuffs these specialized cuffs called katsu devices all right and this has been around for a while actually I think it's been around since the 70s now most of the research really was done in Japan Mhm. And I'm like, "Okay, well, how do I get my hands on these things?" Well, it turns out these cuffs are like $10,000, right? So, I'm like, "All right, well, how can I replicate this?" So, the first thing I tried was like, you know, red exercise bands, and it didn't seem to do anything. And then the next thing I tried was like um Velcro Harbinger belts. I tried that, you know, like cutting or reducing blood flow uh or blood flow restricting with those. We they actually call it at the time occlusion training. Jeremy's really the one who was stickler about no it's blood flow restriction not occlusion. Yes. Um that seemed to do a little bit better. And then I remembered uh one day I was I was getting ready for a powerlifting meet and I was training and I was put knee wraps on and I remember how pumped my calves would get. I'm like I thought about that fluid shift and I thought well that's actually it's actually pretty significant. I wonder if that would work. So I did that for quads. I started doing that and it definitely seemed to cause a fluid shift and and some something was going on. Well, I was doing that one day in the gym. I think actually one of the first days I ever tried knee wraps for for for legs and uh Jeremy came in. He's like, "What are you doing?" And I was telling him about I was telling him about the training. He's like, "That sounds stupid." Mhm. And I'm like, "I know, but like look at this research." And I get Look at this pump. Yeah, exactly. And he tried it. He tried it and he was very intrigued. Well, he went and did a PhD on that. Now is a professor and has published hundreds of papers. just he's a beast when it comes to publications and so I completely take all credit for blood flow restriction research call that being the question you know I have to you know I have to make it about me first but but uh you know it was very interesting in that you know the first thing I thought about was well is this safe you know because you're talking about blood flow restriction and so the way it works we're not exactly sure of the mechanism but it looks like there's something to do with metabolic byproduct accumulation as well as uh fluid shift, the the actual um swelling of the muscle cell. Um it seems to be some kind of hypertrophy benefit. Um and essentially what you're doing is you're not restricting arterial blood flow to the muscle, but you're restricting the venus return. And one of the cool things uh actually was Jeremy was able to show to validate that knee wraps were actually a really good tool for blood flow restriction. This meant the people at Katsu didn't really care for him very much because now It's very difficult to sell a $10,000 device for BFR when knee wraps will do the same thing. I actually got in a debate with the uh head coach of the Texans uh strength and conditioning on Twitter because he was criticizing me for using knee wraps and I said, "Well, here's this study validating them." And he they I looked on their page, well, they bought the Katsu cuffs. And I'm like, I understand you have to validate the $10,000 you spent in your budget, but I'm sorry, bro. You could have used knee wraps, you know. Um so that was pretty cool. And what it shows is that you get metabolic byproduct accumulation, you get a fluid shift, and we think that has something to do with how this is able to cause hypertrophy because you're using very light weights. You're using like 20 30% of a one rep maximum. And um there's I I love Dr. Stu Phillips, but one thing I'll disagree with him on is he said, "Well, you could do you get the same benefits just from taking the same lightweight to failure." That is that is true. You can, but if I take somebody who's well trained and put them on 20% of their one rep max, they will not be able to get failure. I mean, they will, but it will be a long time before they hit failure. Uh whereas blood flow restriction will get you there much faster and it's just much more convenient and fun. telling Nick about uh I was talking to one of my colleagues and they were doing um some stuff on uh low low weight to failure and they had to send one of their subjects to the hospital because of RAD. Yeah. So I was like that doesn't seem safe this whole and BFR actually causes very little muscle damage. Well, exactly. Well, when you're also not having to do I think she had done 60 or 70 bicep or elbow flexion. Yeah. Because that's how long it took to go to failure. And I was like that sounds miserable. Yeah. hours, you could have done 20 or 30 reps in BFR and then 20 to 30 then 10 to 15 for three successive sets after that and you'd be good. So, so for that for that, you know, moderately trained, not super advanced lifter out there who's just like who who thinks that hears that and think, you know, this is the magic arm technique technique. Yeah. No, it's not. Is that is that free volume for them? Yeah. No, it's See, so it's not any better than lifting heavy. Um the the research shows very clearly that it's the same benefits as lifting heavy for hypertrophy. I hope everyone heard that. Yeah. But and and actually lifting heavy, you'll get stronger than you will with BFR because it's more specific. However, if you're somebody who's injured like I am right now or um I think where it really shines is with injury like we were saying. M um there was actually a case study a guy who emailed Jeremy who had he thought he had torn a ligament in his knee and he was going to go get surgery on it and he had been doing BFR and he was asked Jeremy if it was safe and he's like well talk to your doctor but you know with the lightweight you're using it's probably fine. Well, when they went in, it wasn't a torn ligament in his knee. He had broken his femur. And the doctor actually when he when he went to do he goes he's like, "I'm not going to do surgery on you because this is already healed three." And it was three he he's like, "What what did you do?" And the guy was like, "Well, I did BFR for 3 weeks." And the doctor was like, "Well, I don't know what the hell that is, but keep doing it." You know, so that's just one case study. We don't know, but there seem to be maybe some benefits for bone health as well. I mean, people will say the safety thing. Mhm. It sounds bad. You're restricting blood flow. In fact, Jeremy gave a he gives a a speech at our camp every year and it the last year was fabulous because it was just him putting up quotes from people online and then destroying them. And the first quote was the title of his talk was blood flow is good. You're an idiot. Jeremy Jeremy's like you know I wake up in the morning and I feel pretty good about myself and then I read this you know I know blood flow is good. I know that. Don't you think we probably thought about that? You know, the second part we can debate, but you know, I know blood flow is good, but think about what exercise does, right? So, if we think we're restricting blood flow, yes, the venus return, okay, but short term, short term, we're doing it for a few minutes to actually cause like tissue necrosis or thrombosis or something like that. That is a sustained thing that happens. It's not a short-term thing. And to cause tissue nec necrosis necrosis, you would be in such pain there is no way you would keep the wraps on for that long period of time. Maybe there's some Navy Seal out there who could do it, but everybody they would take them off. There's just no way. Well, but it's a good it's a good question to ask. And think about what exercise does in the short term. raises your heart rate, raises your blood pressure, increases inflamm inflammation, increases reactive oxygen species, um all these things that if you just told somebody that are negative, right? If we just if we didn't tell anybody, if somebody was completely ignorant about exercise, didn't know anything, but they knew about health and we told them all the things that exercise did, they'd say, "Oh my god, that's terrible. Don't do it." Right? But what exercise is like a vaccine. It gives you a controlled dose of a stressor that allows your body to better handle that stressor. So what kind of inflammation is actually bad? For example, long-term low-level sustained inflammation, not short-term truncated. This is the same thing when people say, well, I don't want to take lucine because it activates mTor and mtor has been associated with cancer. Right? There is a difference between eating a protein meal that has a short-term acute truncated response of mTor versus a disrupted cell that is constantly sending a signal to the DNA to replicate. That is that's completely different. But we that's one thing even scientists aren't two things scientists aren't good at. Correlation versus causation. I hate that because they should know that. and also short-term versus long-term that we make a big deal out of short-term stuff that may not even matter. Okay, so I I think my hypothesis would be that by restricting blood flow short term, you're actually improving blood flow and there's some evidence to suggest that as well. In fact, they took uh astronauts have a lot of problems with with blood flow in space and they they did studies looking at not even resistance training but just restricting blood flow for uh in a weightless setting. I it was either that or unloaded. So um and showed like better blood flow. Okay. In fact, this is one thing where again I'll disagree with Stu Phillips because there is something different going on with BFR because they showed one of the original studies on BF on BFR where they got interested in muscle growth was they just had people walk untrained people just walked under blood flow restriction and their legs grew. They got bigger. I'll say that again. Just from walking their legs grew. Now if I put BFR wraps on and try to walk is my legs going to grow? No. I'm way too advanced for that. But in some but let's say you can't do any training like you're hurt that sort of thing that would attenuate muscle loss okay or for somebody who's untrained it will help you grow muscle okay if they can't if they can't train um and even people who are bedridden they put they did intermittent BFR and showed that they retain more muscle than people who didn't. So there is something going on that's not just okay train to failure, right? Because if that was the case, we wouldn't see because you can't walk to failure, right? You know what I mean? Well, I guess you could, but it would be very difficult. Um, that's my workout after this. Yeah, exactly. So, it seems to be and and and we've talked about, you know, I kind of brushed around the safety issue, but it seems to be very safe. I mean the the there's been tens of thousands of subjects through these studies now and the only study it was a case study there's only one ever showing any kind of negative benefit to BFR and it was a case study so you can't even say it was BFR but there was a hockey player who reported to a ER and he had rabdomialysis and he said that he'd played hockey and done uh blood flow restriction training at the same No, I don't think I'm doing that. Be tricky. So, the problem I had with that study was at the end of it when the doctors released him, they said, "You're fine to continue what you were doing. If you think something actually caused rabdomiolysis, if you're a doctor, why would you tell them they could keep doing it, right?" So, that makes me think that they rado is actually one of those things that's overdiagnosed uh in the medical community. I had a client who uh his mother called me one day. He was in the hospital and the doctors had said he had rabdomiialysis and I'm just like this guy is somebody who trained for like six years and it didn't take a long break or anything like that. So for those who aren't familiar rabdomiolysis is usually in untrained people who try to go too hard um you can break down so much muscle tissue that your kidneys cannot keep up with the excretion of the the byproducts and it can actually shut your kidneys down and kill you. There's actually a few people every year who die from it. Um, usually they're either people who are untrained or the usually it's people who had trained previously who are who have a lot of willpower and stamina and are able to push themselves past where they probably should. And so actually this I think a couple years ago there was a guy who'd been in the Navy and he hadn't trained in a long time and went in and did like a really hard CrossFit workout and end up dying from Rabdo. So but this guy his mother called me and said he, you know, Carter's been diagnosed with Rabdo. Who gave my son Rabdo? No, no, she was very she was very nice about it. But yeah, the first thing went from, well, here I go. I'm about to get sued, you know. But I actually wasn't doing his training. He was doing his own training. I was doing his nutrition. And I I put him on the phone and I said, "Well, did you have like a really really hard training? Like way out of the ordinary?" He's like, "Not really." I'm like, "Well, are you really sore?" He's like, "No." I'm like, "Do you have like a fever? Are you like like like are you peeing a lot?" You know, like and he's like, "No." And I was like, "Well, what's what was your symptom?" He's like, "Well, my stomach hurts." I'm like, "Okay, so classic Rabdo or taking creatin because creatin also gives you sorry. Well, and he I said, "Okay, well, what was your blood work like?" And it turns out that his creatin kynise levels, which is what they used to diagnose this were modestly elevated. And I'm like I'm like, "Listen, I don't want to I'm not a physician, but I don't think your son has rabdo." I was like, "Did you change anything in your diet? Anything like that?" He's like, "Well, I started taking a prebiotic." And I'm like, "Oh, you changed your gut floor. you just have gas. He told me, he called me 3 hours later, he farted three times and left the hospital. He felt better. But it's like, how was I able to diagnose this guy from a thousand miles away and the doctors miss this? You know, like it it's unfortunate that like I said, Rabdo gets overdiagnosed because if you look at somebody who weights trains, they're going to have elevated levels of creatin kynise because they're breaking down muscle. It doesn't mean because it's outside the normal range that they have rabdo. And so yeah, I question that that and even if that's the case, if let's say that guy really did have Rabdo from BFR, people get Rabo from regular weightlifting. Why does that make BFR? If anything, BFR has been shown to be just as safe or more safe than regular weightlifting. So the one caveat to that is I'll say is you need to, you know, watch my video on BFR training on bodyweight.com. Make sure, you know, don't don't keep the wraps on for, you know, 40 minutes on end after you do a cluster of four. Take them off and then, you know, do them back up after you've had some chance to rest. You know, and there's that finding that sweet spot of tightness is I feel like there's a you see a lot of wondering about that. If you're talking about knee wraps, you're usually looking about a seven out of 10 tightness level. But the easy way to know is if you put if you're putting, you know, the weight if you put it on if you put on what you think is 20% of your one rep max on whatever exercise you're doing and you can't get close to hitting the reps, either the weight's too heavy or the reps are too tight. Or if you're in pain before the exercise starts, the weight the wraps are too tight. You know, you'll be in pain while the exercise is going on. Anybody who's done BFR knows it's very painful. It is. Yeah, it's very painful. Did several studies at OU and Yeah. It is not comfortable. No, it it's not. It's not. But it's bearable. That's the difference. It's uncomfortable. Think about the best pump you've ever had, multiply it by 20, and then realize it's going to be the worst pump you've ever had. Like it's it's so you're saying they the worst pump you've ever had. Yeah. Cuz I mean, literally when you know, you you'll see like the magazines like skin spplitting pumps from No, no, this is you don't know about that skinplitting pump life until you've done BFR. Trust me. So, it's, you know, I look at things as I don't think BFR is a magic tool. I think everything's tools in a toolbox, right? So, I use my I use my screwdriver a lot more than I use my jackhammer, right? But I still got my jackhammer in my tool belt if I ever need it. Now, I think BFR I do a lot of BFR because especially when I'm getting ready for powerlifting meets because I still want to maintain like my arms and my some of my my aesthetics. Um, what little I have for you internet trolls. So, I still want to maintain some of my aesthetics, bruh. So, I I will do a lot of BFR. Um, because at the end of the day, I'm just so beat up from squatting, benching, and deadlifting heavy all the time. I don't feel like doing heavy barbell curls or, you know, triceps press downs or or whatever it is. I want to do something light that I can get through really quick, pump a lot of volume in a short period of time, and get out. Okay. So, maybe that's maybe that's the the value of it then for that person out there. I think also and also for people who are injured like we talked about because you know a lot of times if you're injured you can't do your normal training but you can usually do 20% of a one rep max. I mean usually you can do that. Uh or if you're traveling like in a hotel gym you know they've only got 50 lb dumbbells like goes up to 50 pound dumbbells. Well now for people who really strong like me 50 lb dumbbells that's God that sounded bad didn't it? Yes. You get to be like me I would never reach failure with 50 lb I could never reach failure with 50 lb dumbbells. you're weak and you should feel bad. Uh but you know, if you if you if you're in that situation where you're traveling, you don't have those options, well, now you can actually get a really good workout in. Um and I've done this like on cruise ships, you know, where I I took um I don't use I don't use wraps for arms because it's too hard. Like you have to kind of pin your arm and you know, and the the cuff is actually too wide as well. Um there's evidence the width of the cuff makes a difference. So, I use what's called quick release medical tourniquets, and you have to really crank them down because the fabric is different, but crank them down to about a nine and a half out of 10, and they're really convenient. You can find them on on online for like 12 bucks for a set of two. Um, but yeah, I mean, that's that's that's kind of what I use it for is is when I'm traveling and those sorts of things or when I'm injured or uh just don't feel like lifting heavy. Okay. Now, I don't know how much time we have left, but I wanted to ask you a little bit more. Probably not much cuz I talk a lot. Well, we we hinted we hinted at the uh at the paper that you've been working on for all these years, but I wanted to um get get the takeaway from that as well cuz it's um about like an hour and a half left, right? But it's, you know, you know, um thinking from the perspective of somebody who's who thinks like, God, you know, all those macros, there's there's three of them. I don't want to have to dial in all of them. This one just focuses in on on protein, basically. Protein pacing. can dial in on what I wanted to know is if you just if you if somebody is uh they just focus on protein basically according to those sorts of parameters which which you can discuss um and kind of let the chips fall where they may on the other two is that there's evidence if you're going to focus on one you probably should focus on protein because if you're eating enough protein you're more satiated you're probably not going to go overeat as much on carbs and fats um but I mean basically the results of our study was when when I got to Illinois, there was a lot of data out there on leucine in terms of like purified solutions. So, they would give leucine and under certain condition, they'd show an increased muscle protein synthesis. Mh. What we didn't know was did that actually make a difference in whole meals, right? Because that's a different question. And also, does it actually make a damn bit of difference on long-term body composition or muscle mass? because you can a Chrissy knows this, you can show a lot of short-term stuff with markers and what and a lot of times in terms of what it does for long term, it means absolutely nothing. So, um we had that question like does this actually matter? So, we um we designed a study where this is after a few studies before this that kind of built up to it, but to look at okay, we're going to feed different sources of protein, same total protein content and even isocaloric. In fact, and this is why nobody was going to replicate the study anytime soon. We had 110 animals in the study. And again, yes, they were rats. Before you guys go, I had somebody I posted this on my Facebook fan page. Oh, I stopped reading at rats. Don't accept any medical help then because all those studies started in rats, too. Okay. So, and by the way, most of this stuff's been validated in humans since then. So, rats are actually a really good model for protein metabolism. And I can get guess what humans suck as test subjects. They don't do what you want. Do I know what you want? Rats will do what I want. You know, like here, this is what you're going to eat, you know. Exactly. Don't show up. Oh, well, I'm sorry. I forgot about the six. I know you were up at 4:40 in the morning, but uh I forgot that I had the appointment to come in and get my my body pump done. How many times you hear something like that? Like, the answer is to install a feeding tube in your room. Yeah, exactly. If it fits your tube. That's the name. No, what it should be is you just you hook up a tube and every time they eat off the plant, it gives them a shock, you know, like just electrical shock, you know. Actually, the IRBs would be fine with this, you know, easily. So, so we we we we had 110 animals and we fed them three meals a day. We we taught them to meal feed. Uh so, we didn't because a lot of problems with the studies out there is they just throw it in in their chow and they just add libitum feed. So, they just kind of graze throughout the day. Well, that's not the same thing as meal feeding. And it affects protein metabolism differently as well. So, we had to eat three meals. Um, like a smallalish breakfast, a like a a small to moderate breakfast and lunch, and then a a goodsized dinner, kind of like how Americans eat. And that was the idea. And we weighed out every single meal for every single animal for every single day for 11 weeks. That you're talking about 330 meals a day. Mhm. that you're weighing out, right? This is hours of our time every single day. And so that's why we weren't worried about getting replicated anytime soon. So what we did was we took different protein sources like wheat, soy, egg, and whey. All right? So completely so these diets are completely isocoric, completely is nitrogenous. There's no difference. The only difference is the protein sources. And we were able to show that the animals fed uh egg and whey actually had higher rates of muscle protein synthesis and actually had better body composition than the animals fed wheat. Now, soy had the same body composition as egg and whey in terms of body fat percentage, but they had way lower muscle mass. Soy is weird. Soy has some weird funky stuff going on. Like I think soy is fine in moderation, but I think getting all your protein from soy is a really bad idea. um the isoflavones in there, there's some benefits to them, but there's also some downsides. And definitely with regards to muscle mass, I mean across the board, the heaviest animal in the soy group was not bigger than the smallest animal in every other group. I mean, they were significantly smaller. M so now they also had there's some benefits to blood glucose profiles all that kind of stuff for soy because the isoflavones but in terms of muscle mass there was definitely a blunting effect of muscle mass on soy um and I think some of the isoflavones have been shown to activate amp kynise and that can impede muscle protein synthesis that sort of thing uh wheat had about the same level of muscle mass of uh egg and soy or I'm sorry of egg and whey but had way more body fat. Way more body fat. And I think the reason the muscle mass was the same was cuz all those animals were heavier and they were just having to carry that around every day. If you look at obese people, they have a lot of muscle mass. They have more than average muscle mass in obese people and that's cuz they're car they're just carrying around more body weight. Right. Exactly. So, but in terms of composition and muscle mass, egg and whey were the best. Okay. And that's with and it seemed to be reflected by the differences in lucine intakes. Now, uh, we also, um, we wanted to look at protein distribution because it's funny as I was getting ready to write this last experiment, Dr. Layman was like, you know, you talk a lot about protein distribution in your thesis here and you've never actually tested it, so you probably should test that or take out that wording. Ah, crap. So, we took uh the highest quality protein, whey, which Weey was consistently the best in every single one of our studies, even if it wasn't statistically significant. The absolute number was the best. And we what we did was we either had groups basically eat way evenly distributed across three meals. So, they were getting about the same amount of protein across each meal or at least a level that would trigger muscle protein synthesis versus low low protein at breakfast and lunch and then really high protein at dinner. So, they were getting about 70% of protein at dinner and about 15% at breakfast and lunch. And actually, there's data from a guy named Diccastro that shows that most Americans eat about 65% of their protein at dinner. So, it wasn't too far outside that range. And so, we f So, now you're talking about exact same calorie intake, exact same nitrogen intake. Only difference is how we distributed. And we were able to show differences in muscle mass. Now, it wasn't a huge difference. It was only about 8 to 10%. But for somebody who's an elite athlete, that's a big difference. And so when people ask me, for example, about something like intermittent fasting, I will say, "Hey, I think it's fine for fat loss." Like the the data shows that meal frequency doesn't make a difference in fat loss, but if you're talking about muscle mass, I think it's probably not optimal, you know? And so that's what we're able to show with these experiments that not only did that the quality of protein make a difference, the the the quantity of protein, the quality of protein, and how you distribute that protein makes a difference. So, so the winner was spread evenly across the three meals as spread evenly. Now, that being said, people, this is where context is important. I've had people who tell me, listen, I am able to be way more adherent to intermittent fasting than any other kind of diet I've ever done. For whatever reason, it just works for me, then fine, do that. Set your goals. But what I'll say is, well, maybe what if we intermittently restrict carbs and fats because protein doesn't have the same effect. Pro high protein diets, the effects they have on genes is very similar to actually just fasting, to be honest with you. So I said, "Well, why not have a couple doses of just like protein only, have a shake or something. You know, if your if your goal is to to have more muscle mass, do that and then, you know, you can put your carbs and fats all together in in the kind of an intermittent fasting way." Um, and there's no reason that shouldn't work well either. But, um, yeah, it's it's funny how things don't always uh some of the most interesting stuff in your research is stuff that didn't actually work out. Uh the other thing that we really did to to try and kind of bring home this was in a previous study the story of leucine was we took wheat which is a low leucine protein it's only about 6.8 to 7% lucine whereas whey is like 11 to 12%. Carbon build is 13%. Hey the highest leucine content out there hippology 101. All right just saying 3.1 gram of lucine per serving. the high like I said there may be another protein out there that has a higher lucine intake I'm not aware of it um but we we took wheat and we supplemented with free lucine to match the lucine content of weight and we're able to show it was almost exactly the same response so but what was interesting was not only is protein important for muscle mass but also fat loss because we found that um even though wheat had the same muscle mass as egg and whey groups they had more body fat and we believe that's because they weren't getting that stimulus of muscle protein synthesis which is ATP dependent, energetically dependent and we think that is actually a large portion of the thermogenic effect of protein. We know that there's a thermogenic effect of protein, a TEF, um, that's way more than carbs or fats, but people had always kind of thought it was maybe from digestion or the ura cycle, but it's not because you get all those ATPs back from the ura cycle. The body's very efficient with that. What it is is that it activates that feudal cycle of increasing muscle protein synthesis and increasing protein degradation. And that use of ATPs is thermogenic. And so it's really interesting how that works out. We were actually able to show that um we muscle protein synthesis is so powerful that it actually causes a drop in intramuscular ATP levels once you trigger it. So and that in turn actually triggers AMP kynise which truncates the signal of muscle protein synthesis. How cool is that? I'm getting super nerdy out there. Chrissy's over there like yes tell me more. Nick's like, "And on that note, let's wrap it up." But that actually causes a thermogenic effect because now AMP kynise activates all these systems that deal with fat loss. So, not only is the quality and and amount of protein important for muscle mass, but it's also important for fat loss and just overall body composition. So, where you get your protein does matter. It does matter. Now, I will tell you that before everybody goes out and says they're just going to eat whey uh for all their meals, um you can take a lowquality protein source and get the same response if you eat enough of it. Okay? If you get to that lucine, that like three gram lucine threshold, okay? The problem becomes the calor your anabolic bang for your caloric buck, right? So, whey is giving you such a powerful anabolic bang for your caloric buck. Whereas, if you're going to eat something like wheat, I mean, you're going to have to get like 50 grams of protein just to hit that that three gram threshold, right? 50 grams of protein from wheat is going to be some food. It's going to be it's going to be you might have more. It's just parts are going to be Yeah, exactly. So, um again, that's where it's about context, right? So, um so, but you know, like an egg or chicken or something like that, like some animal source of protein, you know, you can still get as good as whey, but you're going to require just a little bit more. And that's, you know, again, that's fine, but it's important to think about. Mhm. All right. Well, thanks for coming down here and talking with us about all this. Yeah. Thanks for letting me geek out. I appreciate it. Absolutely. You You can be found many different places online. Give us a couple of them. Yeah. So, my website's the best things to find all things biolane. Biolane.com. Obviously, my section on bodybuilding.com is going to have all my articles. Um, check out my supplement line, Carbon, uh, by Lane Norton, as well as, uh, for people looking for nutritional information out there. uh who aren't maybe ready to pay for a coach. Uh my website avatarnutrition.com um we're doing some some big things to it. Um by the beginning of the year we're gonna have I can't really say much yet, but we're going to have I mean we're going to I believe it's going to have a million members within a few years. It's just going to be that revolutionary for people and that accessible and that accessible. For $10 a month, you're getting customized nutrition recommendations and we're going to we're actually taking that we're taking that way further. Um, so if you haven't checked that out yet, go check it out. Um, and play around with it. Uh, we're going to have uh we're going to have some free stuff coming out in the future. Um, and yeah, I think that that's that's actually one of the things I'm most excited about as terms of my legacy is as a way for people who can afford a coach, a personal coach. There'll always be a place for that, right? But um, you know, who can't afford $10 a month to get customized science-based nutritional training or nutrition advice. Great. See you all next time. All right. Thanks, Lane. Thank you, guys.