My name is Chrissy Kendall. I'm the science editor here at bodybuilding.com. I received both my master's and my PhD in exercise physiology from the University of Oklahoma. And in today's product review, we'll be discussing Datize ISO 100. ISO 100 contains about 25 gram of whey protein isolate per scoop. It's also lactoseree as well as gluten-free and it's very low carb and very low fat. So depending on the flavor, you're looking about 1 to two grams per scoop. So the whey protein isolate in this product is hydrayed, which means it's a very pure form of protein. There's not a lot of fillers in this. And because it's an isolate, it's very easy to digest. There is a lot of research on whey protein supplementation, especially timing it before and after your workouts because it really helps to jumpstart protein synthesis, which is necessary for muscle growth. Now in ISO 100 per scoop there's about 5 1/2 gram of branch chain amino acids and specifically 2.7 gram of leucine. Why leucine is so important is because that is the amino acid most responsible for protein synthesis and muscle growth. Since iso 100 only contains whey protein isolate, it's a great protein to use post-workout. Other proteins you might find a combination of whey plus casein or egg or some other form of protein which you can use throughout the day or even right before you go to bed. But because a whey protein isolate is fast acting and fast digesting, you really want to use this protein around your workouts where you can get the most benefit from it. And since this protein is so clean, it doesn't contain a lot of fillers. It's very low carb, very low fat. It's a great choice for anyone who is dieting or watching their caloric intake. So, ISO 100 costs about $15 per serving and comes in some pretty unique flavors like pina colada, cake batter, and cinnamon BUN, which you'll only find on bodybuilding.com. I personally like to use ISO 100 for baking because it's a very clean source of protein and it doesn't contain a lot of fat and carbs, which makes it easy to track my macros. So, that concludes my product review of Datiz ISO 100. For more customer reviews and ratings, check out the store. And for everything you need to reach your health and fitness goals, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.