Every year, thousands of people sign up for the Bodybuilding.com transformation challenge. After 12 weeks, two winners are chosen, one male, one female. The 2014 winners won $100,000. The 2015 winners won $200,000. This year, the prize is $250,000. And we're about to surprise the winners. Guess what time it is? We're changing lives. I think because I this is my fifth time doing this, I feel like I'm not quite as nervous. I I get really nervous when we're at the location like right about to go in cuz then I'm like, "Oh god." All right. Thanks, Dennis. We'll talk to you tonight or tomorrow. Sounds good. Thank you so much. Thank you. Byebye. So, we just got off the phone with Dennis. He's uh been instrumental in in getting information on where Patrick Patrick's going to be because we weren't able to find a ton of information about him online. So, he's private. Yes, he's private. So, he's going to be here with his wedding party essentially. Okay. From from what I'm looking at, I think just as long as we avoid coming in that way, that's the easiest vantage point for anybody sitting here to see us coming with a big check. We park over that way. True. Um and then walk along this way. I don't think they'll see us coming. We figured out some details for tonight. We have his fiance coming. We're going to surprise him with however many of his his closest friends are going to be here with his wedding party. So, it's going to be quite the environment. This is insane. Walking the streets of Newark, New Jersey. Kind of stake out our location for tomorrow morning's early early reveal. So, we are going to meet Mike at Plaza Fitness at 3:45 a.m. tomorrow and then she shows up on the dot at 4:30. So, we're going to be hiding in the back room. And so, once she gets started into her workout, we're just going to ambush her. So, it's going to be fun. Let's go change some lives. California. We're going to go the long way so they don't see us coming. And it's going to be epic. Two guys. Let's get you. It'S4:34 and we are waiting for Charmaine to get here. Once she gets a few reps going, Danielle's going to jump in. He's going to be speechless. Oh my god. Where is he? Would you mind if I worked in on the set? Are you Patrick Magno? Charine, you are the grand prize winner of bodybuilding.com 250k transformation challenge winner powered by diamondize. We have a giant check for you here. We are going to change your life, my friend. Thank you. Now where she going? Thank you so much. Congratulations. Thank you. You don't have to work out. You did good. I just want to I want to help people. I want to motivate. I want to inspire. It's not about being glamorous or anything like that. Just regular everyday people can succeed. I'm trying to, you know, surround myself with positive people. people who are doing great things to allow me to say, you know what, yeah, I can do that. You do make a difference in people's lives. That makes you want to keep going because now you can help even more people. I'm still in shock. I feel like I'm in a dream. I always wanted a six-pack. I always wanted to to be that guy. I never got to that point. And to see now, it's just like anybody could do it with your guys' free stuff online programs like diets. Like if anybody wanted to transform themselves, they'd be able to do it. Hi, I'm Patrick Magno. Hi, I'm Charmaine Diaz. And I am the 2016 bodybuilding.com $250,000 transformation challenge winner. Y party on, girl. Congratulations. Keep bouncing. Keep bouncing.