All right, guys. Thanks for coming. We will be selecting the 2017 250K challenge winner today. We've got all the lists from our business intelligence group and we will be assigning those. We have 15 to 20 people that will be going through every transformation, making sure all the requirements were met. It's kind of cool to look at the the huge numbers and just realize that we're kind of finding that needle in hay stack. The person is literally on one of these lists behind me and out of thousands of finishers, we're going to go through each one, pass, fail that group, and then once they get on to the next round, we will select the top 25 and male and female winners from that group. Okay, so we found our two winners. We spent the weekend vetting them, making sure that they were legit transformations. Now comes the nerve-wracking part. We have to reach out to the contacts, find a way to surprise these folks that is not going to spill out. Hello. Hey, Bert. Hey, Ryan. So, um, you know Glenn Love Lace, right? Yes, I do. Okay. Well, I wanted to let you know first that he was selected as the male winner of the transformation challenge. Nice. Yeah. Yeah. The the big one, the 250K transformation challenge. So, he's got 100K coming his way. Oh, man. First thing I'm going to tell you, don't tell anybody. No, I'm not telling nobody, man. I'll keep it safe, brother. Thanks, man. I appreciate it. Thanks. It's coming together. Here we go. We met up with Scott, Kylie's dad, last night. He basically set the stage so that we could surprise her at her husband and her dad's place of work where a lot of their family members work selling insurance. So, um we're going to have a nice captive audience of a lot of her family and friends and she's going to be surprised that her mom's coming in from Michigan. Her brother ended up canceling a trip so he could be there. So, um there's a lot of inner workings that go into this this surprise thing. And this is going to be the first time we've actually done this on Facebook live. So that even adds another element um of danger to this whole deal. Let's do this. There is something I'm going to pull around this outside here. We will pull around back, act like we're catering some sort of team build for the business and be setting up a surprise instead. Roll the check for the inverted line. Here we go. Like a gray like over shirtless. She's directly to the door. Direct line to the door. He's in a chair. You guys want to go right now? Oh my god. Kylie Jones, on behalf of bodybuilding.com, I would like to name you the female winner of the 250K transformation challenge powered by Optimum Nutrition. It's surreal. It's insane. So many people. And for me to be the one person that you guys picked is just amazing. I took my first pictures and I was like, "Wow." It's very hard. You get very discouraged. You get very upset. You can't believe how you got this way. And you just see that you need to do something different. Body is insane. They push you so hard and make you want to be better. and everybody's posting their pictures. So, you want to do more. Waking up at 3:30 in the morning when I know that I need to go to school the next day and that I was going to have to be up till 11:00 cuz I had an exam and giving up time with my family and things like there was always times and there were times where I wanted that food. I wanted things that I wasn't supposed to eat and I wanted to do all that and you know that was something that you always you don't think you can do it but then you get on to these websites and you get on to social media and you see that there's these people that are doing it and it makes you go we can do this. I love shoulders shoulders back anything that's hard to work I like to work it. Really just push myself the best I could. Did a lot of a lot of hit cardio a lot of fasted cardio but mostly lifting. Lifting is way more fun. You can do so much more than you think you can. You just have to push yourself. Not even tired. Running on the high visual surprise. Our next winner, you guys. The Great Salt Lake. I don't know. It's probably over there. It's the greatest of the saltiest lakes. The great salt lake. I want to see like the pretty good the pretty good salt lake. The so so salt lake. The so so salt. Hey B, this is Ryan. Hey Ryan. I just wanted to gauge like when the best time to come in and actually do the ambush would be. He he warms up on the stair master and I'll do a a roll. The warm up usually last about 5 10 minutes. Okay. And then we're usually we're just we're out working out and we'll try after that. Yeah. I I think he's going to be okay with being outside the top 25 come tomorrow morning. Cool. Thanks again, man. Hey, you guys have a good one. All right. We'll talk to you later. We just met with Julian at uh Vasa Fitness in American Fork. She ran us through kind of the layout of the gym where he'll be working out tomorrow. Planned out the whole thing. We're going to get here tomorrow right at 8:00. He gets here at 8:45. We're going to surprise him while he's ready. Check is going in. Pulling into Vasa Fitness right now. Nerves are kicking in just a little bit, but we do have 2 hours to wait for the actual surprise. So, this is this is what BMAC just sent. Sounds good, Ryan. But this guy really wants to murder my shoulders this morning, so we should be good to go. Lol. He just texted and said he's going to the gym right now, so he can warm up a little longer. We might have to go rogue right now. He's got to get inside. Oh my god. We got to get inside. Yeah, I got to smile out. Okay. attack. Is that him? That's him right there. I think that's him. We're going to be live in five, four, three. We are in the command center. Everything is set with our inside man. We are We know exactly where he is in the gym. We are going out right now. There he is right there. That's not even heavy weight. That's not even heavy weight. Glen Love Lace, you are the 2017 Bodybuilding.com Transformation Challenge mail winner powered by Optimum Nutrition. We got some cash for you. $100,000 coming your way, man. Did you work your ass off for this? That might help. You did. I could have, man. I couldn't say anything. Hey, Dad. I did it. They're here. You're kidding. I'm not kidding. Really? Did Yeah. Oh, wow. I mean, think of the odds and you and you just beat him. Worked your butt off and you beat him. Yeah. I'm proud of you. Thanks, Dad. I love you. you build up so much momentum and energy and emotions and it's what's kept you pushing so hard for so long and now you just got to reset your goals and figure out what you're going to do next but it's like how do you get any bigger than this you know I think to create change you got to know what you want to do and sometimes that's the hardest part so somehow you got to step out of your routine but I think the important thing is just to start I was always like the little guy. And I think I was always pretty tough, you know, calling and talk to my dad, like I'd look at his pictures as a little kid, your dad's like your hero. And um you know, when you're this little guy and you have this this aspiration of being like your dad to me, it was like Superman, right? It's just pretty cool to be able to say, "Man, I did it." And it's as a parent, you don't want your kids to hurt or be let down. So to get that approval and be able to, you know, say you did something incredible like that is pretty pretty special. And so I'm excited to spread my time and kind of balance out and and get more of a routine that I can maintain. So pretty exciting though. I'm excited to figure it out. Hey, I'm Gwen Love Lace. My name is Kylie Jones. I am the bodybuilding.com $250,000 challenge winner. Heat. Heat.