OK, we have made our way from my parents' house to my parents' mobile home, or what you would call it in the U.S., a trailer. But we don't call them that, it's luxury living here in the UK and we're in Wales, anyway. It's very important for us to chill out now so we don't lead to overtraining and possible injury and fatigue. I'm looking forward though to just relaxing. Yeah, so we're not even thinking about that now. We're not even going to think about this bloody camera. I'm Kris Gethin. I'm going to be training to prepare for an Ironman. Most people give themselves two years. I'm giving myself six months. And we're going to do it. My legs are absolutely destroyed now, so what's the best thing to do? Running. We are at the base of the pygs pass. So we're going to run up this path and then we're going to go down the other path, which is black bears' path. Gotta make sure that we are present the whole time. No headphones. No topless pictures while we're running. We'll stop for those. Alex Viada, our coach, is going to be doing the brutal. This is going to be his run. Coming up Snowdon, you know. They swim round the lake, run up here, run around the lake, and then they got the bike. This is such tough going. This is going to take a little bit longer than I anticipated. So hard on the legs. I'm shaking all over. Oh my God. Not good. Not good? No! Why not? It's tough. I don't want a pump while I'm up here. If you look all the way down that path there. That was a bloody steep incline. We did it. Yeah, we did it baby. It's always about sharing this experience with other people, isn't it? Alright, we are at our hotel after our Snowdon run. The bottom of my feet are absolutely shattered. I think it's because I've been running on all that uneven surface. Using this rocktape ball to massage the bottom of my feet currently. What I'm going to do now is have a bath, take these calls, eat, and then go straight to the gym. The next time you'll see me is getting my pre-workout down. We're in the hotel gym. It's very minimalistic. Sunshine is down here rolling. She's extremely sore from the earlier walk. This is the perfect opportunity to start including DTP. In these sort of instances when the stuff that we have available to us is very limited. I just punch out more sets. It isn't the perfect environment, but we're not going to be controlled by it, we have to control it. So we're halfway through. So we went down the repetitions from 30, 25, 20, 15, 10. And now I've started going back down the other way. But what I'm doing is varying my grip now to work a different portion of my back. Now we're working onto biceps again using the DTP fashion, because we're very limited to the equipment we have here. We don't have the dumbbells, we don't have the barbells, we have this cable machine here. Is it working? You sure? We are done for today. I'm absolutely shattered after today's run. My calves are bloody killing me. Really, really sore. And the bottoms of my feet. So I'm going to eat now and switch off. But we're going to be here first thing in the morning, soon as we wake up, have breakfast, and get our asses here. So I'm probably going to see you here in just a few hours for chest and abs. Good morning. Good morning. Today is day 60. Little bit tired. Little bit hot in the room, I had the window open. We are going to be hitting chest again. We are in the same gym as we were last night. Very limited supply of dumbbells are way too light. I'm not going to do any supersets for chest today, I'm just going to do the DTP again. And what I'm going to superset that with is an ab roll-out. So I found this here. I'm not going to count the reps on the ab roll-outs, I'm just going to go to absolute failure. So now we are on our way back down with the repetitions. This time I change on the grip now. So it's a little bit more like the fly, but I'm making sure that I'm flaring out my elbows now. Go to absolute failure here, and then we're going to superset that with another ab variation. Day 60 is completed. So we are going to make our way over to Birmingham for the Body Power Expo now. The expo is on tomorrow, Saturday, and Sunday. We are staying in a hotel that I hope has a 20 meter pool. I'm pretty sure it does, from memory. We can't seem to find the stairs or make it on the elevator. And, yeah. Why'd we come to this hotel? Because this one has a pool. It's bloody atrocious. You guys going up? We've been here for like 15 minutes. I guess we're going to take the stairs now. It's three stories, it's fine. They booked us the twin room instead of the double-wide. Which would have been fine. But, there's no way Sunshine could go the night without sleeping with me. Yeah, I couldn't do it. So they put us in a different room... This doesn't take us outside. What? Fire exit? Okay, I'm holding this video camera so it doesn't look obvious because we're not supposed to film in here. But we're in the pool. It's a 20 meter pool, so I've made the setting to my watch as 20 meters. There is a pool there. Sunshine is here. And we're going to go and splash about. Alright. Done the 19, well, 1820 meters. I dunno if you can see on there. It probably doesn't bloody focus in. I felt like my carbs were down and it was only my mental stubbornness that said, no fuck it, get back into it. You're almost there. Just do this. I'm trying to set an example, obviously, to you guys. Alright, let's go and eat, honey. I don't know about you, I'm fucking starving now. Alright, and I got a conference call now, in like, 30 minutes so, I better get polished up. Your first open water swim was in this lake? It was in this lake. It was at lunch break, at college, and somebody bet me 10 pound that I couldn't swim to the island from the other side. I remember these two old people sat like, at a bench here, and we ran right past them and dived in. So, swam to the island, swam back, went back to college like, soaking wet for my classes. And I ended up throwing up really bad. I'd got something from this water, you know? But I got my 10 pound. It's day 61 of this muscle-building video trainer. Off day. And we are here now at the Body Power Expo. So we are here on the Bodybuilding.com booth. As you can see, that sexy chap right there is over there. We're going to have a group photo now. What do you think about the Man of Iron series that Kris is doing? It's something that I never want to do. You'd have to have a bit of a desire to do something that you've never done before. I get tired doing four reps in the gym, I'm not going to do an Ironman. Day 61 at the expo. Bit of a rush. It was...it was a little bit tiring, but it was okay. It was that bad. It's not as if I'm working on a fucking building site or, you know, in a prison cell or anything like that. So it was okay. Myself and Sunshine here, isn't she done up all beautiful? We're going to head over to see Adam Ant. We're going to head on down and head on out, and I'll catch you guys later. Good morning. It's day 62. I feel really puffy. Went to watch Adam Ant last night at the Birmingham symphony. And it was freaking awesome. It was really, really good event. It was fun. I haven't had that much sleep. My alarm went off at five something, so. But we've got to get this brick session in now before we start at Body Power. See how the body reacts even though we haven't had much sleep. Let's see if I'm able to pick my feet up or fall flat on my face. Either way we'll capture the fun for you. Just finished our brick session. Our first back and forth brick session. So we did, without the warm-up, about three miles on the run. And it's probably about between 10 and 12 miles... Fuck! Today is the end of day 62. It's only 10:30. I was going to go and train with Ulysses and Mike Rashid and William Bonac, but instead I prefer to work out with that beautiful woman right there. What I do like about this Man of Iron video series is that we get to explore a lot more than we generally wouldn't. We're running through different forests and mountains and, you know, like we've been running and cycling in Nevada, in California, around London. And then when we get back I'm going to, you know, we're going to go up to the Sawtooths and we'll run around there. So it's a great opportunity with these disciplines to go and see parts of the places, not only that you visit, but the places that you live, that you reside at that you don't generally explore. My groin injury is still there. I'm just trying to ignore it at the moment. I guess I'm living in denial. I'm just trying not to think about it, I'm trying not to talk about it, and I'm trying not to bring attention to it. I guess I'm contradicting myself right now, though. I can't think of anything else to report. I'm boring as batshit really, I guess. I don't know why you want these weekly reports from me when I'm really just kind of talking about the price of butter. Just, yeah. Anyways. Good night, people.