What's up, guys? My name is Ryan Clarinbeck. I am a performance athlete, and today we're going to be doing a full body workout using only our body weight. The goal of today's workout is to hit the entire body, but we're going to focus on stability and fast switch muscles. Some of these exercises are a little bit harder than others, so take time if you need it. If you need to rest in between, by all means, do it. But I really encourage you to push yourself past your comfort zone. So, depending on how much rest you take in between your exercises, this workout should take you anywhere from 30 minutes to an hour. So, let's get into our first exercise, which is explosive push-ups. We're going to do 15 reps. We're going to start in between the two benches in the push-up position. We're going to explode up onto the benches and come back down into a regular position. We're also going to want to use your foot to push off and give you extra leverage to reach onto the benches. You're going to feel it a lot in your upper body, your shoulders, your chest, but it's also very explosive, so you're going to get a lot of cardio out of this exercise as well. For this next exercise, we're going to be doing explosive squats for 20 reps. You want to use your arms as momentum to get up onto your feet. Once you're on your feet, I want you to explode up into a standing position. You're really going to feel it in your legs, but you're also using a lot of cardio, so take your time in between sets. You're going to be pretty winded while doing this. For this next exercise, we're going to be doing shoulderto-shoulder pull-ups, and we're going to be doing 10 reps, five on each side. This is a full body workout. So, for this exercise, we're going to be incorporating our back, our lats, and our upper body. You really want to make sure it's slow and controlled, and you want to make sure that the bar touches your shoulder on either side when you pull up. So, this next exercise is razor kick lunges, and we're going to do 30 seconds on each side. So, you're going to want to start in the lunge position. You're going to explode up, and then come back down in the same position you started, making a scissor movement when you're up in the air. You really want to focus on keeping your back straight and really controlled when you come back down into the lunge position. By the end of this movement, you should really be feeling in your quads. So, this next exercise is elevated inverted row. We're going to be doing this for 12 reps. So, you want to have your feet elevated. You're going to have your back straight the entire time. Bring your chest super super close to the bar as far as you can. You're going to find that you're going to be using your core quite a bit in this exercise as well, while keeping your body flat while rowing. So, this next exercise is a medicine ball push-up for 15 reps. You want to elevate your feet, and for added difficulty, you can put one foot behind the other to add a little bit more stability. Your body's going to want to sway when you're on the medicine ball. You're going to have to really use your core and stability muscles to keep yourself straight. So, our final exercise is different ab variations for 10 reps each. So, the first variation of the sit-ups is going to be a V up. We're going to do cross leg crunches and we're going to do 10 on each side. So, this next exercise is wide leg crunches. So, our final ab variation is the cross leg crunches. We're going to do this on each side for 10 reps. So now that this workout is over, you just hit your upper body, lower body, core, and back. I recommend you do this workout one to two times a week. The full breakdown for this workout is detailed below here at bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions about this workout, feel free to contact me at my Instagram is rhinosaurflex or on Facebook, it's ryanclarbach. For more videos and articles from athletes like me, come back to bodybuilding.com.