The differential of somebody winning and losing has nothing to do with their genetics. Has nothing to do with their potential. It's their perseverance. Always showing up. Person that's willing to gamble. It show up then you have a chance. If you don't show up, the outcome's simple. Never there. Like an audition. If you show up to the audition, there's a chance you might get the part. If you're too scared to show up and you sit back at home wondering what if and everything else, no one in hell is going to call you on that opportunity cuz you weren't present. The winners always show up. They're willing to lose in order to gain. Big mental thing there, guys. This body, as great as you are, as sharp as you make the arsenal, it can't do anything if you don't have confidence in yourself. We all fall down in life. The question is, who gets back up? You go after and you give it all you have. If you lose, at least you try. Man, I failed. Is 10 times more of a man than someone said, "What if?" Cuz what if never went to the arena? When you guys find a fear, that fear will either create you or destroy you. I love fear. And the reason why behind every fear is a person you want to be. Fear is self-imposed. Meaning it doesn't exist. You create it, you can destroy it, too. It's an intangible. If you face your fears, guys, you will realize it's not that big. And once you face it, you go, "My god, man. I spent all this time running from it. It was so small. If I just faced it, my god, not only did I face it, I beat it back." Energy is never lost, transferred. That negative energy, that fear is destroyed. It comes back in as confidence. You're like, "What else am I what else am I capable of? What else am I holding my back from that I'm capable of more? What am I running from I don't need to? What else can I overcome?" You face your fears. You become the person you want to be. You run from your fears. You're not living. You're alive, but you're not thinking the freedom. You're not running the day. The day is running you. You always be the servant, not the master. Guys, if you find a fear, the quickest, the easiest way you can beat it is initially, right when it comes in. If you allow it to sit, it will grow root and start breaking you down, destroying the potential person you can be. Again, the champions, guys, it's not their potential. It's not their genetics. It's their perseverance. They always show up, always willing to fail because in failure, that's part of success. Success is not, you know, a marathon of life of just ups. Success is formulated through failures. through facing your fears, through falling down and getting back up. That's what creates the champion. Success does not define us. We define the success.