What's up everyone? This is Tyler and Alec and we are live from the bodybuilding.com headquarters and this is Brain Games. How you doing, man? Doing well, man. Very good. It's, uh, we're happy to be back. Uh, I hope you guys had a good Christmas break, a good new year, and, uh, we got a really good show for you today. We got a lot to talk about. Uh, I know with the new year, everyone's really excited to, you know, get into that new body, get, you know, going on their fitness. So, we're going to be talking about kind of diets that you can do today. Some of the fad diets, some of the real diets, right? So, yeah. Kind of, you know, there's more than one way to skin essentially. So, we're just trying to nail down what might fit your preferences. Uh some people like to dive into something that that's completely I don't know out of their comfort zone, which can be good at times, but in this case, we're going to try to point you to the right direction, but uh whatever diet best for you. That's right. So remember, this is a live show, so if you are watching here in either YouTube or Facebook or wherever, uh make sure you comment in chat if you have questions about what we're talking about. We can address some of those in real time. So make sure you let us know if you have any questions. If you're watching this later on YouTube or Facebook, feel free to send us an email, brain.gamesbodybilling.com, and we'll get back to you. We've actually been pretty good, sorry, pretty good about getting back to people. I think sometimes I have to be reminded, but we usually get back to everyone. So, make sure you shoot us with questions whether uh you want to know about a certain study that we reference or if you have follow-ups about any of the diets that we're talking about today. So, please feel free to post those. Absolutely. Go ahead. Oh, I was going to say, as usual, we're going to open up with a couple stories of just uh anything rolling into the new year and just kind of recent whether health, fitness, um uh functional training aspect related. So mine leading into this is kind of a the it's a kind of a perspective trends on what are going to be big in 2019. So every year the ACSM, so the American College of Sports Medicine, um reaches out to a variety of people just to kind of determine what their trends are going to be for 2019. So it takes the usual trends that happen throughout the year that have been predicted and then they toss in some new ones that they've kind of heard about. So, uh, there should be a link to the full study in the, um, entire list in the below section, but, uh, right now I'm going to just list off the top 10 for you guys. Uh, worldwide survey of fitness trends 2019, so wearable technology, group training, highintensity interval training, fitness programs for older adults, bodyweight training, employing certified fitness professionals, yoga, personal training, functional fitness training, and exercises medicine. So, oh, I mean it sounds like people are trying to, you know, get away from kind of the standard like go to the gym, lift weights. They want to they want things to be a little bit more specific, right? They want to try maybe it's just body weightight fitness or maybe it's, you know, specifically high-intensity interval training. Uh people are getting a lot more specific with their training and we know that's better. So, that's good. Mhm. No, absolutely. And like I said, number one is wearable technology. So, I got a Garmin for Christmas and it's pretty sweet and uh the things you can do with these types of uh tech is outstanding. Yeah, I'd say the watches are very popular. And then I've also seen people wear the heart rate monitors that go around their uh their ribs. Those are very useful if you're trying to determine like intensity or how hard you need to go or for how long you've been going. Uh another thing I saw, this one was kind of cool, was that uh they're starting to make uh jackets that you can wear or even t-shirts that have the biometrics like tight threaded in. So that's pretty cool. So if you want to check those out, let us know what you think about those and uh we'll look into them as well cuz they look super comfortable and super useful. So that'll be good. Uh mine I wanted to follow up on a review study that just came out from uh the International Society of Sport Nutrition. Big shocker there. I love referencing that group. If you haven't already, make sure you check them out. That's at uh jssn uh.com biomemed or sorry bio jssn.biomemed central. Uh and you can see all their studies for free. This one is called acute caffeine supplementation in combat sports a systematic review. So what they did is they basically scoured the internet for information based on what caffeine does for people that participate in combat sports. So, uh, boxing or wrestling or taekwondo or or what have you. Uh, and they found nine studies. Unfortunately, there's just not a lot of specific caffeine information on combat. Uh, but they found the following. I'm going to read this straight from here. I know it's a little dry, but I figure they they say it best in this case. Uh but they say uh of these three studies detected no erogenic effect of caffeine supplementation while six of the studies did observe a significant positive effect. Supplementation with 3 to 6 mg per kilogram body weight of caffeine was found to increase the glycolytic contribution to energy metabolism during the execution of real or simulated combats as indicated by elevated blood lactate concentrations. What's that mean? That is a lot of big words. It basically says that you're doing a really good job of mobilizing your energy sources. Caffeine helps you use the energy that you have stored already better. So, that's good. Uh, another thing is that caffeine intake also noted to improve strength, power, and upper arm muscular endurance. And they were not paralleled by an increase in the exertion perceived. So, they were actually working harder and outputting more energy without realizing it or without feeling like they were working harder. So, that's cool. that and that that goes right along with with why we put caffeine into pre-workouts, right? Uh we generally um like to put in in between like 180 milligrams and 300 milligrams and that kind of falls on the low end of this 3 to 6 milligs per kilogram spectrum. Uh but we still see good results from it. A lot of times people have a really hard time consuming that higher end. uh you know 6 millig per kilogram for a guy like me is 600 600 millig of caffeine which is two scoops of like a big like gym or caged or or or pre-WO or what have you. So it's a lot of caffeine all at once. Uh but anyway, so caffeine uh not just for the energy but may actually have improvements for energy usage as well as power output and perceived exertion. So that's really cool. Anyway, that's the only science I wanted to talk about as far as news, but if you want information more on that study or the studies that they studied, please feel free to shoot us an email, brain.gs atbodybuilding.com. That's gains with a Z with a Z. Anyway, so before we jump in, we have a lot to talk about as far as diets go. Let's talk about a couple of the questions that we have already. Uh Eddie from YouTube says, "How do I target belly fat?" You don't. You target fat. And that goes by, you know, moderating your calories in, working on your calories out. And hopefully, uh, the the fat from your belly goes away along with fat from everywhere else. But unfortunately, it's not really a situation where you can just start doing a bunch of crunches and hope that your belly fat goes away. How it works. Yeah. So, anyway. Okay. Thank you, Eddie. Uh, Lil Lit, is it possible to build muscle on keto? I'm going to take this one for you, Alec. Well, I know we're going to get to that point. Um, in this one we're definitely touching on keto, but um, in terms of actually putting on muscle with keto or any other diet plan, as long as you're in a caloric surplus, that is the goal. I know a lot of people talk about what the diet's best, what's this or that. But in the end, like this time of the year when people are trying to get fit or they're trying to lose a little weight, whatever puts you in a caloric deficit, that's what you need to do if you're able to kind of maintain that um, diet. Okay. But, uh, for keto, yeah, you're able to do it as long as you focus on protein and your training is appropriate and protein within the bounds of keto, right? Within the realms of that because there's a there's a difference between actually being in true ketosis or just enjoying a highfat diet. Yeah. And we'll talk about that in a little bit, so stay tuned. Uh, Thomas Steven Thomas Stephen, uh, from Facebook, uh, many times weight loss plateaus during diets. Do you recommend cycling a diet or transitioning into a different one? So, there's a couple ways to go about this, and I'm going to choose one. It's not the definitive like answer, but I'm going to go about it this way. I would recommend periodizing your training along with your diet. And periodizing basically means that you're going to treat your training in waves, in periods. And those periods can go uh either really high or really low. Think of it like a wave. And so, one way to keep yourself from plateauing is to push that wave higher than you have before to really go big on the intensity. So, for for a couple of three four days in a row, really push yourself in the gym. Go further than you have, and it's going to it's going to hurt. You're going to you're going to be in a position where you're going to feel drained. You're going to feel out of energy, and you're going to feel like you you you are not where you want to be. But then after you're done with that, you can you can then follow that with another micro period of a little bit less work. And so, by pushing your body past where you normally go, you're giving it that extra ump that it needs to hopefully potentially get over that plateau. Now, I'm sure there's other diet strategies you can follow that may also help with this, but I recommend doing it in the in in the workout realm, you know, push yourself harder than you have before, and hopefully you can see results from there. And you can also tie your nutrition to those periodized um time frame. So, like Tyler's talking about, if you're going to push yourself a lot harder in the on a leg day, for instance, on that on that kind of set of kind of the period within your training, you can eat more that day. Probably you're going to push yourself more and you're just going to be able to kind of get over your plateau. A lot of people don't think about this, but actually eating more on certain days like that actually kind of pushes you a little further. Oh, yeah. Absolutely. I mean, Alec, how much what's your daily calorie intake? 36 to 4, right? Which is which is crazy high compared to even what the standard American diet is supposed to be. And that's because you're working out really hard every day, burning a lot of calories. So, you can eat a lot and and still be losing weight, be gaining muscle. It's just make sure that you are working hard and you are eating right. And we'll talk about that as we go forward as well. But great question, Thomas Stephen. Uh, can I or sorry, Khalifa from YouTube, I can or I take only 1,600 calories. Is that good? Uh, it depends. I don't know how big you are. Y um calorie intake and uh how it relates to the amount of your activity is is greatly dependent on where you are currently with your body weight, with your lean muscle mass. Uh so the answer unfortunately is I really can't tell you. Uh we have a body or sorry we have a calorie intake calculator on bodybuilding.com. I'm sure our wonderful moderator can throw that into chat right now uh and put it in the comments below if you want to do uh you you know calculate what your macros should be and what your calorie intake should be uh based on a number of variables. So go check that out. Uh and thank you to our moderators. Uh we're going to do one more and then we're going to move forward. Can I let's see. How do I gain muscle without a diet plan? I think that's going about it wrong. I think I think a diet plan needs to be a part of gaining muscle. Yeah. I mean, if you really if you okay, if you're just casually kind of lifting and trying to kind of just eat healthy, that's per perfectly fine. That's awesome. That's better than a lot of people. However, if you're trying to actually put on muscle, tracking protein is priority numer calories and protein. You don't have to necessarily hit indiv individualized macros if you're going to do it. My opinion is focus on protein and calories. That's right. And we have talked about if it fits your macros before. We're going to talk about it again in a moment, but remember the last time that we talked about it, we gave a good, better, best scenario and we'll talk about that again and you can kind of use that how you see fit. So anyway, thank you for the questions. We will take more in just a minute, but before we do, let's get into more of kind of the content stuff today. So, uh, it is the new year, new year, new me is kind of always the the saying that pops out. And we at bodybuilding.com want to support your goals and hopefully helping you uh either lose weight or gain muscle or become more fit or more active or be able to participate in more things. like whatever your goals may be, we want to help you get there. And one way that a lot of people like to go about that is they want to use the new year as a wonderful starting point for what could be a new diet. And we always like to say like diet is a really great place to start. And if your diet isn't on point, then you're really not taking full advantage of your time in the gym. So it's a it's a good starting point and using the new year, awesome. Let's do that. So we wanted to hit on four different diets that seem to be popular right now. We're not going to hit them all. And if you have questions about specific ones that we're not mentioning today, again, feel free to follow up with us. we can follow up with you. That's fine. But today, we're going to talk about four specifically. Uh if it fits your macros, keto, paleo, and the Whole 30 diet. Those are those are four that we feel are very popular right now. Mhm. There's a lot of questions surrounding them. A lot misunderstandings, and we wanted to elucidate some of the answers to those. So, if it fits your macros, Al, give me the breakdown. So, the breakdown in this one, it's easy. So, it's flexible dieting is the best way to describe it. So, so it puts an emphasis on protein, carbohydrates, and fats and kind of the overall calorie picture. So, breaking down by various percentages and to fit the individual person. So, one person's macros are not going to fit the other person based on your activity levels, your goals, um your body type, your age, all that fun stuff. Um the nice thing about it though is um it allows for people to be more kind of conscious of what they're actually put in their bodies. Teaches you how to read a nutrition label and how to fit things in. Um, if you're like me, when you pick it up, kind of it's kind of a game and you try to make it a puzzle at the end of the day. I mean, it's math, right? So, uh, once again, I'm going to point you to the the BBOC macro calculator and you can figure out exactly I need X amount of fats, I need X amount of carbs, and I need X amount of or X, Y, and Z amount of protein, right? So, um, every time that you eat a meal, you have to track to make sure, uh, how many of each one of those macros am I am I consuming? Uh, and then from that, you can be a little bit creative. So, if I know that I need, you know, 200 g of protein in a day, I can go about getting that however I want. If I want it to be through whey protein or if I want it to be through steak, that is up to you. As long, you know, the the adage, the name of the game is is really the rules as well. If it fits your macros, can I eat this cupcake? Well, if it fits your macros, can I eat this cereal? Can I eat this steak? Like, whatever. If it fits your macros, that's cool. Now, we don't recommend diving deep into the Twinkies, but if you want to fit it in there, if it fits your macros, go for it. I I would recommend steering towards generally more healthy foods, more whole foods, less processed foods. That's better. But uh this is a good way to start. Uh a lot of people have trouble calculating every single macro that they're doing. So let's talk about that good, better, best that you had mentioned before. Yeah. So kind of we mentioned earlier a little bit with the good kind of phase of of flexible dieting would be focusing on calories. So start tracking calories and get that down to a a to a sec to a science for yourself kind of second nature. Then then from there you're going to go protein and calories which is better. Um and then best is if you can knock down all three. Um and by this point in time I feel like a lot of people areware are aware of My Fitness Pal. My Fitness Pal is good. Great app. There's a variety of health apps you're able to track your food. It's just your preference. I prefer My Fitness Pal just because I've been using it for years. Um have mine do you? It's not perfect. Sometimes the math is a little off. Sometimes you're eating more that day or less depending upon how it's logged. But uh that would be the best system if you're actually paying attention to your macros from there, right? And kind of what Tyler brought up earlier with don't stick to just the caloric dense foods. I mean, if your goal is to lose weight or to maintain weight and you're trying to be strict your macros, it's best to choose nutritiously dense foods. So, veggies for volume sake, um protein, fiber, that's another one that I feel like a lot of people don't touch on. Fiber is very important, especially with flexible dining or any um diet really. Um but it's great for those who want to go out and enjoy a get together with their family. Uh the ability to be flexible on the go makes this diet approach very fantastic. Um for kind of, I would say, ease of mind, right? Yeah. you go out with your friends, you want to have some drinks or you want to, you know, have some bread with your dinner at the table and you don't want to be that person that's be like, "Oh, no, I'm on the diet." Right? You can you can kind of fit it in there. And you have mentioned when you when you follow this, cuz I know you're very specific about your macros, that uh you can even look at your calorie intake and your macro intake, not just over the course of a day, but over the course of a week. And so I, you know, you want to get your daily protein in, but I can be a little bit lighter during the week and I can eat just a little bit. I can be a little bit of a deficit during the week if I want to go big on the weekend and that's okay. Macro hoarding. That's right. Macro hoarding is the word. Uh, so if you guys want to try that, it is that's why we call it flexible dieting because it allows you to make those personal decisions, figure out what's best for you. Because like we always say, the best diet is the one that you can follow long term. And if you can't follow a diet, if you can't stick to it, then it doesn't matter like how good it is, it's not good for you. So, if you can if you can be flexible and if you can follow the rules of this and and you know allow yourself to cheat every now and then, but keep it within those reigns, then that's a win for everybody, right? Cool. Uh there's a really good question here from YouTube. I just wanted to bring this up real quick before we move on. Uh Alfine from YouTube asks, "Can I combine two diets if if it fits your macros?" So, that's intermittent fasting with if it fits your macros. And the answer is absolutely you can. It's just a little bit more difficult because you're you're pigeonholding the hours in which you can eat. So for those who don't know intermittent fasting means uh that you are choosing a window of the day that you are going to eat. Uh generally it's a 8 hour window that you are going to eat and then the other 16 hours of the day you are fasting. You can consume water or coffee or tea. Uh but that's about it. Um some people even do a drastic effort 20our fasting. I've seen 20 and four and that's even harder. And there's a lot of science that that surrounds you know the hormone balance that takes place and we're not going to get super deep into that right now. But the to answer your question, can I do I if and if it fits your macros, yes, you can. If it fits your macros is just determining what you can eat. And if and if is determining when you can eat it. So if you'd like to follow those two plans at once, cool. Are the are the results going to be additive, I I don't want to say like 100% yes, they will be. But if you are following the plan and if you are doing what you set out to do and you can stick to it, absolutely cool. And on that token, on that uh kind of bringing up if it's a really nice transition into the keto talk. I would say that the majority of the people that I know that participate in intermittent fasting are actually uh they prefer to go kind of the ketogenic way. Um I feel like it's a little easier cuz you're going to be eating calorically dense food like high fat in a in a shorter period of time and um it'll make you it'll definitely make you more full. All right. So what is keto? So ketosis or ketogenesis, the keto diet means that your body is pulling the majority of its energy from fats and also the ketones that are created by the metabolizing of those fats instead of carbs. So in uh a person who follows the standard American diet, you're consuming a lot of carbs and then a little bit of fat and protein. And so your body takes those carbs, turns it into a bunch of glucose, and then turns that into a bunch of glycogen. And that glucose and glycogen is the main source of energy not only for your muscles, but for your brain and for all the major processes. But how does that change when you take away the carbs? So for someone that is in ketosis, your body actually shifts the way it the metabolism works and it pulls energy from ketones which are made from fats and oils and all that kind of stuff. So uh in order to maintain this this state, this metabolic state, you have to maintain a diet that is generally about 60 to 75% fat, 15 to 30% protein and and really low 5 to 10% carbs, which is basically turning a normal diet on its head. Yep. uh and and even more so uh we know that there are a couple of uh major considerations here. Keto is a major lifestyle change. Uh you have to change the way you think about breakfast, lunch, dinner, snacking, the whole bit. Everything that you would normally eat generally is out the window because it's generally pretty high carb. So it's it it means changing your snacks from chips to pieces of deli meat and uh you know oil filled coffee and bacon and all sorts of wonderful tasting things but also foods that we would generally try and consume sparingly because they were pretty high in fat. But now those are kind of where your focus is. Uh another thing is that uh people generally have trouble with the transition the actual moving from not being in a ketogenic state to being in the state of ketosis. We've all heard of the keto flu or getting the keto fog. uh your brain has to go through a transition. You have to teach it that it needs to not use carbs anymore and it needs to use ketones instead. And a lot of times people have trouble with that transition. It can cause irritability. It can cause, you know, kind of a mind haze and lack of energy. Uh but one of the reasons that that happens is that moving, you know, increasing the amount of fat intake, decreasing the amount of carbs in your body actually can can lead to a a decrease in the amount of electrolytes in your body as well, just the way your kidneys function. And so make sure that you're consuming lots of electrolytes. A lot of people like to use uh chicken broth or beef broth, vegetable broth, things that are high in sodium, but also getting you lots of hydration as well. And uh we we've we found that people have a lot of success with consuming those kind of things in order to make that transition just a little bit easier. And one one thing kind of brought up earlier with fiber like from flexible dieting is very important because you're getting that from whole grains, um nutritionally nutritiously dense vegetables. Um with keto, you don't necessarily get that. So, when it comes to kind of being regular, you have to choose your carbohydrates correctly. So, you're going to be dark greens, high fiber in those because you're not you're not going to be getting it from other sources. That's right. So, you got to be very very uh purposeful with your with your choices. Now, I've seen a couple of questions here in chat. I'm having trouble pulling them out specifically. Uh but I saw, you know, can I gain muscle mass on keto? I think we talked about it earlier. You know, can I lose weight on keto? Absolutely you can. It's just making sure that you're falling within those calorie ranges, you're falling within those macro ranges, and you're working hard in the gym. You have to make sure that you're telling your muscles, "Keep breaking down, keep working." But keto, people who are on keto are still getting protein, and they still have plenty of protein to help their muscles grow. The the difference is just where the energy is coming from. And on that token, one critique with keto when it comes to weight loss is that you can only take away so many of your macros from that, right? So with your primarily fat, you can keep you can only take so much away before you are just running on empty almost. So with like a flexible dieting approach, you can kind of shift some things around, but keto to maintain your ketosis state, you need to keep that kind of percentage breakdown appropriate. So it's kind of harder sometimes. One uh thing I would warn is that we've found that uh uh people who are generally predisposed to high cholesterol levels within their family may deal with issues of cholesterol with keto because you're consuming a lot more fats. Uh if this is a diet that you're interested in going on, please make sure you talk with your doctor first. That way you know if you're even ready to consume that much fat cuz it's it's a lot. Uh and not everyone's body can handle all that just because of the way that your metabolism works and genetics are all different. So keto. And if there's any questions about that, please again feel free to throw them in here. Uh I don't see any keto specific here. Uh Justin from YouTube says, "I eat like a mad man. I eat chicken and steak every day. Is that bad?" Uh it's not bad as long as you're consuming other foods as well. You know, foods that have fiber, foods that have, you know, micronutrients, uh your vitamins and minerals, that's all good. Uh I don't know if you're following keto or a particular high protein diet, but uh you will need some carbs as well. Otherwise, uh your muscles will need to get their energy from somewhere. And if it's only protein, then they'll pull it from protein, and you don't want that. Uh, is cheese bad for me? Says, "Is it copple quapple from Twitch?" "Is cheese bad for me in moderation?" No. If you're only eating cheese, everyone's having a bad time. Trust me. Uh, let's see. Do vitamins count? Tyler from YouTube. Tyler, what up? Uh, do vitamins count against if should you count vitamin calorie counts against your calorie? Vitamins don't have calories. No, you can't consume vitamins for calories. Calories come from the macronutrients, the carbs, proteins, and fats. Vitamins are not that. They don't get broken down uh for calories, so don't worry about it. If you want to take your multivitamin during your 16 hour or 20 hour fast, go for it. It's cool. Uh Chelsea says, "I'm addicted to movie theater popcorn, but otherwise eat only meat and vegetables. Can I still achieve great results or am I hopeless?" Uh it all depends on amounts and how often you're going to the movies and eating a box of popcorn. If you're going every day and you're eating a big old thing of popcorn and you're smothering that butter on there, you're eating a bunch of it, you may have a hard time. If you're going once a month and you're having a bucket of popcorn, cool, man. Go big. I think it's going to be fine. But if it fits your macros, that's true. I mean, like, if you're doing a jumbo popcorn yourself, it's impressive. But that uh it's probably something you don't want to do every time. But uh no, and it comes down to it, it's an energy balance. If you're if your goal is to lose weight, as long as the end of the day, like if you have, you know, you're going to the movies and you eat a little bit less and other macronutrients and calories, yeah, it's fine. Um what was Let's see. I saw a good one. It was okay from YouTube. Is carb cycling recommended for a fat loss goal? So recommended, not necessarily, but it's another tool in your kit. You want to describe carb cycling? So carb cycling, the usual um kind of breakdown in this is you're going to do something along the lines of four low carb days in a row, like two medium carb uh medium level carb days and a high carb day. Kind of like a refeed. Okay. So sometimes you're working a little bit more, you're eating a little bit less, but then you're refeeding yourself up and then you're going to ride those calories. I think we talked about this uh what was it three or four months ago. I think Bill Campbell uh from ISSN actually did a study on refeeding and found that it actually made a made a positive difference in people's ability to lose weight. Uh you know whether it was from keeping people from binging or just allowing your body to kind of go in and out of that state. Uh this is not for keto. This is for people who are just generally on on macrocontrolled diets. Uh but refeeding actually may make a positive difference. So if you feel like having your cheat day, like go for it. Don't be afraid. Uh cuz people who stay like two strict every day all the time tend to get fatigue in their diet and that's a bad thing. Yep. But let's move on. Uh this is one that a lot of people in my family asked me about over the break. Uh it was like a big topic of conversation around the Christmas table. Uh and there's a lot of misconceptions about what it means. So let's talk about the Whole 30 diet. So uh I'm going to read directly from the Whole 30 website just so you guys have a very clear understanding of what uh Whole 30 is. So, directly from the Whole 30 rules, eat moderate portions of meat, seafood, and eggs, lots of vegetables, some fruit, plenty of natural fats, and herbs, spices, and seasonings. Eat foods with very few ingredients, all pronouncable ingredients, or better yet, no ingredients listed at all because they're whole and unprocessed. This is a 30-day challenge. No sugar, real or artificial, alcohol, grains, legumes, dairy, baked goods, junk food, etc., And there is no weighing or taking measurements of yourself for 30 days. 30 days. It's pretty strict, right? So, I believe that Whole 30 was initially created to help figure out uh if there was a food that you were consuming that was causing agitation, some GI distress. And so, that's why you're seeing a lot of things removed here that may cause issues for people. So, uh you're removing dairy to hopefully potentially rule out lactose intolerance. You're removing a lot of grains to see if there's a gluten sensitivity. You're removing alcohol. You know, I know some people are actually allergic to alcohol or maybe they're consuming too much and it's causing issues as well. And so the idea is that you go 30 days with none of these things. And then I think if you go deeper in there, they want you to introduce one of those things at a time over the course of of one thing per 30 days just to see what happens. So at its core, this is basically like a natural food diet, right? So we want to make sure everything is is clean and, you know, relatively organic and and not processed. And uh generally is is this a is this a great idea? Is this a bad idea? How do you feel about Whole 30? I feel like for some, like you said, for some people, if you generally have issues with digestion and you feel bloated all the time, yet you're very curious to see if there's something maybe you're consuming that might just be agitating you. Try it out if you want. Um, it's a little bit uh I would say hard a little too hardcore for my taste just because I don't know, I'm I I love food so much. That's just my thing. But um some people it generally works and if you can kind of establish a healthy habit do so that's a lot of the times people just have never done anything they kind of go guns of blazing and hop in a whole 30 which is something I might not not necessarily recommend but for some people they truly enjoy it and um but the one thing when it comes down to it is it's so strict and the I don't know I feel like human beings we're very communal communal eaters and this kind of a diet makes it really hard to do something like that. So, this kind of falls back to the is the if it fits your macros thing where it's difficult to socialize when you're very restrictive about your diet because people like drinking together. They like being together around a dinner table and doing things like that and being the person to say, "No, I can't eat that cuz my diet kind of sucks." One thing that I will say about that and I think I I really respect this diet for is that generally it's it's 30 days. It's a it's quick. It'S4 weeks. Yeah, you might miss a couple of social gatherings, but it's not the end of the world because at the end of the month you're going to be able to introduce some stuff and you're going to be able to change it. This is this is kind of hitting the reset button and going back to basics on your food. Uh generally uh this this looks like it'll be okay. This doesn't seem super sustainable at the end of the 4 weeks. I would give yourself a little bit of leeway because if you're restricting yourself to just the whole, you know, wonderful beautiful natural foods. Uh I think at some point you're going to cave and then binging becomes possible and that becomes bad. So uh maybe maybe a good reset button. maybe something to do from, you know, now until the middle of February just to see what happens and see uh uh what foods maybe giving you trouble. So, I respect you for that. Uh let's see. Do we have any questions on Whole 30? I don't see any here. Uh Prodigy from YouTube says, "I meal prep and eat very clean. Bad thing is I just have to drink one Pepsi per day. I just can't quit. How bad is this hurting me?" Uh well, a can of Pepsi is what, 150 calories? It's plenty of sugar. It's a decent amount of sugar. But like we mentioned before, if you're tracking your calories very closely and you know how much, you know, how much protein, fat, carbs are in those meals that you're prepping. And if you're prepping at the beginning of the week, you should have a very clear idea of what you're consuming cuz you can weigh out. I know exactly how much chicken I'm eating. I know how much broccoli, how much rice, and I can portion it exactly into each one of my little meal prep things so I can calculate very closely to to reality what I'm consuming outside of that Pepsi. And then you just fit that Pepsi into your macros, right? know you you can look at the label and you know exactly what you're consuming. Pepsi is very clear. We have this amount of sugar and this amount of everything else and you can just fit that right in. And I say do it if it fits your macros. Yep. Yeah. There you go. It's probably not awesome for the teeth to have a to have a soda every day. Uh maybe drink it through a straw. There you go. Then you avoid the teeth thing, but I'm not a dentist. So, uh we got one more diet that we wanted to talk about. Uh the Paleo diet. So, Alec, why don't you take this one? All right. So, this one's fun because I would say that it's been around for a few years, but it's pretty straight to the point. Caveman didn't eat it. Neither should you. So, uh, this particular diet focuses on whole foods and avoids processed foods. Sounds familiar. Sounds very familiar. Um, but the primary focus being meat, fish, eggs, veggies, fruits, nuts, seeds, herbs, spices, healthy fats, and oils. So this kind of diet, so paleo, you're avoiding it's avoiding a lot of the same stuff as Whole 30 essentially, but you're actually eating more um high protein foods in this one. And kind of you're able to eat a few other things that Whole 30 didn't really put a focus on as much, but down in the nitty-gritty is if it wasn't in the Paleolithic area era, excuse me, you shouldn't be consuming it now. But the pros of this one is you don't have to track any food. So these most people that do at all. Yeah. So So there's no like particular calorie restrictions, none of it. Just just eat natural. Yeah. So it's kind of um they're doing it in kind of an intuitive eating p approach, which is good. Um but yeah, you're focusing on uh yeah, all those foods mentioned. So I feel like this kind of a diet approach um if you're not tracking food can be helpful in this, but you just have to be aware that you must be consuming like some of these more nutritiously dense foods. You got to be super nutritious and you have to be super active. So, if you want to eat like a caveman, you got to make sure you're working out like a caveman. And what's a caveman doing all day? They're walking around running away from lions. They're doing all sorts of crazy stuff. And so, I'm not saying you go to the zoo and you find a lion to run away from, but you need to be working out pretty hard because if you're going to be consuming as many calories as you like, you got to you got to tip the scales back towards calories out as well. So, uh natural foods are good. Obviously, if you've got a lot of leafy greens and a lot of good sources of of of nutrient- richch foods, you're not going to have any issues with missing out on vitamins or minerals, which is a win. uh we're not tracking uh macros, we're not tracking calories. But again, if that's the case, if you feel like you're consuming a lot of food, and if you don't feel like you're exercising enough, really put yourself into that position where you're where you're you're working cuz you don't want to uh you don't want to go on this diet and restrict yourself to these, you know, very narrow window of foods and then start gaining weight because you're consuming more calories than you're burning, which would be a major bummer. Yeah. No, and um like Tyler said, activity is huge in this one. uh the paleo diet kind of grew alongside the CrossFit kind of realm as that got popular. Um a lot of the upper upper echelon athletes actually were paleo for quite a while. Um actually I've had numerous amount of family members that were performance athletes that did it for a while. But um one of these things again it's not one of those communal eating food uh kind of realms. Uh eating at home is great. So it kind of puts emphasis on you cooking everything that you're buying which is outstanding. Yeah. Last thing you want to do is waste food by just sitting on a shelf. You're eating kind of more it's focusing on nutritiously dense foods which or nutritious Yeah. Yeah. Um which is at the end of the day kind of one thing that the United States we don't do a great job at. So if you feel like you kind of want to just go gung-ho into something along these lines, do it. Yeah. Uh Mika from YouTube says, "Isn't Whole 30 basically like paleo, but I guess for just 30 days?" It's very similar. Pretty much. Yeah. Very, very close. uh some some specific restrictions on either side that are a little bit different. Uh but yes, very close. Uh Eddie, what are the percentages uh in the keto diet? I'm 5'10", 220. Uh just wondering. Uh okay, we talked about the percentages a little bit earlier. Let me scroll these back up. But it's generally about 60 to 75% fat. It's really high. So like 3/4 of what you're eating, 3/4 of the calories that you're consuming are fat. Uh let's see. 15 to 30% protein, 5 to 10% carbs. So not a lot of carbs. And then filling in the gaps of that protein. I would keep the protein as high as you can just from a bodybuilding perspective. We know that high protein diets are generally pretty good. Uh but your energy is coming from fat. You are not consuming protein, protein, protein, protein. And that's a huge mistake that a lot of people make. They think I'm on the keto diet. That means I need to eat fat. And there's a lot of fat on beef, which means all I need to do is eat steaks all day. And that's really not it because that's way too much protein. And then your body can actually start pulling energy from the protein instead of the fat. uh or you're not getting enough fat to actually tell your body that it needs to be in ketosis. So, make sure you stick to those uh macro percentages, good luck to you. Uh again, if you want to talk about specific macro calculators, how much like how you know what total number, not just percentage, but total number of calories, we have a calculator on the site. Make sure you go check it out. Uh let's see, let's see, let's see. Is tilapia, beans, and rice good after gym snack? Yeah, sure. It sounds good. Fish is a fish is a good uh uh protein source with actually some good oils in it like omega-3s, which is great. Uh, and then between I think it's beans and rice together. Is that correct? That make the complete protein. Yes. I'm a big fan of legumes because they got a lot of fiber in them. And then black beans are kind of my favorite. Uh, and then rice is always good. I'd probably go for brown rice cuz it's a little bit lower gly glycemic index. But, you know, Alec eats cereal after he works out, so it's all good if it fits your macros. Uh, we have a bunch of other questions here. Let's do a couple of these before we start wrapping up today. Um, Pop-Tarts, do you have to be sore after the workout to see results? No, not necessarily. No, no. Destroying it. So, working out your It's little micro tears in your muscles. The goal isn't to necessarily put yourself in the, you know, in a gurnie by working out so hard. Oh, that'd be bad. That'd be bad. Well, it actually makes it so you can't work out tomorrow either. Exactly. So, that you want enough kind of a recovery time from when you worked out that muscle group to be able to grow it. Um, so not necessarily not being able to move is the way to go. Get a good blood flow. Kind of you're stretching the muscle, tearing the muscle. Go from there. It's okay to be sore. It's probably not okay to be bedridden. No. And I know a lot of people that want to train that way. They want to work out so hard they can't move the next day. But that's counterproductive because you could be sore for days after you're done and then all of a sudden now you've missed three or four days of exercising what could have been, you know, a lot of calories out of out of your out of your your body. And so, you know, don't do that to yourself. Work hard but also work smart. Uh because every day that you don't work out is a day lost. So, uh make sure you keep that in mind. Uh, we have a question from Facebook. I don't see a name, but should you cycle on and off keto to see the benefits? Generally, no. Uh, keto is kind of a a big stretch. And if you're if you're constantly going on and off, you're kind of throwing your metabolism for a loop. And that actually puts you in a position where you may be going through that keto fog more often than not. And you really don't get better at going through the keto fog or not. You can get better at finding strategies that may work for you, but your body doesn't get better at transferring back and forth. So, I wouldn't do that to yourself. If you're going to do it, do it for a while and see if it's for you. Uh, I know some people who love it and they've been on ketosis for a long time and they've seen really no reason to get off. Uh, and then I've seen some people that go into it, they hate it, and they come right off and cool. Uh, but I don't see a benefit to to cycling in and out like you would with some supplements. But, uh, there you go. Uh, I'm starting keto. Need to find some good recipes. You know, I think I've heard of a website, bodybuilding.com, that may have some really sweet or sorry, some sweet recipes for you. Maybe go check it out. Uh, I hear they know what they're talking about. But, u, you know, that's for you to uh, decide yourself. Um, one little thing that I also wanted to touch on is kind of a disclaimer about this. I know we talked about a lot of diets that have a lot of animal products in them. Uh, people do use vegan or vegetarian ethics to accomplish their their diet nutrition goals. Um, so flexible dieting is a great one you can use for that. Keto and if you're able to do it, pull it off with a from a vegan diet, do it. Keto would be really hard as a vegan. It'd be really hard. Really difficult. So, make sure I would sit with a nutritionist or a dietitian if you wanted to maintain veganism in keto. It would be challenging, but you can. And a lot of people ask, "Can I gain muscle as a vegan or vegetarian?" Absolutely. You just make sure your protein's high enough and your and your micronutrients are there. Our boss is a vegan, and she she she's stud. So, she she Well, she was a bodybuilder. Yeah, she's great. All right. So, uh before we wrap up, we just wanted to give you a little heads up on what we have going on on the site. Uh quick sales. We have the we're redoing the supplement award sales. So, for all the categories that that won awards this year, whether it's, you know, Cage Muscle or Gym or Datiz, uh we have a lot of those on sale this week. Um, go check those out, bodybuilding.com. And then also, we have a transformation sale. So, in celebration of all the people starting their transformation, we put a ton of stuff on sale on the website. Anywhere from 10 to 20 to 30% off. Uh, it the the list of categories and and brands is enormous. So, I'm not going to waste your time listing all those off, but go check it out. There's some really great stuff on the site uh that I think you should go see. Uh, new products. Uh, EVL just came out with an alcitrilline 200 gram box. Go check it out. We like elitrine because it's good for the vasoddilation in the pumps. uh bodybuilding.com. We have a signature probiotic. So, if you feel like uh we had a big long talk about probiotics in November uh and if you feel like you want to try out a good probiotic, we did a lot of research on ours to make sure it is top-notch for a really good price. Uh so, go check that out. Uh and then we actually just onboarded a brand new brand, uh Sparta Nutrition. Congratulations. We're really happy to have Sparta here. And so, we have a whey protein in a bunch of really cool flavors that looks that look a lot like breakfast cereals that you'd recognize. Uh they have a pre-workout that's really really cool. And then they also have a keto coffee that comes in a number of really cool flavors. So, make sure you check them out. And again, we're really excited to have Sparta Nutrition here as well. So, and uh we hope this was helpful. I know it's it can be kind of a daunting task to kind of start a new lifestyle change. Um there's plenty of information out there, especially on our on our website about diets and nutrition, any of the recipes. And don't be afraid to email brain.gamesbody.com if you have any questions. We uh we truly enjoy helping customers that reach out to us about that. That's right. Thank you so much everyone for joining us today. We really enjoyed having you and we can't wait to see you again next month. We have a lot of really great content coming your way. Until next time, keep on lifting. When we're developing strength and character, the process of that development is painful and uncomfortable. lifting weights painful and uncomfortable, but the end result, you're stronger at the end of the day.