my right foot. The bone was not taking on blood, so it was starting to die. There was a a slight chance that I was going to lose my right foot for a little bit. I never fully healed. Um, I can't run anymore. I can't jump. I can't squat. I I can't do a lot what I used to. We're definitely a motocross family, which is funny cuz we lived 2 seconds from the beach, but we were always driving inland to the desert. My dad got us into it at a a real young age. Started putting me on a bike when I was about five. It was a family thing that we would do when I was younger. We would get pulled out of school on Fridays to go out to the desert and camp out with our friends and family. And it was some of the best memories of my life. Just the the whole family uh feeling of it. You have to be strong to uh ride dirt bikes, but ultimately it is a cardio sport. A lot of people think it's really easy and you twist the throttle and the bike just goes. You got to realize that you're holding on to this 250 lb machine that's trying to rip out from underneath you. It takes every muscle in your body. I didn't have any muscle on me, but I wasn't fat. So, I thought I was fit. I got into drinking just in high school and stuff. And uh I didn't smoke cigarettes. I was totally against it until I went to a mechanic school. Well, I don't want to down on the school or nothing, but when you're around a bunch of guys smoking cigarettes, you know, you try a puff here and there and then uh 7 years later and you're still smoking and it's it became a habit. Right before the accident, I was I was living life like as good as I ever had, the strongest I've ever been. Uh I was riding the most I've ever ridden, so everything was on the up and up. And you know, I was going to try and make it in the pro amateur ranks. I've had multiple injuries. I've broken my elbow, my collarbone, my shoulder blade, multiple ribs, fingers, toes, bruised lung. I was used to slapping a cast on it, letting it heal, and getting back to it. But this this was a game changer. August 10th, 2013, I went to the track just like any other day. I'd been riding so much and I I knew the track. I knew the course. I knew the jumps. And I came around to hit. Just happened to be the biggest jump on the track. I just was in the wrong gear and my mind just didn't even catch it until it was too late. Was flying about 80 feet and probably about 15 ft high. Then I landed on my feet and I instantly knew uh they were both broken. Um I crawled off the track and my buddy and my brother picked me up and put me in my truck and we drove about 35 minutes to the closest hospital. I instantly went into surgery for one of my feet. My other one was too swollen, so I had to stay about four more days to do the second surgery. Uh I was in the hospital for over a week. It was pretty miserable. I dropped 15 lbs. Uh while I was in the hospital, I spent 5 months bed rest, never standing a single time. For the first few months, there was no good news. It was, "We're sorry this isn't healing. We're sorry this is infected. We're sorry this isn't going how it's supposed to." and months of hearing that it destroys you. I'd sit in bed at night cuz that's all I ever did was sit in bed with my feet up for 5 months kind of withering away. I'd break down and start crying. I I I don't cry, but uh I've never cried so much in my life just thinking like what am I going to do? There's nothing there's no hope. I lost hope. I was ready for the worst news every day. I never woke up happy to see another day. I was just over it. The accident was in August and I first stood on my feet uh in the end of December. The year rolled over and so we had to repay our insurance deductible. So I stopped going to physical therapy very early on. I only got about 2 weeks in. So then the rest of the physical therapy was kind of up to me. I went right back into smoking cigarettes and drinking beer. For the first little bit, I wasn't working or anything, so I was just sitting around the house smoking a pack a day and drinking a six-pack a day, thinking kind of like, well, everything's going to be the same as it was before, kind of, but just a little bit worse. I was starting to get unhappy without really realizing it until I saw the picture of me sitting at 173 with my belly hanging over my butt of my pants. then that's that's not me. Yeah. Something just bit me in the butt. I don't know if it was seeing that picture with the mixture of just not being able to do what I wanted to do that lit a fire inside me that said like you're going to do what you want to do and nothing's going to stop you. It was uh it was hard at first to even want to think about training legs. I would go into the gym and I would just get pissed because man, I can't squat. I can't press what I should be pressing. People are going to make fun of me because I'm doing such little weight. You see, you know, people who are paralyzed doing crazy things. I've seen guys in wheelchairs doing back flips in their wheelchairs. So, for me to think that I have both my feet and I can still walk and I'm sitting here crying like a little baby that I can't do what I want is a joke. Who cares what anyone else thinks because I need to better myself. And once you better yourself, everything else falls into place. I needed to change my mindset and focus on making a better life with what I have, which is more than enough. Once I started getting into the gym more and focusing on myself more, I became way happier. I never knew how much fitness could be related to being positive. I've always been the happy guy. Once I got into fitness, it was such a positive community that it allowed me to channel my my happiness and my positivity into something. I've never seen a sport or a group of people so collectively wanting to change and better themselves and the people around them. You shouldn't ever be complacent and satisfied with where you are. You should always be trying to better yourself. Look for the next step. Look for the next goal. never stop improving. And I guess I just I never realized how much fitness would make my life better. Being handicapped, I can't go on a run or a jog to get out my energy. Fitness became my outlet for expending energy and just getting out of the house and and having something to do. It became my new hobby. But without fitness, I don't think my feet would be nearly what they are today. My left one is probably about 70% from what it used to be, which is solid cuz my right one's about 40. Still got my right foot, so I can still uh still dance a little bit. Um it's not fully functional anymore, but I'm happy to have it. I have a constant pain now that I live with. Uh and it's kind of a reminder of to to be thankful. Um, it sucks cuz it's pain, but I'm thankful that I can feel it because that means my foot's still there and it means I'm walking and I'm still able to live a happy and fulfilling life.