I've always been a real self-conscious person, not just looks wise, but uh also just the the way that I interact with people. So, I just became real comfortable with just being around me. I love food. Um I love to eat. I love how I feel after I eat. And uh that was something I could do for myself that that I controlled. I could order a pizza. I could go eat two or three foot long sandwiches or I could drive down to get a a few burgers if I wanted to. I was in complete control of that part of my life that made me happy when everything else that stressed me out or maybe bummed me out, I wasn't in control of. So at least I could kind of offset those other aspects of my life with this thing that I could control. I wasn't even eating to where, oh, I feel full. I guess I'll stop. I'd eat until I really couldn't fit anymore. And I thought that was okay. I was happy for those moments. Those moments when I was uh doing what I wanted to do at the table, but then that guilt sets in cuz you know you're doing something that you necessarily don't need to do, but there's a little part of you that can't keep yourself from it. I knew that I was eating an excessive amount of calories for what I needed to and that my body was storing those as fat. The heaviest I had ever gotten was uh probably right around 270 lb. This is me at roughly 270. 260 270. Honestly, it makes me angry cuz I feel like that's time that I wasted. I was I don't know. I was happier to be eating and letting things get out of hand than I was uh doing things that were good for me that a person that really cares about themsel does. Every day when I looked at the mirror, it was A-50/50 thought of myself between I don't look that bad and I am so disgusted with how I look. But it was always split right down the middle. Not enough to send me over the edge either way to say I need to fix this or I can totally let it go. In October 2012, for the last 13 years being in the military was coming to an end, it pushed me over to that one side of I need to start making some some changes. And so I knew the first thing I needed uh to do was to figure out how to eat right. So I started with just generally cutting my calories down. And so at at first it's it's easy to do but then it becomes your lifestyle. It's not a new thing anymore especially around that 3 week point and then you realize that so I just got to keep doing this. I'll still make progress albeit slow but this is just going to be my life now. And honestly for the first year of losing weight I didn't work out. I didn't exercise. I just changed my diet. That first year I lost about 70 lb. It was easy to maintain, but I gained 10 or 15 lbs and I'd lose it. And I gained, you know, so I was just spinning my wheels. I wasn't um overall making any progress. I was just maintaining. And that challenge popped up and I uh brought it up to my mom and my wife at the time, my kids. I was like, "Hey, look at this thing going on." and they all said, "You should try that." And uh maybe about a week out from the poster before picture date is when I saw it, stripped off the shirt, went in the hall, and uh and we took the before picture and uh I went downstairs and registered for the contest and just immediately started digging into I know this stuff doesn't work for me. Haven't tried this. I crammed that whole night just to come up with an initial plan to stick to that I could adjust when I needed, but I needed some type of organization to start off with. I made a little program on Body Space so I could track my workouts. Um, I wrote down my nutrition plan. I pretty much tried to make one perfect day and I'll just keep doing that for 12 weeks. Maybe a slight adjustment if I need to. you know, if I couldn't figure out a way to to give myself a bunch of variety, then I'd just keep living my perfect day repeatedly for 90 days and see what kind of progress I made. It was one of those days where you're almost talking yourself out of working out. So, I get over to the squat rack. I'm going to do my T- bar rows and I'm bending down to put the the barbell in there. I look up and there's Keith. He's like, "Hey, man. You hold this bag for me?" Hey, hey, what's up, man? Can you hold my bag real quick? Yeah. Thanks. And a part of me knew what was happening, but then a bigger part of me said, "No way. Not you. There's no there's no way that that this could be happen to you that you won this thing." All right. In order to make a physical transformation, you have to make a mental transformation. You have to transform your attitude. What you view as your shortcomings and your limits. You have to change that before anything will happen with your body. It takes time. You're not taking huge steps, but you're always stepping in the right direction. It doesn't matter if at the end of 12 weeks you look like what you wanted to or if it takes you 12 months. Regardless, you you are where you are and you're trying to get to a certain point. And if you do anything that derails you from that path, then you're shortch changing yourself because you have a lot more ability to do things than you realize.