Before I walk out, I always think I'm going to go extra slow, slower than what feels normal, because then it'll look good for everyone else. It'll look normal for everybody else. your adrenaline is fired up and if you walk with that adrenaline, you're going to go too fast. Winning my first Olympia was amazing, but then losing it and going through a divorce and, you know, a lot of other personal things that went on with that to have the motivation to keep going and to win it again, but then to lose it again. I mean, those are very highs and lows, but every one of those steps and every one of those moments have led up to this. I'm actually very calm the week before. I have moments where I get butterflies in my stomach thinking about being on stage and having the whole world see what you look like in a bathing suit. I mean, that can be kind of nerve-wracking. And there's a little bit of pressure to coming in as a returning champion, and I've had that pressure multiple times, but every time I have come back as a returning champion, I've lost. So, the if I win this year, um, it'll be the first time I won back to back. I'll make history in the sport of figure as the first four time figure Olympic champion. So, feel like I'm where I need to be right now. And it's the hard work is behind me, and now it's just enjoying the moment and just having fun. this weekend. Tonight is meet the Olympians and that's when we get to meet the fans for the first time and sign autographs and take photos. We each get our own booth. And I remember the first year I was here, I didn't really have any line at all. No one knew who I was. And I was like, man, it would be really awesome to have a line of people who actually knew who I was. Can I take a picture with you? Yes, of course. What's your name? Maria. Nice to meet you. I am really nervous to meet you. Don't be nervous. I am. You're awesome. Hi. This is for for you from Czechoslovakia. Oh my gosh. Awesome. This is for me? Oh, thank you. I've never seen it before. Can I take a picture with you? Yeah. It'll be my third Olympic picture with you. Oh my gosh. It's exciting to know that you have that big of an impact on people, like I said, that you never even met before. And when you actually have a line, it it kind of makes you feel like you're you're doing a good job. You know, people are are inspired by you. And to me, that's very humbling cuz I'm just doing what I love. What's happening, girl? What's going on? How are you? I'm good. I've been waiting to see you for my whole life. You know, I hear women who lost 100 lb or guys who have lost 100 lb or that they quit smoking and you know they want to tell you about all the positive changes that they've made in their life and it's really exciting. That's when the reality sets in that you actually have a huge impact more than you know and you affect people more than you realize. You know, I'm always hoping that people want to see me still. I'm hoping that people want to talk to me and come up to my booth. I don't think I'll ever get to a point where I'll expect that. I feel good. I feel right where I need to be. So, feel very relaxed. Ready, ready to do this. By the time I got to bed, it was about 11:30. And then I got to get up at between 5:00 and 5:30 this morning to eat and uh get ready to see Nancy for hair and makeup. So after this, I'll get another coat of tan, touch up any spots that were messed up from sleeping, and then um get ready to go to pre-udging. So we got to get on the bus at 9:00. So I'll have a little bit of time before that to just kind of relax, eat again before I get on the bus, and then that's it. All those months of hard work come down to today. I love getting my hair and makeup done. So, the beauty pageant part of it is a lot of fun. I think that's how I explain it to people who have no idea what I'm doing. Just a beauty pageant for fitness girls. It's like I'm getting ready for Halloween, you know, like the costume makeup. But I've never Yeah. Bye, Crystal. So, now we're going to go get tan and get on the bus. I'll see you guys soon. You are so cute. Oh, say hi. Uhoh. This is my grandma and my aunt. Very beautiful. That's what we're supposed to do. She's cool. I caught her before and they left. So beautiful. I love you. I'll see you soon. Watch out. I think the times that I was more nervous was when I didn't feel confident with the way that I looked. The very calming feeling, you know, knowing that you worked really hard and the rest isn't up to you. Just got to hope the judges like what they see. It is kind of a hurry up and wait situation. Hurry up, get on the bus. Hurry up, get backstage, and then wait. So, we just got backstage. We're about to start prejudging in about an hour. We should go on around 11:30 cuz we're a third up. So, this is where I'll just hang out and keep my feet up, just relax. I'll eat again. And then about 30 minutes or so before I go out, I'll put my suit on. And then we'll start getting all the glazing process done. And then, um, I'll come out by the freeway area and do a little bit of shoulders to pump up. And then it'll be showtime. Prejudging is really where all the judging takes place. At the end of prejudging, after the judges have seen everything they need to, they pretty much know who's going to be winning at finals. I went into this sport originally because I wanted it to help my career. I was a personal trainer and I thought it would help my business if I could show people that I could get in good shape, too. And I still kind of had that mindset. You know, it was always been a hobby for me until I get to the point where I feel like I'm not getting that excitement anymore. That's when I know it'll be time to hang up the heels. But in the meantime, when you're number one, I guess, you know, you want to stay at the number one spot as long as possible. I am excited, but I don't ever really get nervous nervous until I'm about to line up before I go out. Then my heart rate starts pumping and I can't stop it. There's nothing I can do to calm it down. While you're on stage, you feel laded, you need a drink, you need to be popped up a little bit cuz you're sweating. We have four expediters out there. Do not be shy. Turn around. Say, "Hey, I need a towel. I need water." They will get it for you. You do not score points passing out on stage. All right? You also won't lose any points when you took a sip of water. They're comparing all the girls from all sides of the body. They're looking at symmetry. They're looking at muscle definition. They're looking at skin tone, hair, makeup. They're looking at presentation, how your suit fits. your three time and winning Olympia champion, Nicole Wilkins. I just want to keep getting better. So, I look back at my best always and try to better that. It's not really a competition for me with anyone else. I can only look like Nicole Wilkins. And I want to make Nicole Wilkins look the best that Nicole Wilkins can. If I place second, it's not the end of the world. My life doesn't change. I I don't think that I've necessarily reached my full potential yet. I like to think that I still have room for growth and improvement. It went good. Um they pulled Candace and I back out for the final fallout. So, it looks like it's first and second between her and I. Um, I felt really good. I felt confident. So, hopefully the judges like the conditioning that I brought. I won't know until tomorrow night. So, now it's like the hard part where you just wait. And now I'm going to go work the booth for a little bit and meet meet a bunch of people, walk around the expo. So, I feel really good. I feel like I I did the best I could. When I first walk back after getting off stage, I try to eat and then I head over to the booth. And I really like that. It's a mix of people who look at you like, "Who is that girl with that tan? Why is she so dark?" And then you get other people who are, "Oh my gosh, I can't believe that you're here in person," which is still weird. It's different when you feel good about how you did versus if you felt not so good about how you did. It was almost like a sense of relief because the hard work really was done. I mean, if it was like kind of sprayed so that it was like stayed in one spot. Well, it's a lot heavier now, too. When it was shorter, everything stayed. Yeah. I'm not sure how to wear my hair yet with it long. Yeah. For stage, I like it a little shorter, but for real life, I like it longer. Yeah. If I win tonight, it'll be the first time I ever won two times in a row. You know, when you place second, when you lose, it's it's heartbreaking because you know you're capable of winning and then when it all sinks in, you think, okay, you know, obviously second isn't bad at all, but I know what I'm capable of and I don't train for second. I don't think I'll ever get used to it to be honest. The first year or two I had no idea what to expect. I was just, "Holy cow, I can't even believe I'm here." And I still feel that way. Y good. Perfect. Okay, thank you. Getting prepared now to get out on stage. Making sure that my glaze is all even and my suit is where it needs to be. And at this point, I'm just trying to stay warm and get a little bit of a pump. You're second guessing yourself on and off throughout the entire process cuz you are trying to chase perfection and perfection does not exist. But when you put that much effort day after day, you expect to see results. Here we go, ladies. Candace Keane, Natalia, Candace, Lewis, Julia, Pamela, Jennifer, Ann, Susanna, Doria, and Nicole. Stage left over there. At night, it's a show for the audience. That's how I view it. It's a show for the audience. I'm going to go out there and do my absolute best and just enjoy every moment. weather your free time and rain figure. When I first walk out, I don't hear anything. So, when people are cheering and stuff, I really don't hear that at all cuz I'm so focused on walk slow, don't trip, hit your poses the way you need to hold them, make sure you're twisting enough, make sure your chest is lifted enough, make sure that you're smiling. that moment it's just you and the lights. I think you're so focused on what you're doing in that moment that everything else is kind of silent. Even when they announce your name as the winner, that's all you hear is your name. The first place score check for $28,000. the Olympia gold medal in the title four time Olympian Cole Wilkins. I feel absolutely amazing coming into this. I wanted to make history and I did. So, um, you know, without Joe Weider creating the Olympia 50 years ago, I wouldn't have had this opportunity to be part of history. So, I want to thank him. I want to thank the IFBB for allowing me to compete and do what I love and inspire others to live a healthier lifestyle. I want to thank the judges in the Olympia committee. And I want to thank Hani Rambod, my trainer. Uh, thank you so much. I also want to thank um my boyfriend Allan and my friends and family who are here and who are at home watching for all your love and support and the fans because you guys are amazing and keep me doing this every year. Uh you inspired me more than more than you know. So I plan to you know maybe make it five next year. Do my best to make that happen. Uh, so thank you very very very very much. Your fourtime Olympia champion, Nicole Wilkins. You know, I think when you see someone who is in great shape and who looks like they have everything together, it doesn't mean that they don't struggle sometimes, too. So, I would like people to know that I am real just like they are. when you're preparing for something like this, everything else revolves around that. I think that in in life in general, if you want to be really successful at something, there is going to be a lack of balance somewhere. And I'm okay with that.