All right, good morning everyone. Welcome to the Bodybuilding.com podcast. I'm Nick Kolius, an editor for bodybuilding.com. Next to me here, we have Heather Eastman, also an editor for bodybuilding.com, as well as a physique coach and judge. Yep. Um, and today we have a man getting ready for the stage for that competition. Uh, Pat Broco aka Possible. Pat, thanks for coming. Thank you. Thank you for having me. He's got a video series up on our YouTube channel. Currently 10 episodes deep. Hundreds of thousands of people have watched those. also seen you on on what the Ellen show followed on Instagram, Facebook. Yeah. Tell the truth. Uh few shows. Um but you know, not just because you're like some run of the run-of-the-mill fitness model. This man used to be 600 plus pounds if you didn't know already. Maybe maybe more. I think you said 605. Uhhuh. And we've been uh Yeah, we're we've been watching all of your episodes, everything we can find about you and um eager to have you here. Now, I don't want to spend a ton of time on your deep backstory because I want people to watch those videos. Um, but we got to go into it a little bit. Um, now for people who don't know, you were a bodyguard for a long time, right? Yes. For since I was 17. Since you were 17 and 10, 15 years. It's a job where being big is part of the job, right? Definitely. Definitely got paid to be big. Right. Exactly. So, so how how did how did that I don't know. Did did that cement that in your in your mind like this is who I am. I'm a big guy. This is who I'll always be. Um it definitely made me more comfortable with being big and being on tour I always felt like the bigger the better. Um I was more intimidating. I felt like I can move more people. And to be honest, just being on the road, you know, right? sitting down 15 hours of the day and eating at truck stops and going straight to hotels, eating there, then going to concerts, being backstage in a green room. A lot of time is spent eating and sitting, right? So years of that, you know, it's funny. My last tour that I did, I I never even realized it. I left at 500 lb and came back at 600. Wow. So I gain 100 pound about a year and a half. Wow. So, 100 lbs in a year and a half. And I didn't realize it until just recently. I was like, "Hold up, I gain 100 pounds." Cuz it's funny because I tell people I lost 100 pounds in 90 days. I was How long did it take me to gain it? Year and a half. Huh. But yeah, the that difference between 500 and 600 is shorter than people think. Yeah, definitely. M and to be honest, I was doing a a live stream and I was talking to a gentleman about being cuz he was 600 lb. I said, "Are you going to start now?" And this is how it came up. Me figuring out that I was only took a year to gain that weight. I was like, "You going to start now or you going to wait? You know, next year you might be 700 or 800. Who knows, right?" You know, so yeah, that's a that's that's an interesting perspective to bring to somebody. It's really interesting to think about you now talking to that guy all the time. The guy that I was that guy that you were. Yeah. I I've seen so relatable and sometimes I just I know where they're at and it really it's really an emotional time for me as well as them. But just hearing the pain in their voice, not knowing not knowing, you know, if if they're going to lose the weight, if they're going to even start. So, right, I feel a struggle. And you had tried at various points. Um, right. See, look, I'm getting emotional. But yeah, uh, I I think every overweight person tries to lose weight, maybe once a year and it just it just what is what it is. They just I personally would start and last a week and like I don't want to eat like this. I don't want to work out. I don't want to do none of these things. Boring. And it's not that we that it's hard, it's just different. It's something that we've never done. We've never ate healthy. I mean, I spent 90% of my life eating the processed foods, you know, eating McDonald's, drinking sodas, you know, as a kid, you know, that's where you wanted to go. And it just so happens I never transitioned to eating healthy. And as a bigger person, I ate a lot. So if something would happen like I sprung my ankle and I spent a month not being able being active, I would gain weight because my appetite wouldn't change. But so so the time that it did take though, what was different there really that that made that switch turn and this time it's like all right, you're going in that direction, you're staying. You know what? One of the reasons a lot of people lose weight is because something emotional happened. And the last time be before this time, not to backtrack, but the last time before this time, I lost weight because of a girl. Mhm. Lost 90 lbs. And I was like, I'm going to do it. It wasn't the right reason cuz then you find someone else or you stop caring about that person and then you go right back to your old ways or you or you get sad. And as overweight people, a lot of us eat with our emotions. So that's what gives us comfort. But the last time my my pushing, you know, that pushed me over the edge was death. Mhm. And I feared it. And I was told, you know, how much longer do you think you can go on at 600 lb? High blood pressure, pre-diabetic, high cholesterol. You know, my family, my dad died of a heart attack, my grandma died of a heart attack. So, both sides of my family had diabetes and died of heart attacks. So, it really just hit me like, right, I need to change right now. I I didn't want to die. And that's what pushed me. You know, everyone's going to be different. You know, some of them may be pushed because someone else died. And I talked to a gentleman that he just lost his brother and he reached out to me. My brother was 400 pounds. I'm 500 pounds. He died. Help me. I want to make him proud. I want to I want to live longer. But and people just don't understand how what they're doing to theirelves, right? Sure. At five, 600. I mean, even at 300 lb, if you're supposed to weigh 160, still 150 lbs overweight. You know, it's it's dangerous. It's it's just a dangerous thing. And we just never realized it. But you didn't you didn't just It's not like this pushed you directly onto the treadmill. What you did, which is kind of it's a brutal but really interesting approach is you said, "I'm hungry. I'm going to go walk to food." Yes. So, the first step was after the doctor's office, I emotionally ate. And then it's funny cuz everyone thought it was right then that I changed. But it was like a week later after just like depressed finding out all this bad news and I stepped out the shower and it's the before picture I used. I that was the moment that I said I was going to change. I looked at myself in the mirror said I'm not going to be this guy. So I threw everything away and I knew nothing about how to eat clean, nothing about working out. Haven't done it in years. And I said I just know I can't do this. I can't do what I'm continually doing every day that's holding me back or making me worse. So, I threw everything out and I said, I'm just going to walk. I'm I'mma walk to get every meal. That'll be my exercise. And every meal. Every meal. Three times a day. That was the incredible part. Every meal. Sometimes if I was hungry, it' be four or five times. I would try three times because at 600 lb, walking three miles back and forth is a little rough. So, yeah. I mean, just put that in comparison for us. like you, you know, now you're preparing for the stage. You're doing these brutal leg workouts and everything. Just in terms of that voice in your head saying, "All right, I want to quit. I want to quit." How, how comparable is it that that walk to Walmart versus working out? So, the walk to Walmart, I had a purpose. I want I was hungry. I wanted to eat. The hard part about the walk was the first thing in the Walmart was McDonald's, right? So, I would walk in, that's your greeter. I'm like, "Do I get the egg whites or do I get the hundred chicken nuggets?" And I'm like, 100 chicken nuggets. Yeah, I used to eat a 100 chicken nuggets. So, it it's a lot different, right? One was I was fa faced with death and now it's a bigger purpose. It's I feel like this is bigger than me. It's it's bigger than stepping on stage. It's actually helping people. And for the first time in life, I feel like I have a purpose. the first time I feel like what I'm doing is positive and I'm changing lives and to be honest there's no better feeling in the world. So So at what point in that journey did you really start to feel something different for the first time where you kind of like you maybe you were lighter or you had more energy or you just you know what I think I I think I might actually be on the way to being a new person. Um it was like a gift and a curse. I I remember about 90 days into it, I wanted to figure out where I was at. So, I found a doctor that did a body scan and I went there and I found out I was 100 pounds lighter. Mhm. And I looked exactly the same. Mhm. So, I was like, I lost 100 pounds. I can do this. And I looked, I'm like, I don't look no different. Like after this, imagine losing a 100 pounds and still being that overweight where you can't even tell the difference. And did did you feel any difference? Oh, I felt great. Okay. Like that 100 lb, the walks were easier. Mhm. I can get out of bed, you know, at 600 lb. Like I I used to have to roll out the bed and use something to to stand up. Everything my back started feeling better. My my legs just everything felt better. More energy. Um, it was definitely a difference in in how I felt, but not in how I looked. And that's the gift and the curse. I felt great, but I wasn't seeing it. And it it's funny cuz as time went on, I got more insecure. Like, I lost 200 lb. I still don't look good. I lost 250 lbs. I'm still overweight. I lost 300 lb. I'm still overweight. Mhm. So I went through that for three years and then once I finally lost the weight, I have loose skin. Mhm. So it was just challenge after challenge, challenge after challenge after challenge. And one thing I know about that is we can overcome them all. Absolutely. You just you just have to keep fighting. Sounds like you're learning a lot more skills there than just how to lose weight though, too. Like walking. Yeah. It's easy to think about those walks like, "Hey, I burned a bunch of calories. Hey, I did this." But you're learning crucial skills every step of the way about what? Dealing with boredom, saying no to stuff. You know what? It's losing weight was definitely challenging and it opens your mind up cuz one thing I never wanted to take back steps. I always wanted to move forward. So, one of my biggest things was sodas. Mhm. And for the love of me, I used to drink at least 5,000 calories of sodas a day at least. I mean, at 600 lb, you got to eat almost 10,000 calories to stay that weight. And so, I first it was diet sodas, then it was water, then it was, you know, amino acid. So, every every step of the way it's improving. You may you may not jump from oh this is my lifestyle but just changing little things and adapting and then going to the next step and the next step people don't understand it's a process. You don't have to go extreme as I did no carbs for a year. It's a process. Sometimes you can change little things and see progress. Mhm. And that's that's what I learned through the three in my three and a half years is I I was a little extreme, but there's other ways. And yeah, there's a place for that extremes though, too, probably, right? Just in helping you understand it. Definitely. Definitely. I I definitely learned a lot through it. I had a question for you, Pat. Um I've been a personal trainer for 12 years, and you mentioned in one of your videos that you didn't want to see a personal trainer because that person would never understand what it was like to stand in your shoes. I'm put on the spotlight. I'm a personal trainer. So, industry and I I don't mean to put you on the spot, but it it did really strike me as what can the fitness industry do better to reach someone who was in your position because that that is something that I think a lot of people struggle with. They don't even feel comfortable setting foot in a gym, let alone approaching a trainer. So, I let me rephrase it. During that time, I had it was a bad experience. A lot of times, people deal with one bad experience and it just if you go to a restaurant, you have the first time you're there, you have a bad experience. You're like, "This restaurant's horrible and you're probably never going to try it again." In all reality, it might have just been a bad a bad cook. Somebody might have been having a bad day. Whatever the case is, I later learned that, you know, not all personal trainers are bad, but not a lot of them have to be nice. Yeah. I can say like 99% of the people that are personal trainers have been somewhat fit or this is obviously the career that they chosen. So passion it's years of you know being fit and knowing the way versus someone coming in 200 lb overweight and you're going I just felt I was walked through the workouts that I couldn't do. Mhm. I was told to do things that I I shouldn't have done and I I just felt like they didn't understand where I was coming from. So, I feel like more research Mhm. you know, getting to to know people's bodies. Sure. You know, they were telling me to do like burpees. I'm I'm 500 lb. I I can't do burpees now. But it's it's as someone that big, it doesn't take much. No, not at all. And that's that's what some people need to realize. It doesn't take much. And the fact that they're there is the hardest part. So maybe you don't go extreme as the guy who's been working out for a year. Mhm. And like I said, everyone's not like that. It just so happened the guy that I met, he was like that. And he, to be honest, he he's won shows. He's a body. I've seen him since. And And it's just funny because I'm like, he he knew what he was talking about. It just didn't apply to me at the time. Right. Cuz the stuff he was saying, I do now. I just wasn't ready for it. Right. I remember in one of your videos, you also were saying like, "Yeah, when you were in there the first time, you didn't know what you were doing, lifting weights, anything like that." But then you see in the in that same video, you know what you're doing now. Yeah. So, what did get you from point A to point B? YouTube. YouTube was definitely a help then and even like now it's funny cuz I still the other day I'm like I need to work on my upper chest and I go right to bodybuilding.com and I'm looking at upper chest workouts. So people make these excuses. I can't figure it out. I don't know how to eat. Well, you can figure out how to get directions. You can figure out anything online. You can figure that out. And will it be a bunch of trial and error? Yes. Everything's not going to be right. But the information is out there. And we need to stop using that as an excuse. Absolutely. And and and that's that's what I didn't know what to eat. I used to Google healthy recipes on my way to the store. Just just those words, healthy recipes. Healthy recipes. uh fat loss diets and and that's how I ended up doing the no carbs because of the ketogenesis and it worked for me. So that's what I would do every time I What's a good recipe? What's a good stir fry? And that's what I did. But then it's then at some point your goal changed, right, to I want to be a bodybuilder. Yeah. So what what did that represent to you and what was that world to you before? You know, look look at looking at yourself now. If you pass yourself on the street now, the old you and the new you. Like, what was what was that world to that guy? Look at that guy thinking he's buff, right? Look at those sleeves. Sleeves. No, to be honest, it's it's all together. Mhm. And you you do something long enough just as if you eat bad food long enough. It's just what you love to do. You just like to do it. It's routine. You know, sometimes I would wake up and not even realizing I just ate a whole box of cereal and and a half of a gallon of milk just not because it's just routine. And if you put yourself in around other people and you're doing the same thing day in and day out, you learn to love it. It becomes part of who you are. And working out, eating clean, and just the fitness industry in general just became part of who I am. And I feel like with my story and what I accomplished, bodybuilding wasn't part of the journey, but I feel like it'll make a good ending. Mhm. To to this chapter. So to to go from 605 lbs to actually stepping on stage is morally more of a complete story for me and not just I got fit. I want to take it all the way. to show people, not because I don't want to be a bodybuilder, to be honest. I I could never honestly be a bodybuilder. Seven feet of loose skin, there's, as you know, your your skin is everything. Mhm. It has to be tight. And no matter I had seven feet removed and it's still not tight. So, I'm I'm really just doing it to show people it can be done. And win or lose, regardless of what happens July 1st, I know I'm going to motivate some people. Mhm. Okay. So, so for in case people don't know, you do have a specific show. It's like it's all over every episode. It's all over. Every Instagram post, there's a day. Yeah. July 1st for four weeks out. How do you feel? You know what? Losing weight wasn't hard. Prep is hard. It's a big difference between, you know, just eating to lose weight cuz you're not you're not you're never super dialed in when you're losing weight. This to the ounce to the gram to the one almond like you can't go almond over and and now in a week and a half I'm cutting water. So, it's going to it's it's definitely a big difference. I I tell people I've never counted a calorie until now. Mhm. I've never I didn't even know what a macro was. I'm like macro. I thought like that's what is that? Can I eat it? You eating better like for a long time that's enough, right? You know what? And that's what I did. I I just ate better and it it worked for me. Mhm. But now it's a little little different with the nutrition, the workouts, the cardio. Workouts look different in your video. I saw you with with a coach training like he's a big yoke dude, right? Yes. my goal and he's roast roasting you like that's how different is the training once you set a goal like all right I'm going to go to a real show I'm going to try to win this thing um to be honest I've always had the mindset I'm going to give it all I got I'm going to the gym with a purpose I'm going to give it 110% now what's hard is doing it on less fuel and in Arizona when it's 100° or 110 intent out. So, it's and he doesn't allow me to quit. Sometimes when you're by yourself, people don't realize, you know, working out by yourself and being coached Mhm. totally different. I can do the same exact workout and then be coached and do that workout and it feels totally different. Like, this is so much harder. What was I doing wrong? And it might be an inch of where my elbows were or this my stance, anything. this little tiny changes that perfects the workout. And my coach, you can probably speak to that. Yeah, we we just talked about that last week that that's really what a trainer's job should be is kind of helping you get the most out of your workout, not, you know, pushing you to do something you're not capable of doing or getting you started on a program that's not right for you. So, that's that's great that he's able to kind of give you that that little push in each workout. Now, um, knowing what you know now, having gone through this bodybuilding prep, to someone else who's doing a transformation, who's maybe lost 100 plus pounds and is thinking about it, what would you say to them? Do it. Do it. Do it. You know, sometimes I feel like it builds builds confidence and being able I mean, the WBFF has took it to the next step where they have a division. It's built on transformations. Oh, interesting. This this show I'm doing is I'm going against everyone that's lost weight or whatever type of life transformation they went through and if I win this show eight weeks later, I'll do the championships which we'll be in London and hopefully I get to go to London. But man, you you got to chase your dreams regardless of what it is. And I tell people losing weight was one of my dreams, but it's opened up so many other doors. And not just, you know, with bodybuilding.com, not just with doing shows or being on TV, cuz that stuff isn't important to me. Helping people and just seeing the the difference on how you treat yourself and how other people treat you is worth it alone. So, and a lot of times, you know, I had this this thing in the back of my head that people treated me bad because I was overweight. And it it did happen. At 600 lb, I get it. People stare. It's I'm AI'm huge. I'm huge now. So, at 600 lb, it's people stare. You know, you feel a lot of negativity, but 90% of it comes from yourself. And you can't expect people to to love you or treat you better if you're not treating yourself better. That's what I learned. You have to love you first. And if you love yourself, you're going to take care of yourself. Oh, yeah. But I mean, thinking of you as a bodyguard, too. Like that's a guy who kind of blends into the background, right? Wasn't much blending. But like you're you're you're front and center now. And you know, you're dealing with heavy in every video it seems. Like did you were you prepared for that kind of intensity and that kind of emotion in your life? I'm I'm still not prepared for it. It's it's shocking to for someone to come up to me like you're possible Pat. Can I take a picture? I'm like why you want to take a picture with me? Like I'm not being the ass or anything. I'm just like me really. I'm like okay let's do it. But yeah, it's it's definitely definitely something different for me to spend years of being around somebody that got all the attention and me to have never got any attention for the right reasons and now I'm getting it. It's It blows my mind. It blows my mind. How much Now you have three kids, right? Yes, three kids. How much do they observe this journey? Um how much do they how much do they know and are they invested? My my son's younger so he doesn't he he he's he he's seen it but he doesn't know. My daughters they're like daddy's famous he's on Ellen they go crazy they go to school and it just that's my it's just a proud moment for me you know to you know what and all this has not that I was a bad dad but I feel like I'm a better dad now. Mhm. I feel like I'm just a better person. My attitude, you know, a lot of stuff comes with being overweight. A lot of anger, a lot of depression, and I felt like I was putting that on my kids. Even I may not have been meaning to do it, but it was my life. And now I'm more I'm happier. So, they see that, they feel that, they feel that energy. And that's one of the the best feelings to to know you're doing something positive for your kids and showing them the way. They hate coming. They hate hate it though. My son for the first year and a half didn't have sweets. Oh. And he tried them and he's like ah he doesn't really like them. So he'll eat grilled chicken and rice and it's beautiful to be like Yes. They only know what to give them right now. Yeah. Yeah. So, like people come over his grandma and they'll like try to give him cake and he'll throw it and I'm like, "That's my son." But I mean, I think there's there's something really important in what you're saying there, which is a lot of people who are on the before end of things will look at what you're going through right now and say like, "God, that's a lot of time. That's a lot of that's kind of a selfish undertaking." But, you know, you're you're seeing it pay back even though this is that time you spend in the gym is time you're not with your kids, right? Yeah. Yeah, but this is still a positive thing in your life. Investing that. You feel like? Definitely. Definitely. And you know, I'mma be here longer. I can honestly say I'm going to live longer. And if it takes an hour a day to live longer, spend that hour and live. So, I mean, who knows? I could have been dead already. And then we wouldn't be having this conversation. Who knows what what would be going with my kids, with my family be struggling, you know, so it's worth it. Every minute in the gym is worth it for me. Mhm. No, there was kind of like a a crisis of faith. It seemed like in one of your recent episodes, though, episode 10 was just 20. There's no there's no gym. There's no cooking. It's just you talking to the camera. It got pretty real and it was it was a it was a different feeling in that one. And it was like you were you were struggling it seemed like you know that was I didn't know we were recording. So we were we recorded and then we were done and then he had my videographer Adrian he asked me a question and just one question one question and it led to a 30 minute video and I mean there was a couple other questions asked throughout it but I mean I do struggle I'm human and I want people to to know that you it's going to be hard change is hard no matter what it is If you move to a new state, it's going to be hard at first. You don't know nobody. This is something you're not used to. You adapt, though. As humans, we're able to adapt and we're able to grow. Take advantage of that. Now, there was there was a news story we wanted to talk with you about recently. There was a woman who I don't know if you saw. She went on stage in the like just a local body weight competition, right? Yeah. She was a bodybuilder. She lost 150 pounds. Had the loose skin. Had the loose skin, but she's up on stage. She's got the suit, the tan. She's posing. She's so proud of herself. And then the photographer didn't put her photos up on the website because he thought she'd be embarrassed because she didn't look like every other competitor up there. But it kind of it kind of brought up this this question of, you know, like, yeah, there are people who they've been transforming and they aim for the stage versus that person who's like, I've been a personal trainer. I've been jacked my whole life. Like, do those where do those where is there a common ground for those people? And why do why should somebody go on stage if not in the transformation division? But why why why do that? I mean, you got to do what you want. If if it's a goal that you have and if that goal drove you to be a better you, you have to finish it. You have to go all the way. So, if you if you decide, you know what, I'm going to lose 100 pounds and I'mma step on stage. Then you lose 100 pounds and don't step on stage, you're not finished. Let's do what we say we're going to do. And I feel like that's to be honest, I didn't want to get loose skin surgery, but I said I would. It was the most terrifying thing in my life. I I had one surgery ever. And I was like, "Okay, signing my life away. I'm going to be skinned alive," which I was. I posted the video. It's It's pretty harsh. Painful recovery. 3,000 stitches. Definitely a breaking point in my life. Mhm. But I committed to it and I feel like when we make commitments, we need to stick to them. Just it just makes you feel like you accomplished something. And even if stepping on stage isn't your goal, if it is, do it. Be proud. To be honest, I have loose skin. Mhm. And I don't know if I regret cutting off the skin I had because I feel like it added to my story. It added to my journey. It it made me it it gave me a different outlook on things, right? Because it was three years of bam, bam, bam, I'm doing this. I'm doing this. I'm doing this. No struggles. I mean, I struggled, but there was nothing to ever put me at a stop. Mhm. And then I get the surgery, which I thought, you know what? I'm going to get this surgery. I'mma be perfect. I'm I already had abs. I'm just going to look magnificent. And then I got it. Then I couldn't work out. And you think you've overcame something and I didn't because the first thing I turned to was food. Mhm. The first thing I turned to was food. I didn't want to talk to nobody. I didn't go didn't do social media, you know. I just felt like I can't work out. I can't do nothing. I'm moving backwards. And the first week I was good on my diet and then I started getting depressed. I can't do these things that I've doing for the last 3 years. Mhm. So then I started eating bad. And it's it's funny. I seen a message one day just browsing through my Facebook of someone telling me I saved their life. And why haven't you been posting? Why haven't you been doing anything? You know, we need you. And that's when I knew I got to stop this I can't I can't move backwards. I can't give up cuz I wasn't giving up on myself. It's easy just to give up on yourself, right? Giving up on thousands of people. You know, I get suicide letters saying, "If it wasn't for you, I would have committed suicide." Like, how can I turn my back on that? M. So that's why I said, you know what? I don't care. I'm going all the way. Even if if even if people don't think I look good, even if what I accomplished isn't amazing, I'm going to do it cuz for the people that do believe in me. So hearing your story where all of a sudden the tables had turned and now it was your followers who were turned so hard pulling you and they they were the ones kind of pulling you out of that tail spin and they were the ones reaching out to you. And I thought that was the most amazing part of your story is that you could have it could have been this huge backslide and it and you turned it around and and kept going. And so I I owe this show to them. I I really do. I really owe it to him cuz I don't know what would happen if I didn't get out of that slump. Um definitely a challenging moment. So, I'm I'm thankful for my followers and all the people that support me. And it's it's more than I don't even like calling them followers. This it's like a a relationship. Like I feel like even if I don't get to talk to someone that we have a connection and when I do get to talk to them, I feel like we known each other. Like when I do my live calls, I feel like I know this person and I tell them like why are you bullshitting? Mhm. Like like we're family and they're like, "I don't know, Pat. I'm sorry." Like I'm their dad. You're not the only person who can talk honestly to that person, you know? Yeah. And it's just a beautiful thing to be honest. But now you've got another another big um point, difficult point coming up, right? When you go on stage, you've talked a lot in your early videos, especially about like I want to win. I want to go to Worlds. I want to do this. What What if What if you don't win? I'm sure you thought about that. Um, does that how does that change the story for you? Or does it change it at this point? That's a good question. I mean, I don't want to I don't want to throw that that doubt in there. Damn it. Um, if if I don't win, life goes on. Life goes on. Um, I won't I won't do another show. Well, at least in the transformation division. Um, probably won't just do another show to be honest. It's It's not what I like. I love the workout. I love to eat clean. I love the challenge of prep, but I feel like it's too much for the 80% of America that's overweight or 70%, whatever the number is. It's too much. It's intimidating. Mhm. So, yes, I'm doing this show to prove a point, but that point isn't for everyone. I don't I don't want to lose the connection. And I feel like bodybuilding loses loses that connection cuz for some people it's unrealistic. Mhm. me at 600 lb, I would have never thought ever in a million years would I be stepping on stage or would I even be coming close to it. Even commit committing to doing a show is something I would have never even thought of. So my mindset then is a lot of people's mindsets now and I don't want to lose people. Mhm. Mhm. I want to show them it can be done if if this is something you want to do. But then I want to go back to just helping people be better, helping people lose weight, showing them it's possible. Sure. Yeah. You know, just connecting with the people. And who knows, it I may not do bodybuilding, but there's going to be another journey. It it just may not be on stage, but I'm going to pick something and I'm going to commit to it and I'm going to show people I can do this, too. Oh, I hope so. I haven't decided what it was yet. Maybe powerlifting. I I don't know. Something though. And And that's and that's what it's about. I'm I want to always have something to do. I I I want to always grow. I always want to try new things and commit to things to show people I've never done this. Mhm. But I'm going to try because it's something I want to do and it's going to make me better. Just the process of going through. Just the process of going through it. But hopefully I win. Right. Right. And I can call you up and say I won. No, but to be honest, I one of the main reasons I want to win. It's It's really not for me. I just want to show like doing the show will complete the story. Winning the show is just going to add the cherry on top. That's the movie. Then I get to go to London. All right. Well, we will we'll be watching every step of the way, man. Thank you for coming down. So, so we can find you on YouTube, of course, on the bodybuilding.com channel. Then you have your own website with meal meal plans and meal plans. Uh, what else what else do you do? Approved foods list. Um, I'm actually in the next week or so going to do losing weight 101. Well, it'll teach people I don't want to I don't want to be the guy that's about the money, right? I have a career, but do do I do I want to make money? Everyone wants to make money, but I also want to give back cuz I know people can't afford it. I know there's people out there that won't invest. Even if they have the money, they won't invest in change. So, I'm going to offer a lot of stuff for free, which I have my approved foods list, but I want to take it up a next another notch where it's going to tell you how to calculate your your body weight, how to figure out how many calories, how much deficit you should be in, how much fat you should be doing, how many carbs you should be doing, and just basically walking people through it. and all they have to do is pick the food off the off my macro list. And if they choose to go that route, thank you. You're changing your life. If they choose for me to put something together for them, thank you. Right? But there's going to be there's already a free option on there, but I want to make my free option to where you look at the paid option like I don't really need it cuz it's not about the money. And I want people to understand that it's really about changing lives. And you're reaching a lot of people through free channels, too. Instagram, Snapchat, like if somebody if somebody really wants they they want to reach you, which how do they reach you through those? Um, everything's possible Pat. Instagram, Possible Pat. Facebook, Possible Pat. And to be honest, man, I get a lot of messages and people are like, I I don't have I don't have money. Mhm. I don't have I I've written free meal plans. I've sat there, called a person up, worked with them for two two hours, told them what they need to do, send them work workouts, and it helps them. And and that's what it's about. That's truly what it's about. Just helping people. Cuz I wish, you know, I had to help. Mhm. You know, maybe maybe when I was before I the first time I decided to lose weight, if there was someone out there making it easier for me and someone I can relate to and there's hundreds of us out there. There's a lot of people that lost weight. So, let's team up and and build this super team of transformations and I think help some people. Yeah. Yeah. Great. Well, thanks for coming and talking. Appreciate you. Hey, did you know bodybuilding.com actually offers free shipping on most orders over $49? Seriously. Just look for the be elite badge across the site and on your favorite supplements. Thousands of top products from the biggest brands are included like Optimum, Gym, Datize, Cellor, and plenty more. If you haven't already, check out bodybuilding.com/beite. That's all one word, kind of looks like be elite for more details.