The ultimate strength is having control over your mindset, your discipline, your determination, your integrity, who you are as a human. This is what we're trying to build in FYR 2.0. The original Fire showed us what we could do. In FYR 2.0, we're going to level up. 2.0, baby. The sky is the limit. No matter where you're at, we've got something for you. Got beginner, intermediate, and advanced all in the same room. The overall goal is to shed fat as well as building lean muscle. If your goal is to lean further towards one of those, then let's do it. If you want to shed fat, let's lift light and let's move fast. Set your mind to it and your body will follow. Believe in yourself. But if you want to gain muscle, then I suggest that you move slower while we lift heavier weights, creating as much stress, time under tension as possible. Growth hurts. It's never going to be comfortable. Get used to that feeling and make something great of it. You'll be able to follow along anywhere you want. Whether you're at home, the gym, the hotel, it doesn't matter. Whatever you've got, bring it out. I want the best of everything. Now, our 15 core workouts are full body. We're never going to leave one inch of that body wishing it had more. Then we have our bonus workouts. These goal specific workouts are always here to bring you more. We're going to unleash a whole new level today. I'm going to do my best to make you puke in the next 10 minutes. We have three phases. In phase one, you have 10 workouts. In phase two, you have all 15 workouts plus three bonuses. And in phase three, you have it all. 15 workouts and five bonus workouts a week. Can you go all the way? I think you can. How bad do you want it? COME GET IT. LET'S GO. These phases will be progressive. Each of them have been strategically placed side by side. Whether it'll be a fat burning, muscle building, or overall metabolic conditioning, there is reason behind the madness. And I promise you, the combination of all the strategic placement will get you the best results you've wanted. Here's how your week is going to break down. We have five workouts a week. Three days on, one day off. Two days on, one day off. There is no magic pill. There is no secret. It's hard work ethic. Showing up when you don't want to. This is a lifestyle. As the program progresses, I'm going to start to sprinkle those bonus workouts on top of your regular workouts. The volume will increase, but we'll never push past 45 minutes. Every Monday, we start with a monster Monday. I've told you this before. I'll tell you again. Never miss a Monday. I'm here to push you. I'm not here to stroke your hair and tell you it's going to be all right. Nothing's coming from that. Let's go. Where we at? We've got a 3:1 work to rest ratio. For every 3 seconds of work, you'll get 1 second of rest. Following the interval, 30 seconds on, 10 seconds off. 60 seconds on, 20 seconds off, 90 seconds on, 30 seconds off. You have three sections. You'll hit three rounds of each. You got Tabata Tuesdays cuz Tabata still makes you hotter. It's a great way to blast fat without tapping into that lean muscle. We're going to blast calories. We're going to sweat a [\h__\h] ton. I can tell you that. And the booty is going to burn. We've got three sections, A, B, and C. Each section will have two exercises. You'll follow the interval 20 seconds on, 10 seconds off. You'll flip-flop between those two exercises for a total of 4 minutes, resting 60 seconds in between each section, hitting two rounds total. So, then we got Wednesdays. Halfway through the week, we always know we need to push through. Pull your pants up. Get your [\h__\h] together. We're trying to burn, baby. We're trying to get to the point of failure. 45 10 exercises. You'll spend 45 seconds on, 15 seconds off. You'll hit two rounds of that total. And of course, we'll either start with a tailgate or we'll finish with an afterparty. After our rest day on a Thursday, you'll have open format Friday, which means anything goes. tomorrow when you can't like wash your face, brush your teeth, or put your hair up, you can thank me. Now, with open format Friday, you're going to see a variety of different styles of workouts. We got E-OMs, every minute on the minute, AM wraps, chippers, rounds for time, and of course that high intensity interval training. Then we've got Saturday. We call this mashup Saturday. Check your ego cuz guess what? It ain't your amigo. Hey, now we're going to combine a 30 6090, a Tabatada, the 45s, and maybe a couple amats, too. We're trying to confuse your mind and your body, and to make sure you sweat, the maximum amount of equipment you're going to need for this program, two kettle bells, two dumbbells, a jump rope, an ab mat, a medall, and a mini band. And listen, we all know I like to bring the heat, so you better have that towel to wipe that sweat. Well, [\h__\h] me. My legs a shot. That right there was a perfect example of breaking down boundaries. One of the biggest questions I'm asked is what I eat. How do I feel my workouts? Don't worry guys, I got you. The Fire 2.0 0 nutrition overview will give you everything you need to start. Accountability is huge. Use the all access app to track what weight you used, how many reps you got, or maybe you just want to take a note of how hard that was from a scale of 1 to 10. I just want you guys to keep your head in the game, hold yourself accountable, and track your progress. You guys are strong. You guys are powerful. Let's go. It's always been you against you. I'm just here to pry it out of you. Unleash that side. Go there. Here we go. Together, we're stronger. Trust me. You are capable of so much more than you're aware of. Drop the [\h__\h] mic. That was crazy. Let me show you how much of a badass you really are. Tell yourself you can and you will. If you say I can't do this, you won't. Unleash that potential. You're never done. So ask yourself this. What's your reason?