Fitness is my life. I've worked for everything I have. I can squat 700 and bench 480. Come on, G, push it, push it. I'm at home on magazine covers and body building stages. I train the research labs and weight rooms. I won't settle, won't stop, won't quit. I'm more than a cover model, more than a power lifter, more than a body builder, more than all those things. I am swole. Swole is an attitude. It's no holds barred, never give up, work smart, one more rep, two more minutes, get big. Swole is more than size. Swole goes beyond that swagger. Swole is the pursuit of your biggest and best self. Stop guessing, start growing, get swole. I'm Cory Gregory, co-founder of MusclePharm, gym owner, natural competitive body builder, and power lifter, and cover model. Get Swole is a product of my life pursuit to create a muscle-building program that maximizes lean mass gains and minimizes fat gain. I want to make it perfectly clear this is a clean muscle-building program designed to work for any body type. For all your hardgainers out there, you're gonna pack on the pounds because of all the constant changes of the routines, with heavy weight, high volume workouts and the correct recovery supplements and quality food. For all you dirty bulkers out there, now I've tried it. You're mowing down on hamburgers and fries, just trying to put on as much size as you can and push heavy weight. I get it, but I'm telling you, you're not gonna hold on to any of that bloated mass that you put on. So this program might be like a cutting program for you, but you're still gonna be putting on quality mass while you're losing some inches on your waist. For all you advanced lifters, you already have a pretty good physique. You already know what you're doing on your nutrition and you already know what you're doing in the gym, but everyone likes a program change, so come on over here, train, eat, and supplement with some new variables. Get Swole is a 16-week, 4-phase plan. Each phase of this program is 4 weeks long and you only change your program every 4 weeks. The first phase is the foundation phase. This is where we're gonna shock your body to hell and lay the true groundwork for the following 12 weeks. The workouts consist of high-volume super sets with minimal rests. Next is the pyramid phase. You're gonna get introduced to the training technique of pyramid sets. This is where you're going to pack on some serious size and strength. Then you begin the second half of the program with the pump phase, boosting the volume to increase your muscle fullness and overall endurance. Inspired by golden era of body building, I've pulled workout tiplets from Arnold and added my own twists. And finally, we're gonna wrap it up with the detail phase. Everything you've done for the first three phases is leading up to this. Here, your cardiovascular endurance will shoot through the roof, but without sacrificing that size. We're giving you an in depth video that covers everything you need to know from training, supplementation, and nutrition, including a scientific breakdown of your nutrition plan from MusclePharm Executive Director of Medicine, Dr. Mike Kim. Plus, you'll have a daily training, meal, and supplement guide for each day of the plan. Every sample meal and workout will be broke down in detail right here on BodyBuilding.com. You're even gonna be able to link this whole program to BodySpace and sync it right to your smartphone so you never miss a beat. Build muscle, add precise size, and get swole. Scroll down and start the phase 1 video for full details.