You're looking at a man today who lost about 105 within a year. And the reason why I'm here is because of bodybuilder.com. The reason why I I'm breathing today is because of bodybuilding.com. Well, it all started looking at yourself in the mirror and I went to a friend of mine cuz he's a fitness guy and said, "Lou, you're getting too big. You you're you're you're just going out of control." And the only thing that I was thinking about was putting a roof over my head. Keep making the the bills to pay. Do I got food on my table for my kids and my wife? That's what's important. That's what all men think about. So, do we actually look at ourselves and say, "Wow, I I'm I'm getting out of control." I just turned 40 in March. So, if you look in the black community, there's a lot of individuals that's dying. And and the only reason why I say the black community because this is what I know. I watched HeavyD died at 40. Uh, a couple of comedians died just past 40 years old. heavy guys. I was next. I got a a wife. I got a six-year-old son and a one-year-old daughter. I couldn't let that happen to me. There was no way I was going to let that happen to me. I decided to look on you guys website. I found your website and looking at the transformation page. There was a gentleman on there. He was about my age. He's 39, 360. He was 360, about the same height, 5'10". And in one year, he lost about 100 lbs. Said, "Okay, this is this is me." That didn't move me as much, but reading the story really did because as I was reading the story, why he did it, he was on the couch with his wife, with his daughter, eating chips. And as I'm reading the story, I'm on the couch with my wife with my son and my daughter eating chips. And that kind of put everything in perspective for me right there, saying, "Wow, this is this can't be right. This can't be life. I shouldn't be doing that." I promised myself. I said, "I'm going to give myself one good year eating clean and working out." After the year, I couldn't care less. I just wanted to get through one year. If I can get through one year, yeah, I could get through two years. I could get through three years. But I just said one year. If I can make it through one year, things will completely be changed. I went into it just saying, I'm going to be completely stupid to this. I don't know the first thing about working out. Let me get help. You guys got a plan. The 7-day beginner plan. That plan itself was a perfect plan for my wife and I to start. But in that process, um, a dear friend of mine that I grew up with, he passed away of a of a heart attack 3 weeks into my program and he was 37. Now, at 37 having a heart attack, that's just not normal. I was looking at his casket and he was probably about 350, 360. He He was a big boy just like I was. I didn't see him. I saw me. His death kept me alive. And the reason why I do what I do now is because of him. Every workout, every meal plan is because of of of my friend Dennis Chang and we call him Tis. I put a Facebook page up and it's called the Tis effect because his effect changed my life. I hit my 100 lb mark and I was in tears. Reason why I was in tears for two reasons. One, I shouldn't have got to that size. Second reason why I was crying because I just know I lost a 100 pounds in 10 months. There's a million ways to lose weight, but if you don't do the food correctly, I don't care how hard you working out, you're not going to lose weight. I'm going just be straight up honest with you. And this is a guy who just did it. And that's when the weight started coming off like clockwork. When I started my transformation, the one thing that I did is tell everybody. I told everybody, even if you didn't know me, I told you I was losing weight because now I got accountability partners. You might not see me until 6 months down the road, but I didn't want you to see me 6 months down the road and say, "Hey, you still look the same 6 months ago. Didn't you tell me you were starting a weight loss plan?" That's how the page helped me because now I just didn't get local individuals from Body Space and from the community. I got California, Detroit, New York. I got people all over the place saying, "Good job. Keep it up. Keep going." And I'm somebody once you stroke my ego three or four times, I'm gone. The bus driver is downtown and the gentleman stopped me. Hey, can I talk to you? You look great. My wife and I are trying to lose weight. What did you do? What is your secret? And that's the big question. That's that's the the question. What's the big secret? There's no secret. There is no secret of of losing weight. It's make one commitment to yourself and stay consistent. It's funny who you inspire. I'm trying to be like some of these guys and girls who's working out and doing shows. I'm trying to be like you guys. But they all tell me, "No, you are inspiring us to work out harder cuz you're in the gym every day. You're the hardest working person that we ever met." I had no clue even when I started, you know, the first 3 months and I only lost 5 to 10 pounds, you know, individuals, hey, you keep coming here. Whoa, you know, you you know, you muscle guy. Why are you talking to me? You know, I'm feeling all big and out of shape, but I'm inspiring other individuals and not even knowing it. It shouldn't take someone passing away for you to say, "I'm going to change my life." Unfortunately, that's how it worked for me. But I don't want that for someone else. Bodybuilder.com saved my life.