♪♪♪ He will litter the stands with the blood and bone of all who present challenge. Again. Okay, so here I am. My name is George Mitropetros, a true Greek, and I got my main man Nick Tarabay who's on the bad ass show "Spartacus: Gods of the Arena." As you can see, the guy is the [bleep]. He loves to train hard core. So what we're gonna do today is a little combination of the circuit training which incorporates a lot of core, a lot of stability, a lot of balance to get those abdominals. Everything's about the abdominals. This is everything so we're gonna give you a little taste today with Nick. Are you ready, Nick? Yup. All right, so here we go, ladies and gentlemen. The party is about to begin. So, here we are, we're gonna warm up today with about three to five sets of jumping jacks, running in place and some squats. So it's not gonna take too long, maybe about 10 minutes. We're gonna start off with the warmup. It's about five sets, three to five sets depending on the energy level we're gonna use later on. It's gonna consist of jumping jacks, running in place, some squats and some pushups. We're looking at about 10 to 12 reps. So we just finished a quick warmup, guys, and now we're gonna get into the workout. The first exercise we're gonna do is box jumps. ♪♪♪ You always want to squat a little lower so you get maximum explosiveness so when you land, you want to land correctly. Good, see, you want to get as much as vert as possible. Turn around and come back the other way. Now what this does, ladies and gentlemen, is kind of build explosive strength. So if you are a basketball player or football player, if you want to jump, if your dream is to jump and grab the rim, it's not just squats, it's this. Okay, we just finished exercise one which was box jumps. I'm giving Nick 45 seconds to a minute rest. The whole key today is to keep the intensity. For exercise two, there is no amount of time and there is no amount of sets or reps. You just go all the way till you can't take it no more. So what we're doing here now is adding a little bit more difficulty. You don't have to raise the leg up, but since this is more advanced for the advanced guys out there that want the challenge, you want to keep your body straight as much as possible. So this is pretty unique, it actually works your core. You stabilize your muscles, your shoulders and your lower back. You want to do as many reps as possible until you get to a point where you can't hold yourself anymore. This is what we call a "Spartacus" workout, no pain, no gain. ♪♪♪ Okay, exercise three is actually arc wheels, again, it's sort of like the iron cross in the gymnastics. You're actually working your chest, your inner chest, your shoulders, your triceps. Again, no amount of reps, no amount of sets. There is no set number here. You go by how many you can do with perfect form. Static hold, static hold is just trying to hold it as much as you can before you fall, before you go and you suck it up till the end. Till the end. Keep going, keep going. And if you're really bad ass, there you go. So in between exercises, you're gonna get 45 seconds to a minute rest. The next exercise we're doing now as I'm getting him ready, you've probably seen smaller versions of this wheel, but this is the bigger version of the wheel. So we're gonna demonstrate today another way to get your core into play. So it's sort of like an ab wheel crawl. You do five pushups, three pike-ins and wheel back to the starting position three times. You can do three or four different exercises all at the same time while you're keeping in a plank position. You're gonna do maybe two or three sets, two or three rounds or two or three cycles. We're trying to maximize effort here. We're trying to get all his reserved muscles and recruit as many muscle fibers as possible. ♪♪♪ We did about three cycles. We rolled up to about 20 feet. We did five pushups. We did five pike-ins. Pike-ins work your lower abs. You want to contract your abs as hard as you can. Never sacrifice form and do it three times. You want to do at least three rounds, as many reps as possible. Take about 45 seconds to a minute rest in between each set. We're using the pull-up bar so if you guys have access to any pull-up bar, we're gonna get up on top of the pull-up bar and to add a twist, I'm gonna stand here. He's gonna do leg raises and work his obliques to failure once again. There is no set number or reps. You want to go to failure. Here we go, Nick. If you touch me, you do it all over again. Excellent. Good. Wow, over my hands. Two more. Pow, pow, pow, pow, pow. You're actually working your obliques, your intercostals, everything on your side. Abs are three dimensional so it's not just your typical crunches and leg raises. You always want to add a twist to everything. ♪♪♪ We're moving on to exercise seven. This is our little version of a Spartan flip. We're gonna do 3 cycles, as many reps as possible with 45 seconds to a minute rest in between. Rest 45 seconds to a minute and do that 2 more times. Exercise now here is a Spartan slam. It's A-50-pound bag. He's gonna lift it off from the ground with maximum force, slam it to the ground from the left and right as many reps as possible. We're gonna do two or three cycles of that and here we go. Everything you got. That's what we're talking about. Where's my money? The end. Forty-five seconds rest to a minute and then we do it all over again. So it's nice to body slam somebody. That's what happens when you take my money, that's what happens, try it. All right, guys, you've seen it. Doesn't take that much. It will get you going. If you want to lock like a gladiator, if you want to look like me, which you should, do these exercises, do your diet and you're gonna love it. And don't forget to watch "Spartacus." It's gonna blow your mind. Let me also add, it's been nothing but a pleasure sitting here explaining all these exercises, a little new, a little variation. Always add variation, always eat clean and always believe in yourself and you can be the best you can be. One more thing, bodybuilding.com thank you so much. Check those guys out. These are the best. Whoo! ♪♪♪