Hey, everyone at Bodybuilding.com. My name is Amanda Latona. I am the 2009 Flex Bikini Model Search championships winner. I am a Team BSN sponsored athlete and an IFBB Bikini Pro, as well as a Muscle & Fitness Hers cover model. I am here today going to show you a pro bikini glute training workout so you, too, can have sculpted bikini glutes like a pro. If you're a beginner at exercising, don't worry, don't be freaked out, I'm gonna walk you right through everything. Start light. You know, you don't have to do the heavy rep range or the heavy weights like I do, or don't start with all of the exercises. Say, choose three instead of five. Although I train every body part once a week, I actually train glutes twice a week. I do it once on a Monday when I'm strong, I'm fresh, and I do it again on a Friday. I mean, who doesn't want a great butt, right? Yeah. Butts are back. Okay, guys. Here we are on the leg press. Today I'm choosing to do my favorite positioning, which is feet together. It allows me to lift heavier, get a little more strength behind me, and also shapes the outer sleeves, which is a very nice look to have. We're gonna start heavy on this, so choose a weight that can allow you to do 10 to 12 reps. If you need a spotter, get one. Safety is first, guys. Gotta keep it safe. So what you want to do is you don't want to start down here...' cause you never want to have your knees going over your toes. I like to do right in the middle. Remember, the higher you go up, the more emphasis you get on the glutes, which is why we're here. Okay, here we go. Also, when you're doing this, remember to press through your heels. Whenever you press through your heels, basically, I like to be able to lift my toes up, 'cause that's how I know that I'm definitely getting--hitting the glutes. So through the heels, through the heels. The way I like to finish this exercise is when, say, I can do 10 reps--say I'm at 10 reps and I want to do 5 more, I go to the bottom and I just do very short rep range...1, 2, 3, 4, 5. I like to do that. It's called partial reps, and it just really helps burn the glutes out. Whoo. Okay, we're here at my favorite exercise, the fabulous lunge. I like to do lunges on a Smith press as opposed to dumbbell lunges, walking lunges. I just like to be able to go heavier and not have to worry about lower back hurting, or a spotter, because I usually train by myself. Just keep it at, like, 10 to 12, and 3 sets. Foot position on this. I kind of vary it, but my favorite is far forward, and I really like to emphasize on this the top part of my butt, and that's what kind of gets it sitting out like a shelf. Like I said, we're hitting the second in our workout, so we're still lifting heavy... What's up, guys. We're back on our next exercise, and this is the ever-popular, at least to me, butt blaster. I love it. It blasts the butt. Enough said. We're gonna keep this at 3 sets, heavy weight. I like to take my rep range between 10 and 15 as opposed to 10 and 12. I like to do a technique on this called drop sets. What you do is on your last set, you stay at your weight that you start at. You do as many reps as you can, you drop the weight, you do more reps, and you drop the weight again, and continue to do as many reps until you just can't do any more. Just gives a really good burn. It's a great finishing way to your last set. What I like to do is I switch it up. Some days I'll do all 3 sets in a row on my right leg, and other times I'll do right leg, left leg, right leg, left leg, just a way to, if you want to keep your heart rate up, then do your right leg, left leg, back to back. Another advanced technique to keep the heart rate elevated. Start with your right leg...all right, what I like to do here, check it out, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze. Oh, squeeze. I don't just really shoot these reps out. I just push, hold, down. Push, squeeze, down. Good squeeze. We are back at the cuff. There it is, folks. Love it when I walk in the gym and see a cuff. I like to do rep ranges on this between 12 and 15, sometimes up to 18. Just because you're getting a little better squeeze, you can do more with, you know, lighter weight. You can do drop sets. The main thing about this is--actually, I can do this two ways. I always stabilize myself. So you can do--the first way to do it is with standing upright. And I do a little less weight when I do that. I'm gonna come back a little bit. Make sure your knee isn't locked out on the opposite leg. Hold on, and then basically just straight up...up, up. Another thing I like to do is when I go heavier. Push yourself out, lean forward a little more, and go out further...[laughing] Really important tip, I don't go down, never touch bottom. The great thing about cables is constant tension, so this way, we're leaving constant tension on the weight, and this way you're just really squeezing that butt. Once again, we talked about partials. So say this is our last set, our third set, and say we just did 10 reps, so this will be our 10th rep...10, go here...1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Yes. Okay, guys. We're here with our last exercise, and this is called the hip abduction, or the abductor exercise, what I call it. The thing we're gonna do about this is we're gonna go heavier, and the way to go heavier, I like to sit more far forward. Instead of doing the traditional exercise where you're, you know, back up against the wall, you're holding on, you're squeezing out, I like to sit really far forward. It just allows me to increase the weight, as you will see. We're doing the stack, baby. And take it all the way out...Another thing I like to do is same thing, at the end of the last set, the third set, do a squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, and then just do partial reps of like, say, five... So there you have it. That is my glute pro bikini workout. I'm Amanda Latona. Thanks for checking me out on Bodybuilding.com. And make sure to come back for more content like this. There ain't a rep range for that. Amanda out.