My name is Halee Shiccomi. I'm from Chicago, Illinois. I have a doctor in physical therapy. I'm a physical therapist and I'm the 2012 Optimum Nutrition's $100,000 transformation contest grand prize winner. When I set out to do the contest, there was no stopping me. I mean, flat out, I knew I was going to make the transformation. You know, I wanted to, you know, be the guy who pulls his pants out like that. You know, I wanted to, you know, just show other people that it can be done. You don't have to do anything crazy. Me going, you know, lifting weights, it goes back to like I can remember like seventh grade. I had a a pair of 10 lb dumbbells and you know I just lift them. I didn't know what I was doing. It actually worked. Got a little baby muscle and everything. So, you know, I would show that off, you know, go to, you know, school and things like that. So, I played um, you know, basketball and football, you know, from, you know, throughout grade school and high school. So, I was like, you know, I'm always usually in decent shape. Then 2012, I, you know, I mean, 2011, sorry. I had a lot of injuries. It's like I mean just from you know working out from playing sports and and you know the injuries by themselves weren't that bad but you know combined them together that's what made it you know pretty hard on my body and I couldn't do the same workouts I was used to. I was just frustrated didn't really know how to deal with them you know me you know mentally and um so I just like gave up. I was like I'm not going to lift. I don't care. You know I just got away from even trying to eat right. I just kind of let myself go and it it it happened pretty quickly and I didn't even realize how bad it got but then it's like you get to a point where you know you just are just too you're disappointed in what you see just kind of depressing and you know instead of you know crying about it and you know feeling sorry for myself I know I decided I'm going to make a change I can't live like this so I need to work around these injuries you know just work out you know smarter and go hard at it and then I saw them there was a contest so that was even more motivation. My overall approach and philosophy with training is, you know, just uh the general guidelines for uh bodybuilding and weight training. I start most um days with, you know, like the heavy lifts, the more they use more compound movements like, you know, the bench press or uh squats, things like that. I usually go three sets for each exercise. I try and do 10 reps and then you know maybe increase the weight and then if I increase the weight then I can you know go lower in reps. But I try and do usually as most weight as I can do four 10 reps. Next set most weight I can do four eight reps and so on so forth. The main thing is for me that I found was being consistent. You know like when I was in my younger days I would would lift work out but I just wasn't as consistent and I didn't get the results as quick. But once I start going consistently, you know, three to five times a week, then I start seeing results. So, I've also started uh doing a little lighter weight with higher repetitions, uh just, you know, working different rep ranges, but I usually do that towards the end of, you know, a regular workout, which would be a heavy workout. You know, I would have like a split like, you know, Mondays would be uh chest and biceps for say, and then the next day would be like someone with a lower body, quads, and uh calves or, you know, things like that. But what I what I really do now to avoid injury, I kind of listen to my body. So if I go into the gym and normally I would do like, you know, hamstrings, but let's say, you know, my hamstring tendon has been irritating me, you know, just even when I was doing regular things throughout the day, then I might lay off hamstrings, maybe push that with like a back workout or something or just push it off for a whole week. So my splits really kind of get jumbled up, but you know, you got to listen to your body. So you know, you can't just keep working through the pain. You know, you got to be smart about it. I definitely like to train my back. That's my favorite body part. I used to not even train my back at all. Then I just, you know, started doing it. I kept getting stronger. You know, it's one of those muscles where you can't see it while you're working out. Pumping up the lats, things like that. I love all the exercises for the back. Cardio, I'm not a big fan of cardio, but you know, it it does its job. So, I for cardio, I usually for the contest, I was definitely doing cardio um four to five times a week. uh towards like the last half of the contest. But initially, you know, I started ramping up the cardio like the frequency of uh which I did it. So I would start like maybe twice a week and then, you know, next week bump it up to three, you know, and and also increasing the duration I was doing the cardio. I always would aim to not necessarily do 45 minutes of cardio. I would aim to like burn at least like 400 calories and or you know 400 to 450 and usually I would get to the calorie goal before I got to the goal of 45 minutes. and highintensity training. I kind of did that like if I was like short on time and then I needed to burn some calories, then I would do it. Rest days, those were great cuz all I did was rest. I I didn't work out or anything to keep myself motivated in the gym. On the days when I probably don't feel like going and the days when I'm tired, you know, after a long day of work, I use music. I I have some nice headphones. They have deep bass. I put on my, you know, my my jams and it gets me pumped. And I mean, I'm like one of those guys who's like bopping his head and, you know, a curse word might come out here and there, you know, as I'm singing the song. So, you know, the the music gets me going. So, as long as I got my headphones and my MP3 player, we're all good. Well, my take on nutrition was that I didn't want to do anything that was crazy. Anything that I couldn't keep up with, you know? So, I I'm not a numbers guy. I don't count for each meal. I'm not going to be like, "All right, wait. Uh, let me This is how many grams I'm I can't do that. I go crazy." So, what I did was um I just kind of guess. So, I have like a high, you know, protein, you know, food like, you know, chicken or something like that. And then I would like try to keep the carbs to a minimum. And then also for carbs, I would try and eat carbs that, you know, wouldn't, you know, spike my uh blood sugar. That that that was pretty much what I stuck with uh in terms like the numbers. Now, the actual foods that I ate, I think I ate a lot of like normal people foods. I'll say, you know, I'm not I can't just eat chicken and vegetables. I can do that every once in a while, but I can't do that for, you know, every meal. So, you know, like I would try and eat regular people food like uh like spaghetti. You know, I eat a lot of Mexican food, but you know, I would just make it healthier. So, you know, I would like swap out, you know, the high glycemic type of foods, you know, for something that was a little bit lower and then, you know, a whole lot of protein with it, you know. So, you know, and I think that that really made it a lot easier for me to keep it up, keep up with it. And it is very possible to like to eat healthy and eat foods that are good for you but still eat the foods that you enjoy. You know, you just may have to get a little creative. You may have to, you know, do a little research. You know, on bodybuilder.com, there's plenty of recipes on there all over the internet. You know, you can find like your favorite dish. Just swap out some ingredients and boom, you have the same dish. Pretty good taste, but you know, with much better uh nutrition. The hardest part was like that I had to prepare, you know, my food on my own, you know. So, I didn't go out and buy like pre, you know, cooked foods or go out to restaurants too often. I like breakfast food and breakfast is pretty easy cuz, you know, it's like, you know, you got the eggs. So, I would do egg whites, but uh I was really missing pancakes, you know, like going out and getting pancakes and things like that. So, you know, I would like um tried either protein pancakes, I tried sweet potato pancakes, and actually tasted pretty good. You know, I'm a big fan of cheat meals. you work hard throughout the week, you know, with the in the gym and outside the gym, meaning, you know, eating clean and um eating the right foods. So, allowing yourself a cheat meal, whether it's two to three cheat meals a week, do it. I mean, you deserve it. You know, it's not going to like kill you so bad where you're going to start gaining weight. I mean, just don't go overboard. Don't eat like 2,000 calories in one cheat meal. My cravings for a cheat meal really changed from week to week. I mean, there are some weeks where I, you know, I just wanted like a um a sub or something or a Philly cheese steak. What I usually crave is like hearty meals that, you know, the heartburn type of meals, you know. So, when you're dealing with cravings, what you got to do is you have to think about why you're doing this. Think about what you're doing it for. Think about the end goal that you want. Picture it, you know, talk to other people other people who have the same goals in mind. And that helps you, you know, save off those cravings. I know with supplements, you know, I used to think that supplements were the key, you know, like, oh, I need to figure out what that this person is taking. So, I don't know how he got so ripped. It's unbelievable. It's not even possible. You know, it hasn't been taking some type of magic pill or something like that. But it's not. Supplements are just supplements. If you, you know, the key to changing your physique and achieving your goal is 70% of it is going to be your diet, you know, and then the other part is going to be, you know, the uh exercise. Supplements will help you achieve those goals, but they won't do all the work for you. The other thing with, you know, supplements, just don't take it just cuz Joe Schmo said he's taking it. Know how that supplement is supposed to work. you know, know what that supplement is supposed to do because just cuz this person's taking it doesn't mean uh that supplement is good for you for your goals. You know, you just got to be smart about it. And I would always use a supplement for a reason. I definitely would uh recommend whey protein. You got to have the whey protein. It's going to no matter what your goal is, well, at least for bodybuilding, if you're trying to, you know, cut the fat or build muscle, you got to have the whey protein to achieve, you know, a good physique. you know, when you're cutting and you're in the um the presence of a calorie deficit, the whey protein is going to help you keep the muscle that you have while you're uh you know, cutting the fat away. And if you're building muscle, obviously you got to have the right building blocks to build the muscle and then that's where protein is going to come in. So, for the contest, I initially started with uh creatine for, you know, like the first maybe four to uh six weeks, you know, just to help with the energy cuz, you know, I've been out the gym for so long, you know, I want to be able to, you know, have the a good amount of energy to actually, you know, complete a workout. So, I'll use uh the creatine for that. Throughout the whole thing, I always would use weight. That that's a given. And then um I started using you know a pre-workout here and there on days you know I was like you know tired and maybe was dragging myself to the gym you know just to you know get a little bit more um pep in my step as you might say. And um and then I also used like a slow digesting protein casein at night you know just since you know I was um not eating for a couple hours. Oh I also started using branch chain amino acids. Uh, I love those cuz I mean they do so much for you. They give you energy, you know, for your muscles and they also, you know, help uh prevent muscle breakdown, especially when you're exercising. So, especially when I was doing cardio, I would, you know, sip that throughout the cardio session and also when I was weightlifting. But, you know, I usually worked out late at night. So, you know, I didn't like to have too much like, you know, uh, supplements with caffeine. So, that's why I really like the branch chain amino acids. I was able to get a good, you know, supplement for energy without, you know, keeping me up at night. Honestly, I learned a lot about supplements through bodybuilding.com over the years, you know, and they have a lot of articles. I mean, there's really no excuse not to know what a supplement is supposed to be doing for you. So, that's a good resource for people to use. So, that's it. That's my story. Uh, that's all the information about my training, nutrition, and supplementation. Uh if you want more information, you can find me on BodySpace. Uh my username is H Shakone. All right. If uh if you're looking for a goal to work towards and you need more motivation, check out bodybuilder.com for the latest contests. I mean, you can even win some prize money or different prizes. So that helped me and should help you. For more videos, articles, and content like this, keep coming here to bodybuilding.com.