Hi, kids. Day 32 is here and um I'm waiting for my precage to kick in. It's been a bloody hot day out there and a very exhausting one physically and uh mentally with work, but this is [\h__\h] life. A lot of people fall into complacency and excuse. We're not one of those people. We're here to defy logic. We're here to do some unnatural things in the gym to get some unnatural results. Now, just because it's intense doesn't mean it's just for the advanced. It's for beginners. It's for men. It's for women. It's for young. It's for old. How you apply it to yourself is all that matters. Your muscles have no idea what number is written on the barbell. It only knows the intensity that you place upon it. But it's going to be a tough one today. It's going to be efficient. If you look at this program on paper, you think, "Ah, it's easy." Don't let the paper fool you. It's going to be tough. It's all about efficiency and intensity and quality, not the quantity of the workout. So, anyway, we're going to be hitting hamstrings, lower back, and upper abs. So, without further ado, let's go. Heat. Heat. On my way back up, man. Let's [\h__\h] do this. First exercise, deadlifts. The idea was for me to select a weight that allowed me to reach failure at like 20 repetitions. So then I uh stripped the weight down and uh knocked out 10 repetitions then. That was my guide. So 15, 10, and uh five. And then once I'd done the 10 repetitions, kept it on the same weight, I think. And then went down to five repetitions. Rested for a couple of minutes just to allow the ATP to replenish itself. And uh then I felt, okay, this is going to be my heaviest set now because I've had plenty of rest. So I put on five plates aside uh which would allow me to reach failure at like five repetitions and then I stripped the weight and then knocked out 10 repetitions and then on a final set and uh then I knocked out 15 repetitions to finish. Now we are done with the standing compound movement, it's time to get comfortable and lie down as we start hitting our hamstrings. Heat up here. Then you've done lying hamstring curls. We increased the rep range on this one. So I selected a weight that allowed failure at 30 repetitions to begin with. After a 30 second rest, I went for 20 repetitions. And after a 20 second rest, I finished at 10. Then after a couple of minutes, I went for my heaviest weight. Out of 10 repetitions cuz I know that I was recovered, I was rested. I was refueled. I was hydrated. So I went very heavy, rested for 10 seconds, dropped the weight, did 20 repetitions, rested for 20 seconds, and dropped it again. uh to do 30 repetitions. So anyway, uh let's go and hit some more hamstrings now and really get those bad boys hanging so we can get these couple of muscles representing the hamstring See what you [\h__\h] got. All right. Well, I started off with 30 repetitions, rested for 30 seconds, did 20 repetitions, rested for 20 seconds, and then what I did on this exercise and on the ham line hamstring curl, I used the same weight for the 10 repetitions. All right. Anyway, enough talk. Let's get straight into upper abs. Heat up here. My god. I'm not too old for this. I'm not too old. I'm good. My abs are done. Now you can use a rope, a high pulley rope and pulled down. I did around 25 to 30 repetitions there. And I did around the same on this Bosu ball. So I did five sets in total super set back to back. As soon as I did the crunches there, again, contracting and closing that distance between the sternum and the pelvis, not just using my hip flexors, I immediately came to the Bosa ball and went to absolute failure here as well. I'll see you at the entrance. Okay, day 32, I believe, is over with in regards to the wave training. So, when it comes to this workout, take as much rest as you need to. Keep it intense by all means, but don't turn this into a cardio session. Really put all your focus and effort and a recovery into getting as much out of these reps as possible. Right, we only have one more workout left for the week. Tomorrow, it's going to be upper back and outer back, and it's also going to be calves. So let's make sure that we do recover adequately. Bring those cortisol levels down. Uh you know meditate if you need to read a book, chill out because tomorrow we have to set that standard remember and raise that bar so we can raise it even more after the weekend recovery of active rest. All right, let's go get this cardio down. Let's go. So I'm here at the motocross track. Got to get a couple of laps in. Uh, another way of cardio. I'm going to go now so this drone doesn't use up its battery. Heat. Heat.