I chose fitness as my path because I realized what it did for me in my life and helped me find out who I was and break down every mental barrier that I ever had, every challenge that I ever had. My name is Hannah Eden. I'm 25 years old. I was forced to move here cuz I was uh not in a great place in England at all, which was the best thing that my parents have ever done for me. But back then, I definitely didn't see that or couldn't realize that. But I moved here at 16 without choice because of my dad's job relocation. That was a really hard time for me. I felt like an outsider. I felt like I stuck out like a sore thumb. I had a weird accent and kind of just like bounced around experimenting in all different kind of good things and as well as bad things. I went to school for photography but before that I was so concerned I had no idea what I wanted to be and was kind of lost. I got into fitness by a pure accident by being invited into a gym of a friend of mine. And then I began to train in CrossFit. From that point forward, I became an athlete, was competing at an elite level. And I think I was very narrow-minded back then cuz I was also uneducated. Didn't care about form. Didn't care about the longevity of fitness and then suffered an injury and kind of was forced to learn that fitness isn't instant and fitness isn't short. Was given the opportunity to create a class. I had this slot time during the day and they asked me if I wanted a coach. So I got certified. I got all my certifications. I used to wake up and go to Miami which is like a 45minute drive from where I live and show up week after week after week and no one would show up to my boot camp classes. But I still did it. I'm going to school full-time. I'm doing everything for free. And then like 8 months goes by and I'm like, man, I guess I love this because I'm still doing it. I'm not bored. I'm driven. This is exactly what I want to do. I'll have two hours of sleep and still show up and be hardworking and so determined to accomplish everything that I want to do through fitness that it kind of proved to me that anything is possible. And that's what passion is. And I never really understood until I found it. And then a contest came about with Reebok. Uh it was to be the face of Reebok 1. And I applied thinking that nothing was going to happen. And uh scarily somehow I made it to the final four and was flown to the headquarters of Reebok. Unfortunately, I didn't win, but it was almost like a blessing in disguise because I was able to meet so many great people within the industry. At 23, I decided to legally trademark my brand, which is Pump Fit. By the age of 25, I now own a business that is pretty successful. What fitness did for me, I think that is kind of what helped me get to where I am today is it's kind of like proven to me that I'm now who I'm supposed to be. And I want to be known as a female trainer that creates badass workouts that will kick everyone's ass, guy or girl.