What's going on, guys? This is Craig Aers, the 2012 Body Space Spokes Model Mail Winner. What we're doing today is going to be my back workout. Something I call heavy volume. The way I train to help me get the physique that I have. Today we're going for 100 reps on the T- bar row as heavy as I can. I'm going to fail around 15 on the first set and as many sets as it takes me to get to that total number. After that, we're going to get into some super sets. I'm going to pick about six exercises in total for the set, but we're going to do two exercises super set back to back. And then we're going to do one static finish. The first set is important because it's going to set the whole weight for the rest of the exercise. I'm looking to get 100 reps. I got six plates on there right now. So, what I'm doing 15 reps today. First set. That's where I'm aiming. I'm gonna get after it. Hopefully, I can't get more than 15. Hopefully, I can get 15. I think I'm setting my weight accordingly. But what's going to happen afterwards, we're going to take every single set to failure. I do not know how many it's going to take. What you're aiming for is six to 10 sets, probably in that range. Hopefully, I can finish within that range. If you can't finish, doesn't matter. Get 100 reps. This is how most people do it. They got a plate. They're going to use something like this, a V-bar row. They're gonna wrap it around the bar. They're gonna bring it up. And they've only got I didn't even put my arms up. It's like 40. There's not even a 45 degree angle when I get to the top. So limited range of motion. What I'm going to do, take an abstrap. I'm going to detach this piece right here. It's going to fit on the end. So when I bring it up, look how much more range of motion I just got. I've got a belt on cuz the weight's heavy. You want to support your core. I'm going to be getting after it's going to be pretty hardcore. We'll do some of the exercises later on to slow it down and do a little bit more squeeze out of the exercise, but right now we're going heavy volume. We're going to be taking 3 minutes rest time in between so I can maximize the squeeze. I'm taking everything to failure at this point. So, I'm going to need those 3 minutes of rest to actually get the weight. Set two. 85 to go. I'm on good pace. I'll probably finish in seven sets. If I can keep up this pace, be good. Set three. 70 to go. Heat. 55 to go. I'm keeping a good uh 15 reps. See if I can keep on that pace. It's getting tough. I was letting it sit down there for a minute. just couldn't hold the breath and the weight at the same time. If you need to put that on the ground, you're allowed, but it's about lifting heavy. If you need a second on the bottom, pull it up after that. My legs are feeling it a little bit. My back is starting to cramp. Arms are giving out. Grips are important right now. I would never be able to hold that weight. I can't talk. I got to rest. Set seven. smiling cuz it's the last set. So happy. Here we go. Exercise two. We're super setting. We got low rows with a pull down. We're going for 20 reps a piece. Uh 2 minutes rest in between. And uh basically we're doing full range of motion. You don't have to squeeze it out so much, but all the way out. All the way in. I'm still wrapping up just cuz my grip's going to be failing. I'm already hurting from the other exercise. What I'm doing is I'm going underhand. I'm basically going to come in as low as I can go to the belly button range. Bring it out. Bring it in. I want to get a stretch on my lats. That's what I'm going for here. On the other one, I'm going to be going it's uh you'll see the grip, but we're coming in. We're going in the front. We're squeezing out here all the way up. I want to stretch them all the way out. That's what you want to do is stretch full range of motion. Keep the intensity up. I want to see some sweat on this one as well. We're going to get after it. Heat. Heat. That one's killer. Stretch it all the way out. All the way in. We're going to keep after 2 minutes rest. Second set. 20 reps. Here we go. Much better. Burning. 20 reps. Two minutes rest. Next. Third set, boys. We're getting after it. Now we're on a super set number two. We're going to do a low cable incline fly. We're going to focus on the lats and lower back. We're not going so much. I'm on a rear delt. You're going to see me come close. I'm going to do a little bit of a pause. My rep range probably 15. If I can get 20, I'll go for it. I actually got no weight on the bar. It's just going to be whatever the rack holds. And then we're going to get into over here. We're going to do a straight bar lat. I want to widen my lats as I do these. Then I'm going to squeeze them out the same way. Looking for 20 reps on these. 2 minutes rest in between the total set. I'm going to have my chest over the top of this. My feet are on the floor. And when I come up, I want to squeeze my lower back a little bit. I'm going to get a little lower back with this exercise. Heat. Second set, guys. Make sure on these you come up, use your lower back. Get like a back extension on these. It's important. 2 minutes rest. Last set. Here's how I finish it off. We're going to do a static pause. We're getting up top just to burn them out just to hold it out. Everything you got, you're going to hold that top squeeze. Lower it a little bit. Lower a little bit. That'll be it. Two sets of those. Should be done. I'm still strapping up cuz my grip shot. Heat up here. finisher. I'm going to hold it as long as I can. All the way up, all the way down. I'm not going to attempt it another one like I did last time. I'm going try to hold 10 seconds on each. Burn them out. The reason I do these again is uh being a fitness model and doing different shoots and actually being on stage, you're required to hit a pose and actually hold it out. It's something I actually do in the other part of my routines as well. You want to hold a static pause. You want to be hitting a muscle. If you're holding a shot on stage, if you're flexing, whatever you're doing, you're not you're not working out. You're not moving the motion. You're holding a weight. You're holding a spot. You're holding a bicep curl. Whatever you're doing, it's a static pause. So, kind of work out that way, too. It's like if you're a football player and you're doing football exercises, kind of same thing if you're a bodybuilder, if you're a fitness model, you still practice what you preach in the gym. It's probably going to, you know, help you out. It's probably going to make you grow. But this is how I train. This is how you're going to look like me if you want to look like me. For more workout plans, nutrition tips, or anything you might need, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.