here at the bodybuilding.com corporate headquarters for that flex Friday workout of the week and I'm super excited to be here with you guys and I'm excited to bring you this upper body pull workout. Okay, so I know that a lot of you have been following along and seeing that push pull legs routine that I've been that I've been doing for a while now and this is going to be a heavy upper body pull routine. So, this is a really, really good workout if you're just looking to build thickness, build width through your back, through your rear delts, and we're also going to finish off with some biceps as well. So, we're going to hit everything pulling today. And because this is a heavier day, we're going to start off with a focus a little more on something like our our rack deadlifts here. Okay, so our rack pulls. Um, we're going to do basic compound movements today. Some of those staples that build width and thickness in your back. We're going to hit them all today. So, pre-workout's in. I'm officially itching and ready to get this workout started. So, we're starting here with rack pulls. Okay, we're going to go five sets of six warm-ups done. So, we're going to start here. Like I said, five sets, six reps, rack pulls. So, instead of a conventional deadlift where we're going all the way to the floor, we're going to try and aim for just below the kneecap. So, I think that's key. A lot of people doing rack pulls, I see them doing it from too high or maybe too low. The real benefit from a rack pull, you should try and get that bar just below your kneecap, which is obviously going to be a little different for everybody. So, here we go. Let's kick this sucker off. First set, six reps. Rack pulls. Let's go. Woo, buddy. Feels good. That first heavy set. I like taking a double overhand grip on here as well. So, my suggestion, um, I don't like alternating grips. I feel like it creates some asymmetries in the back. So, I prefer just to grip up and do double overhand for these or deadlifts. Tips for getting that Vtaper. Yes, the Vtaper is huge. I mean, every guy wants to get that Vtaper. And um my motto, if you can't get the waist smaller, just get the shoulders and lats bigger. So, Vtaper really comes down to building the lats and the shoulders. I really like any kind of pullup, rack chin, um, which we're going to do today, assisted pull-up, lat pull downs, anything wide to help develop lats and Terry's minor. So, today's warmup, I consistent. I do a lot of passroughs with a PVC pipe, try and really get the lats going. I also did some inchworms. Um, really good to get the whole posterior chain set up for the workout as well. So, passroughs, a lot of work with a PVC pipe. Inchworms are a great way to get the the whole back warmed up as well. Where is the headband? Ah, the headband of gains. I knew it was just a matter of time. I had to retire the headband of gains, guys. And um I need to get a new one. All right. I need to get a new headband of gains. If you guys know a good spot, a good place to go to get a new custom trainer mic headband, let me know and I am all over it. Okay, set two. Resting a little longer here. So, we rest about 2, three minutes on our heavier sets. Let's go. So, I like to set the bar down completely in between. Um, it gets really easy and convenient to bounce the bar. And I really encourage you guys not to bounce the bar on these rack poles. Set it down. Re-engage those muscles every time. You're going to get a lot more benefit out of it. How much weight to do on a rack pull? Well, you should take your desired amount of repetitions and find a weight that you can move appropriately so that if we're going for six, it's about failure. Okay, I'm looking for about an 8 to nine on a rating of perceived exertion. So, I might have one to maybe two reps in reserve that I could potentially push out after this, but it's a lot of intensity. bar over a barbell row. Benefits of a T- bar row over a barbell row. I like the T- bar row. Um because you can get a more neutral ham position. You know, it's really not that natural for your hands to go fully pronated or fully supernated. T- bar row allows you to take that neutral position. So, this is hitting a lot of back. Okay, we hit a lot of erector spin. Those are those big tube-like muscles that run down um the middle of your back. Um hit a lot of rhomboids here. Hit a little bit of lats, a lot of traps, and you're also getting some hamstrings involved, too. Very compound movement. Um works a lot of muscle groups. Great way to start a heavy back day. I like doing the rack pulls because it it takes a little bit of the tension off the legs. So legs were yesterday. I definitely don't need to train them again today. So this allows me to put more focus on just the back. Okay, set three. Six reps. This is lightweight. We could probably go up, but I'm going to keep it here. And um we're going to save plenty of energy because we got a whole workout to go through. Can't have all the fun on just the rack pulls. Here we go. gets the heart rate going. You can definitely tell when you get one of those compound movements going. Everything works. Your heart will start to race and you'll feel your whole body get fired up. Starts to release some of those hormones that you want as well to build the most muscle during a workout. Should you focus on better form with lighter weight or just load up on plates? I'm a little concerned that you have to ask that question. But here's my answer. I want you to load up the plates and do it with good form. That's what you should do. Is the back the most important body part? I guess it depends on who you ask. I think it's a pretty dang important one considering the fact it's a pretty big muscle group. How much cardio you How much cardio am I doing this summer? I'm trying to get out and hike like three times a week. Okay. Um so I'll go on some couple mini hikes, you know, maybe an hour a couple times a week and I like doing a bigger hike on the weekends. Other than that, you know, maybe 15 minutes after a workout here and there. Uh my goal so far has just been kind of maintain my conditioning. I'm not trying to lean out. I'm not trying to really bulk up. So, just kind of doing cardio uh for fun. Imagine that. Is this like a deadlift without legs? This is like a deadlift without legs. Good question. Um, yeah, you're getting the benefits of the top part of the deadlift, which is primarily working through the back. Now, you still get a little bit of of glutes and hamstrings involved here, but not as much. And that's what we're looking for here. Today is a upper body pull session. If we were doing lower body pull, full body pull, we'd pull from the floor. But um on my split, I did legs yesterday. Definitely do not need to hit those hamstrings again today. All right, guys. Here we go. Set four. We got five of these. Let's get it. Six reps. It's a great way. This this in and of itself is a workout just doing this exercise. So start your workouts with your most taxing movements because they will require the most energy. That's why we don't start with bicep curls and reverse flies and things like that. Sorry, was that is this good for building big traps? Absolutely. I get asked a lot what exercises I do for traps. I I can't remember the last time I did an exercise specifically to isolate my traps. If you are deadlifting or doing rack pulls, you don't need to specifically isolate your traps, okay? You can do it all in this one magnificent movement. When should you replace deadlifts with this movement? You have to take a look at your whole routine, okay? Your whole split. And I think it makes sense if you are training, you know, if you have a couple days specific to legs and you don't incorporate a deadlift on one of those days, then it's a great way to do this. I've trained legs twice this week. Haven't done deadlifts on either of those days. So, my lower back is fresh and good for these. Should you be steadily increasing the weight on these sets? If you can, okay, you don't have to increase the weight. Um, I did warm-ups and I found a weight that I thought was appropriate and that would still allow me to have a little bit of conversation in between sets, which is key when it comes to the live workouts. But you guys, you don't have to talk as much as me between sets. So, up that weight. Okay, guys. Last set. We're feeling good. Body's getting fired up. Um, it's definitely working me. I feel the lower back. I feel the midback. And now it's time to get on with this last set of these rack pulls. Let's go. Woo! There it is. Now you feel accomplished after doing these two. So you get these done, you feel the body get fired up. Like I said, when you start hitting those compound movements first, you start getting a lot more of those muscle groups involved. You start to release more growth hormone, more testosterone because your body requires it. So, it's a great way to start a workout. The secret to adding more muscle and size is that there is no secret. Okay? It's what everybody doesn't really want to hear and that's consistency over time equals results. You have to be consistent with your food and with your training if you want to add more size. Okay guys, we're moving on to what I call rack chins. Now, this is a movement that a lot of people uh may not be as familiar with. And um this is a great way if you're maybe not 100% comfortable doing pull-ups with proper form and you don't have access to an assisted pull-up, this can be a great option for you. So for the rack chins, we're trying to keep our butt back so we can keep the focus on the lats. We don't want this to turn into an inverse row. So we're going to add a little bit of extra resistance here to our body weight. And we're gonna try and keep ourselves in a pull-up like position. So, I get a box here where I can put my feet up, but bring my hips back and um try and target more of those lats. So, we're going to put the weight up here. We're hope it's going to not going to roll off on us. We're going to take a nice wide grip. Takes just a little bit of working around to get into the right position. Now, here we go. Roll that sucker right on off. Give yourself a little bit of a break. Now, keys here are you want to make sure to keep those hips back. It's tempting to let the hips slide forward. And if we do that, this turns into a row and not a pull-up. And then we're targeting more of the midback, less of the lats. Take a nice wide grip. Try and keep your hips back. If you're comfortable adding resistance, add resistance. If you're not, don't. Should I be pairing biceps with my back? Should you be pairing biceps with your back days? I think it makes a lot of sense to do it that way. Um, it's a good way just to finish off your biceps get a ton of work on your back day and that's just a great way to finish them off. Um, I like if you're really looking to build your biceps, I would do finish off back day with some biceps and then have a another day every week specifically designated for targeting biceps and triceps. Somebody said, "Congrats on being a father." Thank you. Somebody said, "Congrats on being a new father." I'm not a new father, but I did have a new baby. So, we had baby number five, believe it or not. So, uh that just happened a couple days ago, and might be a little low on sleep, but we're here getting it in for you guys. Your rest period on Yeah, my rest periods vary on on, you know, it might be different on a heavier day compared to a lighter day. So, on heavier days, more compound movements, we're going to rest a little longer. Okay. Usually about 2 minutes in between sets. As our workout goes on and we get a little more isolated, we'll rest a little less. But for these main movements, we rest a little longer. Okay, here we go. Easiest if you're going to add resistance to get it set up at the bottom of the movement. Nice wide grip. Get the feet up. Full extension on the way down. You guys will notice I'm going all the way down. And you might even start off with a little bit of added weight and then for your last couple sets, last set, take it off. I'm going to try and keep it on for one more set. might end up bringing it off for the last set so I can get my chin all the way up to the bar, get full extension on the way down on my range of motion. What's the difference between preworkout and if I takeout? So what's the difference between pre-workout and BCAS or branch chain amino acids? Pre-workouts are designed to get you ready for a workout through things like energy and increased vasoddilation focus so you have more of caffeine. You might have more of your citrine um you know beta-alanine. They're things that are set to prime you for a workout. Branch chain amino acids aren't going to provide you with that same energy benefit. Um you're likely not going to see increased vasoddilation from them. So can you pair the two? Yes. Do a pre-workout 30 minutes before your workout and then do your amino acids during your workout. I like to sip on those and then immediately after you hit your protein shake. Okay, here we go. Third set. Good wide grip here because we're going to hit close grip later. So, keep it wide here. starts getting pretty challenging. Now, the reason why we're not doing pull-ups is because I like to show you guys some different variations. Pull-ups can be really tough to do properly. Um, I think it's one of those movements that people do incorrectly a lot because they just don't get the full range of motion. This allows you to get the full range of motion and um take a little bit of the weight off that you normally would feel associated with a regular pull-up. How do you know how high to put the bar for this movement? You want to get up high enough so you don't hit your bum on the floor every single time. Uh that obviously defeats the purpose. If you take a break to sit down between each and every rep, a lot of water with these workouts, you start hitting larger muscle groups, your body uses more water, whether you're sweating or not. So, keep a lot of water coming in. What's your philosophy on using a weight? What's my philosophy my philosophy on using a weight belt for deadlifts and squats under five reps I will use a weight belt. Um other than that I try and create my own intraabdominal pressure and rely on that. And most of the studies show that actually like three rep max or less is where people are going to see the most benefit coming from a weight belt. Do you think bodybuilders? Do I think bodybuilders can learn from powerlifters and vice versa? Absolutely. You know, people just have to have an open mind. You got to let go of your ego and have some humility and say, "Yeah, what can I learn from this individual?" And there's a lot to learn from other categories of lifters. I mean, heck, I might even go as far as to say a bodybuilder can learn from a crossfitter. I know, crazy, crazy, but I think it could happen. All right, last set. We're going to keep the 45 lb plate on and we're going to push through this, guys. Let's go. Woo! Buddy, there it is. That feels just right. Now we got our mid back, our low back, and our lats working, and it's time to move on and hit them again. So, we're going to come back through now, hit some good rows. Um, I like doing a chest supported dumbbell row. We're go four sets of eight on this. I love this movement. The deadlift, we obviously didn't have any chest support on, so now I want to hit a row with some chest support and really try and isolate that midback a little better. A lot of folks saying they want to try that. Nice. Yeah, a lot of people don't or haven't tried the rack chin before and um I'd really encourage you to give it a shot, guys. I think you'll notice a lot of people are afraid to do it because I think they think it's you know sub uh you know that that the pull-up would be superior to it. That's just not the case. I think there's a place for for both of those in there. So, try it out. Okay, so eight reps. Our focus here again, we're trying to isolate that midback. So, we've got a slight incline here on the bench. I'm going to start off with like 75s. See how that feels for eight reps. Here we go. We're going to lean over the bench and again, really target that midback. Couple things here. Go all the way down. Just a half second rest at the bottom. Fully stretch those rhomboids. And then come through and pull hard. We could easily do 25 30 more pounds on this incorrectly, but I'd rather keep the weight light. Focus on a really strong peak contraction every time. You should take a pre-workout about 30 minutes before. Caffeine's peak effects are seen at 60 minutes after consumption. So, if you take it 30 minutes before your workout, you start feeling it within about 15 20 minutes and then you feel the peak benefits rice smack dab halfway through your workout. Yeah, absolutely. Alternate vertical poles and horizontal pulls. Um 100% you should absolutely do that. Um I think it's a great way to structure a back day. Are you going to China this year? Am I going to the China China Fibo this year? I hope so. I hope so. I usually know about those things a couple months in advance. I think that one's like September if I'm not mistaken. So, we'll find out. Had a lot of fun there last year. That was a really good time. All right, guys. Here we go. Second set. Eight reps. Now, I would encourage you, just a little tip here. Don't sit down on the bench. Get up a little bit so your head is over the top if you're tall enough. And um that way you just don't have to dig your nose into the bench the whole time. Here we go. really takes away the opportunity to cheat. There's really no swinging or cheating on this one. You are isolating that midback. Really good movement. How long does it take for creatine to work? Do you need a load? You know, creatine's effects, it builds up in your bloodstream over time. You'll see the effects quicker if you load. Um, that said, there's really no difference between loading and not loading after about 3 or 4 weeks. So, if you want to see the effects quicker, you know, you're going to take upwards of 20, maybe even 25 grams of creatine for your first 5 to seven days and then back off to like five grams uh moving forward from there. Okay, guys. Little shorter rest on these. Third set. Chest supported rows. Feeling the mid back now. Giving the low back a little bit of a break. Three, four, so yesterday was my birthday. Thank you all for the birthday wishes. And um I had a lot of food and that workout pump after a lot of food you start feeling it come through. It's always best like the day after. It's a good good day for a back day. Give us an update on the podcast. Update on the podcast every other week guys. We're recording for you. So check it out. The fit couples perspective. We do that on iTunes, Spotify, Stitcher, uh Google store. I mean it's everywhere. Just search fit couples perspective. My wife and I do that every other week. What was that? Our last episode of the podcast. Gez, what did we talk? Oh, we talked about uh nutrition tips and tricks. Really good one. So, I gave you guys some ideas. Uh we gave you some ideas of what we do to like uh you know, satisfy that hunger craving when you're on a lower calorie diet and things. So, uh, a lot of good info there. Okay, here we go. Eight reps. Two. Three. Feels good, guys. That feels good. Getting a good pull in there. Really isolate that midback. Now, it's time to alternate back over to a pull down movement. And because we went wide grip on our um rack chins, we're going to go close grip on these. What are your thoughts on the different What are my thoughts on the different types of carbs within the glycemic index for fat loss? Um, I think the glycemic index doesn't really matter, guys. The glycemic index only matters if you're eating carbohydrates by themselves, which nobody ever does. If you're incorporating protein and fats in, it changes the glycemic index of that carbohydrate essentially because it will slow the absorption of that carbohydrate and its impact on blood sugar. So, I don't think you really need to pay attention to it at all as long as you're eating protein and or fat with that carbohydrate. Okay, so we go close grip here. Eight reps. We're going to try and pull hard right down towards our chest. Slight lean back on this one. And this will help target our lats. And we're even going to hit some more midback with this as well. Starts off feeling pretty light but got heavier towards the end. I'm not trying to hit failure here. Leaving a couple reps in reserve and getting quality contractions in with each and every rep. How many days before you train the same muscle group? How many days should you wait before you train the same muscle group again? At least 48 hours. So, two days. Um, ideally 72 if you can make it work. But as long as you're recovering right, getting enough sleep, eating right, taking the right supplements, 48 hours will suffice. BFR. No BFR today, guys. Um, we did that last time for you. So, giving you a little different look at some stuff today. Um, usually I do do it on my heavy upper body days, but today I wanted to show you guys a different variety of exercises. When you change up your grip from like a standard grip to a neutral grip, it changes a lot of things. We get a little more bicep activation here, um, which is okay. And we target a little different area of the back. Wider grip will typically target more of your Terry's minor on the outside there. and um closing up bringing the grip closer will typically change that um so we target more midback. Okay, set two Now, you'll notice every rep gets a big stretch at the top. Big mistake people make. If you want to hit your lats, you've got to get that full extension at the top and let that muscle group stretch out. The better the stretch, typically the better the contraction. At what point does overtraining start? Guys, I'm not a firm believer in overtraining. I am a firm believer in underreovery. So, most of the time it's really, really hard to overtrain. Um, I think a lot of people use that as an excuse to back off their training. Um, you should be more concerned about making sure you eat enough food and get enough rest and get the right supplements in. Where can you find me on IG? Trainermike one. That's the number one trainer Mike1 on Instagram. That's where I put all my stuff up for you guys. Um, if you want to hit me up, questions, DMs, I respond to pretty much everything unless it's a really, really stupid question and then I probably won't respond. Third set. Let's get to it. Big back, baby. If I ever started noticing like I'm using a little too much momentum, I'll just pause at the top for about a second to kind of regroup and regain my my structure before I go on to the next rep. rear delt. Yeah, I'm going to do my isolation movement for rear delts today. That's why it's we call this an upper body pull session rather than just back and biceps. So, the next exercise, we do a reverse fly and we're really going to focus on trying to isolate those rear delts. What do you drink? So, between sets, what do I drink? I always drink amino acids during my workout, guys. I think it's key to drink amino acids during your workouts. Not only do they taste amazing and will help you drink more water during your workout, but it also gives you that anti catabolic effect immediately. Right when you start exercise, you start breaking down your muscle tissue. And uh the branch chain amino acids or essential amino acids can help combat that right from the get- go. All right, final set, eight reps. Pull big. Boom. There it is. Close grips are done. Now we move on. Hit a set of rear delts or an exercise of rear delts. And then we're going to move on and do a little bit of biceps training as well. So, several different ways that you can target your rear delts. I'm going to show you guys a little variation today. It's kind of fun to get your your rear delts activated. Now, keep in mind rear delts are a very small muscle group relatively to things like most your other back muscles. So, we use a lighter weight. Don't try and get crazy with your rear delts. It's not your time to hit your next PR on your reverse flies, okay? Really focus on that mind muscle con connection. All right, we'll go going to start off with 25 lbs for a bent over fly. But I'm going to just throw a little extra help in here. I'm going to rest my forehead on this bench so I don't swing. This is where the headband of gains really comes in handy because we're going to end up with a nice mark of gains on our forehead here after these. And a nice sweat mark on the bench. You're a beginner. You've got your diet dialed in. What supplements would I recommend? always recommend a good multivitamin. I think that's key. Just make sure you're getting all your micronutrients you need. A good whey protein isolate ideally. Um if it fits in your budget, if not, get a whey blend and a fish oil. Those are the top three that I always recommend going with. Um think they're very, very important supplements unless you're eating two to three servings of fatty fish per week, at which point you could do without the fish oil. What's your daily diet, by the way? My daily diet, it changes depending on what I'm training. Um, I do carb cycle year round. I go higher carbohydrates, lower fat on my two leg days per week, a little higher fat, lower on carbohydrates on all my other days. Right now, I'm doing one cheat day per week. My average calories about 3500 a day. Oh, what do I eat on that cheat day? Guys, check me out on IG at trainer Mike1. post up my Saturday video of what I eat for breakfast at least every single Saturday. So check that out, guys. Check out my burger right there, guys. I think we just put it up for you. You like that? Check out that burger right there, guys. That gives you a good idea of what happens on a typical cheat day. We go big. So, I ate about 10,000 calories on my cheat day. Um, and uh we we leave no stone unturned. All right, here we go. Second set 8 9. Not a real taxing movement necessarily. but an important movement. You don't want to forget about your rear delts. They play a really important role in overall shoulder health and um also appearance too. Busting through a plateau progressive overload. Tips for busting through a plateau. Progressive overload isn't working anymore. Um you know, progressive overload is doesn't necessarily mean that we're going to keep trying to increase the weight every single time. There's other things that you can overload other than just the weight. Um, you have to follow a good structured periodized training routine as well where you're constantly um changing up the variables. Not constantly, but structured, changing up variables like sets, reps, rest time. For strength, I really like undulating routines where each muscle group gets trained heavy one time per week and lighter one time per week. That could be the ticket for you. Okay, set three. Rear delts. Eight. Nine. Woo. There it is. Three sets down. One more to go. Then we're going to move on for some biceps training for you guys. Um, get three exercises of biceps in. Those will go fairly quick. And we're gonna blow these arms up. You kind of got to earn it, right? I look at it like that. You got to work through those heavy, grueling sets to earn the right to do the fun stuff like biceps. If you never feel your lats getting a pump on back day, I'd recommend lightening up the weight and focusing on your range of motion. A lot of people don't get a good stretch in their lats during their things like lat pull downs and pull-ups and whatnot. So, get a good stretch, allow some more blood to flow into that muscle, slow your tempo down, and focus on a good range of motion with a solid contraction every single rep. Is that your workout? Before my workouts, 90% of the time, it's going to be 6 and 12 ounces of grilled chicken, um 160 to 200 gram of jasmine rice, and a little bit of asparagus with plenty of sea salt on there. Perfect pre-workout meal. Okay, final set of rear delts. Three, four, There it is, guys. Back and rear delts are done. Now, we just got to work into some biceps, and we're going to get through this pretty quickly here, but effectively. Now, remember, the biceps have already been worked a lot of work through the majority of our back workout. So, we don't need to spend a ton of time or do 10 different lifts for biceps. We're going to start off with an alternating dumbbell curl. And we're going to go four sets of 10 on this guy. So, we'll go uh 45 lbs to start with on these and try and focus on really, really good reps. I'll come back here for you guys, but still allow myself the ability to look in the mirror as I train because that's important. Two, two, three. Three. There it is. A lot of people ask about, you know, form on here. It's okay to do a little bit of rocking. Um, you want to make sure you control the weight on the way down, though. The biggest mistake people make is letting go of that negative. You lose your ability to build big guns when you do that. What is your best piece of advice? Best piece of advice for training arms, focus on your tempo. Okay? Especially that negative portion of the movement. A lot of people just let that go to garbage and then they wonder why they don't get arm development. Muscle breakdown happens during that eccentric or negative portion of the movement. Here we go, guys. Second set. Don't need as much rest when it comes to arms. Let's keep that pump alive, baby. One, two. 9. Always a good staple in an arm routine, the standing dumbbell bicep curl. What's it mean when people take a D lo week? D load weeks are important. That's where you back off your overall volume for the week. volume being sets time reps times weight. So, a number of different ways you can de lo. If you normally do five sets of something, you could cut it down to two or three for a week. Um, the key during a del lo is to keep your intensity up just a little bit. So, you're not training to failure, but you're not completely backing off your weight either. It's not a week off. So, if I normally do 405 on squats for five sets, I might do, you know, 375 for two to three sets and uh rather than 405 for five. Is it okay to eat white rice? Is it okay to eat white rice? Um, yeah, because brown rice is disgusting, guys. Are you guys team brown rice or white rice? Comment below. I want to know. Me personally, I I like jasmine rice, okay? or basmati falls into the category of white rice in my opinion. But brown rice, that's a nogo. It's nasty, guys. And there's really not a whole lot of benefit to doing brown rice over white rice. Anyways, comment below. I want to know brown rice or white rice. What team are you? Okay, third set. One, two, three. 9. There it is. We're going to call it good right there for our standing dumbbell curls. Alternating. Look, someone jack wagon left their weights over here. Guys, when people don't reckrack their weights, zero tolerance for that. We'll move them to the side and we're going to get on with our next exercise. This could be one of my favorite bicep exercises. This is an incline curl. Okay, so we're going to put the bench at a slight incline, which will allow us to relax our delts. And um the idea behind this is let's get our delts out of the movement and let's really try and focus on a really big stretch with our biceps. Get a little better contraction there. We're going to go a little lighter. This this movement should not be a heavy one. We'll do 10 reps here. Do I play any sports or do I just train in the gym? I I love playing sports, guys. Play a little bit of soccer. Soccer was my sport. Played through high school and college. Um, still do a little bit of indoor soccer here and there. Um, I did just get a basketball hoop for my driveway. So, I'm pretty much a basketball player now. I like playing golf, too. Um, I love playing sports. Absolutely. I I just, you know, I have a goal. I want to be able to squat like 1,000 pounds, you know, get first place in every bodybuilding competition, be able to run a mile in five minutes and hit a golf ball 500 yards. Is that too much to ask? I think not. Okay. 25 lbs. 30 pounds. We'll go 30 lbs. We'll go 10 reps here. Incline bicep curl. Let's keep it going. That's good stuff right there. Really different feel to those kind of bicep curls than you get from, you know, your traditional standing alternating curls. What type of tempo do you try to hit? What type of type of tempo do I try and hit with my arm training? Um, it depends, you know, on on if I'm do training a little heavier, a little lighter, what exercise I'm doing. I like a minimum of about two second eccentric and um might go up to as high as a 4 second negative um on some on some isolated bicep exercises. Think of it like this, though. Your your muscle breaks down during the negative. That's where you want to put your real focus. Your concentric can always be a powerful powerful pull, push, whatever it is. Um, you don't really have to control your eentric much. It's the negative that you want to control. And sometimes a solid isometric as well. Here we go. Second set. Incline bicep curls. 8. And as crazy as it sounds, I'm actually going to go down five lbs for my last set. This is not the one to try and hit your next PR in. You want to make sure that you've got a good tempo for this exercise to get the most out of it. Does it matter if you eat five meals a day or one meal a day as long as you still get your macros in? So, if your macros were identical, do you get any benefit from five meals a day to one meal a day? Um, from a fat loss standpoint, research and science would tell us no, it doesn't make a difference. But I think you have to look at individually what works better for you. Okay. Um, I no way could I do one meal per day. Okay. Because I think that I would overeat in that one meal. Yes, even in that one meal, I think I would overeat. Um, I think there's some energy benefits to eating frequently throughout the day. And science has not really proven yet whether or not you get the same benefit from a muscle building standpoint. So fat loss, no real difference. But if you want to gain muscle, there may be more benefit to frequent protein feedings throughout the day. Okay, here we go. Final set. There it is. Now we just have to hit our brachiialis. Okay, the brachiialis is that outside of the bicep that really allows you to build some of that solid thickness. And so we're going to do a hammer curl here. You can do dumbbell hammer curls. You can do cable hammer curls. There's a number of different ways that you can accomplish a hammer curl. We're going to do ours on the cable today. I really like doing a hammer curl with a rope on the cable. I think it's AI think it's a great way to target that brachiialis. So we're going to finish off here. So all your bicep training, you want to try and incorporate all the different hand positions. Okay? So if we always train open palm, we're only going to be targeting part of the bicep. We should always try and look to bring more to a neutral grip at some point during your biceps training to make sure that you target both heads of the bicep as well as um really hitting that brachiialis and forearms too. Even forearms, guys. I don't I don't isolate my forearms. I kind of count on my bicep training to help me accomplish that. Okay, first set. That got tough. Really, really hard. It takes a lot of focus to keep your tempo right on something like this. Keep your leg bounce out of it. Sometimes you might see me rocking a little bit of my legs. Call me out on that. I want to know if I'm doing that. But try and keep this pretty strict. Is it proper gym etiquette to curl in front of a dumbbell rack? No. Unless there's nobody else in the gym. Then you can curl wherever you want. Heck, I don't even care if you curl in the squat rack if there's nobody else in the gym. Okay? So, if there's a lot of people in the gym, do not do that. There's a no stand zone in front of the dumbbell rack. We talked about that on one of our podcasts. Gym etiquette. Go check that out on the fit couples perspective. Look up our gym etiquette podcast. That's one of them. Man, now you got me all riled up. Can't stand that person, right? Trying to get some dumbbells out and somebody's just bashing out dumbbell curls in front of the dumbbell rack. All right, set two. Here we go. We're going to use that aggression on this set of hammer curls. One more set and we're done, guys. This whole workout should take you no longer than an hour. And you're getting a ton of work done in this workout. We're training back, all areas of the back, too. We're training that rear delt. We're getting good biceps training in here. Go give this workout a try. It's a great one to hit on a Friday or any day of the week for that matter. You're going to get a lot of benefits from this type of workout. Full body training is great. Um, I recommend full body training for more of like a beginner to intermediate level. As you get a little more advanced, I think it gets harder to get um enough volume in for all your different body parts on a full body training split. Um but I love it. I think it's great. And I would say 90% of lifters can see gains on a full body routine. So just have to do it right. Final set, guys, and then it's time to hit that Flex Friday post of the day. Here we go. two three four eight 9. There it is, guys. That wraps it up for this Flex Friday workout of the week. Check me out on Instagram. That's where most my stuff goes down. trainermike1 on Instagram. You guys check me out on Facebook, Michael Hildebrandt. And um always we appreciate you following along for that flex Friday workout of the week. We'll see you back here in July. Check out the podcast as well, The Fit Couples Perspective. Just search that on any podcast platform. We got some content for you guys there and ask away any questions you guys have. We're here for you to provide you with some support. But for now, let's hit him with that flex Friday. Boom.