My name is Mike Vanwick. I'm IFBB Pro, animal athlete and health centrics coach on bodybuilding.com. I got the email from the guys at Animal asking me to be a part of this thing and I had no idea what a hell centric was or who Tom was or I signed up for it of course I was like yeah go well when we got to the gym where we filmed me and Tom were both like what's going on in this dungeon we were going to be trapped in for a few days and we actually the first exercise he did I think was shoulder press military press and I was like oh man we're in for a ride with this one but uh no it went really well I mean it was a lot tougher than I thought it I just looking at the videos that he showed me on YouTube and different things like that. I was like, "Oh, it's not a big deal." And once I stepped into it and did it myself, I was like, "This is the real deal." I mean, it wasn't that big of a a thing for me to check my ego at the door cuz I kind of people look at me and they're like, "Oh, you're a big guy. You must lift a lot of weight." And I have lifted a lot of weight in my life and I've had a heavy bench and I've had a good squat and I've always lifted pretty heavy like growing up. But as I've gotten older and I've gotten more into bodybuilding, I've kind of lowered my weights and I've been focused on more of isolating the muscle and what not. So I mean the shock of the ego didn't come in with me because I was already used to really learning that I have to lower the weight if I really want to feel the contraction of the muscle. So it's just a blow to the ego in terms of the amount of effort it took to move that weight. Whereas before it was like you're kind of you're kind of making it look heavy by squeezing the reps and now you got someone pushing on you and it's even worse. So, come on. Yeah, I'm a big fan of it on I mean, I do I train a little differently than HRT most of the time, but I do incorporate it into different body parts. Like, I'm a big fan of it for biceps. I'm a big fan of it for legs. If I can get someone to help me, I usually train alone. I also train people back home for shows and I have different clients and I use it on them a lot and they just die. And it might be just one exercise that I use it with them. So beginners can use it and kind of get introduced to like really what it takes to put on some muscle. And for guys who are maybe cruising along, feel a little stagnant in their routine and aren't seeing the the gains they want to see and kind of just coasting in the gym, it might be something you can use to spice up your routine and maybe re-energize yourself to get motivated to go back to the gym cuz it's going to kick your ass. It's not going to it's not going to be a walk in the park. It's going to be very different from going in and doing a few sets and going home with a little pump. In terms of the nutrition, I think with this program or with any program you follow, nutrition and supplementation are going to be two of the most important things you can do. The training obviously has to be there, but if the diet, nutrition, and supplements aren't there, you're not going to go anywhere. So, it's like having a sports car and not putting high octane fuel in it, you're not going to you're going to blow up your engine, right? I mean, if you're not following a certain plan or you're not sticking to your diet, you're not getting enough protein, you're not getting enough rest, you're not replenishing your carbs and replenishing glycogen, be ready for the next workout, you're pretty much spinning your wheels and sitting in place. So, focus on what it takes to follow the program and stay true to it. It's not a sprint, it's a marathon. So, I mean, focus on what you need to do and stick with it. Keep your head down and keep going and just see how the results go. and I'm pretty sure you'll be happy in the end. If you guys do have any questions as you're going along the program with Health Ccentrics, always refer back to the videos on bodybuilding.com. And if you have any specific questions for me or Tom, you know, you can always find us on the forum.