What's up guys? Tren Mike here, bodybuilding.com corporate headquarters for that Flex Friday workout of the week. Super excited to be here with you guys cuz this is a fun workout. But then again, what workout isn't fun, right? So, we've got back and biceps today. It's a big workout. Okay, back big muscle group. A lot of stuff to work. I think when people think of back, they don't understand all the different muscle groups and all the different angles that are associated with a successful back workout. And we're going to hit all of them today. Really good back workout, really efficient back workout, too. We're going to utilize a lot of rest pause sets as we go throughout the workout. So, as we move along, I'll explain those a little bit more. And it's a great way to just work efficiently and make sure you tackle your back from all areas with again a lot of efficiency as well. So, back and biceps getting started today. We got the food in. We got the pre-workout in. We're well hydrated. And we're about ready to get going. But we got a question right off the bat. Does the headband make me stronger? Guys, how many times I got to tell you 25% more gains guaranteed with the headband of gains? So, yes, absolutely. So, we're kicking off back and biceps today with rack pulls. Rack pulls are a great movement to incorporate at the beginning of a back day. We're pulling from about knee height. Just below the knees is ideally where you want to go. Fortunately, this one puts us right at the perfect spot for that. And we're also going to take a snatch grip. So, a snatch grip is a much wider grip than a traditional conventional deadlift would be. And that's going to allow us to maybe hit our lats a little better than we would. A lot of lower back involved here. So, we're warmed up. We're ready to go. We're going to go four sets of 12 with 315 on here for rack pulls. Let's go. Woo. That'll warm you up. Get the heart rate going right off the bat. Where should the bar be? Right. So, where should the bar be when you're doing rack pulls? Great question. Right below the kneecap. So, again, fortunately, this preset squat rack puts us in a really good position. Um, some of these you have to actually elevate your feet. So, if that were the case, we might get a couple 45s and put our feet on those. But fortunately, for my height, this works perfect. Is this workout good for building muscle mass? Is this workout good for building muscle mass? No. It's great for building muscle mass. This is an awesome workout if you're looking for those gains. Do you have any tips for getting back into the gym after the holiday? Tips for getting back into the gym after the holidays. You just got to start. Commit to a schedule. You know, find a good schedule, but make it realistic. Don't try and make up for your your holiday mishaps by getting in there seven days a week. Find something realistic and get back on track. Absolutely. Takes a little while to catch your breath after these. This is like cardio right off the bat. Okay, going again. 12 reps. We're not getting crazy with the weight. Our goal today is not strength. It's not to lift as much weight as we possibly can and wear ourselves out. We got a whole back workout ahead of us. So, here we go. Set two. Snatch grip. A little wider than our normal grip. 12 reps. Let's go. Woo! Two sets down. I feel like the workout's over already. I feel beat after two. Anytime you take a compound movement like this, get reps over 10, you're getting a lot of cardio, a lot of high heart rate, should I say, into that movement. Is this risky without a belt? Is this risky without a belt? Not at all. Um, were I doing five reps or less? I would belt up. But guys, you have to know how to stabilize your core and protect your lower back without a belt for these lighter. I This is a lighter movement. Um, I could put on a lot more weight to do five reps. I should be able to protect myself without one. What did you eat for breakfast? What did I have for breakfast? So, I've had two meals today. Breakfast was 6 oz of uh grass-fed, ground beef, 937, and um well, with some veggies in there as well. So, spinach, bell peppers, mushrooms, onions, um all mixed together. Low carb. And then pre-workout was 160 g jasmine rice, 6 oz of grilled chicken, and 3 oz of steamed broccoli. So, why rack pulls over deadlifts? Why rack pulls over deadlifts? Great question. You could do either here. Um, I've already deadlifted this week. So, I deadlifted two days ago um for a heavy back day. So, it wouldn't make sense for me to do it twice. I don't like to deadlift twice in a week. I will squat twice in a week, but if I'm squatting twice a week and deadlifting twice a week, I feel like it's too much on my my whole posterior chain. Okay, set three. Rack pulls, baby. Going wide on the grip. Woo! High volume. High volume for rack pulls. I would never get up over 12 reps for these. Definitely feeling it in the lower back. Nice thing about rack pulls compared to conventional deadlifts, it's like I did legs yesterday for the second time this week. That's another reason why I'm not doing um deadlifts from the floor. It's just a lot of my legs are sore from yesterday. Be a lot on my hamstrings and glutes to do that. Do you squeeze at the top? Do I squeeze at the top? No, I don't particularly squeeze. There's no benefit to squeezing at the top. You're no longer working against gravity at the top of the movement. So, you know, there's really no benefit to doing that. What type of wrist wraps are those and where can I get them? So, these are Unbound Gear um weightlifting wrist grips. Okay. I like them. I like using a grip. Okay. when I'm doing any kind of back movements um for the most part because I don't want my lack of forearm strength to limit my back workout and inevitably at some point my forearms are going to start to give out if I'm not strapped up. So again, unbound gear are the ones I use. But um I think there's a lot of benefit to that. If you're a beginner, I would not recommend using straps or grips. um build up your grip strength a little bit, but as you get more advanced, I think it's kind of necessary. What type of diet would you recommend somebody trying to get rid of their dad body? All right, diet for somebody trying to get rid of their dad body. I mean, in a nutshell, you got to start counting your calories and macros. Make sure you're in a deficit on your calories. Get a gram per pound of protein and try and limit your starchy carbohydrates to uh just before and after training. Other than that, lean proteins, a lot of veggies. All right, guys. As much as I'm dreading it, fourth set. Here we go. And then we're done with these guys. Wide grip. Here we go. Woo! Just like that. 48 reps of rack pulls to start off the workout. You know, doing a heavy heavier compound movement at the beginning of your workout is going to help to activate, you know, release a little more that testosterone growth hormone could help potentially with the rest of the workout. The deadlift question, when doing deadlifts, do I need to touch the plates to the ground? When doing deadlifts, do I need to touch the place to the ground? a conventional deadlift. Yes. If you're doing a Romanian deadlift, no. Like you guys will notice here, I'm completely setting the bar down with each rep. I'm not bouncing it because I want to have to re-engage those muscles with every rep. Makes it harder, but more more effective. All right, guys. We're going to move on now to some seated rows. Rows to grow. And these will be a lot of fun. So now we're going to get more into these rest pause sets. So for this guy, I believe we got four sets with a rest pause on the third and fourth set. So rest pause basically meaning we're going to take about a 10 second break and then immediately repeat that. So four sets of 12, rest, pause on sets three and four. I play around with my grip on here. Some days I might go a little wider. Some days I might go a little more narrow. Some days I might go overhand or underhand. We're just going to take a neutral grip today. Four sets of 12. Seated row. Let's go. You already know we're not slow. I can go all day, baby. Here we go. 12. Woo. A little light. We're going to go up a little bit, but a good first set to feel it out. Seated row is not one of those movements you want to try and max out on. Got to be careful. A lot of tension on the lower back here. Make sure you're doing it right. Squeezing those shoulder blades together with each and every rep. What part of the back does the uh rack pull? The rack pull really hits your spinal erectors, your erector spina to be more specific, which runs along your lower back there. Build a lot of density and thickness to that back, but also hits traps, lats, and even romboids a little bit. Really hits all areas of the back. Is there a difference between below the knee and above the knee? So a difference with bar below knee and bar above knee on rack pulls. Absolutely. You get a greater range of motion the lower you go. So below the knee make it a little harder. Above the knee starts working a lot more traps and a little less of your spinal erectors. I always like the look of that like big spinal erectors. You get like these tubes running up your lower back. For those people that are interested in, you know, competing and just overall development of the back, I think it's a really good look. How come we never see you do ab workouts on Fridays? How come I never do ab workouts on Fridays? Cuz I don't really ever do ab workouts, guys, to be honest with you. I do a little bit like 12, 16 weeks before a show, but honestly, like abs are made in the kitchen. We all know that. Um, you know, we can certainly do things to help develop them a little more in the gym, but honestly, I just I don't like to work abs and I don't need to work abs. And if you're working out right, your abs get a lot of work without having directly work them out. All right, set two. 12 reps. 10. little rest. Now, our next two sets, we're going to do those rest pause on rest pause. We don't change the weight. We just do um our 12 reps. Take about 10 seconds rest and then we go to failure with the same weight. Usually ends up being about five or six reps for me. Is protein powder necessary to build muscle? muscle if you're a vegetarian? No. But it makes it a lot easier. Makes it way easier. Can certainly be done without it, but you know, trying to keep your calories within a reasonable level and your protein up, especially as a vegetarian, pretty challenging. Foam roll before. You want to foam roll before or after workout? The research shows there's great benefits to both. Um, I would recommend before working out if you had to pick one. Static stretching after foam rolling before seems to be the way to go. All right, guys. 12 reps. Rest. Pause on this set and the final set. Here we go. 10 seconds. Watching the clock and then we're going to knock it out to failure here. Like I said, probably five or six reps. Three, four, five, four. Just a nice way to add some intensity to your workout without changing up exercises, without changing up weight, and just push a little harder than you normally would. What's the difference between close grip and wide grip? Difference between close grip and wide grip is really where it hits. Okay. Um, the wider you go, you can kind of target typically a little more of your upper back. Um, you're going to hit more of your posterior delts, maybe traps. Closer grips, usually a little more of that inner back romboids, um, would be the main focus there. If I train back twice a week, how many days rest? So, if you train back twice a week, how many days rest should you get in between? I'd recommend ideally 3 days rest. This week, for example, I only have two days rest. Not ideal, but um it can be done. 48 hours minimum. Ideally, 72. All right, final set. Rest. Pause again. 12 reps, 10 seconds break. Go to failure. Let's dig 8 9 10 10 seconds. Watch that clock. It's easy to let 20, 30 seconds go by before you know it. 10 seconds isn't long two three four. That gets you going. So, we're kind of alternating between a pull movement and a pull down movement now. So, next up, we're go to assisted pull-up. There's obviously the assisted pull-up machine that we could use, but today we're actually going to do an assisted pull-up using a resistance band to assist us. So, we're going to head back over to the pull-up rack for this one already on this guy. I Now, who left their weights on here? Who would do get a Come on, man. So, we're going to take this person's weight off and we're going to do our assisted pull-ups on here. Some some gyms have these bands laying around. Sometimes you can go online and buy them. Woo! I'm almost made that terrible mistake. You can't go more than two plates on a side. So, for this guy, we go a thicker resistance band. We're going to hook onto the squat rack here. We're going to use this as resistance for our pull-up. So, we're going four sets of 12 with a rest pause on the last two sets here. I'm going to go wide grip for this one. I'm going to put one foot into the band. Woo! Started off feeling real easy and as the reps went on it got harder and harder. Lighter day today. If it were a heavier day we would do this without the uh assistance. But for lighter day gives you a different opportunity to focus a little more on each and every contraction because we're not so focused on the weight. Do you take preworkouts and do you recommend it? I do take pre-workouts. Every single workout I take a pre-workout for. That said, the amount of caffeine that I do in each pre-workout will change. Okay? So, if my pre-workout is 300 milligrams of caffeine and I need it, I'll do a full scoop. Otherwise, I might do a half a scoop, even a quarter of a scoop. Something mentally for me about getting that pre-workout in. That's really, really helpful. Plus, it just works. So, back to seated rows. Is it good to switch grip between sets? Is it good to switch grip in between sets? on seated rows, you could or you could just switch it the next time you do back so you don't have to play around with it in between every set, which is what I prefer to do. So, I lowered this down a little bit to give me to take a little more assistance away and make it a little harder cuz I feel like I could have pushed a little more on that one. So, set two, we're not on to rest pause yet. We're going to go wide grip again for these pull-ups. One foot in the band. 12 reps. No. I definitely got a little harder by moving that down a little bit. So, that's the nice thing about a squat rack like this with the the different preset locations in there is you can make a pretty easy adjustment based off of, you know, how thick your band is and how challenging you want the movement to be. If you put your feet on both sides of the band, does it help? If I put my feet on both sides of the band, does it help more? Yeah, it helps me more in that it makes it easier, but that's not really the point. I'm not trying to make this movement any easier for myself. I want a certain level of resistance. I'm just trying to take a little bit of assistance off of there by using the band. So, I do one foot and I try and do it right in the middle. Be careful. If you do one foot on the outside, it's going to make it a little wobbly, lopsided for you. End up working one side a little more than the other. Which should I take my protein? Take your protein. When should you take it? Whenever you remember to. First and foremost. Um, I recommend doing protein immediately after a workout and then one other time during the day to help maybe kill some cravings or whenever it's most convenient for you. All right, here we go. We will go. We will do two more sets. Rest pods on these. Okay, so I'm going to do 12 rest and then do to failure another set. nine. We're going to stop at 10. in there. Got a little too challenging. I wasn't feeling like I was getting the range of motion I should. So, we'll do 10 little quick 10 second break and then we're right back on to a set to failure. Here we go. One two three four five. Woo! Feel the biceps going. Feel the back going. Feel everything going. Even with straps, you get a little bit of arms involved there. And that's okay. A lot of the questions I get asked when I do pull-ups. Mike, why don't you come all the way to your chin, you don't have to to work your lats, and that's what I'm trying to work here. If you go any further than about your forehead nose, you start working a lot more biceps. And there's really no more benefit to your back. We're trying to work back right now. We'll hit biceps later. Is this the same as a machine? Not the same as an assisted machine pull-up because this is progressive resistance, meaning at the bottom I get more help than I do at the top um on this one. So whereas, you know, an assisted pull-up machine, I'm getting an equal amount of resistance throughout the whole movement. So both provide assistance just in a little different way. Are assisted pull-ups still effective? I'm trying to do regular. Well, assisted pull-ups, are they still effective? Absolutely. If I could do 12 perfect pull-ups um without resistance, I would do that. I'll be the first to admit I can't. Not with this form. And the last thing I want to do on a day like today is start kipping or using momentum. These need to be strict. And I just can't do four sets with a rest pause on my last two doing that. So, we're focusing on form. Okay, here we go. We'll go for about 10 reps. Rest. Pause the failure here. Woo! 10 second break. I don't even take my my hands off the bar for these. I feel like it's easy to get too much rest in on these. Just 10 seconds real quick and then we're right back into it. Taking too much rest would eliminate the point of the movement. One, two, three, four. Woo! There we have it. The assisted pull-up using a band. Try it if you haven't already. This is a first. We've never done that before on a Flex Friday workout over the two two plus years that we've been doing this. So, we're trying to give you guys a little variety on some things that you can do here. Have you texted Chris about Chris Gin's a busy guy? Yes, I have texted him. We just haven't linked up on a time yet. So, he's just now getting back into his strength training as well. So, we will get a workout in. Chris Gthan and I marked my words. You hear that, Chris? Let's do it. He's tough to train with, though. He really is. So, we're going to do inverse rows here next on the Smith machine. Um, three sets of 12 is what we're shooting for here. I love the inverse row. For those of you that follow me on Instagram at trainer Mike1, I just put up a video on Wednesday with my workout tip being the inverse row because I feel like it's that effective. Um, you can do this a few different ways. You can do it with your feet on the floor. You can do it with your feet slightly elevated. And you can even do it the most advanced way, which is where we would add weight to the midsection. We're going to do uh we're not going to add weight today, but we are going to elevate our feet just a little bit. So, we're going to put a bench down for that. And we'll play around with it. Maybe I'll even have to go to the floor. Again, the point of today is not about moving a crazy amount of weight. It's just about doing the movements, getting a good contraction in with each rep. So, going to elevate the feet here on this bench. Go for 12 reps. 10. Woo. Little break and then we're going to go three sets here and we're going to rest. Pause. Sets two and three on this exercise. The best food to have after workout. Best food to have after a workout. It's a whey protein isolate without a doubt. Um I like doing a scoop and a half of my whey protein. Give me about 40 g of protein with about 5 g of glutamine and 5 g of creatine added in. Um sometimes I'll add carbohydrates with that. rice cakes, cream of rice, a banana, and sometimes I just do that and then wait another hour or so and have a whole meal with carbs in it. How close are you to getting your IFBB Pro card? How close am I to getting my IFBB Pro card? What's the date today? January 11th. So, we got about what do we got? About four more months, four and a half more months till I've got that IFBB Pro card. It's coming. It's coming. Why is the gym empty? The gym's not totally empty. We have five other people in here. But um guys, people work here. This is the Yeah, gym's never empty. This is This is bodybuilding.com headquarters, guys. So, people have to eat. They have to work around here. And so, uh fortunately, we just get to come in while everybody else is busting their butts and get this workout in. But, uh there's always a few people in here. Everybody's getting their workout in at some point or another. I think a lot of people come in before work or after work is what a lot of people like to do. So, all right, here we go. Set two. This one's a rest pause. So, we're going 10 to 12 reps and then we will rest. Pause. Just 10 second break here. Stretch it out a little bit if you need to. We're going to go about five more reps. Let's get it done. That's all I got for that one. Gets really hard. Yes, we're not adding any extra resistance, but you'll be amazed at what you can accomplish using just this bar, your body weight, and gravity. Purpose of elevating your feet. Purpose of elevating your feet makes it a little more challenging. Okay, now we have the full effect of gravity rather than if my feet were on the floor. Um, I'm getting a partial effect of gravity there. What are your thoughts on fat burners? Thoughts on fat burners? Fat burners can be really good to incorporate after you have your nutrition dialed in. Okay? So, if you have nutrition dialed in, you're eating the way you should, a fat burner can definitely help you with energy and to burn a few extra calories every day. If you don't have your nutrition figured out, though, I would not recommend diving right into a fat burner. All right, third and final. I'm sweating today. A lot of fluid. Get that fluid in. Big muscle groups require more oxygen. The more oxygen something requires, the more water it requires, big water day on back day. Here we go. 12 reps. 10 to 12 and then rest. Pause. Here we go. Quick little break. I'm actually going to put my feet on the floor for this one. I don't think I need them elevated. It's getting challenging enough right away. gets tough. Just get in as many as you can on that rest pause. I usually get five or six in, but sometimes like that one, I only got four. And that's okay. We're going to failure. We're pushing ourselves with a little different intensity than we normally would. That's the point. Next up, we have a rope lat pull down. Um kind of a fun movement. Okay. Um so, we'll head over here. We'll get a rope going. We'll show you guys how I can do a lat pull down with a rope. Um, pretty cool movement. How is the pump? The pump's coming. The pump is coming. It does uh always a little better at this noon hour when I can get a couple meals in me ahead of time and a lot more water as well. My current macros, they change. So, I do a calorie and carb cycle. I go four days low, two days high, and one super saturation refeed day. So, kind of changes. On a low day, carbs are about 150, proteins 300, fats are about 60. High days, uh, carbs are about 300, protein's 300, fats about 50. And on my super saturation refeed day, I don't count macros. I get about 7 to 9,000 calories in on that day. Okay, three sets. Rest. Pause on the final two. So, we're going to have a seat here with this rope for the lat pulls. Big stretch, big contraction for this movement. That was a little light, so I'm going to go up for my next couple of sets. How come we don't see your photos? How come you don't see my weekly hike photos on Instagram? Well, we live in Boisee, Idaho, and it's been cold and snowy and um hikes are cool, but they're just not cool when it's like singledigit Fahrenheit temperatures outside. So, now I got to wait till it warms up a little bit. How much cardio is too much or is there such a thing? How much cardio is too much? And is there such a thing? There definitely is. Um I keep cardioing year round. I think you should, too. I would never recommend doing more than about an hour of cardio a day. You know, these people that do two hours of cardio a day and stuff, I think it's just too much. I really do. Um, so it's hard to say. It's different for everybody, but in general, I'd say a pretty good limit is an hour a day. I don't see any reason why anybody would have to do more than that. Okay, here we go. Set two. This one's a rest pause. We're doing three sets here. Set two and three. Rest pause. Wa! Woo! Little break. We're going to go into that five or six more here right after this 10 second break. Really squeeze out these rest pause reps. One, two, three, four. Feel the burn, guys. The pump starts hitting you pretty good. And we haven't even got into biceps yet. Okay, so this will be our last back exercise and we got three biceps exercises that we'll move into. What are the benefits of creatine? Benefits of creatine. Creatine is the most studied um supplement from a muscle building, strength building standpoint. And you can go and research yourself, but I think over the past, you know, 20, 25 years, there's, you know, hundreds of studies that show the benefits. And the benefits are undoubtedly scientifically proven to increase muscle mass and increase strength. Great supplement. I recommend it for anybody that does not have contraindications. Are you going to do BFR biceps? No BFR today. I say BFR biceps for heavy day because by the time I get around to biceps, I'm already so taxed that I just don't want to spend the time doing three different exercises. Today, because we're going a little lighter, I've got the time, I've got the energy to do multiple different exercises. So, remember, BFR is great. It's not any better than normal strength training. It just gives you the advantage of not having to spend as much time or use as much weight. Final set. Let's go. 11oo. Little break. Rest. Pause it out to failure. And then we're done with back. Here we go. One, two, three, four, six. Woo! There it is. Back toast. We just did everything we need to do to target all areas of the back. And now we can have some fun focusing on biceps. And we are going to do just that. Have you had any burgers lately? Had any burgers lately? Yeah, I had a burger last weekend. Actually had a burger last night, guys. I do I do a lettuce wrap burger a couple times a week. You know, when I'm eating clean 937 and just wrap it up in lettuce. Last good burger I had was last weekend, last Saturday. I posted a picture of it, guys. Always giving you a picture of my burgers cuz why not share the love at trainer Mike1 on Instagram. Okay, we're going biceps next. So, we're going to incline bicep curl and we're going to superset that with a standing barbell curl. So, we're going to go three sets of 12 for each of those. I'm going to grab my barbell here. We're going to go 50 lbs for the supersets. And we're really trying to focus on getting a um a really controlled tempo. By far my favorite bicep superset. If you guys want to blow up your arms in a short period of time, this is the super set I'd recommend. So 12 reps on the incline curl right away to 12 reps there. Now, I would do the hundreds, but those are taken. So I guess I'll do 30s instead. Yeah, got to get those 30s in. I would do the hundreds, but do the hund. All right, here we go. Pick a weight you can control here. You want to be able to keep your shoulders relaxed. That's going to give you a better stretch on the bicep, giving you a better contraction at the top. 12 reps. 11oo. Right away popping into the barbell curl. We're just coming halfway up here. We're trying to keep gravity working with us. Eight about a minute rest and repeat. We may even have to go down on the weight. When you do these, right, does not take a lot of weight. How often do you use supersets and drop sets? How often do I use supersets and drop sets? At some point during the week, I'm going to use supersets and drop sets. Usually comes on a higher volume or lighter day. I don't do the supersets and drop sets on really heavy exercises. That would be a little dangerous and kind of defeat the purpose of going heavy. So, I save it for higher volume, lighter days. What's in the shaker today? I've got essential amino acids in my shaker today, guys. I really like drinking the essential amino acids during training um to not only help fight off um you know, any muscle catabolism, but essential amino acids, actually a lot of strong research showing it might be anabolic uh could help you actually build some muscle. So, why not drink that during your workout when you're in the process of breaking down muscle tissue? get a start on that muscle protein synthesis before you dive into your whey protein immediately following the workout. Plus, it just tastes good, right? Helps you drink more water. Uh, somebody chat appreciates the time you put into your podcast. Well, thank you. Somebody from Chad appreciates the time I put into my podcast. Thank you very much. I do appreciate that, guys. It's been a lot of fun just doing the podcast and sharing our perspective with all you listeners. So, thank you. Got a link in chat. Link going in chat. Thank you very much. All right, set number two. Let's do this. go. Woo! Buddy, that one will burn. It's like a leg extension for your arms. You get that same kind of burn from it. All right, here we go. Three 4 does not take a lot of weight on either one of these exercises. Point is not to go really heavy, but to really focus on getting the most out of each and every rep. What is the correct angle for the bench to be at the end? What's the correct angle for the bench on the incline curl hit? There's no real correct angle. Um, sometimes I'll go a little less angle. Sometimes they'll go a little more angle. But the idea is you want to be at a point where you can really somewhat comfortably let your shoulders relax. What a lot of people do is they put too much angle in here and then they um end up using that deltoid to help push the weight up. And we want to let the delt relax and focus on the biceps. Do you ever do calisthenics and what are your thoughts on it? Do I ever do calisthenics? Um, not as much as I should. I think it's great. Just for time. I I don't do that much, you know. But definitely would recommend it. Definitely. Uh, somebody wants to know, "What is your favorite burger?" What is my favorite burger of all times? There is a place in Seattle, Washington, and and I've I've gone all over the world looking for the best burger, but Seattle, Washington, if you guys are there, ever go there, there's a place called 8 O, and they have a burger called 8 o. I'd recommend getting one, two, maybe five of them. And um really take some time to appreciate that burger. It's on a whole different level. Here we go. Third and final set. Woo! Pop right up. Feel the burn. Fight the burn. Get through it. 1 2 8 9 10 11. Yikes. Yeah, you almost got to just wiggle them out a little bit after that super set. That is that is something else. If you guys haven't tried that superset, you've got to do it. Next up, next superset for biceps, we're going to do three sets of a cable high curl. Superseted with a spider curl here. And we're going to make this one really easy. Just switch it up a little bit here for you guys. So, cable high curl we're going to do on the cable tower. I'm just going to rotate this bench a little bit here for us and show you guys how I do um a curl the other direction using the bench. It's all about angles. It really is when you're trying to get the most out of your biceps training. If you can find a way to utilize angles properly, then you can really tackle your biceps and build the fully developed bicep that you want. So, we're going to come over here for our biceps curl on the tower. really really like these. Um, doesn't take a lot of weight. Hits the biceps from a totally nonconventional angle is how I would put it. And then we're going to super set this one as well. So, depending on how wide your tower is, you may need to go on your knees here. I want to get a full range of motion. I can't quite do that here. So, I'm going to drop down to my knees so I can get full stretch here. And we're going to curl. Little too heavy. Only got 10 reps. That's okay. I'm not going to throw a fit about it. We're going right on to the bench now. I'm going to lower it down just one more to really get the angle that I want here. Doesn't take a lot of weight to accomplish this movement. We're going to go over and curl. Hey N. Oh wow. Great. Great superset. Starting to feel a lot more blood flow come in. Sometimes it's just fun doing a super set because of the mass amounts of blood volume that it'll put inside your muscle. What advice do you have for somebody getting back into Advice I have for somebody getting back into the gym? Take it slow. Okay. You can't take several months, years off the gym, pop right back in, expect to pick up where you left off. You got to work your way back up. Train smart. What is your next podcast? My next podcast topic to be determined. My wife and I usually sit down a day or two ahead of time and uh figure out what we want to talk about. So, any suggestions, please guys, contact me. Like, let me know. Put in the comments, right? letting me know what you guys want to see, what you want to hear on that podcast. I'd appreciate that. I'm going to go down a little bit here. A little heavier than I wanted last time. We'll go 50 instead of 60 for our high curls. Still doing the super set here. Two. 10. right away popping up. Rest time gets shorter and shorter as we get a little longer into the workout here. And here you'll notice one big thing is I'm trying not to curl my wrists. So I'm trying to keep my wrist down. Keep focus on the biceps. Woo! Little break. 45 60 seconds and we're right back into it. Better to have food as your protein postworkout or a protein shake. Whole food or a protein shake after your workout. is the one time a day I would say it is actually better to have a protein shake. Okay, big fan of whole food. You want to get as much whole food protein in as you can, but immediately following a workout, you're going to see a ton of benefits from taking in whey protein. It's going to absorb super fast. Um, you're not going to have to wait for that food to digest like you would with a whole food. And the goal following training should be to hit your muscles with as much of that high quality protein as quickly as possible. Uh, do different proteins affect lactose intolerance? Yeah. Do different proteins affect lactose intolerant people differently? Absolutely. If you're a little lactose intolerant, I'd recommend a whey protein isolate that has the least amount of lactose in it. Uh, concentrate is going to have a little bit more lactose. So, I'd go with a whey protein isolate um is your best bet. All right, here we go. Third and final set here on these guys. Five. 12. Woo, buddy. All right, we're right up. Grabbing the barbell. Doing here. Usually for super sets, I'm only going to go three sets. It's a lot to do. Four super sets. Here we go. Two three 9. All right. Now, we got to work on to a fun little finisher before we wrap this thing up. So, we're going to go two really high volume sets on biceps. And um we intended on doing the biceps blaster here. Perfectly honest with you. Forgot mine. Dang it. But that's okay. We're going to go on to cable bicep curls. Two sets of 20 here. The one part of the biceps that we have not worked yet is our brachiialis. And the brachiialis is on the side. And that's where you're going to see that thickness. So, the brachiialis right here, the side of the biceps. We're going to do two sets of 20 just to wrap up this workout real quick. 4 5 6 8 9 10 12 30 40 Woo! Cool. Little break. I'm going to drop down a little bit. Do one more set of 20 and wrap this thing up. Lactose intolerant. Casein protein. If you're lactose intolerant, typically um not going to be your best choice. But guys, try it out. See how you feel. Okay. Um it all depends on the protein. It all depends on your personal reaction to it. But again, whey protein isolate typically your best choice for the lactose intolerant. Should I be doing cardio before or after strength training? Cardio before or after strength training. 5 minutes beforehand just to warm up. The rest of your cardio do after. Save your energy for your weight training. Um risk of injury goes way up if you're exhausted coming into a weight training session. Here we go. Final set. 20 reps. Rope curls. Three. Four. Five. 8. 9. There it is, guys. Flex Friday wrapping up here. Back and biceps workout. Give that one a try, guys. Follow along Instagram at trainermike1, Facebook page at trainer Mike Physique on Body Space at Mr. Symmetry. We're tuning out on that flex Friday. Enjoy your weekend. Boom.