Welcome everyone to my 30-day chest program. I'm Ael Abanetti and this program is designed to build up your chest as much as possible in four weeks. We're going to be working chest two times each week. So, you can throw this into your weekly split. So, if you're ready to build your chest, let's jump into this very first workout. We're going to start off with incline barbell bench press. Five sets. Now, the reps are 12, 10, 8, 6, and six. And on the last set, we have a double drop set. So, before you get into the working sets, be sure to warm up because I want those five sets to be to failure. And then with the reps, you're going to be increasing the weight as you go down in reps. Now, what a double drop set is, you're going to hit failure for those six reps. Then you're going to immediately drop the weight by around 20%, then go to failure, which should be around 6 to eight reps, and then drop it once more and then do another 6 to eight reps. So, I normally love to start off with any kind of incline movement because I feel that a lot of people have a lacking upper chest. So starting off with an incline movement is the best way I feel to build mass in your chest. So sticking with the incline, we're going to go into incline dumbbell bench press. We got five sets of 10 reps. And on the last set, we have a double drop set. So at this point, you've already done 10 sets of incline bench press. So you're going to have to push hard throughout this last set. doing this double drop set with dumbbells. Now, already have those dumbbells right by your side so you can just easily just pick them up and go at it. So, after the incline dumbbell bench press, we're going to lower that bench and we're going to go into a dumbbell bench press. We got four sets of 10 reps. So, at this point, after all those press movements, we're just going to be doing more press, but just at a different angle to work that chest a little bit differently. 10 reps is going to be really hard, but you just need to push through it and pick a weight that is very tough for those 10 reps. After those flat presses, we're going into an incline dumbbell fly. four sets of 12 reps. So, with the incline fly, you want to keep your elbows just slightly bent. So, you're going to go down and stretch, pause for a split second down at the bottom, and then you're going to go up, squeeze. Don't go all the way together because if you put the dumbbells all the way together, you lose tension in your chest, and you want to keep tension the whole time. Pick a weight that is tough for those 12 reps. After those incline flies, now we're going to go into machine flat flies. This is on a pec deck. So, we're going to be doing four sets of 12 reps. And on the last set, we have a double drop set. So, during this machine fly, make sure you adjust the seat height to where your arms are going shoulder height. So on that last set, that double drop set, go to complete failure for those 12 reps. Then drop the weight by 20% and then go for another six to eight reps or until failure and then drop it once more. After that drop set, we're going to go into a superset. We have high to low cable fly superet with flat push-ups. six sets of 12 to 15 reps. So, what a superset is, you're going to be doing these two movements back to back without taking a rest. Now, this superset is going to be all about getting blood into that muscle. So, we're only going to be resting for around 45 seconds in between sets. So, with a high to low cable fly, you're going to start with the cable pulleys up high. And then when you fly, you're going to end to where the cables are right in front of your thighs. So, pick a weight that you can squeeze throughout the whole range of motion and constantly keep tension on that chest with the push-ups. Now, if you're able to go over those 15 reps, that is completely fine. All I want you to do is go to complete failure. But at this point, 15 reps might be your failure point. So after that superset, you are completely done with the very first workout of this chest program. Now the next workout is going to be later on this week. So make sure you recover and I will see you here on the next workout.