(cheerleaders chanting) (people cheering) - Mr. Mogan, could you hit the lights for me, please? Thank you. Okay, this video's gonna explain a little bit about why we're here and then we're gonna ask for a little bit of support from you. So, we have our friends from the Lift Life foundation here. That's who you see around filming. Last year we submitted our entry into a contest that we could get our weight room completely renovated. And so this video will kind of go into our submission video a little bit, and what this project is all about, so here we go. - Hello, Park High School, it's the Lift Life Team, Dylan, McKayla, Kirk, and Jim. The Lift Life Foundation is a non profit organization powered by BodyBuilding.com. Our mission is to travel around the country, identify old and outdated weight rooms, and completely transform them into state of the art training facilities. - Over a year ago, your athletic director, Regina Wood, nominated Park High School for a Lift Life renovation. After reviewing your video submission, we're excited to announce that we have selected you as a semifinalist for our next project. - We sent our film crews to each of the final schools to have them show us why they deserved a top spot. - All right, Park High, it's your time to shine. Next you'll see a short clip of your video submission. - [McKayla] What are we doing right now? - Okay, we're outside of Park High School. We're getting ready to go in, they're having their pep assembly right now. They have no idea that we are here. So, we're gonna go in and surprise them and let them know that they have been chosen for the next renovation. So, a little nervous but here we go, we'll figure it out. - It's go time! - Stay tuned. - Hi, welcome to Park High School. My name's Regina Wood, I'm the activities director here in Livingston, Montana. Our school was completely renovated in 2012, even in the time of economic downturn, our community passed a bond for 15 million dollars to update our school with brand new technology, equipment, state of the art everything. The only place that was untouched, unfortunately, was our weight room. So, it's still the exact same as it was in 1998. - This leg press machine sticks when we get too much weight on it, it's not very good. (creaking) Then our bike is missing pedals, as you can see. - I definitely think that if we updated the weight room, we could get more people in it so we could kind of promote working out and getting in shape. We'd have more time for it. - I think we need to renovate our weight room. It's important so we can have better sports programs, and so you don't end up with biceps like this. (people cheering) - So, what do you think Park High? We are one of four schools in the nation being considered for this project right now, it's pretty cool. (people cheering loudly) - Did we interrupt something? - You did, oh my gosh. - We could not miss the opportunity to come meet you guys in person, see just kind of what your school is about. As you saw, we are the Lift Life Team. (light giggling) If anybody doesn't know, this is my older sister. So, we're happy to be here. (people cheering) So, anyway, the real reason we wanted to come out was to announce that you guys are not a semi-finalist, but we have decided to pick Park High School as our next Lift Life weight room renovation. - I need every single one of you to stand up. I. - [Audience] I! - I believe! - [Audience] I believe! - I believe that! - [Audience] I believe that! - I believe that we! - [Audience] I believe that we! - I believe that we will win! - [Audience] I believe that we will win! I believe that we will win! (simple playful music) - It's been such a whirlwind. I'm still in a little bit of shock. It was a very cool surprise, I'm very impressed that everybody pulled it off. But it just makes me so humbled and so excited for our kids and I've had teachers stopping in all day as they've been able to catch me and just saying how excited they are, and just how excited the kids are. Which, for me, is even better. I knew that I would be excited about it but to hear that they just can't stop talking about it is really cool. - Regina Wood is the athletic director here at Park High and she's actually my sister. We talked a little bit about would they be a candidate for something like this. I mean, they're in a rural community. For me, I feel you should absolutely nominate your school, submit a video, go through the whole process. I can't make the decision. I'm part of it, but ultimately, it's gonna come down to everybody else on the team, our board members, that kind of stuff. - We could really get a sense that they needed and wanted this weight room, and that it would impact so many different layers throughout the school and the community. - So, Livingston is kind of an interesting place. So, it's a railroad town, as I'm sure you've discovered. And working for the railroad, you made more than you did in a lot of professional jobs. Then in 1985, the railroad pulled out. So now, here we are two generations later. It's quite a mix in this community. You have very wealthy people here, but 50% of our students qualify for free and reduced lunch. That means you're one or two paychecks away from poverty, away from maybe losing your house or not being able to pay the rent. - The timing of you all doing this is one way you're gonna understand what you've done for the school. Especially with everything we have planned with our community and with our school, and where this is gonna take off. - We do have an extreme population of poverty and we have people that don't have resources that everyone thinks are available to everyone. And it's not just healthcare, it's even just the wherewithal to know where to get help and how to get help. We talked about it, we had a whole day of suicide prevention a few months ago, and just looked at all the different factors that would make Park County the number one rate of suicide county in the state. - The cause of suicide is complex. What I see though is issues connected with generational poverty, smoking and drinking, and drug abuse, and struggles with mental illness. - We're working on a lot of trauma informed practices and so working with kids with chronic trauma and poverty. So, we have started a district wide and involved our community to make it community wide, and we're actually starting a movement that's called Live Well 49. - We do, in Montana, have the highest suicide rate in the national. Access to mental healthcare is difficult. So, building stronger supports and connection is one way to try to change that and at least make sure that people are connected to each other. It's pretty special that we were chosen and someone saw that in this community, and wanted to give that gift. That's pretty amazing. - So, part of why I think this project ties nicely into the needs of the community is overtime, that physical strength, transfers to your mental strength. - And I think that's where this is going to help so much is that, you know, it will hopefully will be a place that kids want to be and they want to be in there more and more, and not just because they're in a sport, but because they're concerned about their overall health and it's a place that they know they can go and be safe, and have fun and get better. That would be the ideal big picture goal, I think, for everyone in the school. - So, when we came through the weight room for our first initial tour, seeing the space for the first time was really cool. It actually, this particular one, is a lot smaller than we initially thought and what was kind of perceived through the video. - I think that in smaller schools, and schools in general, you make do with what you have and we do. We have a lot of people in this community that are willing to step up and always wanting to help out the school. So, a lot of the equipment's donated, a lot of the upholstery was, oh, I know someone that can do that. So, we've pieced that together and I think, no matter what you have, we're trying to instill in the kids a sense of pride and a sense of discipline, and a sense of taking care of things and leaving things better than you found them. And making that, if you're gonna do those little things, then hopefully those bigger things get done as well. - We were making the best with what we have but we only have three platforms. Most of our bars are not Olympic bars, a lot of them are bent and starting to rust. Our platforms are handmade, somebody took some rubber mats and tried to glue them to laminate flooring. - The entire school was, the inside was completely done, the new gym and the new art wing was added on. All this money was being put into education and it was kind of like the weight room was the last, it seems frivolous, it's just the weight room. And I think it was kind of like it's good enough. - When I first got here and saw the weight room, it wasn't organized and it was kind of a mess. And there was no pride, I mean, it was really clear. They're doing a much better job of it now because they understand how important it is and they're taking pride in it. So, all our kids are trying to keep it pretty organized. Right now, in some of those machines, the bolts have come loose on the seats and they weren't safe and there's that huge machine in there, I don't even know what it's called, and it's too big for that room. There's just no use. If you would figure out how much that space is really being used, it's not. So, it's inefficient. - [Regina] Is it a workable space, you guys? - It's exciting, we love seeing this stage. At this point, the opportunities are endless and the sky's the limit. (intense energetic music) - I have this little, I guess, post-it note that I've been collecting for the last... Since I started working with the kids and noticed how crappy our weight room is. But just things that we need to try to find money for, pull up bars, fix the bars that we have, we need additional plates, what we're going to do about the rowing machine, and just stuff like that that we were gonna try to find money for or see if someone in the community would buy it for us. But I am now going to throw it away. - How's it going, sir? - I'm Derek, I'm the facilities director. - So, when we came in here, we kind of dissected this place. There is a small hallway off to the left hand side. One of the next question came about is this wall. Maybe it could go away. - I cannot express to you how much I'd love to get rid of this wall. This hallway is a waste of space. It wants to have things thrown in it. People want to just... Because it's out of sight, out of mind. - We're in discussions about if we can remove this wall or not, it will give us another six or seven feet down this hallway. So, it would really kind of open up the space and kind of give us a more dramatic transformation to the weight room. The wall is a load bearing wall, so that means it's supporting the roof at that point. So, we are actively looking at what our options are. That's gonna be kind of the major piece on the construction side that we're gonna have to deal with. (exciting music) - [Boy] Last summer, we added on the little, we welded-- - [Makayla] The bottom part? - The extensions on for the weights. - [Makayla] Oh, okay. - And they're kind of tricky sometimes to wiggle on and off, those plates. - Is there any pieces of equipment that you need that you don't have right now? - I would do just a lot of Olympic workouts right now and the racks are kind of. We've been wanting to get new racks. - Most of the time we have to, if we have a workout, we have to really go in different orders and try to figure out how to do it without waiting most of the time to use certain. - [Makayla] Utilize the hour that you have, or whatever, per period. - I feel like in athletics, once we all started, our class started to build around the weight room when it came to games, we had something to fall back on. We know how hard we've worked. - Do you feel like that team building aspect starts here? - Yeah, yeah, it definitely comes here. - I think that it's a good place to start here, just to get in the routine. And being part of a team helps so much in every other aspect. Learning how to get along with people, even if you might have differences. Putting in is all that you have no matter what. It just helps in every aspect of life, not just in sports. - I was really impressed by their excitement and enthusiasm that we were there doing this project for them. And that makes me even more pumped to do this for them and to give them a quality weight room they can use. - They have a space, it's a functional space and they take care of what they have. But there's more to it. The need a multilevel type of training facility. It seems like they've got a lot of different kids coming through here and they've all got a different sport or a different way of training. - And so, we're really focusing on creating a cross functional multipurpose weight room to where we can maximize a space. - If we do what we're supposed to do, I think it's gonna be amazing. (soft peaceful music) - So, we put out a call to all of our coaches and athletes, and we set up a time on a Sunday that said, you know, bring anybody you can, it wasn't required but we probably had about 40 people show up to help move equipment. Basically, just a little ant line of people coming out of the old weight room up into the new space. There were a few of the bigger pieces that we had to pull the bleachers out and move them up through the gate. The kids were, they were into it. I think they know that it's for this thing that's going to benefit them so much. Everyone's been so flexible and patient with it, to just say, whatever we need to do make it work. Ready guys, one, two, three! - [Crowd] Hey Lift Life, Park High is ready for you! Whoo! (deep rhythmic music) - Probably our biggest change has been our new strength and conditioning coach that we hired over the summer. So, that's been a great change all ready, just for the culture of that part of the school. - Okay, so, let's get the jump ropes out. Those of you who don't have access to a jump rope, we're gonna do jumping jacks. So right now, we're actually in our current weight room and this is what we've got. We got this space, it's the mezzanine area in the gymnasium. You know, it's not ideal, we're always having to share the space with other activities, other sports. But I always tell the athletes that, you know, we're gonna make whatever space we have work. Okay, ready to rock? Get in groups of three or four, check the sheet, we got a paper up there, you know the drill by now. Let's do three sets of eight on the deadlifts, on the bench, modify it because we got a short time today. I mean, anything that's a step up from this is gonna be a win, but what I see is, personally, I see our sports team benefiting from this, the general student body. I had a kid just talking to me my last strength and conditioning class, he goes over to a commercial gym here in town because this isn't the most exciting place to workout. He said once we get a new gym, he's gonna start lifting here at the school. So, that I would like to see. I'd like to see the students staying here in the school. After school that we know that the kids that are involved in after school programs, their grades go up, their graduation rates go up, issues with drugs and alcohol go way down. So, I just see this weight room as just really the final piece to tie in together our little community here in Livingston. - [Man] We're visiting with Kirk Calzacorta with the Lift Life Foundation. And how many do you think you can get done here over the course of a year? - [Kirk] So, we do two projects per year. It takes about three to four months per project of backend planning and logistics, and ordering everything that goes into it. We do it in a very short amount of time and floor-to-ceiling overhaul complete with state of the art equipment for these underprivileged students at these underfunded high schools. - [Man] Well, I think it's great, having spent a lot of my life in weight rooms, I imagine as you have. Congrats and I think it's a great thing. (fun rhythmic music) - Hey everybody, it is day four of our fourth gym transformation here in Livingston, Montana. As you can tell, our space is now empty. About five or six days ago, this place was full of weight equipment and a fully functional gym. At this point, we have completely demoed the entire thing from floor to ceiling. We're super excited to kind of wrap up this week, keep going, and see what happens over the next three weeks, we're gonna come back. We're gonna keep going and really, hammer this thing hard. (phone ringing) - Hey, how are you guys? There you are. - Thanks for joining us today. We're just gonna run through the game plan after being in Montana all last week, demoing the wall and the ceilings. - Andrew, did you get that email I sent you this morning? - I did, I sure did. - Okay, so we'll kind of go through all those files that we sent. A lot of the kids didn't really have like a wish list besides the girls wanted to see bright gold. Other than that, it's the equipment they want the most, functional equipment. So, my idea's just kind of like the cherry on top. So, when I go back and talk to the guys, we throw out all the wild ideas of should we do turf, should we do gold plated weights. I think it just starts from there and then whatever's, A, feasible, B, not too over the top, and C, kind of meets the requirements they want. Then we'll start to go through that and then I'll start to develop different logos and different ideas. But that's just where it starts, is kind of siffling through everything we've gathered here and going from there. Thanks, Andrew. - Of course. - We'll see you in a month. - [Andrew] I know, I'll see you literally less than a month, it's crazy. (deep dramatic music) - The last time I was in there, when Dylan was here, when they took the wall out and had done that demo, that was the last time I was in there. So, it's been about a month. Just the bare walls, you know, the wall was taken out and I could see that but I haven't seen anything since. - This space has changed dramatically, even structurally. Prior to us getting here, this used to be a wall. This actually was a hallway. - After we got that cinder block wall out, we left. During that time, we had the space painted and the mirrors came in. So, when we came back, we had to start building back the ceilings and getting the lights back installed. We built that whole grid system. We came in, we started dropping tiles and then we started kind of doing borders and all that kind of stuff over the next two days. All right guys, day four, the ceiling is now complete. This is the moment we've been waiting for, the flooring's arrived. I got Jody with HC Company here and James to help us out. We're opening this thing up and see what she looks like in a truck. Fun stuff! This ought to keep us busy for two or three days. Stay tuned. (laughing) Based on budget for this project, we had to do the flooring ourselves, so it was a big undertaking but we were able to tackle it and do a quality job. So, we're really happy with how it turned out. And I think this is the first project that we can truly say that we've done the entire project from floor to ceiling now. It's always been a floor to ceiling transformation, but we legitimately have taken this on 100% by ourselves, and now we've got all our partners coming in. We have kind of the infrastructure placed now, now we just have to transform the rest of it. (exciting music) (bell ringing) - [Regina] I really get the sense that the kids don't have any idea how different it's going to look. - I'm just excited for the upgrade, honestly. - Us being the first ones to use it, that's gonna be pretty cool. - I know when we'd do it during the summer is just like stuff's falling apart, and bent. Once every week, we have to organize all the stuff because it's just all over the place. What you wanna do next? - I was interviewed by some kids for the newspaper, the student newspaper. And when I was talking to them just about what I think, just based on seeing some of the videos and stuff. I mean, they were just like, what, it's not just like a couple new pieces of equipment. That sort of thing. So, while we put the video of some of the previous projects out there, I don't think a lot of the kids have seen them and so, while they're excited, I don't think they really know what's coming, which, I don't know, good or bad, that's kind of the sense I get. (playful rhythmic music) - Hi guys, so for those of you guys that haven't been here yet, we're gonna get ready to start moving a lot of equipment. The way that we have this thing designed here is we're gonna set it all on that platform out here to keep everybody out of the water for tracking it back into the gym. So, let's go out there and have a good time and get this thing done. (fun exciting music) - The one good thing about this particular school this time is the way these doors are set up for this particular school, we have easy access into the weight room. So, it's gonna make this job so much easier than the ones we've done in the past. - [Makayla] We had to cover up some of the equipment. We put blankets over top of them as we were rolling them around because they were too big to fit through the single door. And they're all trying to peak and look around, and I told them to look away to be surprised. - So, this morning we've been focused on assembling the rig. There's three different pieces. About two, four, six, eight, 12 uprights that we had to assemble, get plumb, get square, so a lot of measurements involved. And once we got it in a center of the platforms here, we had to actually bolt them to the floor. (loud grinding) - The details on this thing are amazing. Check out the logos up here. You always go to a gym and you just start working out, but you don't understand the details, every little thing that stacks up to actually be able to lift 100 pounds. You don't just lift 100 pounds, there's like 20 pieces in that 100 pounds that enable you to lift that. So, that's the cool part, to actually see all the stuff come together. - I think that's awesome. I think the gold is exactly what we wanted and it's gonna be really cool, unique piece that we've never done before. - Honestly, I think we're in great shape. The reason we laid this gym out the way that we did is because we understood that it's not just for kids that are athletes, it's for all the kids. I think anybody will be able to walk in here and get a workout in. (soft peaceful music) - I do get the sense that people downplay where they come from, you know, it's just Park High. And I'm not sure where that stems from. It seems to be a feeling of even what they have here, they're not worthy of, that it's not for them, it's for somebody else. - The community and the students think that they're second class in some way. The other thing is I think this is not a new phenomenon. I think this attitude of kind of being second class people has been here awhile, long before I've been here. And so, we really need something big to change that. A new culture, and I think that this weight room could be that, could be that big change. - We need to be more competitive here at Park High School and we are aware of that. And it starts in the weight room. So, it will give our kids that self-efficacy that not only do we have a nice weight room, but now you gotta put in the time. I think everywhere from how the kids feel to how they compete is gonna have a huge effect. - The kids talk about other weight rooms across the state. I hear it constantly of, you know, you should see Dillon's weight room, you should see Butte Central's weight room. I wish we had that, I mean, I hear that constantly. So, I think that for kids to know that other schools are gonna come in here and see that and think that about them, it's such a small thing but that's huge and we're trying to change tradition and culture and all of those things. Again, the timeliness of this and being a key focus of what our coaches and our board, and our administration is looking at to say we need to raise those expectations. - Today's Thursday, tomorrow morning, 8:00 am is the reveal, and so today is a lot about just buttoning up loose ends. Through planning and all that kind of stuff, we've been able to stay ahead of schedule, so we're not behind the 8 ball at this point, we are where we needed to be at the end of everyday. We didn't have to put in 20 hour days to get ready to go the next day to do it again. And so, I feel more relaxed on our process and where we're at through this whole thing. I don't have any doubt that with the team we have, we're gonna come through on this one. It's homecoming week for Park High. So, they do an iron man volleyball game. The Lift Life team was invited to put together a team. 7:00 tonight we're going to bring that house down. (intense deep music) (people cheering) (loud cheering) (whistle blowing) (mumbles) - Good job, good job, good job. (slow intense music) - It's go time. - Good morning, Rangers. Are you excited today? Happy homecoming week. Thank you for all your participation. It's pretty exciting this morning. Everybody in this room is going to get to see the new weight room this morning. (cheering) A couple of things I wanna say first to this crew back here, they will never be able to know how much we appreciate them and we will never be able to repay them. Obviously if we could repay them, we would've just done it ourselves. (laughing) They will never know how much we are grateful for what they have given you guys as a community. So, we hope that you will go in there with that mindset of wow, this is a gift that was given to us by this group of people and they believe in helping students, and that is pretty cool. (crowd cheering) - We are so excited that today has finally come. As Regina said, my name is Dylan Cooper. I have the privilege of working for the Lift life Foundation, and also dominating in some iron man volleyball. For those of you who didn't see it, we actually got crushed by your senior boys last night. This has been an experience we will never forget. We hope this new training facility not only allows you to reap the benefits of getting super swoll, like my friend Rob here. No, but we really do, we hope it acts as a rally point for new beginnings. We hope it gives the entire student body the opportunity to train in a safe, multiuse, multisport sanctuary that belongs to you, the students. We hope that every time you step in there, you're reminded that your local community and people from across the country, they believe in you guys, they want you guys to succeed. So, remember that when you're in there putting in your hard work. People really do care about you, they want you to succeed. (soft inspiring music) - [Crowd] Four, three, two, one. (cheering) (dramatic rhythmic music) - I did not expect this. (laughing) - [Regina] That was like a career highlight to see kids walking through. Pretty unforgettable. - [Ben] Just first class, everything. - This is amazing, amazing! And it's at the right time for us. It's just like, it's life changing. - Every morning since last March, in here until 6:00 in the morning, with is nothing but bad weights. This is crazy, just crazy. - [Regina] I really like what you guys did with the space, extremely intelligent. And we talked about it being multifunctional for females, males, classes, you know, strength, speed, power, and I think there's something for everybody. - Absolutely. And some of the stuff, I haven't even seen and I thought I saw it all but I haven't. So, it's gonna be fun to kind of see how some of this works. - [Kirk] Can we bump? (energetic fun music) (people cheering) - Okay, things are gonna be a little bit different here in our brand new weight room. I know everybody's excited. But you'll find that there's still barbells in there, there's still dumbbells in there, there's still weight in there and we're gonna be moving it. Nothing different there, so let's get our workout in. An investment like this, and this is what this is, this is an investment into our community, the students that are gonna be able to use this weight room and then benefit from it, and then their kids. The ripple effect can go just far down the line. (inspiring soft music) - I was kind of amazed there was this much room to begin with. - I (mumbles) what our weight room could turn into this. It's insane. - We've been fighting this kind of second class mentality for a long time, and I think that it's very hard to think that in a facility like this. So, listen up, what do we think? - I love this. - It's amazing! - So, we're gonna take it up a notch, all right? So, the first three weeks we've been doing total body stuff, you guys are getting stronger, I can see it all ready. With a facility like this, the sky's the limit. I really see big things and I see us as a first class school and first class community, period. (soft inspiring music) (deep dramatic music)