Welcome everyone to my 30-day leg program. I'm Abel Abanetti and this program is all about building some big legs. So, if your legs are lacking or if you're just looking to build some size, this program is for you. So, we're going to be working legs three times a week. So, you can throw this into your weekly split that you already have. During these three workouts a week, we're going to be splitting the legs in different ways. The first workout of the week is going to be more quad dominant. Then the second workout of the week is going to be hamstring. And on the third workout, we're going to have a good mix between quads and hamstrings. And the calves, we're going to be working about twice a week. So, this program is going to be insanely tough. And as the program goes on week by week, it's going to get harder and harder. So, let's go ahead and jump into workout one. We're going to start off with a major compound movement. We're be going barbell back squats. Five sets. The reps are going to be 12, 10, 10, 8, and six. So, with the barbell squats, this is going to be the meat of this workout here. This is going to be the heavy compound lifts. So, as the reps go down, you're going to be lifting more weights. So, probably already y'all are not used to this amount of volume. Five sets of back squats is super hard, but we have a lot more to go in this workout. So, we're going to go from squats to machine half squats. That's going to be the second movement. We have four sets. The reps are going to be 12 to 15 reps. On the last set, we have a single drop set. So during these hack squats, all you really want to focus on is going down under control. And then when you go down, stretch your quads and then come back up. Pause for a split second up at the top and squeeze your quads as hard as you can. And then continue until you get to 12 to 15 reps. Make sure throughout this program that you're hitting failure on these rep ranges. Don't be someone that I say 12 reps and you can really do like 15. I want you hitting failure at that 12th rep. Moving on to the next exercise, we have leg press. Now, this is going to be a little bit different because we're going to have the feet low. So, this is going to be targeting your quads a little bit more. We have five sets. Now, the reps are 20, 15, 15, 15. And then on that last set of 10 reps, you're going to do a double drop set. Now, what a double drop set is, what you're going to do is hit that 10 reps to failure and then immediately drop the weight by around 20% and then try to squeeze out another six to eight reps. And then you're going to do that exact same thing. Drop it one more time. Some people won't be able to go as low with this leg press, but just go as low as you can. And then this is really going to be focusing on your quads. After that double drop set, we're going to be going into leg extensions. We have four sets of 15 reps. And on the last set, we have a triple drop set. So, make sure you're going down, stretching your quads, and then coming up flexing as hard as you can up at the top of that movement. And be sure you're hitting failure at that 15 rep mark. And then on that last set, the fourth set, you're going to be doing a triple drop set. So, what that is, it's exactly like a double drop set, but you're going to be dropping it three times. So, what's great about doing a triple drop set on leg extensions is that you can really go quickly on those drop sets. So, after those leg extensions, we're going to be moving on to calves. We're going to be doing standing calf raises. Four sets of 10 to 12 reps. You can use any kind of machine for this. If your gym has a standing calf raise, great. I'm using a Smith machine. So, all I'm trying to focus on is going down, getting a good stretch in my calves, and then going up, pausing for a split second, and then going straight back down. Moving on to the last exercise, we have a superset. We have seated calf raises, super set with leg press, calf raise. We have four sets, the 12 to 15 reps. And on the last set, we have a single drop set for both of those movements. So, after you finish off on these calves, your workout is complete. You have finished day one of my 30-day leg program and recover before you come back for the second workout which will be hamstring. I will see you in the next workout.