- All right, go take the clip off of that one. (weights clanking) - The weight room is like, it's kinda compact. And it get real hot and then you're waiting so you kinda get irritable, so you're just like, "Can you do it already?" So yeah, you're like, "Can you hurry up?" But other than that, it's nice. - No, no, no, I ain't doubting nobody. Go on ahead and do it. - A'ight. - One, two, three. - You gotta count out loud so you can stay breathing. - Six, seven. - There's no bicycles, there's no treadmill, there's nothing that we can use to help us with our legs, condition-wise as like stamina instead of using squats. It's different because it's not just us. Because there's the basketball team, there's the track team, there's the girls' and the boys' basketball teams, and so then it's difficult. - 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, no bro, I can't do it. - [Derrick] You got to 33 again? (laughing) (mid-tempo instrumental music) - Hello everybody, my name is Kevin Simmons. I'm the Athletic Director at Michele Clark High School. Currently we are in need of cardio equipment as well as up-to-date weights. As you see our weight room is not in the best of conditions but we do what we can to get the job done. - [Charles] As the principal of Michele Clark, it's difficult to see students struggling to practice and use the weight room when there really isn't a weight room. Giving us the opportunity to have a new weight room would bring opportunities of exposure, change disparity. So as you look to this, please remember Michele Clark, thank you. - All right guys, so as you know we have two finalists. Going through the process, talking with Optimum Nutrition, and then even working with Chicago Public School District. We decided on one, Michele Clark. - We're ready to go, I think that this is something where we can get in there, we can do an amazing job of transforming this space, make sure it's that safe environment that we talked about for these kids to train in. (determined instrumental music) - My name's Makayla Frickey. I am the graphic designer for the Lift Life Foundation. - My name is Dylan Cooper and I am the director of Bodybuilding.com's Lift Life Foundation. - [Makayla] The Lift Life Foundation is a non-profit organization founded by Bodybuilding.com. We go into under-funded high schools across the country and renovate their existing high school weight room. - We take them from a very neglected space, and really just transforming them into a space where they can really be proud of what they do and how they can transform their bodies and their minds, all of these things in one space. So this project is definitely unique in we partnered with one of our national partners, Optimum Nutrition, and they're based out of Chicago. We came together and we discovered that this would be a great opportunity for us to give back to their local community. They were able to step in and be a part of the process. - My name is Olga Starikova and I am Senior Associate Brand Manager for Optimum Nutrition. When we first heard about the project we were extremely excited. For Optimum, it's a great opportunity to give back to the community. So this is something that's close to my heart. To be part of this project has just been extremely exciting. - It's all coming together where we're gonna create something amazing for these kids who, looking at that space, is in really dire need. - From what we've seen this is a very small space. It's gonna be the smallest space we've worked with so we gotta get very creative. (gentle uplifting music) - Whoa! Here it is. - [Kevin] It's a work in progress but we do what we can with what we've got. - So I would say everything in here is mosh-posh. We heard somebody was throwing something away, we were like, we could use it. So really none of this stuff we really bought. We've either gathered through somebody giving it to us or, someone saying, "We don't need it anymore." And then we just like, "We'll call it a weight room." - So they come in here and this is what they see. It's you know, it's adequate, you know I take my boys out to play some of these suburban schools and when we walk in the school they're like, "Oh." And you know but, we have to make do, there's no excuses. At least you have something, you know. We do what we can. (uplifting music) The most important two pieces of equipment we have are the bench and this squat rack. (determined instrumental music) These two machines are the lifeline to really what we have, as well as that curl bar. - I would say the percentage of useful equipment in this particular room right here, maybe 50%. You see kettle bells are here in the floor, there's no racks or any type of system for those type of things. I'm not sure what kind of decline this is for but, that's not functional at all. And then you get over here to the dumbbells that they have that were donated. There's some hundred-pound dumbbells on there that these kids can't even pick up off of the rack. - It was a very tiny, about 10 x 20 room. It had outdated equipment, probably from the 80s in it. It was even in worse shape than it showed on their submission video. (weights clanking) - If it touch, don't let 'em touch that. - Getting the time to really get to know the coach and to hear how passionate he is about the kids that come here and how unselfish he is towards these kids, and he even said some of these kids are like kids of his own. - Oh man, Coach Simmons has a really good relationship. It's like, almost like a father figure. It's somebody that you respect, but somebody that you know that got your back no matter what. - He helped me push through stuff. When I need transportation, he gives it to me. When I need something, when I need to just talk to him about anything I can come straight to him and talk about it. - I've been trying to get all of this up for a while. When it's supposed to work, it works. And you do right, when you try to do right you get rewarded. They've worked hard and it's gonna be such a push for them. When you guys shut it down for however long you shut it down, I just want you to cover everything up where they can't see anything. Cover everything up and I'll keep 'em in the halls, and we'll do cardio and running. However long you take, you take. (upbeat music) - It was obviously sad and disheartening to see that this is what these kids are working with. But to me it's like, okay I try to envision the room as a blank slate and what it could be if all this equipment was taken out. - That's where we come in and we start dissecting, finding out how can we utilize the space and make this thing even better. - Three is about where the door is. - What we didn't realize is there was an adjoining classroom and if we could remove the wall and open this space, we would be able to create a much better weight room. And so, talking with Chicago Public Schools, talking with the principal, they were willing to give us that second room and allow us to have this bigger transformation. Through that process of understanding what those spaces looked like and how we could open them up, we realized that there was a small coach's office and then there's actually a computer lab that sat over adjacent to the coach's office. We realized that we could kind of create a separate cardio room, that gave us a whole 'nother room where we can give these kids more equipment, more functional use. All-in-all, we went from this really tiny one classroom space, to now we're almost 3.5 classrooms. It became a much larger space, it became a much bigger transformation. (upbeat percussive music) (weights clanking) - I've noticed working with the kids, something new is like, man. And it gives them a sense of rejuvenation. "Okay, we can not mess this up. We have this, this is brand new, this is all we need to get over the hump." When in all actuality, it helps but the person, the drive you have, the commitment to the team. That's what gets you over. But, whatever helps them reach it, you know I'm willing to do it and, and it was just give us a breath of fresh air. - How long has it been since you've had that new feeling that the students have built that morale and- - He doesn't want to hear it, when he got here. (laughs) - When he got here? - [Kevin] Yeah. - When I came to the school, and I think any principal that goes to a new school, they want to take on some type of culture or some type of personality of them. (voices overlapping) - I represent Michele Clark Eagles. - Hey man, go to class! (upbeat music) - I love this school. I got a lot of connections through this school. I got my job through this school - This school, I feel like this school it helps people get off the street. It helps people to feel good when they come in here. - It's a good vibe here, like you make family here. The friends, the teachers, everybody is real warming and they care for you. - It's a really good support system and also I feel like, if you need help with anything you always got somebody. Other schools, I feel like you missed out on that. - But what makes this school different from every other school is the principal. - Principal Anderson is like, I would say a second father. He really helped me push through since my freshman year. - I wasn't doing good and he was always there to help me and encourage me. So he's helped me a lot. - So Michele Clark became a STEM school, which means that we work with students not only from the Science, Technology, Engineering, Math, but we work with them on how to slide into college easily because now they're more familiar with the work. Oh my God you guys, I thought I stopped that. I hit the wrong button. Now I just fixed it. Did I mess you guys up? - [Interviewer] No, you're fine. - Okay, because it's probably gonna be one of those bleeps- (laughing) So, where do you guys want me to start from? (gentle instrumental music) (voices overlapping) So my relationship with the students here are, God I think I wear a lot hats with some of them, from father to uncle to grandfather. All of those things just become a part because I'm always looking for ways to encourage them, ways to excite them, ways to make them feel that they are number one at the school. For me, I wanted to build up, build up the confidence of the students in Austin. Make them proud for where they were and how they're here. I wanted them also to feel empowered to be able to advocate for themselves, and I also wanted them, the thing I always said to them is, "I want you to be able to understand how to play hard and how to work hard." (gentle instrumental music) Michele Clark is located in the Austin community of Chicago. It's been an area that at one point was one of the largest areas for Chicago. So it was the largest, then pretty soon it started shrinking just because of violence and other things, people started moving out. - You know back in the day it was a beautiful community, you'd drive around and you'd see so many beautiful homes and it was just a neighborhood that was strong. And we look at Austin now and it's totally different. A lot of vacant homes, and then you had outside factors, like crime, a lot of the schools have closed down. So I think the kids don't have that sense of community here anymore, and that's why Clark is such a big part of this community because there are not a lot of schools. My mom had different roles here. She was the School Resource Officer, she coached a lot of different sports here. My mom was diagnosed with stage IV breast cancer. She would just say say, "You know my time is gonna come soon, but while I'm still here I'm gonna try to make the best difference that I can." (gentle instrumental music) - You can see that the community is a tight-knit community but you have the gangs and the drug problems which has cause a lot of the people to disappear from the neighborhoods. And when you're talking about Michele Clark, this is one of the best schools in this whole neighborhood. They have all the activities going on, to keep the kids off the streets, and that's how they do it here. - I think that for us, with the Austin community there are some areas of course that are a little rougher than others. And so some of them might see some things, we've had shootings in the community. - Well I don't like to talk about this much but, I almost got shot once. We were coming out of a store, and then like once I stepped out, 'cause I was second to step out they started shooting right in front of the store, and you could hear the bullets fly past. (imitates bullet whizzing by) It was like, I froze, I didn't know what to do, 'cause I was in shock. I don't know how I got back in the store, to be honest. - I'm a little paranoid because I got shot over here. I was coming home from the store so, coming around the corner and some boys from all the way across the park, they came over and started shooting at the people on my block. So as I was trying to run, I couldn't. And then they had got me, so I couldn't walk or nothing so I just laid on the ground. - We want the students in Austin to feel like they can feel safe, and that they don't have to feel like, "If I go there, do I have to worry about blah-blah," you know whatever it is. And that's one of the things we really push hard on, is that whatever you're worried about outside, get in here 'cause we're gonna change all that. We're gonna throw a scarf around you, we're gonna do some other things with you to get your mind off of those things and help you learn. But then we also, from a wholistic view of working with students, we're gonna figure out how we can help you with whatever those pieces are as well. Especially even on the weekend or when you go home. (gentle instrumental music) - [Makayla] Today we just kinda wanted to talk through our plan and kind of your guys' eyes on it and just work through what's gonna be on the walls and the ceiling and just show you guys what we're up to. (upbeat instrumental music) Olga and Trevin, we have Mary here as well. She's from C3 Graphics, she's our graphics partner, so she'll be there installing and helping us with all that. So, we'll just jump in on- So my job is to talk to our vendors and design all of the aspects of the gym. So, we talked to Arsenal Strength and figured out what color equipment we want, what design we want on the dumbbells, on the platforms. And to go through a ton of different ideas as far as, should it say "Michele Clark Eagle", or should it say "Eagle Pride", should it just be an eagle, or should it be their logo. Should it be a really abstract looking logo. So we go through all these different ideas and what's gonna be best paired with their school and their school colors and their school pride. And right now they kill it in school pride. Principal Anderson always dresses up in bright yellow and black for game days in his athletic wear, and so I really wanted to bring that life into the gym and give them that safe haven, but somewhere too where they can go and feel motivated to go kick butt and lift some weights. - This project was about a year in the making. Usually we tend to complete these projects in about four to six months. This one took us almost a year. - There was a lot of red tape when it came to the planning process, and so we hired the union to perform the work as far painting, installing the floor, all that kinda stuff. - Because of some of the timing and getting some of these vendors involved, we knew that if we put everything into a 12 to 14 day window, there was going to be most likely some sort of scheduling issue. We weren't going to be able to accomplish everything we wanted to in our time frame. Everybody, we are just finishing up our third day here at Michele Clark High School. We have Optimum Nutrition out here all week, helping us out with volunteers. It's been a pretty great experience. Through the last three days, we were able to get all of our wire shot. We were able to get the grid installed, and then we were able to get the borders installed with the new tile that came in from Reinke Supply. And so we went out for about four or five days, completed the ceiling build-out, kinda got the stage set so when we came back the third time, it was more about just the build-out. (upbeat percussive music) When we were about seven days out from the reveal, we have this major push that happens. We wanted to get the flooring installed, we wanted to get the mirrors installed, we wanted to get some of the stuff put into place so when our entire crew, volunteers, Optimum showed up we could have everybody running on all cylinders and really kinda brand it, bring it back to life. - Okay, so we just landed at Chicago O'Hare International Airport with all of our luggage in tow and we're headed over to Michele Clark, and we're gonna go check it out. Hello. - [Charles] Hey you guys! - How's it going? - Good, good. - This is Randy. - Randy, how are you? So I would say it's been closed down for a year and for our football team, they haven't been able to really work out at all because we haven't had a weight room. I remember saying to the coach, "Now don't let this be the excuse why we don't win any games because I know that you'll use this as your excuse." And so he's been pushing them and pushing them, and so we've had five games and we've only lost one. So now with the weight room, it's gonna make them even more hungry to be like (grunts), you know. (laughing) (upbeat percussive music) - We're gonna kinda take you in, show you some of the renovations that have taken place up to this point. Michele Clark has done some renovations of their own. (mid-tempo instrumental music) So Catapult3, our graphics partner has already been here. These graphics are on the outside of the door, has a big "MCHS Weight Room" on it. We've covered those graphics up so when the students come in they can't seem 'em for right now. As you pull open the door, one of the first things you're gonna see is the ceiling graphic. This is a new concept we came up with as we were researching different things that we could do to make these things unique. It's super cool things that they're doing in a lot of college gyms and weight rooms, and so we wanted to give that same experience to these kids. Here's the space as a whole. So now we have one long space, it's kind of long and narrow, but it gives us about double the square footage that we originally had to work with. And then we've got a new technology piece called the Avenue Digital. What it does is it's gonna be an educational interactive piece of equipment. If you're a freshman or someone who doesn't know a lot about working out or proper form, you can go up and we can touch that screen, you can find out all the different proper movements of how to work out. We've made a ton of progress over the last three or four days, the next two or three are gonna be as hard as we can go to get these things finished by Friday. We're gonna continue on and get this stuff put together. (lively upbeat music) It's pretty much all boxed up which is nice. We don't have to cover much of it. Like they'll see some of it, but- - [Makayla] We didn't want to bring in the equipment while the kids were in school. So we unloaded it onto this back grassy area, covered it up with some tarps, and the thunder clouds started to roll in. (thunder rumbling) (pulsing percussive music) - Well, let's just put these inside for right now. - A lot of the athletic teams are still there after hours, so they're all practicing and stuff. But when practice was over, I think they were all super excited. They wanted to see what was going on, they wanted to be a part of it. Some kids were trying to take photos and be like, "I got a first look and I'm gonna show all my friends." And all the kids wanted to be the one that, "Hey, can I get a sneak peek", or "Can I come check it out before all the rest?" Even the janitors were wanting to get in there. (mid-tempo instrumental music) - I think that it's gonna take off as just another component of what we do here. And inviting the kids to now push for health. The teachers and staff are already, "We're gonna lose so much weight, we're gonna start our weight challenge!" And just the excitement that they even have that we finally have something that is brand new for us, that we're gonna make this happen. And even the kids are just they're peeking through holes trying to see what you guys are doing. (laughing) Crawling on the floor, I'm like, "Stop, it'll happen, you'll see!" - Oh, everybody excited. The people who lift weight, the people who don't lift weight, the people who want to lift weights but they didn't have enough time because it was so small. Everyone's talking about it. - I've heard rumors that they're painting everything the school colors and it's gonna be an eagle on the wall with a flat-screen TV. I don't know what to expect. - Having treadmills, having bicycles in there for people that's injured. - Yeah, treadmill definitely, maybe a bike, that'd be fun. - I've been hearing people talk about a treadmill. I'm like, that's like a lot. But me personally, I just need me a bench. I need me a squat bar and I need me some curls. (upbeat music) - The equipment's something that, it's custom build as far as the colors, the branding and kinda get that together. It's 19 and a half feet wide. That was the hard part because we're trying to fit platforms and racks and then other equipment as well. Because of the space, we actually included the dumbbells, the bumper plates, all right there. You can just run in groups and everything they needs there. (construction sounds) - Alright here we are, its Thursday and we've got a ton accomplished at this point but we've got a long way to go. Right now we're getting ready to do our Writey Board wall. We've got a bunch of accessories that showed up so we've got a bunch of things to get hung and get those put away. We're still waiting on a couple pieces of equipment to show up that were back ordered. So we've got those to get put together and placed in the room. We have a final clean, some touch up paint. So yeah we're gonna get all the stuff accomplished, we'll have this thing showroom ready by tonight. - The night before the reveal, we decided to have sort of a impromptu dinner with all of our partners, our local partners, and partners that had flown out from all different parts of the United States and even beyond. - I wanted to try to get that group of people together just to kinda say thank you first of all, and show the impact of how there are so many different people who care about these communities. Not one of us could do it on our own but if we all do our little part and all put these things together, we ultimately can create this really cool environment and do something really fun in the end. - Look, since we got the camera here I would like to say, this is how your office looked, this is why you cannot have an office. - It's called organized confusion. - No, and if I look at this I can smell it. That office is not smelling clean at all. (laughing) - It's football man. - And those sad little hurdles in the back. - Oh that's, but we went down, but let me tell you, with these hurdles we went down state, how many years Simmons? - Five. - Five years straight with these hurdles. - I'm not gonna be able to sleep tonight. - What? (overlapping chatter) God that's crazy. I'm good. - I'm having all types of emotions. Like even from just, I know this is gonna sound really shallow, even from what do I wear? Like this is gonna be big. Do I wear something that I can really do some exercise in? Or do I keep a suit on? And I if wear something to exercise in, do I make sure its black and gold? You should see, how does it look, I gotta make sure it has the eagle. So I've already ordered my outfit for this occasion. No, no I haven't. no I really do know what I'm wearing. - I can't you guys yet. (upbeat music) - The day of the reveal, is always the exciting part. We get up super early, we go to the school and everybody is stoked. Cause they know that that's the day that they're gonna be able to see the weight room. (up tempo music) - Kids came in, they're super excited, we had a huge auditorium set up, the kids dressed in their yellow and black and so it kinda really had this school spirit kind of atmosphere with it. (percussion and bagpipe music) - Good morning - [Students] Good morning. - This is an exciting time for us. And I just have to reiterate anytime you come to Michele Clark that it is always a great day to be and eagle. (clapping) - I think that the kids, you know, they know somethings coming but I don't think they understand the full perspective on what's about to happen. What they're gonna see, what they're gonna be a part of. - We've been under some renovations, for quite some time now. So we're so excited for this dedication. Just so you know, I have not even seen anything yet. I've been holding them, I tried to sneak in a couple times. They tried to tase me. So I've been obedient and so when you guys see it, I'll be seeing it for the first time as well. - I think about are they gonna be excited? Or are they gonna cry? Are they gonna just be super joyful? And it's all of that. It's always more than we could ever ask for. - And so I want to bring Dylan Cooper up, who has been like instrumental, who's been here almost day and night. At one point I thought he was showering here. Can you guys please thank Mr. Dylan Cooper? (applause) - Thank everybody here at Michele Clark for having us. The Lift Life foundation is a nonprofit organization, who has a mission to travel the country and find underfunded and neglected weight rooms. And transform them into state of the art training facilities for free. We have completed four renovations in Idaho, Tennessee, Indiana, Montana, and now we're here in Chicago. (applause) (upbeat music) - So the reveal was amazing. - Y'all ready? - [Students] Yes! - I feel like this is like Move That Bus. Okay here we go! - They were counting down outside. You know, ten, nine, eight, so inside we're all dying you know waiting to have them come through. - [Students] Five, four, three, two, one! (cheering and screaming) (uplifting music) - And it's like they're at Disney Land for the first time. I mean just complete wide eyed, looking around, like "Wow." - Their reactions are priceless. It's one of those things where we tell people all the time. Like until you can experience that firsthand, you don't really understand how emotional and how impactful that is to those kids. - The little details is what makes it. I don't know what to say. I'm speechless. I'm so happy for the kids. - This is my new house. I'm moving in after this. - It's the best weight room I ever saw at Clark. It's the best weight room and everything new, it's real professional I like it. - Y'all made it too great cause our coaches are gonna kill us in here. We don't have any excuses now. - All of it, too much to take in. Its just like the heart pounding full of excitement. Like I can't wait to use it. Today? We can use it today? Sean! We get to use it today! - I know. - I'm like, I'm never speechless. I told them, this looks better than my college weight room. This is ... (upbeat music) Wow. - Oh my god they put our emblem here too. Our logo. You know when we would take kids on tours, when they were in the eighth and seventh grade and say this is our weight room, I at one point was like "Don't ever show anybody else that room, you guys just go in there and work out." Now I'm like "Make sure everybody sees the weight room!" (up tempo music) - You know I keep asking as kids are walking by, like "Do you like it? Do you like it?" and they're like "Duh. This is amazing." this is nothing like they've ever seen before. It is top of the line, everything is brand spanking new. You know they don't really have words to describe how much it means to them. - That's what I really like. - Man this is amazing. It's work. It's hard work. You guys look! The whole thing. - You can put the workout of the day. - Workout of the day, you can out the whole plays. Mr. Simmons, man! - Working out you have to have a beautiful space, and we gave them a beautiful space. Now it takes attitude, now it takes dedication. And we will see great results from these kids in the future. - Where's the stereo system? (upbeat dance music) - You know Principle Anderson he was just like a kid in a candy shop. He couldn't believe this was happening. You know all the different things, look at this, he could not believe how many different things we put in there. - Oh my god look at the light! - You haven't seen the light have you? - I haven't seen the light! (yells) It's just going through my mind, I really need like everybody to leave so I can just walk through and absorb it by myself. - It is all tailor made, to the eagles and Michele Clark High School. And something that is completely theirs. (upbeat music) - I'm gonna be here tomorrow, the day after school, everyday. - And that's why I continue to volunteer, a full time second job. Because there's nothing better than that. When those kids walk in and see it for the first time. - [Students] Live high. - It's not just a football player, it's like a kid in cross country comes up and is just like "I can't wait to get in here and start working out." Those are the things that comeback and you realize that you are doing something to make a difference for the entire student body, not just a certain group of kids. When it is all said and done, conversations I had with Coach Simmons and Principle Anderson, you know I could tell that they were still kind of in shock that this grand of a project or this thing was theirs. But I think that over all it gave them a sense of pride that they were able to pull this together and give it back to their students. (light piano music) - Michele Clark High School has an incredible staff. They have people who care about them and give them all the tools and all the resources they need to succeed. - This is gonna give them something that it's theirs. Nobody in the city has anything like this. Now you're unique. (overlapping chatter) Now it's what you do with it. You just let it sit dormant or are you gonna take advantage of it? (light music) - You know they're already wanting to do weight loss challenges and muscle building challenges and stuff that gets the staff involved and the school involved and everything. And I just know that they're gonna utilize it so well. - And it's something that nobody else has in the Chicago Public Schools. You know, nobody else has this, this is ours. And they're just super thankful and proud that you know, this is something that they got to help create. - Our part is done and now it's their job to put in the work and to reap the benefits of what this weight room can bring to them. - Not only bettering their lives through education but also knowing that, you know, physical fitness is something that can better the student body, make them a more complete school as a whole. - It was so exciting, the last past week and a half, I haven't been this excited since I've been a kid for Christmas. This exceeded my expectations. I mean it came from, it came from that to where it is now. It's divine intervention, that's all it is. It's a blessing for people that truly care about the kids and not about themselves. - They have been just all over the place, so yeah, this is awesome. You guys, like, I'm amazed. I'm amazed. Thank you guys so much. (gentle music)