What's up, guys? Trainer Mike here for your Flex Friday workout of the week. A day early. That's right. We're bringing you a treat. Flex Friday on a Thursday. You can't beat that. And even better, today is leg day, which makes it just awesome cuz everybody always wants to know, "Come on, trainer Mike, man. When's legs, bro? When's legs? Do you train legs?" It's today, baby. And you guys, I want you to try this workout. This week a little different of a leg workout. Um, this is a high volume leg workout. So, I've still been following a upper body push, upper body pull, and lower body routine with one day heavy and one day light. This is the light day. Light day just meaning we're doing more reps. It's actually probably a little more taxing. It's a little bit of a harder day in my opinion. Um, it can be pretty tough to to bust out a lot of reps, especially on a larger muscle group like legs. So, I'm wearing my heart rate monitor today. I'm going to I'm going to get it up there. Okay. And this is like cardio. Nice thing is you probably don't need to do cardio after a workout like this. It's a good day for a high carb day if you guys carb cycle, too. So, we're just finishing up the warmup here. I want to show you guys one of my favorite warm-up exercises. Okay. There's actually two that I really like cuz people ask a lot of times. What you don't get to see on these workouts is the warmup that we do before the workout. So the first one really like this before any leg day is called an inchworm. Okay. So inchworm is pretty simple. You're going to walk your hands out. Really good for warming up the hamstrings and the glutes. So you're just going to walk your hands out. Okay? If you want to throw a little flow in at the bottom, help warm up your lower back, that's fine. And then walk your hands back. The idea is try and keep your legs fairly straight as you do that. Really good to warm up the hamstrings. even gets the shoulders and the core going. Get the lower back warmed up a little bit before something like trap bar deadlifts that we're about to do here. So, I'm going to do a few of these. Obviously, full warm up, we'd get about 10 of these in, but it's really good for warming up the back of the legs, hamstrings, back, and getting that warm up on. That's important. Mike, I'm a beginner, so I need to find a personal trainer. If you're a beginner, do you need to find a personal trainer? I would recommend you get a little bit of education as a beginner. I know for me personally, I spent about two years literally wasting time in the gym before I first sat down with a personal trainer and got some education as far as what it was that I needed. Either that or at least get on All Access, guys, you know, for a very small fee to get that kind of information. Definitely worth it for you. The other warm-up that I really, really recommend is called the world's greatest stretch. And this one, you take a big step out. One hand goes down. You're going to grab onto your arm. Really stretch out the inside of the leg. Open up the body. Come back. Work the hamstring. Lift the toe. Then you can even go into a hip flexor stretch at the end if you want. Switch sides. Come down. Grab arm. Really good for opening up the inside of the leg, the hamstrings, warming up. You feel glutes there getting warmed up. and then hamstrings really get hit along with hip flexors. So, I just wanted to show you guys a couple of those warm-ups that I like to do before I get started on a rowdy leg day like today. So, now that we're warmed up, done a couple working sets or a couple warm-up sets here with lighter weight, it's time to dive into our working sets. Four sets of 10 for a trap bar deadlift. Okay, we're not starting with squats today. We're going to hit squats a little later. Actually, we're going to hit trap bar deadlifts. First set of 10 going down now. Here we go. Woo! Already working the heart rate up. Definitely wake you up for the day, too. Twitch says, "I'm just eating breakfast. This is a perfect perfect thing to watch while I get ready for the day." All right, somebody on Twitch eating breakfast. Check it out. The flex Friday workout. You're right. This is the perfect thing to watch before you start your day. I agree. You have any tips for a hard gainer or somebody that's super skinny? Okay. Tips for a hard gainer, somebody that's super skinny. Guys, you got to be consistent with your nutrition. If you're a hard gainer every single day, you got to be taking in your calories. You know, you can't be good for two or three days and then have a day where you forget to eat. That doesn't work. Got to stay hydrated on leg day. We're going to use a lot of oxygen, a lot of water with this workout. What are your thoughts on using? I think belts are beneficial for deadlifts if you're six reps and below. Actually thought today, do I need to wear a belt? You know, wouldn't hurt to put one on, but I really don't need it for 10 reps. It's a light day, so heavy days I wear belt. If you're five, six reps and under, probably helpful. Um, if you're over six reps, you probably don't need it. Okay, second set, 10 reps. Let's go, baby. Woo! Feels good. And gets the heart rate up there like crazy. Says he just finished his leg day. Help us save his first. Ah, Ryan just finished leg day. Ay, pal. A fellow leg day on a Thursday. I like it. Yes. Try this one for your next leg day. Do you plan on training through the holidays? Do I plan on training through the holidays? Is there an option? No. Of course I'm planning on training through the holidays. Always. Always train through the holidays. Yeah, you know, maybe on Christmas gym's closed. I might take that day off, but that's about it. Uh, somebody from music wants to know, should they prioritize getting stronger or getting leaner? Should you prioritize getting stronger or leaner? I don't know. What do you want to do? If you want to get stronger, I'd prioritize strength. If you want to get leaner, I'd prioritize that. But they can kind of go hand in hand. You just can't get a lot of one while getting a lot of the other. But you can lean out a little bit while getting a little bit stronger. Woo! Third set about to go down. So, you'll notice I'm not doing a tap and go. I'm actually stopping at the bottom of every rep. And what that forces me to do, I have to re-recruit those muscles each and every rep, which is harder but uh beneficial for what we're looking to accomplish. Here we go. Woo! Trap bar doesn't get used a lot. I'd really encourage you guys to make this a part of your routine if you're not currently have a trap bar. What else can I do? If you don't have a trap bar, you know, obviously your standard conventional deadlift works okay as well. Um, but the trap bar allows you to activate more of your quads. makes it honestly it's like a squat because of where you're able to place your hands the side of your body as opposed to in front of your body. Do you have any tips for shredding and maintaining muscle? Tips for shredding down and maintaining muscle. First and foremost, one gram of protein per pound of body mass. Absolutely. Uh that's the biggest key. If you're not getting enough protein, very hard to maintain your muscle mass while shredding down. The other thing I would say is don't go crazy with your cardio. Really, there's no reason why people have to do more than 40 minutes a day max. See people doing, you know, one to two hours of cardio a day. It's a recipe to lose your gains. Woo! I'm cooking already. Okay, one last set here on the trap bar and then we're going to move on to our next fun and exciting exercise. Here we go. Woo! Strapped up. I can take my straps off now. I like having those. It's pretty hard. keep your grip the whole time so I can keep focused on the legs, but I won't need them again for today. How's the podcast? The podcast is going great. So, I appreciate everybody who's been tuning in for it. Um, the fit couple's perspective. It's a podcast my wife and I do. And, uh, this last week we talked about bringing up lagging body parts. And if any of you guys want to check it out, go to my IG at trainermike1. I got a link in the bio. Link to the podcast in the chat. Thank you very much. So, pro tip, when you're unloading the trap bar, you take off one side and then you just tip this sucker up. Works on deadlifts as well. And then tada. We can take that off a little easier there. So, we're putting this weight on the leg press for our next exercise to go here. So, on the lighter day, good opportunity to play around with tempo and higher rep ranges. So, we're actually going to do leg press with pause reps. So, for this, we're going to come down and pause at the bottom of each rep. It's a little different way to improve, get a little more time under tension. Um, rather than just really slowing down your reps, we're going to go slow, but we're also going to throw in that little extra pause for some higher reps as well, which is really going to help us to target, you know, a little more differently than we would if we were going heavy, for example. So, here, pause reps. Four times 10. Four sets of 10. Kind of come down slow. We're going to pause. I don't go real deep in my leg press. And that's a question we get asked a lot is how deep should you go. I have really tight hamstrings. If you're limited by hamstring flexibility, it's actually dangerous to go too low on a a leg press. So, you want to come down until you start feeling your butt lift up off the pad. Definitely don't go any lower when that happens as that puts your lower back at a big risk. So, let's go with our first set of 10 here. I'm going to try and pause for about two seconds on the bottom of each rep. Feet are bottom of the platform, toes pointed straight up. We're going to try and hit mostly quads here. Here we go. Woo. So, there it is. Pause reps. A little light. We're going to add another plate on there. But guys, that makes it substantially harder just by doing that. You still want to explode on the way up. So, we're trying to still explode, use a lot of power on that concentric, but really controlled on the way down. And that pause at the bottom is really, really brutal. What's the difference between half squats and your standard squat? So, what's the difference between hack squat and your standard squat? Hack squat is typically going to bring with it a little more quad activation than your standard squat. Um, obviously you don't have to control or stabilize your core on a hack squat because you're leaning against the pad. Very different from a freee squat. Free weight squat much more activation in your your musculature overall as compared to a hack squat. How many times maximum can you train legs? How many times maximum can you train legs in a week? There's seven days in a week, so I'd say seven. No, honestly, I'd probably say three days per week. Um, to hit it with any kind of real volume, sure, you could train legs six or seven times a week if you just did three, four sets a day, but I'd say three times per week with 72 hours rest in between. All right, guys. Here we go. Next set. Add another plate on each side. 10 reps. Aiming for about that two second pause at the bottom. Here we go. Woo! I think we could throw another one on. That was harder, but I think we can go one more plate on each side. So, we're not trying to go to failure on every single set, but we want to get pretty close. This is, you know, a lot of tension, a lot of time under tension, but we still want to get close to failure with every set. Mike, what is a good stretch to help with sciatic pain that you feel lower back? So, if you're feeling sciatic pain in your glutes, lower back, what's a good stretch? First and foremost, I would say foam roll your purformis, which is kind of located over there by your glutes. Um, it's probably a good video description you can find online of how to do that. Um, anything where you cross your leg over your body and lean forward is a good way to really stretch out those muscles as well. How far apart should your feet or your legs be and should your toes be? So, how far apart should your legs be? Should your toes be pointed? All depends on what you're trying to target. I'm trying to hit mostly quads here. So, my feet are about hipwidth apart, toes pointed straight forward. Now, if I wanted to hit more inner leg, I'd go wider. If I wanted to hit um, you know, obviously I'm trying to hit the quads, outer sweep, so I'm a little more narrow here. Good to have a variety of those in there. Okay, 10 pause reps. Let's go. Woo! Little better. Little better there. That's about the right weight. Do you take a full scoop? Do I take a full scoop of pre-workout? I take a full scoop. Yes. Always do a full scoop. No, not always. It depends, guys. Like, if I'm dosing down on my caffeine, yeah, I might go half a scoop for a while, but usually like on a leg day, you're hardressed to find me underdosing a pre-workout. Hi, Trader Mike. I'm a big fan from Germany. I love your training videos here on very much and I've already learned so much. Thank you very much. Well, hello Germany. Thanks for tuning in. You know, I am of German descent. So, I've got that tight bond with all my German friends and hopefully be back at FIBO for the third year in a row hanging out with you guys in Germany. All right, final set. Pause. Very, very important that you pause. I'm not even concerned that you go super, super deep on these because in our next exercise, the front squat, we're really going to focus on a lot of depth. But here, it's more about the control and it's about the pause. We're really trying to hit the the legs from all angles. This isn't just a quad day, just a hamstring day. We're really trying to make sure we hit the quads, we hit the hamstrings, we hit the glutes all pretty equally on this workout. Here we go. Last set, best set, baby. Pause. Reps. Woo! There it is. Those get tough in a hurry when you're coming up on your last set. Heart rate's up, burning a lot of calories during this workout. When you're really using that time under tension, you know, you burn a lot more calories. We're using a lot more oxygen. And those of you that just hate cardio workout like this and you have to do less cardio. Do you ever do Bulgarian split squats? Do I ever do Bulgarian split squats? Absolutely. Almost every week, you know, usually each of my leg days has either a split squat or a walking lunge in it. So, I love those exercises. Okay, guys. We're going on to front squat next. We're going to go four sets of 15. I think we'll use this bar right over here that's set up for us so nicely. So, for this one, we're also going to put a plate under our heels. Okay, we're going to really try and activate a little more of the quads here. So, the deadlift, more hamstring, glute dominant, a little more quad dominant on our leg press there. For this exercise, we're really focusing on the quads. And when you put a plate under your heels, I wouldn't recommend it if you're going really heavy, but for lighter exercises like we're doing here, um it can be helpful to get a little bit of range of motion. It uh helps you stay a little more upright because you don't have to have as much of that range of motion in your ankles. Set and rep scheme for a good set and rep scheme for a beginner. You know, you really want to focus on making sure you control the reps. Even more important than how many reps you're doing, controlled reps. You can't go wrong with that 10 to 20 range of controlled reps. As a beginner, you know, if you're just starting off, I would stay away from, you know, the really heavy loads. 3 to five reps, 10 to 20 reps, very controlled is where you're going to see the most benefit. Okay, so I'm just going to go play. We're only 135 on here. Remember, earlier this week was heavy leg day. This is volume leg day. This is focusing more on reps, time under tension, um, hitting a variety of different exercises. So, we're going to 15 reps here. And, uh, we're going to go front squats with the plate under our heels. Here we go. Woo! Heart rate is up there. Like I said, I wear a heart rate monitor when I train and these high rep leg days definitely get it up there. You know, we're up to a 68% of max heart rate right now. I was in the 70s during that set, which is pretty high for me. Typically, my cardio is pretty good. This leg workout is different from the last. You change your routine? Yes, I do change my routine weekly. The philosophy remains the same. Okay, we've got a heavy day and we've got a light day, but the exercises always change. The reps and sets change slightly depending on what exercises we're doing. What are your thoughts on mass gainers? Mass gainers. Mass gainers serve a purpose, but I would always try to get your calories and your protein through whole food first. Now, if you can't get enough calories through whole food, then go to a mass gainer, you know, and a lot of people, especially as beginners that are trying to gain mass, they can't do it. The stomach isn't large enough. They're not used to eating that frequently. So, a mass gainer can be really beneficial. What's the difference between front squats and back squats? The difference between front squats and back squats, um, obviously where you place the bar, but um, you know, a front squat requires a little more activation through your core because that weight is pulling you forward. You're going to feel a lot more through your whole, and I'm not just talking about your abs. I'm talking about your whole core is a little more engaged than on a back squat. Typically, a little easier to stay upright and hit your quads on a front squat as well. Okay, second set, reps. First few reps feel real light. Then as we get going, it gets hard in a hurry. Woo! Heart rate up in the 70s, mid70s after that set. Really feels like cardio after that 10 rep mark. What usually causes cramps after leg day? What causes cramps after a leg day? Usually a lack of sodium. You know, if you're a healthy exerciser, healthy adult, you shouldn't shy away from sodium. Actually, quite the contrary. It's powerful electrolyte. Lose a lot of sodium. Guys, I will tell you, I add sea salt, a lot of sea salt to everything I eat and my blood work shows that my sodium levels are within range but a little lower on the scale as compared to optimal. So, just goes to show if you're drinking enough water, add a lot of salt to your food if you're healthy. If you have high blood pressure or other issues, obviously take your physician's advice, a lot of water on leg day, too. The headband of gains actually serves a very functional purpose on leg day. Uh, do you ever or how do you take your creatine? Do you just take it on workout? I take creatine every day and I always just mix it in with my protein after my workout. Um, I try to take it with carbs. Okay. Research shows that taking creatine with carbs can be slightly beneficial as compared to taking it without carbs. Okay. Next set, 15 reps. Let's go. What? Woo! 80s for the heart rate on that set. It is really, really tough to do a compound movement for 15 reps. Pretty controlled. What form of recovery do you use for back soreness? What form of recovery do I use for back soreness? I do a lot of foam rolling. I try and foam roll really in-depth myofascial release two to three times per week. Um, but other than that, you know, back soreness, plenty of protein, essential amino acids, branch chain amino acids, plenty of sleep, it all plays a role. How is your programming and diet changing for the holidays? How is my programming and diet changing for the holidays? I really try and bank up my calories as far as my nutrition goes. So, what I mean by that is I know Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, New Year's Eve, they're all going to be crazy high in calories. So, I go a little lower on my other days to kind of save up calories for those days. As far as my programming goes, no change. Okay. Um I'm going to train every day that I can. If I miss a day, no sweat off my back. We'll get right back on it the next day. But programming doesn't really change. What is your hand position for your front squat? So my hand positioning on the front squat, I take the rack position. So I put my hands under the bar. Some people don't have the flexibility in their wrists and they choose to go with their arms over the bar. Either way is fine. If you can do the rack position, I would recommend that as a first choice. Follow up. How long did it take you to get comfortable? you know, I've always been comfortable with the rack position. Um, fortunately, I started doing, you know, hang cleans and things at, you know, 17 years old. So, I always kept that wrist flexibility, but some people don't have it, and they really, really have to work on it. It's like anything else, use it or lose it. If you go a long time without doing it, you're going to lose that flexibility. It's going to make it a lot more challenging. All right, quit talking, guys. Final set. 15 reps. Let's go. Front squats. Woo! Back up. Heart rate's way high in the 80s. Take a few seconds to really catch your breath after those. Very tough. Do a compound movement with the higher reps. Woo. Feels good though. Feels really good. How often do you recommend changing up a routine? You should change up a routine about every four to six weeks if you're linear. So what linear means is if like you're totally strengthbased or totally hypertrophy based. I'm doing undulating routine strength and hypertrophy. You can push those a little longer like 10 to 12 weeks because you're constantly changing your rep scheme. Okay guys, next up we're going to do some leg extensions and we're going to use some blood flow restriction training for this. So, you guys know I'm a huge fan of blood flow restriction training and um I do it a lot for arms, but a lot of people have been asking about legs and you know, can you do it for legs? Yes, you can. I recommend blood flow restriction training for legs. Um it on single joint movements. So, like leg extension, leg curls, it can be very very beneficial for um but I actually skipped an exercise. That's why I keep it on here. So, we're going to do Romanian deadlifts first. I got eager to do some BFR, but we're going to do Romanian deadlifts first. And we're going to do that right over here. So, before BFR, sorry to tease you guys. I know we got three sets of 15 on RDL's. And the nice thing is we're actually going to keep the plates here. So, just the opposite, we're going to go toes up on the plates as opposed to heels on the plates. So, three sets of 15. We already got hamstrings pretty good on our deadlift, but we got a little more work to do. So, toes are going to go under the bar. Excuse me, we're going to put our toes up on the plates and then we're going to go three sets of 15. Now, Romanian deadlifts, the idea here is that you want to push your butt back. Okay, push your butt back as far as you can. Let the weight trace your body. So, here we go. Toes are up. Knees are slightly bent. Eight. 10 again. Heart rate gets up pretty high. 15 reps of those. Really focusing on a good stretch in the hamstrings. And we're really trying to focus there on making sure that we keep our neck neutral. A lot of people make the mistakes of lifting their head up really high. We don't want to do that here. How many times a week do you train your calves? I train my calves two times per week. Once on heavy leg day and once on light leg day. And uh you know, if you're really troubled in the calf department, three, four times a week is not a bad idea. Make sure you're doing both a bent leg and a straight leg calf extension as part of your routine so you can hit them um in all areas. All right, guys. Here we go. Next set. 15 reps. Double overhand grip whenever we can here. Light weight, so no problem there. 9 10 When we keep the light, the load light, we're able to really hit the contraction we want to because we can focus a little more on making sure we target the muscles rather than overwhelming ourselves with trying to move a greater load than we should. How long does it take to see results if you're trying to lose weight? How long does it take to see results if you're trying to lose weight? Here's the deal. You should see physical visible results every two to three weeks on a weight loss program if you're doing things right. What are your thoughts on supersets during leg day? Super sets on leg day. My thoughts are vomit and snot bubbles. Those are the first two things that come to mind. They're great, you know. Um, they serve a purpose. Occasionally I do it. It's tough though. You know, the problem with it is, you know, you get so taxed cardio-wise that I fear if you do too much, you're not going to be able to move enough weight to actually have a productive workout. Is there a difference between sumo deadlifts and Romanian deadlifts? Is there a Romanian deadlifts? Yeah, there's a huge difference. Um, you know, Romanian deadlifts don't really hit a lot of glutes. People think they do. They're more hamstrings. Whereas a sumo deadlift will hit a great deal of glutes. Okay, third and final set. RDL's. H 9oo. Same thing. starts off feeling really light, but as time goes on and the reps go on, gets really challenging really fast. So, now we can move on and do a little blood flow restriction training on leg extension. So, we're hitting a good combination quads, hamstrings here. Go finish off with some BFR. Is there a difference between leg bands and arms? Is there a difference between leg BFR bands and arm BFR bands? Yes, there is. Leg BFR bands are typically larger because your legs should be bigger than your arms. You see? Hopefully, they are. If not, you probably need to work legs a little more, but other than that, same idea, same principle. Okay, coming over here to leg extensions. Same rep scheme applies. So, we're going our first set is 20 to 30 reps and then we do three sets after that where we're going to focus more doing half the amount of reps. So, if we do 30, we'll aim for about 15. If we do 25, we'll aim for 12. If we do 20, we'll aim for 10. And um we're doing a light weight. So, the idea is not to move a ton of weight with this one. So, really focus on that contraction. drive a lot of blood into the muscle. So, we'll set up our leg extension here. Again, pretty dang light. Uh the nice thing about this, especially after a workout like this, is that it takes a lot of that tension off of the um takes a lot of tension off the knees and the joints. If we're able to go a little lighter, then it makes it a little easier. I'm going to move these these out of your way, guys. So you can really see what's going on here with this one. Really controlled reps, but it's painful. It's not like BFR is easier than regular leg extensions. Um, might actually be a tad bit more uncomfortable, but still very, very effective just like any other BFR. So these are Unbound Gear Legion straps. I'm strapping up right under the glutes. Okay, we're trying to cut off some of that blood flow there. We're going about eight level of discomfort. So, eight out of 10. So, it's pretty tight, but we're not absolutely killing ourselves here. So, we've got the blood flow restricted. Now, all that's left to do is get to work. So, we're aiming for 20 to 30 reps here. Let's make it happen. Ah, 8 24 reps is what we ended up there. We wait 30 seconds and then we're going to do 12 reps for three more sets. 30 seconds rest in between. Start getting a nasty pump here. Striations start to come out. Veins start to come out. A little uncomfortable. I do recommend you stand up in between sets. Try and let some blood flow a little bit to proper areas of the body. And now let's go 12 reps. So pretty quick here. Keep an eye on the clock while doing these 5 8 9 30 seconds has begun. What are the benefits of blood restriction? The benefits of blood flow restriction training is you get a lot more work done in less time with less weight. So, you know, if I have knee issues and I don't want to throw a large load on there, works really well for injuries. It also works really well for just throwing on at the end of a workout when you've taxed yourself with more of the compound lifts. Works really well to finish things off. All right, next set is up. 30 seconds. We're keeping a close eye on it. Five 2 3 5 8 9 10. And one more set for this cluster set. Do leg extensions have a bad effect on the knees? Do leg extensions have a bad effect on the knees? Only if you do too heavy, too crazy, too ballistic, you should do it lighter and or very controlled. Don't throw the whole stack on there, guys. It's just a dumb exercise to overload. If I don't have BFR bands, can I do this workout without them? Yeah, you can do this workout without BFR bands. You can do the same set, same reps. Um, BFR bands are just going to help you get a little bit further. Final set. 2 3 4 8 9 10 Woo! Now release the tension. Yes, we are going to do one more cluster set, but you've got to release the tension for a good 60 seconds. Let the blood flow back in there a little bit and then we'll do one more cluster set. This is the nice thing about BFR. You just do two of these cluster sets. You basically hammered a muscle group. Is it safe to do every week? Is it safe to do every week? Yes, you can do it one time per week per muscle group is what I recommend. Don't go doing BFR two or three times a week for quads or any other muscle group. one time per week. Do you do de lo weeks? Do I do de load weeks? Yes. I try to I try to plan my de lo weeks around holidays and travel. So, I kind of wait until I know I'm going to be out of town, maybe at a hotel gym or something, but I try and de lo every four to five weeks. Okay, here we go. Next set. Same thing. about 20 reps or so and then cut it in half for three. Cluster set two. Let's go. Two. Three. 8. 9. 10. 11. Wow. 30. Ah. The burn is real on the quads. So, if somebody did just tune in, they want to know what is on your legs. What is on my legs? To the new viewer. Well, thank you for tuning in. Uh, these are occlusion straps. So, we're doing blood flow restriction training on targeting our quadriceps. Um, and we're using this at the end of our workout to try and maximize some of that uh work on the quads. Okay, next set. Keep a strict 30 seconds here. Let's go. 2 3 4 5 6 Woo! And I can see the definition coming in through the quads, which is just awesome. It's exactly what we want to see. Getting a little wobbly. Always good. Always good on a leg day to get a little bit of the wobbles. Two more sets here and then we're done with quads. Do a little bit of calves and workout's complete. This workout shouldn't take you longer than an hour. We're going to have it wrapped up in less than an hour with probably more talking than one should normally do in a workout. Two more sets. 10. Remember, 30 seconds. I know I'm saying it a lot, but I can't stress that enough. You guys don't want to keep these on any longer than you have to. you know, BFR training, you shouldn't keep the straps on all workout. It's not safe. It's not more effective. Just one cluster set at a time with that strict 30 seconds rest in between sets. So, we'll finish here with this one final set and then we'll go on do some calves. Here we go. 1 2 3 9 10. Woo! Yes! Yes! The legs, everything but the calves are done for. It's time to move on. Hit a little bit of calves and we're going to call it a leg day. Okay. Number of different ways that we can hit calves. Um I like doing it a lot of times on either a Smith machine. You can do it on some kind of a leg press as well. You know, we'll move right over here and maybe do it on this Smith machine for today. Looks like it's already loaded up with about the right weight. We'll just make things super simple here. So, Mike, give me tips for getting calves shaped like tips for getting calves shaped shaped like mine. You got to be born by my mama if you want to have my calves cuz I got them from her. No, in all seriousness, um the shape of the calves is kind of predetermined genetically, but you can build your calves by targeting them, you know, three, four times a week. Unfortunately, they are one of the harder muscle groups to hit just because so much of it is determined by the insertion, which you don't have much control over. Okay, so we're coming up here on a little bit of a platform. Big stretch, big contraction. 10. Now, calves are typically going to respond best to higher reps. I like to get up there in the 20 rep range on calves. I think it's the best way to do it. Where did you get your BFR bands? Where'd I get my BFR bands? So, Unbound Gear is is uh the brand of my BFR bands. Um they're actually not out yet. They're coming out soon, but uh they do a lot of like the occlusion straps for my arms and things that I use as well. Hope you guys try this workout, especially this weekend. It's a brave workout to do on the weekend. Anybody who trains legs Friday, Saturday, or Sunday, you're a warrior and you should. Okay, here we go. Short rest for calves. Keep the tension. Do a couple more sets there. And we are done with legs. Maybe a little cardio today. Sometimes I like to get on a spin bike or stationary bicycle for a few minutes, 15, 20 minutes following a leg day. Does the headband help with gains? Does the headband help with gains? About 27%. Yeah. Since I started wearing it, gains have increased. And I can only suspect it's because of the headband. Absolutely. Uh, do you prefer steady state cardio, hit cardio? Which one? Do I prefer steady state or hit cardio? Here's the thing. If you are training really intense and close to failure like I am today, do moderate intensity steady state. Um, your cortisol is already jacked through the roof. Don't jack it even more by pushing yourself to failure on hit cardio. But if you're training a little, you know, more moderate, then you can get away with hit cardio. What are you drinking? So, I'm drinking essential amino acids today. Um, always try to drink those essential amino acids during my workout. I think it's super helpful to get all nine of those aminos in um while training, especially on a day like leg day. Okay, here we go. Five. 2 3 4 5 9 10. Woo. One more set after this and then like I said, we're wrapping it up, guys. It's about all these legs can take. We'll come back Monday. So, typically Monday, hit heavy legs. Thursday, hit the lighter legs. Good combination. Do you recommend following this workout for four to five weeks or should we change its you already? Um, so follow this workout for four to five weeks. Yeah, you can. You guys can go back and you can find all these flex Friday workouts on YouTube. We keep track of all of them and you do one of the heavy ones um per week and one of the light ones per week. Sometimes you just, you know, we slightly change the exercises. You know, maybe instead of uh you know, doing a trap bar deadlift, we start with a squat. You know, maybe instead of a leg press, we do a hack squat. But, you know, the principle remains the same. Okay, final set. Let's go. One, two, three. Woo! There it is, guys. Leg day complete. I'm wobbly. I'm a little lightheaded. That feels about right for a leg day. So, thank you guys for checking it out. Make sure you follow along on my Instagram at trainer Mike1. You guys check me out on Facebook, athlete page at trainer Mike Physique, Body Space, and Mr. Symmetry. Check out that podcast, The Fit Couples Perspective. And we look forward to seeing you guys next week for another workout. But for now, we're tuning out Flex Friday leg day. Boom.