Whenever I first started training and I first started accomplishing all these things, I didn't think that I would ever influence anybody and I didn't think my story would be a story that anybody would want to hear. I grew up in a really small town um out in the country. I was always outside, always playing in the woods and in the pond, always getting yelled at for being muddy and whatnot. I tried every sport under the sun. I did volleyball. I did soccer. I did softball. All of that. I was always off balance. I was always running into things and they just thought I was just a goofy kid. But I'm legally blind in one eye. So I have no distance judging. So I have no hand eye coordination. So I was horrible with anything that involved the ball. So then I found a love in track. I injured my leg and I tore my hamstring. My sophomore year. I continued to run and I tore my other hamstring at the end of my senior year. So that kind of derailed me from all fitness, all activity, and I started to get a little out of shape. But I always wanted to hunt. So whenever I was in high school, you know, I saw this hot guy that was on the track team and I was like, "Yeah, he's good-looking." And then I found out that he hunted and I was like, "Yeah, I could talk to him and maybe uh use him a little bit for his hunting property and knowledge." He's like, that's initially how I was drawn to him. It's like I saw an opportunity and I took it. We've been hunting together ever since then. In our life, this is lean meat. This is a gift from God that you go out, you spend time being one with nature and then you get to take it home and you get to feed your family at the end of the day. When we decided that we were going to get married, we decided on Indiana's archery opener because uh we wanted to spend every anniversary doing exactly what we loved and that's bow hunting. I'm headed into the gym. going to go home, get around, get my food, and we'll see you there. Whenever um I first graduated high school, I went straight into working um three jobs. So, I had an awfully crazy schedule and then I was finally able to land a job that would pay me well enough to just work one single job. And that job was being a custodian at the high school. For so long, like I didn't take any time for myself. I started to watch myself become more and more unhealthy. And uh I just remembered how active I was and how good I felt whenever I was active. So, I saw um competitions as a way to get more fit, to look good for my husband, and as a challenge for myself. I'm going to do it once cuz it was something cool to say. And when I kids down the road, I'll be like, "Hey, your mom was fit once or something like that." But then, uh it kind of just started to roll from there. I had people tell me that I was setting myself up for failure. I had to remember that I wasn't doing this for them. I was doing this for me. I'm going to talk to you and tell you how excited I am. I never thought that I would even be able to go to the Arnold Expo, let alone compete on the Arnold stage, let alone get top five in the Arnold, let alone get second. Some of the people that were telling me that I was doing it all wrong and that I was setting myself up for failure, then they started coming to me for advice. If you're not completely happy with yourself and you're doing this because you hate yourself or you hate your body, you're going to hate your body, no matter how lean it is. So, what you need to do is you need to look at yourself and you say, "I want to commit to being healthy. I want to commit to making healthy lifestyle changes." Start making those small choices. Find your happy spot and go from there. Gym time is your time. go put in the work, enjoy yourself, but also enjoy family, enjoy life, and enjoy relationships. Whenever I first started in the industry, you know, I was so self-conscious about even saying that I was a custodian. This is my office. But the more that I started to post, you know, me at work, like that really gave people hope. And so, like, I became more okay with that. And I became more okay with being who I was by knowing that I could influence people by being real because of a small story um that I never thought would be anything that anybody wanted to hear is influencing these people to just go for it. It's an incredible feeling.