You know I talked to sammy about this all the time you know like I'm not trying to lie to myself and say like this is going to go on forever. You know there's There's a there's a time stamp on it. You know When that's going to be I hope it's far down the road. I'm going to try to make it far down the road, but You know I know I don't want to Be coach I know I don't want to go to crossfit gym. I'm in cross it because I like to compete But you know I kind of look at it as the same as when I left wait with him You know when I left wait the thing I was lost you know I was not a happy person who noticed I? Didn't have a thing you know I didn't have something to concentrate my energy on I didn't have something to Focus my work ethic on it have something to work hard at So when I found prostate it was kind of like oh Awesome eyes something I need to fly those negative or carnet oh as asking - hello What goes this moment is Laura Sutton great little baby take my RV? Down committed a hole in the world record waters off No, I just just worked out because my hair is all kind of sticky from a sweatshop yeah, we're heading into next town over for When they ski, I just got an email Duplex up for sale, so we're just just driving by take a look at it if it looks like anything decent, I'll call call the real estate agent and kind of get a showing for it, but it's going to fit the mold of what I've been looking for you know a Couple units, you know regular residential place, but just a good opportunity for an investment property I'm the same same is Gonna be the one running the place That's the bed and breakfast we open some day I Just want to bake fresh price of goods for people in the morning. Nothing special. I mean, it's very Outdoorsy I mean Vermont's a lot about door activities you know skiing in the winter hiking in the summer that stuff They're very typical childhood of you know lived in like the typical neighborhood you know there's All the groups of kids you know everyone's within four or five years of each other. There's like like 16 20 of us all together You could tell where everyone was because of where all the who's front lawn all the bikes were laid down on Hiding yes, I unless good windows. Look good. There's two separate units for utilities Super easy, we do yourself Looks like there's my gumball vegas climbing room like covered porch. Yeah. Yes that been upstairs duplexes entrances into a finished porch All right We call the real estate agent This guy getting something they don't don't be scared I never take this tour It's messy also doesn't block off your vision To be happy from you know that's that's the esna number one goal is just Happiness, you know Who cares what else is going on in life like if you're unhappy? What's the point of it you know, so happiness is definite number one? What's going to produce that happiness? You know the big things you know I? Think I think the biggest one is just family you know. I know I know I want to have a whole litter or kids, so So you know hopefully hopefully you know find? Find some acreage find a house Standing kids, whoever goes along with that you know, I don't know yes. No, it's uh Kind of excitement. You know you don't know what's next well. I look forward to finding that out in due time