What's up everyone? It's Edward from Bars and today I'll be showing you how to start calisthetics. Now, my first piece of advice for you is to buy calisthetics equipment. Now, this is not exactly necessary, but it will help you build towards your goals a lot faster. Now, for every exercise system, there's a degree of learning. When you're bodybuilding, you have to learn how to bench press, and then you add more weight to continue. When it comes to squatting, again, you squat and then you add more weight to continue. So, every exercise system has a degree of learning and acquiring new skills. Even more so when it comes to calisthetics. For calisthenics, when you're trying to progress from one movement to the next or to make the exercise more difficult, you have to readjust your body and use leverage to make the exercise more difficult. This requires practice. So, you have to have working out and practicing. Working out is where you're taxing your body and uh putting yourself through a really tough routine. Whereas practicing, you're really focusing on the technique, how to align your body, and working very specifically to a goal. Now, this is why you should have calisthetics equipment. If you have a home pull-up bar, you're able to practice a lot more often than you're able to work out. Practice could be like a little short burst of you practicing a particular technique, maybe 10 minutes, as opposed to going all the way to the gym, doing an hour session and practicing and working out together. Now, most of your practice should come from your workouts. Now, if you have more time and you're able to have the stuff at your house at your disposal, you're able to practice more often. And this is what's important in calesthetics. Now, I don't promote or support a particular brand of equipment, but you should get something that's really wellreed. Don't go cheap cuz it will break early and fast. You want to get something that's going to be safe and sturdy. I myself have two pull-up bars that go in the doorway in my house and a pull-up station in my room. I can't go a day without seeing these things. Now, the next step is to identify your goals. With CSX, there many different pathways. You can lose fat, gain muscle, learn particular skills, become more explosive. There's a whole wide variety. So, identify what's very important to you and write this down. Now, your past program should lead you closer to these goals with every step. So, I'll be showing you how to identify a good program. A good program first and foremost should be introducing you the basics and having you very beginner skills and work your way up at a gradual pace. Any program that introduces you to muscleups or planches really early is a bad program because you have to take your time and learn it. You have to realize that people on YouTube or the highle calisthetics athletes you might know have been training for well over a year minimum. It takes a long time to progress in these movements and it's not something you learn overnight. And that's okay cuz everyone's been at the point where you've been at where you're just starting. Now that you know that the difficult skills should be saved for later, the program should be building you up to a gradual pace. So you should be feeling somewhat worked but not overwhelmed with the program. It should be giving you enough that you're in a good moderate pace of growing every week. So if you're someone that's uh jocking three times a week, you shouldn't be expecting to do a muscle up next week. Take your time. You're going to get there. And just take your time. Really focus on the basics. That's what a proper cast size program is going to do. whether no matter what your skill is, you're going to have to learn the basics first. From there, maybe if you're trying to burn fat, you want to do something that's more high intensity. Uh if you want to be more explosive, maybe you want to uh work on your repetition speed so you're exploding up faster on every exercise. If you want to gain muscle, um you want to keep the volume very high and really work out. We have a program at Barstars BTX, which is a 12-week program, which shows you uh different skills integrated into the workout to bring you towards your goal. But I'll give you more tips even if you're not interested in the Barst Stars BTX. Now, another tip is calisthetic exercises are compound exercises for the most part. So, what that means is you're going to have a tough time if you're doing isol if you're trying to do isolation biceps with calisthetics. So, for example, if you want to work out your biceps, you may want to do chin-ups. Chin-ups are a great bicep workout, but it also takes your back and your shoulders into account, which is not a bad thing, but it's something to keep in mind when programming. Now, you can't really have a bicep or a tricep day or a chest day only cuz most of these exercises are compound exercises and they bring more than one muscle into it. So, a good idea of a program should be push, pull, legs, where you do the push movements, something like push-ups, handstand push-ups, dips, and the next day you do pull-ups, front levers, back rows, and the next day you do legs, something like pyometrics, pistols, lunges, and squats. Or you could do upper lower, where you do all your upper body muscles, then all your lower body muscles, then all your upper body muscles, and all your lower, and then incorporate rest as it should be. But no matter what, it shouldn't be a bro split where you're trying to do one muscle per day per week because you're gonna find this to be impossible. Now, in this part of the video, I'll be showing you some basic exercises that you should incorporate into any routine. The first one being pull-ups. Now, remember, like I said, we'll be learning everything at a gradual pace. So, assuming you can't do a pull-up, I'll be showing you two progressive measures to build up to a pull-up. Now, the first one is called a negative chin-up. Now, a chin-up always has your hands facing, palms facing you, and the knuckles facing away. This is easier than a pull-up because it recruits your bicep more. All right, we're going to do a negative chin-up. So, we're going to get a a chair or a box or you can have a friend boost you up. Hold the top position and then come down as slow as possible. All right. So, once you use your assistant to get to the top, you're going to put your chin over, hold as strong as you can, contract the muscles, and come down as slow as possible. That's the negative chin-up. Now, the next progression I'll be showing you is called Australian pull-ups or back rows. You know, find something that keeps you about waist level. I'm for this instance, I'll be using a barbell. If you're at a park, you can find a lower hanging bar. Or if you're at home, you can use a table or chair if it's sturdy enough. So, you position your body back straight, arms fully extended. You're going to pull up and come down. Here's the example. Back fully straight. You're going to pull up, come down. Pull up, come down. Pull up, come down. You don't want to let your body sag like this. So again, back fully straight, arms about shoulder width apart. Pull up, hold for a second, come back down. That is a Australian pull-up and or a back pull. Now, once you feel comfortable with the Australian pull-up and a negative chin-up and you feel like you're ready to progress, the next exercise will be the chin-up, which is a great workout for your biceps and your back. You're going to grab the bar shoulderwidth apart with your palms facing you. You're not going to use the assistance of your legs and you keep a straight motion up so your chin is over the bar and then back down. You're not going to jerk your head so that you chin is a little bit higher. So you can say your chin went over and you're not going to wiggle your body to get it. Just a pull motion to work those pull muscles. So here we go. All right, and this last one will be pull-ups. Again, a great workout for your biceps and your back, but it doesn't recruit the bicep muscle as much. So, it's going to be a lot more difficult than the chin-up. But same rules apply. You just switch the hand. So, palms facing away from you. You grab the bar, pull up, squeeze at the top, come back down again. No assistance from your legs, no jerking your body. Up and down motion. All right, the next exercise I'll be showing you is dips. We'll be starting off with bench dips. It's a great workout for your triceps. So, you're going to grab the bench box or whatever you're using that's sturdy behind you. Put your hands right outside of your butt. Stick your legs out, keep them straight, and you're going to bend. And there's going to be a curve in your chest. And that's the dip. Now, if that's too difficult, you can have your feet like this for a progression. And once you get stronger, both feet out. That's the dip. All right. Now, a great beginner ab workout is going to be knee raises. You're going to grab the bar shoulderwidth apart. It's going to really work on your grip. You're going to bring your knees up a little bit beyond waist level and curve back a little bit. This is going to engage your core. So, grab the bar shoulder apart. Keep your shoulders tight and engaged. Knees up. Down. Knees up. Down. Knee raises. All right. Next, I'll be showing you the assisted pistol. The pistol is also known as the one leg squat. You keep the other leg up and you come straight down and back up. Now, for the assisted, we'll be using this bar, but you could also use a rope or a friend. And you come down. When you're having trouble at the particular range of motion you're having trouble, use the assisting hand to help pull you up. So, here we go. I'll be using this hand. This be the I mean this this would be the dominant leg. This leg raises. Come down. Right here. I'll help my hand come back up. Come down. Back up. All right. The next exercise I'll be showing you is push-ups. Again, another great compound exercise, but it really focuses primarily on your chest. Now, I did a full video on this channel on how to do the best push-up, but I'll briefly retouch the subject here. So, you're going to have your hands shoulderwidth apart. You're going to let your elbows bend in, and you're going to go up. You're going to line your wrist with your elbow with your shoulder, keeping your back straight. Now, if that's too difficult, you can focus on having your knees on the ground, lean forward, and push up like that. All right, the next basic exercise I'll be showing you is going from a push-up to a handstand. Now, some of you guys may find this difficult, so it's good to have a spotter just to make sure you can get it. And if you're not able to go to full handstand, just go as high as you can. So, you're going to push your position. You're going to have your feet on the wall and you'll walk your way up. All right, that one was kind of tough, but just practice one rep at a time if you have to and really focus on the handstand position. This proper alignment will help you down the road when it comes to handstands if you are interested in learning that, but it's also a great workout for your shoulders. All right, thank you guys for watching the video. To recap what we talked about first was getting calisthetics equipment. Next, how to find and determine a good calisthetics program. And we went over these five exercises. The pull-up, the push-up to handstand against the wall, the pistol squat, the regular push-up, and the dip. Thank you guys for watching. Subscribe to bodybuilder.com for more videos.