It takes more than time in the gym to become a four-time Mr. Olympian. I've dedicated my life to building a legacy that reaches beyond the competition stage. I want the next generation to be better than me. I'm fourtime Miss Olympia Jacob. This is how you train. So, I'm here at bodybuild.com headquarters ready to shoot day one of the living large mass trainer. Today, we're going to do chest, but the difference is I'm not going to be doing the training. I'm actually going to take one of bodybuild.com's athletes, Azo, and take him through how to build a champion chest. Okay, so our first exercise is going to be the incline barbell bench press. In this exercise, we're going to do a couple warm-up sets and then we're going to work into building some mass into the chest and getting those reps out there with some heavier weights. Okay, ready to go? Oh, yeah. On the lighter sets, I usually try to do around 12 to 15 just to get get a little blood going in there. And then uh we'll work into the heavier sets where we're going to shoot for about 10 repetitions. Okay, that sounds good. What's important with chest, um, obviously people focus on weights and repetitions. You know, your elbow positioning is really important because you really want to push not with the triceps and the shoulders. You really want to push with the chest. And sometimes the elbows have to be a little inward. They can't really be out cuz if they're outward, you're going to put press more with the shoulders and triceps. So, so you're you're better off, you know, you have to create that arch, which your chest should be the highest point of your body, and then you press upwards. So you really can actually feel the chest contracting. You're not just pressing the weight just to press it. And I see so many people go in the gym and they press over and over with. You can see that, you know, the shoulders are doing the work, the triceps, and that's why the chest ends up underdeveloped most of the time. One more warmup set. Let's do one more. One, one more warm up. Better to be safe than make any mistakes thinking you're ready to go full bore into the heavy weights. One more. Come on up. Up. Good. Good. Okay. Damn, I need a new shirt already. People's misconception is that, you know, oh, I'm going to do inclines, it's only going to hit my upper chest, or I'm going to do declines, it's going to hit the lower. It's It's really just I mean, the overall chest development is from basic pressing movements. That's where you're going to develop the best chest. You feel that barbell is usually better for your chest than dumbbells. I I switch I go alternate. So, do barbell one week and then do dumbbells the following week. This is our first working set here. Okay. Three sets of 10 repetitions is what we're going to do. 45 seconds still in between. Just let you feel. See how you fatigue and gonna try to roll you through this thing, man. Roll it. Good. Okay. Ready? Yeah. Remember that the key is is uh not a weight competition. Good. Come on. Up. Up. Good. Give him that little, you know, just the hands are there. I'm not doing anything really. Just keeping a keeping his mind that I'm there if he needs me. Okay, come on. One more. One more. One more. Up. Good. Good. Perfect. Good. You know, it's always good to have, you know, a partner when you're bench pressing, depending how heavy you go. All right. All right. Come on. Good. Good. Come on. Up. Good. Yeah. Up. Push. Good. Okay. Lock it up. Good. Damn, I got to go bra shopping after this. Yeah, sometimes I used to pose a lot between sets or whatever. It's good to stare at yourself and flex a little bit. You know, even the smallest guys do it. I see the guys in the gym, you know, flexing themselves. And you catch people admiring you a lot. Huh. I don't know if they're miring me or you. Okay, this is the last one. Yeah, last one. Okay. Okay. When we're done, this is the last workout for the day, right? Uh, good. Good. One more. One more. Up. Good. Perfect. God damn. I mean, this is like the meat and potatoes exercise for chest. This is what uh you see on Mondays. Every gym is loaded with everyone. They call it uh you know, chest day on Monday. International chest day. Yeah. International chest day. So, so you know better than me. I usually don't have it on a Monday. By the way, if we're going to shoot for 10 repetitions, that's going to be the goal. We can go right into the weight since we're already warmed up from the inclines. And uh let's knock it out. Now, remember, uh you know, no bouncing off the chest, no cheat reps. Remember, we're going to work on contractions. That's what we're focused on. You tell me when. Let's go. Okay. Come on. Now, good. That's it. Good. So, as you can see, the the bar is not coming down. It's keeping the contraction on the chest, which is very, very important. Up. Good. Perfect. You see so many people in the gym, most of the time it's people that can't handle the weights that they press, right? I mean, they get on a bench and what they do is they come down with the bar and they bounce or whatever or they round the chest. They tend to to round over the shoulders and they press, you know, especially get those last reps. You don't want that. You want to be able to keep the chest up so you can feel and contract. You can see if you want to stay there and let me spot you. Yeah. You sure? I want you to get your set because we're you're 60 seconds is 60 seconds. Got it. I'm not going to let you cheat, man. I came all the way I came all the way up here to to give you a little ass whooping. So, okay. Ready? All right. I'm standing back letting you rep it out. Come on. Come on. Four. Come on. Come on. One more. One more. One more. Oh, good. Okay. Yeah. I like when you struggle a little bit. Oo. You know, ideally, I mean, for chest, you just want that burn, right? How about for um certain people who have uh problems breaking through like weight plateaus? It's kind of a an odd question because, you know, as a bodybuilder, we're not really focusing on as much weight. But ideally, if you train lighter for a couple weeks than normal and then you go to max out again, you will be able to do much more weight. Okay? You got to lighten up the load because what's happening is a lot of times you're just doing too much and it's just exhausting people. Exhausting. Okay. All right. Big lift. Ready? Okay. Ready? Come on. Okay. Come on. Up. Good. Come on. That's it. Power through. Power through. Good. Up. Come on. Good. One more. One more. One more. Go. Good. Good. Good. Got it. Perfect. Get that burn. Yeah, it's burning. It's a good burn, not those bad birds. Yeah. All right, so third exercise in the chest mass program is going to be flat dumbbell fly. Okay, this is one of my favorites actually because I can put a little more resistance on this. Okay, so as you know, the chest gets engorged with muscle from the pressing movements. Now, we're going to stretch it out, allow the fibers to open up, and allow more blood flow to the tissue, and of course, nutrients and everything else that's going to help you build an Olympia chest. Okay. Okay. Ready? One, two. Okay. As you see, I'm I'm giving them a little resistance on the way down. I'm trying to trying to pull them apart a little bit. That's going to help tear those inner chest fibers. you guys looking to build that inner chest, this is a great uh partner movement. So, what the resistance allows, everyone seems to ask, they want that line in their chest. Obviously, that comes with the mass on the chest, but it's also going to help pull those fibers out, okay? And allow the chest to get more blood to it. Okay? So, ideally with this exercise is everyone's mind's always stuck on how much weight they pull out. Okay? Remember, it's all about the workout and really getting blood into the muscle. It's really just getting that that full contraction. You can't do that when you have too much weight. You're too focused on on holding the weight. The elbows can't be too far. They got to be back and just really allow the contraction on the chest. Little secret of uh 20 years of training. It it this is enough to really get the job done. So, you're just trying to keep all your workouts and exercises simple. It's very complicated. People complicate training much much more than they need to. All right, 10 more reps. Last set. Okay, good. Good. Good. Can really feel that contraction when you come up there. So chest is working. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Starting to burn, isn't it? Good. Good. Okay. Good. All right. That's the key. I mean, once you start feeling that burnless, you can only push so far. Don't matter if your partner's yelling at you, do four more. Yeah. I never believed in that. You don't want to get to the point where you're just you're just dying and he's doing the weight or whatever else, she's doing the weight. Really doesn't matter. So, it's pretty and leave that ego at the door. I see it a lot. They get the superhero complex where they're watching some guy lift heavy weight and they immediately want to start doing it, too. I'm sure these guys are over here saying, "Oh, I can do more weight than you this guy and whatever else." But, but you're here for yourself, too. Let them go over there and do it and do what they're doing. Now, over to the fourth exercise. Uh, we're going to do some dips. Okay. And this is kind of unique exercise. I mean, this was a kind of the staple of the Jay Cutler training program for a lot of the Olympias. With this exercise, really the key is keeping the legs back. Okay? If you're going to do a dips for the triceps, usually the legs stay underneath the body. But with this, the legs are going to be back. So, you actually get a lean kind of going into the movement. All right. And you get that nice stretch on the chest. And this is really going to help on the outside of the chest development. Okay. Everyone wants to get that nice rounded look when they stand on stage or just, you know, looking good in, you know, in tank top or whatever else. You want to get that nice round look to the chest. This is a great exercise for that. Okay. So, so legs back. Legs back. Okay. Little lean into it. And uh you know, you're going to go down as deep as you you feel it comfortable. Okay. You know, I usually only did body weight because I weighed 300 lb. Okay, you see these guys in the gym, they might strap on. It's okay to do that. I mean, obviously for me, my legs weighed, you know, a lot more than half my body weight most of the time at my biggest. So, for me, I was able to just, you focus on 10 repetitions. That's really what we're going to focus on. And, uh, and really just try to get that contraction. His chest is really contracting at the top of the movement right there. Okay. You want to see it next time. I mean, you really think of dip and you think of the guys like that work on the Olympic rings. Their triceps are really developed, right? Because they're locking it continually. Let's do the next set. Knock this thing out. Now, with this exercise, you're not really locking the triceps. You're actually trying to lock the chest and not the triceps. Okay? That's why the lean in is very, very important because if you are more upright, you're going to end up locking the triceps more than you would in this position. It's really hard to lock your triceps because the chest actually locks first. So, that's the ideal with this movement is really getting that chest lock out and not the triceps. All right, last set of 10 reps. Here we go, man. His body is forward, the legs are back. So, it's really, you see, his triceps aren't locking out. They're not getting to that point because they'll lean in. That's very, very important. Good. So, it's nice to actually train with someone and actually see, okay, how the techniques I used or use in my training is is very, very important. Um, and I can see how they actually work. You know, it's kind of like an athlete watching training footage or game footage of like how they played or what other teams did. Now, how do you feel about people who first time the gym and they're waiting for all the information to start? What do you think about that? What should they do? I mean, it's uh it's much easier when I started where we didn't have internet. I learned to train from watching people in the gym. So, I'd be sitting here watching these guys work out and say, "Oh, that's like a cool movement. Oh, that's a cool movement. Oh, this machine's for that." And that's how I learned. And now you're that guy. Well, now it's like now you can go on the internet and see, okay, do you watch Jay Cutler train or, you know, watch him train someone else or have instructional pieces. I mean, bodybuilding.com, they have so much info out there that's live and I mean, I put out content consistently and I'm I'm always, you know, socially acting with the fans out there all over the place and it's just it's it's a new it's a new technology and I mean, everyone today is very um Yeah, it's but they're very fortunate to have that dumbbell pullover. Okay, we've already completed four exercises. This is our fifth one. The only thing really left to do is not necessarily pump it up anymore, but stretch it out so it allows possibly more blood to get in there. We're going to hold the dumbbell, okay? Like a triangle. Okay. So, really, you know, you're really getting that stretch all the way through here. So, it's stretch, contract, stretch, contract. I mean, it's pretty much kind of like the fly movement. And this will really and it'll also help open up the rib cage, which is really important on those on those side chest shots. Good. It's good. Okay. So, I don't really see as many people in the gyms nowadays doing it. I mean, I train in Vegas, you know, I see a lot of the young kids, and it seems like an exercise that they don't display as much online or in the magazines. But, it's something that I try to promote because it's really good, especially as you're younger. It's really good to really help build up, open up that rib cage, and really build as much width as you possibly can. Okay. Come on. That's it. Good. Keep the butt down. Good. Good. You're looking at the Living Large Trainer being an 8week program. Okay, I know it seems like a lot of workouts, but when you really break it down, you really only have eight quality chest workouts that you can actually say, "Okay, everyone has to be productive." Yeah. Butt down when you come back. Good. There you go. Good. Yeah. Good. If I was leaving the gym uh the day before after finishing my training, I'd already be thinking about the next phase workout. I already knew walking in the gym the next day. I could basically walk to each station and say, "Okay, this was already done in my head yesterday." It makes it easier for you to tackle each workout. So, you can mentally prepare yourself. And that's the thing, as you get progressively better and more active in what you're trying to do, I mean, I could pick up a weight and say, "Okay, I'm going to do this eight times." And I always did it eight times. It's like Michael Jordan. It's like Michael Jordan when he used to shoot his his free throws and he closed his eyes. He just he knew muscle memory takes over at that point. your mind. It's that connection you have with your mind, you know, and that comes with consistent training. Over many years of training, you start to learn your body, too. People try to do that from the first day. It's not going to happen. So, this is the end of the chest training for the Mass Living large trainer. And now we're going to go over and do the next movements, which is going to be standing calf raises. our next exercise and let's go check it out. Like a lot of the gyms out there, there's not a standing calf machine available in this gym. So, we're going to kind of make our own. So, let's let's uh we're going to put these these quarters down. Okay. This is going to create this is going to create our our platform where All right. This would normally be like a calf machine. Okay. going to put these so your heels can kind of drop off because remember the contractions very very important. Okay. The most common question that people ask me is how do I get my calves big and I try to tell everyone you got to train them like every other body part. So I really in when I was have my biggest calves of my career I trained them once a week with every other body part. Okay? So I would pick a day, you know, usually it was on chest day that I would do the calves and I would do a couple different movements, maybe three sometimes, but mainly I would stick to, you know, a standing calf raise and a seated calf raise. Most of the times I tried to stay with heavy weights on this. I know people say high reps, low reps. My common theory is you walk around in your calves all day. If I'm doing higher repetitions when I walk, why would I do that in the gym? Yes. So, I try to do heavier weights and just full contraction. Okay. So, you're going to see nice stretch up contract. Okay. Okay. I don't train my calves as much anymore. I do very little, but you don't need to. I don't want them to get too big. That's what I tell people. So, you pause twice. One, two. I I do it that way. That's just my I mean, you do it the way that you I'm going to do it your way. Okay. You try my way. I'm not going to fight you. Get that nice stretch. Good. Yeah. Really get that contraction as you can see through his Adidas socks. So sometimes you got to you got to just uh makeshift your own uh machines and this is just as good as doing a regular calf raise, you know. So, same thing. That actually felt kind of good. So, but as you seen my momentum, you know, I don't really take too much too much pause. You know, a little slight bend to the knees is important with this exercise. Okay. Get this. Uh-oh. We got to step it up. That's like uh when BOA turns his hat around about to go down. Now the socks come down the calves. Every guy I know wants to walk around with big calves. And in the beginning, I didn't have the best calves. So I usually uh wore more long pants than I did shorts. Been in Vegas. You don't have much choice to wear anything but shorts nowadays. So I get tired of hearing about people with genetic excuses. Oh, I I just don't have this or that. And yes, it's true. I mean, to get to a certain level, listen, I it's like the guy told me I don't have any abs. Everyone has abs. I mean, it's one of those things where you should still train it. I mean, just keep the routine. Just keep, you know, just because it doesn't grow like the other body parts, don't just skip it. You know, everyone's different. I mean, you have to do different movements. Some people are going to respond to different movements. And it's very simple. Like I said, it's, you know, people try to complicate it too much. Be like the guy saying, "Oh, there's no there's no standing calf machine here. I can't do it." Yeah. Okay. So, watch watch, fellas. We we'll show you how you can do your calves over here. Work those toothpicks. Yep. Good. Very simple. The calves are here. We're going to knock out some seated calf raises, which is the seventh exercise and of course the final exercise of our routine. So, sometimes it's good to hold it at the top a little bit. Really get that squeeze. I mean, kind of one. I don't really like holding it much longer than that. Okay. Good. And what's nice about this, okay, is that you can give a little resistance here, too, on the way down. Okay. Kind of like I did with the fly movement, which allows it to feel a little heavier than it actually is. I usually have my part partners do that. I mean, I used to load this thing up with three plates or four plates sometimes and I'd have a even a resistant hand in there. That's good. Good. Lock that. My stretch that I like to do the most was this stretch. Okay. So, keep the heels flat on the floor. Really just try to get that stretch from the balls of your feet and back. Okay. On your calves. Feel you can feel it pulling your calves. Yeah, you can feel it pull mainly on the outside. So, same thing. Rest times uh is the same. 45 seconds. I'm not letting you get away with uh just kidding. I saw him work too easy on the last set. So, couldn't fool this guy. Yeah, you actually get some pretty decent calves under those socks, man. I appreciate it. I've been walking my whole life. That's it. Come on. Some people like to train in the gym and a little more covered up. I used to wear tights on leg day. I'm kind of embarrassed to say that sometimes. I used to wear the the tights, but try to make them pop out of Yeah. Well, it's I can see I see the names popping and all that stuff. It actually made me train harder. So, I think a lot of people have that I do the same that that superstitious ways where it's like, okay, I had a great workout in that shirt last week. I'm going to train it again. I mean, it sounds kind of odd, but I know a lot of people probably are sitting back watching saying, man, I think the same thing. That's cool. Last set now. Come on. Another 10 reps. Ready? Got it. One, two. Come on. One more rep. One more rep. Good. Good. Say, "How's it feel?" Hold on. Let me get a second. All right, I'm good. So, sometimes what I would like to do, too, let me just to give a little mix in there. get my legs in here a little better. So, you got to kind of go through the reps. Okay. So, if I'm going to do Okay. So, what I might do is I might do a rest pause. So, I stop maybe five or 10 seconds and then jump right back into it. Right back in, do another six reps. And listen, you know, you're going to you're going to push to a certain rep range and then it's going to get to a point where it's like, okay, I'm only going backwards here. let your mind rethink and then just try to push out as many reps as you can do. But I appreciate uh you listening and learning to what I had to say. You learn a lot. There's a lot that I can preach even, you know, being a competitive bodybuilder to someone that's not necessarily looking to get on stage. And bodybuilding in this kind of workouts isn't just for the competitor. It's not for just a competitor. That's the main thing is it's it's for that average person and is just find what benefits you and the lifestyle that you live. Okay. So, thanks, man. I appreciate it. All right, man. Till next time. Definitely till next time. All right. So, we just completed day one, workout one of the living large 8week trainer. If you guys haven't checked it out, make sure you check it out at bodybuild.com. I'm active on there. I'm on the forums. You guys can check me out, of course, my Twitter, Mr. OJ Cutler. My Instagram, Mr. Jutler official. For more content and more information on Jay Cutler and of course this workout program, check out bodybuild.com. Stay on it cuz you never know where it's going to take you.