- Oh yeah, it's fine now. Quite surprised. - [Cameraman] Feels like bathwater. - Yeah, (laughs) I thought it would be cold. Well, this is a good thing. I've been taking ice baths all the time, and I'm quite comfortable in an ice bath, you know? It doesn't bother me. So I think this'll be good. I'll just get a little bit more shrinkage than normal, if that's even possible. I'm Kris Gethin. I'm gonna be training to prepare for an Ironman. Most people give themselves 2 years. I'm giving myself 6 months. And we're gonna do it. I've just had to stop. I'm absolutely shattered. (heavy drum music) Alright guys, day 85 here on the Man of Iron video series. Of course we're starting with shoulders and triceps and abs. I've noticed when I'm running for a long time, it's my traps that really, really do ache a lot. So I do need to make sure that I keep this area strong to hold up my delts, hold up my triceps, even though I try to relax as much as I possibly can when I do run, it still aches. So I still wanna be working this area. (heavy rock music) Nice. Day 85 is done. Alright, we're gonna rush from here now down to Quinn's Pond to get that post-workout swim in. So, I don't want too much of a time gap between these two disciplines. Usually, I'd get into the pool right next door here, but we're doing open water swim. So we've got to race on down to Quinn's Pond, because I've got to be in a meeting at 9 a.m. So I've gotta get in, get out, and get this day ahead. (rippling water) Alright, now we're here at a meeting that is at 9 o'clock and it is 8:57. Punctual, as usual. So this meeting is with Elevate Publishing. I'm having a meeting with them to discuss the possibility of putting this "Man of Iron" series into a book. So let's see what they say. They've shown some interest and they seem like a very, very good fit. The owner of the publishing house is actually a triathlete, which makes it even better. Let's see what they say. I'm not gonna take you in. There's some times that we have to have a little bit of privacy. But I'll let you know how the meeting went. So update from the meeting that we had with Elevate Publishing before. Fantastic news. I've just written the contract, signed the contract I should say, and we will have a "Man of Iron" book. It'll be a great thing to complement this video series. It's great. Hopefully there will be some of you out there interested in reading this book, so watch this space, watch my socials. Anyway, updates in regards to food. We are having another beautiful vegetarian meal cooked by the beautiful, Sunshine. - Sunshine - [Kris] And, we have some lentil pasta and we have some mixed vegetables here. We've got some peppers, lettuce, cucumber. And we have a little pineapple, some micro rainbow mix, zucchini, asparagus. And we have some veggie burgers that have just gone on the grill. At the end of this video series, I am honestly thinking of going vegetarian for awhile. I did vegan for six weeks about a year and a half ago, so I know it can be done. And I'd be interested to see what sort of shape I would be able to maintain on a completely vegetarian diet. Not hardcore enough to go vegan. Anyway, I'd better get back to the kitchen before Sunshine spanks me. (intense music) Feeling a little bit tired this morning. But anyway, there's nothing that you can do about that other than get the blood flowing to your brain. Sometimes you've gotta do the opposite to what your brain is telling you. Your brain is telling you, take a rest, have some more hours in bed. But the thing is, that's not gonna wake you up, is it? The best thing to do is do the opposite, get to the gym, get the blood flowing to your brain, improve your focus and your energy a little bit, then you're going to be able to attack the day instead of let it slip away. (heavy rock music) (grunts) Nothing left. It's very easy for you to hold yourself back during these workouts, mentally. You can't think like that. You've just gotta think about the moment right now. Don't think about saving yourself for the next set. Or the second or third set. Or for the bike, or the run that's to come. You gotta take your body out of its comfort zone. You just need to get comfortable being uncomfortable. (heavy rock music) I did the cardio on the Wattbike today so I could check my wattage or my power output. If you don't have anything like that, when you're going through the intensity for four minutes, maybe go at it about an 8 out of 10. Kind of gauge. Don't go all out, as hard as you can, so you reach failure in that four minutes. Just an 8 out of 10 as it feels on like a steady, steady climb. What I'm really focusing on more and more is trying to focus on the drag and the pull of the pedal stroke, not just the push. Because if your quads go, what are you gonna rely upon then? So if we can distribute that stress within that full rotation, then you're gonna have a little bit of fatigue in your quads, a little bit of fatigue in your hamstrings, little bit of fatigue in your glutes, and it isn't just gonna be localized to one area because you're quad dominant, or whatever it may be. Remember you're only as strong as your weakest link. If your quads go, you're gonna be weak. (grunts) Alright, I just got back from my run. Day 87 here. I didn't have the GoPro with me. The SIM card was full, so I wasn't able to film either in the Jeep or there, so my apologies. And when the videographer was following me, guess what? There was another bloody roadblock. More construction. So he wasn't able to follow me either. So I said, "Don't worry about it. "I don't want you to have the hassle. "I'll record the wrap-up when I get home." So now I am recording that wrap-up. This run, it was like 44 minutes, by the time I got back to the house it was like 44 minutes. But it was a struggle. I have no idea why. Well, it was a couple of things. My chest was tight and my legs are heavy from yesterday's workout. My legs are pretty bloody sore. And if I feel okay this evening, you know what? I'm gonna give it another shot. I'm gonna go for another run. Because I don't feel like I got anything out of that. I just got some dead miles in. I was checking on my posture. I was making sure that my cadence was good. Oooh, those are new trainers. Where's a knife? Let's see if there's trainers in here. (Sunshine laughs) So what I've noticed with all these miles that I'm going through, I'm going through these trainers. Like they feel really good when I buy them, for the first like six weeks, they're awesome. And then they slowly deteriorate. And then like after three months, which this has been over three months now, completely shattered. Like I have no cushioning left. And what you may notice on some of these trainers, is that you'll get some cracks. That is not supposed to be actually in the lining there. I don't know if you can see. That is an actual crease. So when I see a lot of these creases, it's telling me that the suspension is kinda collapsing on these things, or the cushioning. Sometimes people reward themselves with food if they've done really good. Maybe reward yourself with some trainers or a new piece of cycling kit or something like that instead. You work hard and then you can reward yourself harder. Alright, food time. (heavy rock music) Good morning, it is day 88. We are in the YMCA this morning. It's a Thursday. And look here, we're starting with the workout for a change. Usually we start with the swim, because the 50 meter lap pool is only open from 5 until 6:30. But now it's open until 7:30 or 7:45. Meaning that I can get my ass in the gym here at 5 a.m. in the morning and get the workout done first. This morning is a special workout, because we have Lee over here. How's it going, buddy? - Pretty good, thanks. - Thank you very much for joining me, man. - Good to see you, man. - So we've got Lee here today, which is really nice of this guy. When I was at BodyPower he said, "Hey, when I'm in town, "how about we get a workout in?" So here we are. This is the first time I've swam without a wetsuit for a couple of weeks. Wow, what a difference. So now I know, I have to swap in between. Because I'm less buoyant, my head is a little bit lower in the water. So a couple of times I swallowed water as I was swimming. I wasn't tucking my head out enough. So I'm glad that I've done this now. I really feel that I'm actually getting the technique down. Even though this is a warm-up, I feel like now I'm automatically pulling my elbow up and pulling down with not only my hand, but with my forearm, as well, to propel myself through the water. As long as you continue to work on your technique, technique, technique, technique, as opposed to speed, eventually the speed will come based on the technique. If that makes sense. (upbeat music) It's a non-training day, except I'm training. But only very lightly. I'm going for a 30 minute bike ride and then go for a 10 minute run. The reason why I'm doing this is because I've decided last minute, I'm gonna do an Olympic tri tomorrow. It's gonna be in Utah. It's gonna be a five hour drive from here. We're on our way to Morgan City, Utah. With my broseph over here, Nick Holt. Aka, You've got Holted. - Cheers. - Cheers, boy-o. It is about way past my bedtime. So it's like 10:30 here now. And I've got the bottom bunk. Nick got Holted, can you see? Look, put your head over the top here, Nick. So I know I'm gonna smack my head. No farting up there, son. (Nick laughs) Mind you, if I fart down here it'll rise, so I'm okay. - [Nick] It's like my own prison cell. So it's 10:30 now. We've just got in from doing some transitions. Bailey was showing me... She's done a lot of Ironman's. She's been competing since the age of 11. So she's taught me, from what I could see in the dark out there, how to go through transitions a little bit easier. There's a few things I actually learned. You know, like take off one of your arms from the wetsuit, and then grab hold of your cap and goggles, and then take the other sleeve off the wetsuit and leave the goggles and the hat, the cap, in the wetsuit sleeve so that's in one place. And make sure that you're running before you put your belt on or you're running while you put your visor on and all that sort of stuff. Some of this is handy, it definitely helped. And now I'm just gonna have a bit of a feed before I got to bed, make sure that I'm hydrated here. We're probably gonna be up around 4 or 4:30 in the morning. Shit, I better set my alarm actually, because we have to be down there at Transition 1 around 5 a.m. So not much sleep tonight, but anyhow, we'll be alright. I'm feeling good, man. I get nervous before these things. Not because of the race, I'm not nervous about that. I'm nervous, have I got everything ready? Have I got my goggle? Have I got my earplugs? Have I eaten enough food? Have I had a piss? Have I drunk enough? Now I'm like okay, we're ready. (intense music) (crowd cheers) - [Cameraman] Get it, buddy!