Morning people. It is day 14 of the Man of Iron video trainer. I went out last night, had a good time, stayed hydrated. So I woke up feeling fine, feeling good. And, more than anything I'm just conscious about my ankle. Because I rolled on it several days ago. I don't know if you could hear my asthma, it's really kicking in today. Some days are better than others. I'm Kris Gethin. I'm going to be training to prepare for an Ironman. Most people give themselves two years. I'm giving myself six months. And we're going to do it. This is a bloody hard first session. Good morning. What's up? It’s day 15. It’s about time that I weighed my ass. I don't have to weigh myself all the time on this video program, I don't have to be conscious, but I do suggest that you do weigh yourself every now and again. Let's have a look here. I am, 215.6. Are we recording, yeah we are. I feel good now. I woke up this morning feeling bloody tired, but I started having my Pre-Kaged a little bit earlier than I normally would just to wake my ass up. As I walked down the stairs this morning after weighing myself, I realized, wow my legs are bloody sore. It's funny because last week I sent a message to Alex. And I said, I think I could do more than this. You know, how about putting in a little bit more intensity on the weekends. I can take it. And no. He's definitely put the amount in, which is plenty. It's just my brain gets ahead of my body, and as I walked down the stairs I though wow, my quads, my glutes, my hamstrings, especially my calves are really sore from all that volume. I'm feeling a different kind of soreness which means I'm targeting a different type of muscle, which means I'm going to be producing more muscle. Fucking great, I'll take that. I'm starting to get very amped up now, very motivated. I just wanna take this bull by the horns and ride it over that finish line. Feels like my body is finally starting to respond and it feels like I can grow. Who knows if that will happen, but I'm just going by my intuition on how my body feels at the moment. Everything feels absolutely blitzed. I don't feel like I could've put in another rep even if I wanted to, so I obviously got in a good fucking quality workout. Now I've got to get in a good quality, tough swim. As hard as it is, every single one of these workouts counts. You know, the main thing is, just basically, know that you couldn't have done any more. And I couldn't have bloody done any more today. We've just come from the gym. Sunshine has got a bit of a back issue, bit of an impingement there. So the first thing you should do is not get in a hot bath and think, I need comforting. You need to have ice, get rid of the inflammation. As daunting as that may be. It’s not so bad if you just lower your heart rate, just relax. Oh my god, it's so cold! There you go, alright. 15 minutes. No! Nah, five minutes, do five. I'll do 15 for my legs. You need to do five minutes to get rid of the inflammation, baby. Just relax. Just think, it’s getting rid of all the inflammation and the tightness in your muscles. When it comes to legs, if you're doing this program exactly as I am with the volume especially that we had over the weekend, then your legs are going to be feeling a little bit heavy, a little lethargic. This is a good time to start really rolling. So when I'm doing my cardio sessions, depending on if it's intense, or if they're easy sessions, or whatever, I try to maximize my time. So I'm about to do a live feed here and I'll post that. And then start answering questions, and you know what? The 45 minutes will be gone before I know it. So the reason why I'm mainly doing this with video trainer is to prove to people that you can get ready for an Ironman in six months. Not like two years as most people prepare for an Ironman. Bloody hell, I'd better deliver now. But I'm going to prove to people that you can prepare for it by utilizing various forms of intensity within your cardio sessions, instead of huge amounts of volume. I figured I'd give you an update of what's been going on today. Other than work, not much. I did just have a massage therapist here. My legs have just been so tight. And yeah, I'd been foam rolling, but I figured, hey if I can take advantage and have a massage therapist come round to my house, who I've used before, I'll do that today. At the moment I'm writing a column for a magazine, based on this transformation, based on this journey, this Man of Iron. So while I'll write that, I thought I'll come on my desktop treadmill for a little while because, again, that will help me remove myself of any localized toxins and lactic acid that's in the body. Help me circulate, help me hydrate, help me transport nutrients to that area to better recover. So anyway, that's it from me. Just thought I'd give you a quick update and then I'm going to write the program for tomorrow's back workout. That is on the menu of the day. I came in here, I wasn't motivated, I was feeling tired, the body was feeling stiff, but I fucking forced myself to get through it. Fuck it. You’ve got to do it. You're here, you can't just put in the time, you got to make sure that time is fucking quality. So, I fucking did it. Before every set, I wound myself up. And I got every set out to absolute failure. After After the weights, I went straight into the pool and was bloody frustrated. We're in the pool, waiting for a freaking lane. This is the one thing that winds me up about swimming. It's like I'm waiting for a bench press for like, fucking 20 minutes. I've got things to do. I had 1800 meters to do today. I ended up doing 1625. So I'm 175 short. That is gonna play with my mind all fucking day because I don't want do a rep less, I don't want to do a meter less, I don't wanna do a mile less, I don't want to do a meal less. So I'm going to have to come in this afternoon and finish off that workout to maybe do a little bit more. As you know, if I do more, I probably will knowing me, because I'm a stubborn prick. It may be counterproductive, but mentally I just always want to do that little bit more than what's asked of me. I haven't got the best physique to swim, I haven't got the best physique to run. There's people out there, such as Sunshine, for instance, that's much better built for these disciplines. Some I have to come up with another playing card, and that's going to be my work ethic. So, that's what I plan on doing. Every single fucking day. Every single fucking workout. Cause I don't give a fuck what people's natural talent is, what their potential is, I'm going to outwork them. It's day 18, in the evening, and it's been pissing down with rain. Actually it's not that bad. So, I'm a little bit silly with things like this. I'm like, well fuck it. It's cold and it's raining, and it's really muddy. I'm going to run in it. So, I feel that, if I go out and escape into the wilderness on days like this, just kind of you know, keeps giving you that gut check that you need. It's like, because if I go out there and push through barriers that we put in our heads, we can push through other barriers that we seem to put upon ourselves, you know. Fuck that. I ain't giving in to that complacency and those excuses and those weaknesses. I'm going to have to leave you here in the Jeep because it's raining, and I don't want to destroy this sensitive little camera of mine. Actually, before I go, I got my wet weathers on. I've got plenty of tread here, because it's going to be so muddy, I've got to make sure that I do not get injured, and I don't slip on my ass. Alright, let's do this. Well, it has been a relaxing day physically, but it's been a fucking tough day mentally. So, for the last couple of hours I thought, man, I need to get out and get some sun, because I am an outdoors kid, I fucking solar powered. And get my work done, as well. So I just finished doing a crap load of e-mails. There's still a lot more in there, and I did a live feed, as well. And so now, I've decided I'm going to reward myself with the movie. I'm going to go check out a movie downtown here. So, I really like going to the movies by myself. I am a loner. There's no doubt about it. A bit of an introvert, even though I may look like an extrovert. So I'd better hurry up so I don't miss the flicks. Good morning beautiful people. It's Saturday here now, which is, means volume, a lot of volume for me today. I actually starting to dig in to my Ventolin and my Seretide inhalers. I've told you before that I used to have asthma and even though I haven't had it for the past few years. Like I used to it very, very, very bad. But through dietary changes and changes in my supplement regime I really cleared myself of asthma. However, I'm pushing it now to the extent that it started to rear its ugly head, specifically on the run. But you're gonna get some guys out there that are gonna do 100 miles, that are going to 80 miles, they're going to be out there for five, six hours. We're not doing that. We're not training like the typical triathlete, we're put in more intensity. So that's the deal of the day. Okay. I just finished my bike ride. 50 miles. I just wanted to get over that mental hump. Man, I'm lightheaded now. So I'm supposed to do a brick session where basically I ride and then go straight into a run. So transition to these. I'm definitely I feel like I'm ahead of the game with this program. You know, I'm not going to take that for granted by any means. You know, I've got the utmost respect for this plan. It's by far the hardest thing I've ever done. But I'm glad that all the meticulous attention to my nutrition, my food, the types of training that I'm doing, whether it be hard and intense on certain days, whether it be easy or more relaxed on others. It's all kinda come together now. Keep throwing mud at that wall, eventually it will stick. And it's just starting to stick now.