What's going on everyone? I'm Abbe Abanetti and today we're doing day one of my 30-day ab program. If you're looking for a program that's really going to help define and build your abs, this is it. Day one, we're going to be using a lot of weight. And then we're going to be doing straight sets. So, let's jump into the very first exercise. We have weighted sit-ups. Four sets of 10 reps. So, make sure you pick a weight that you're going to be hitting failure for those 10 reps. I like to put the weight right in front of my chest. So, I like to use a plate while doing the weighted sit-ups. You can also use a dumbbell if you don't have access to a plate, which is totally fine. When you're doing any kind of weighted situp, make sure that you're going all the way back and all the way forward. Breathe out at the top of that movement. Just like any of these exercises, you're going to be working your full core, but this is really going to focus on your upper abs. The reason why I like to start off with these weighted sit-ups is because I like to do the heaviest movements at the beginning of my workout when I'm the strongest. So, after those weighted sit-ups, we're moving on to suspended crunches. Four sets of 10 reps. The exercise before this, we mainly focused on the upper abs. During this movement, we're going to be focusing on the lower part. What you're trying to focus on during these suspended crunches is try to keep your core tight while you tuck your legs in. Bring your hips forward just a tad and really squeeze at the top of that movement. When you do this exercise, make sure you're going into pretty much a plank. Make sure you're not arching your back. And when you come in, just crunch and breathe out at the top of that movement and squeeze. After these suspended crunches, we're going to move on to a Swiss ball leg raise. So, go over there, grab your Swiss ball, and let's go ahead and get started. We have four sets of 10 reps. This movement is really going to be focusing on your lower abs, just like the movement before this. So, when you do this, make sure you're squeezing that ball with your legs. This is going to help engage your lower abs just a little bit more. During this movement, make sure you're going all the way down. And then when you come up, lift your hips off the floor just a tad. Make sure you're controlling each rep. Don't go really quick. Try to focus on engaging your abs throughout the whole range of motion. After doing those other two exercises, this movement is going to be super tough, but that's what we want. We just wrapped up day one of my 30-day ab program. Now, I know we already did 12 sets today of hard, heavy abs, but we're going to come back tomorrow and hit it again. So, be ready, make sure you recover, and I'll see you on day two.