Hi, I'm Jamie East and I'm in the bodybuilding.com kitchen and I'm going to show you today how I make my lemon protein bars. You're going to need two large bowls, one really big one and a mediumsiz bowl. In the large bowl, we're going to we're going to put in our dry ingredients. Right here, I have a cup of oat flour. Oat flour is just ground up oatmeal. Um, if you you can buy it at the grocery store in the healthy section, but if you don't have it, you can actually grind up your own in the blender. Um, I I would recommend using the quick cooking version. It's uh it tends to be less chewy and easier to grind up, but do know that this gets really fine. It's kind of hard to get it as fine in your own blender. So, you might need a little more than a cup. Maybe like a cup and 3/4 or cup and a half. So, there's our cup. Then we've got two scoops of a vanilla whey protein. You can use any version that you want. Um I always just look for low sugar, low carb, um lower calories, and as clean as possible. I usually do lactoseree, that kind of thing. But two scoops. And then we've got a four of a teaspoon of salt and a half of a teaspoon of baking soda. The salt will help the baking soda react. So, and then we also have our special ingredient, which in this case we we're using Crystal Light, but you can use any lemon variety that you can find, but this is the drink mix. And this actually um is the I guess the quantity you need to make a two quart um a two quart jug of of lemonade. So, I typically like to use a different version that has um no artificial sweeteners in it. This one does have aspartame in it, which is not always the healthiest. definitely not perfectly clean. So, just know that and uh try and look for a version that is a little bit cleaner. But, you're going to dump that into your dry ingredients. We're going to mix it up. I'm going to set that aside and trade out my medium bowl. In this one, we're going to put in our wet ingredients. We've got four egg whites. Can separate the eggs. You can save the yolk if you want to or throw it away. Stubborn egg. See, there's two. If you're not good at breaking eggs, you can use the liquid egg whites. Um, just make sure if you use the liquid egg whites that you do less than the equivalent of four egg whites, more like three egg whites, because it tends to be um a lot more liquidlike and then your batter will be really runny. All right, that was number four. Rinse my fingers off. Okay. And to our egg whites, we're going to add our sweetener. Um, the crystalite has some sweetener in it. So, we don't need too much. This is a half a cup of Splenda. You can do less if you want to do less or you can use an alternative sweetener of your choice. Going to mix that together really well. Want to get it until it's like kind of frothy. Okay, looks pretty good. And then I'm going to add um applesauce. I'm using the baby food version of applesauce. I've got two of them here. Just look again for a lower sugar variety. These do have um a considerable amount of sugar in them, but they're uh like this one I think is 11 grams, but remember this is going to make um eight or I'm sorry, it's a 8 by8 inch pan. It's going to make 16 squares. So the 16 squares, you know, divided by I guess this is 22, you're looking at, you know, just a little little more than a gram of sugar for each one. It's not too too bad. These are a treat. Here's a second one. And this applesauce serves to replace the butter and oil in in your baking dishes. You can do it in nearly any baking dish you'd like. Okay. And because I like mine a little bit more moist, um, I'll often add just one additional jar of water, too. So, I'm going to do that now. Go. Make sure when you get the water that you don't add hot water because this is eggs and you don't want to cook your eggs. So, we're going to mix this up really well. And now we want to add our wet ingredients to our dry ingredients. Get all the liquid out. Okay, there we go. I'm going to mix these up. And I have already preheated the oven to 350°, so it should be all ready for us. Now, if you notice when I'm mixing this, it's kind of hard to see, but it gets a little bubbly. That's that drink mix. So, don't worry about it. It doesn't make the the cake bubbly. All right, that's all mixed together. I've got my 8 by8 inch Pyrex dish. So, I'm going to spray that. Get it ready for the batter. I use the butter spray. I use that on pretty much all of my baking dishes. And you do want to spray it pretty well. Applesauce can be a little sticky in the batter. I'm going to clean up the edges just so that my my dish doesn't get cruddy from baking it. All right. Pour the batter in. scrape it all out. And depending on your oven, you're going to put this in for um anywhere from 20 to 30 minutes. It's a big difference because of altitude of, you know, however efficient your oven is. So, we'll put these in. The middle rack's best. I'm going to set the timer. We'll go for I think we'll split the difference and we'll do actually we'll we'll do less. Do 23. Don't want to overbake these. They're actually pretty good when they're a little gooey. Okay. And that's it. So, in a little while we'll check them and we'll see how they turned out. All right. I think they're done. Check and see. You can put a toothpick in and see if they're done, but I can usually tell by eyeball. And I've made these a few times. Looks pretty good. You can either um eat these warm or cold. I actually like them really a lot cold. So, but anyway, that's about it. That's our lemon cake protein bar. Thanks for watching me today on bodybuilding.com. And hopefully you'll come back and check out more recipes.