My name is Jaquelyn Kastelic, Team Optimum Nutrition. I'm also 2010 BodySpace spokesmodel, I own a CrossFit box and I'm a national level Bikini Competitor for NPC. I got started in fitness at a very young age. I used to watch my dad work out when I was probably 3 years old and he had his own little garage gym so I used to sit in there and watch him and then, as we grew up, he always said, "Oh, you guys need to get into fitness," and we didn't really know what that meant until high school. I did a weight training class for PE and my gym coach noticed that I was strong for a girl and that kind of motivated me. I like to be strong. When I was in college, is kind of when I really picked it up so I had to start, you know, kind of, making sure that I was staying motivated so I started hitting the gym really hard. Then I started meeting people that were really into competing and bodybuilding and figure and stuff like that and so that's how I, you know, originally started. I had a very traditional training regimen. I would go about 5, 6 days a week and split it up. I would do, you know, my legs, my upper body, back, just the basic bodybuilder routine is what I started with. I switched over from the traditional bodybuilding routine in 2009 and it was because I was training for a women's tri-fitness event. Women's tri-fitness is a obstacle course and benchpress, box jumps, a lot of running. One of my friends had mentioned to me that, "Oh, that sounded like CrossFit." I said, "Where--what's CrossFit?" I had never heard of it before and so she told me about her gym that she went to and said I should go try it out. I was hooked instantly from that first day because it reminded me of being an athlete again, of, you know, running track, running cross country, very competitive so I fell in love that first day. A lot of people think that if you lift heavy you're gonna all of a sudden become this big and bulky person. I'm a very small, petite person so, you know, I like to show people that I could lift heavy and do bikini shows. It worked well for me because I don't have to spend, you know, 3 hours in the gym doing weight training and cardio. I get all of that in one session. I'm there less, you know, less than an hour. So it worked well for me in my schedule. What's nice about doing the CrossFit is that we're doing a lot of stuff that you would do if you were an athlete in a sport, it's at such a high intensity, and we're doing a lot of intervals and stuff like that, that for me and my body, it works better. I burn fat way quicker, I stay lean all year round and it's much more fun than doing 2 hours of cardio. I opened up my own gym, CrossFit Unrivaled, and we started with 20 members and most of them were women. And now we're at about 130 and probably half and half male and female. And it's been amazing. I'm very busy but I wouldn't want any other job in the entire world because daily I get text messages from my clients and they will send me before and after photos and they're just like, "I can't believe how much changes I made, you know, in 3 months, 4 months, it's amazing." They're always thanking me and it just feels really good to be able to help people and so I'm actually trying to constantly motivate people that, "Hey, you know, we're getting older. We're not getting any younger here. You guys need to kind of take charge of your health and take charge of your fitness and do something about it." Because I do own a gym, obviously I'd like to preach doing CrossFit and the time that you've saving by doing it because a lot of people have jobs, lives, kids and they have a hard time and everybody's main excuse is, "I don't have time." That's the main thing that I hear for them not to work out. So, you know, I always tell them, "Just go try it. Try it out and CrossFit is fast. You're gonna be there and done within hour," so there's really no excuse because it's not really that much time out of your life. My training approach is CrossFit and what CrossFit is it's high-intensity functional fitness. And we do power lifting, we do Olympic lifting. We do plyometric workouts, body weight, a lot of running, pushing, pulling, everything that we do is a compound movement so it's gonna combine multiple muscles and multiple aspects of fitness and we don't do the same thing every day. We're always changing up what we're doing. The only time we ever go back and do the same workout is if we want to measure our strengths, if we, you know, if we gain strength or, you know, endurance or quickness in a workout. Just so I know that my training is working with me. With CrossFit, we have a WOD, and that's a Workout of the Day. I program that for our gym and every gym runs differently so every gym is gonna have a different WOD for that day. For my gym specifically, everybody's gonna come into my gym and I take everybody through a group warm-up and we want to reduce that risk of injury and then we're all gonna do the workout together and we all start it together so it gives you a push because everybody else is doing it the same time with you. If you look over and you're resting and the person next to you is working, you're gonna say, "Oh, crap, I need to get up and do this because they're working. I can't be lazy." So it gives you that extra push, you know, when you're doing your workout just to make you work a little bit harder, make you work a little bit faster. I train usually five times a week but if I can get six in, I'd like to get six in. But because I own a gym and I'm really busy, it's hard to get 6 days in. We have a bunch of workouts that are named after military or firefighters or police officers that lost their lives so those workouts are gonna be really hard, like, compared to a normal WOD. There's one that's called Murph. He died overseas. His favorite workout was to go run a mile and then do 100 pullups, 200 pushups, 300 squats, and then run another mile. That was his favorite workout. So now that's like a big CrossFit workout. We do it on Memorial Day. Me and one of my girlfriends, we decided to do the weighted run and so we had 15-pound weighted vest on and then we went and did that workout and it was probably 90 degrees outside. It was horrible [laughing] but when you do workouts like that, they're called Hero WODs, when you do those workouts, you kind of have it in the back of your mind why you're doing it because, you know, somebody was protecting us overseas and they lost their lives so it kind of motivates you to get through that pain and not suck. I follow the Paleo Diet. It's a grain-free diet. It's also a dairy-free diet. However, you're gonna see different variations with the dairy because if you have dairy when it's raw, it's healthy for you. When you have dairy when it's overly processed at the grocery store, it's not that healthy for you because you're not really getting all the nutrition stuff that it says that you're getting. You don't absorb the calcium that it says you're getting because of how overly processed it is. I'm gonna say I'm like 90% Paleo because 100% Paleo you're not gonna have anything artificial and I do take protein powders and wheys that do have, you know, artificial sweeteners in it. But when I'm eating my foods, I just eat lean meats. I eat a lot of fruits and vegetables. I eat lots of nuts and avocados. Just really healthy fat. Sometimes I eat the raw cheeses and I'll have raw milk. One of my clients actually, she owns a farm so she'll bring me fresh goat milk, which is really good. Sounds kind of weird but it's really good. And then as far as like regular milk in the store, I will have it every once in a while because my husband drinks it, so I'll put some in my coffee but if that's the case we do like organic whole milk. When I go to the grocery store, I really try to find anything that is hormone-free. I like to go with the grass-fed if it's not ridiculously expensive. And then getting everything fresh, really fresh, that's my favorite thing is, like, the fresh fruits and vegetables. However, I know that stuff goes bad really fast so I do still do a lot of frozen vegetables and stuff like that. That way, it can last me some time [laughing] and I do a lot of eggs. Eggs are my favorite thing to eat because they're so quick and so easy. And a lot of chicken and a lot of fish. I usually eat four to five meals a day and it just depends on when I get up. I try to eat every 3 hours. Sometimes it's like 2 hours or 2.5 hours because I'm hungry all the time. I eat a lot of food. And then the way that I plan my meals is a protein, a carb and a fat every single time that I eat. I would say my favorite Paleo meal is anything I make in the crockpot [laughing] because I don't have to spend too much time sitting around cooking, I just chop everything up and throw it in the crockpot but I can think of, like, my exact favorite. I put chicken in there, frozen and then I stick a can of coconut milk in, tomatoes, and broccoli and then I do sea salt, pepper and then Italian seasoning. And I just let it cook there for probably 5 hours or something and it's amazing. It's creamy. Creamy goodness. Me and my husband like to have a cheat meal at least one time a week. And our cheat meal will be completely not Paleo because we both love pizza and we both love Mexican food. So we'll go have that like usually on a Friday night or Saturday night. If I'm trying to get ready for a show or an expo or a shoot, I just cut the cheat meal out so I won't have anything that's a non-Paleo food, so no Mexican food or no pizza for me but what I eat on a regular basis I don't really cut out much other than my fruit at nights and that's pretty much it. When it comes to supplementation, I believe that less is better and taking stuff that is, you know, more natural. I try to stay away from things that don't have a lot of ingredients so when I go for supplements, first thing I do is I turn it over and I look at the ingredient list. On the front label it might say one thing but when you turn it over on the back, there's a lot of other stuff in there that you wouldn't know so I always make sure to look at those. I take a post-workout protein shake. In the morning, I take a fish oil, a vitamin D3, and then a calcium supplement. Probably twice a week, before I work out I'll take a preworkout energy drink. But, like I said, those usually have a lot of artificial sweeteners in them so that's why I only take them a few times a week. If I feel like I'm training extra hard or maybe when I'm adding in those extra-strength training days, I will take ZMA at night because I really like that as far as recovery goes. I sleep a lot better when I do take that stuff. And my schedule's crazy so sleep is really important for me. But I do notice that when I take a ZMA supplement, I'm not nearly as sore. My supplementation stays the same just throughout the year. I don't really change anything up. I used to, a long time ago, take a fat burner for competition but within the last few years I've realized that I actually like just drinking coffee better for that [laughing]. So I took that out of my diet completely and I mean that's really it. I just stay the same. I stay consistent. I don't feel like I really have to ever change, you know, what I'm doing. Clients come in that they're, you know, they're brand new to the whole working out and nutrition. They do ask me a lot of questions about, you know, what they should be eating or supplementing. So I do recommend to take a protein shake after they work out as far as, like, vitamins and stuff, I usually tell them to take a multi because most people don't eat enough fruits and vegetables so the average person definitely needs to have that, you know, vitamin supplementation. Everybody always asks me about a preworkout drink so I usually will recommend them, you know, to just look at the ingredients, find something that is, you know, that's minimal. You don't want to go crazy with that kind of stuff. So that's it for my training, nutrition, and supplementation. And if you guys have any questions you can go ahead and find me on BodySpace at Jaquelyn Kay. If you want to follow my full program, you can find it on the page below and for more content and videos just like this, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com.