Today, I'm heading up to Boise, Idaho. A trip I haven't taken in quite a while, as I'm going to Bodybuilding.com headquarters, bringing you guys the best content and the best products. Words cannot express how excited we are to have you here today. We're super excited to get that level of education from an influencer that you're willing to bring back on the portal where it belongs. That's the most exciting part of this partnership is the education. It absolutely is. That's really why we're here. Well, there's a couple of people that want to say hi to you. Oh this is awesome. We're talking about the new partnership that we're developing. Why it's happening and what we're excited about, and literally what we're going to bring not only Jym Army but the Bodybuilding.com... The rebirth. audience as well. I've been a fan of yours for a long, long time. Using your programs and everything you're doing; the education, the simplification of a complex set of terms into a layman's terms for everyone out there that wants to change their life and improve their fitness journey. Thank you so much. It's so exciting for me to be at Bodybuilding.com because it's really, it's been my home. You know, we talked about education. I'm an educator. Anyone who will listen, I will speak to, I will reach out to, I will answer. And you know, never have I had a platform as powerful as Bodybuilding.com that reached, such a large scale audience that allows me to educate so many people. And you know, that's why we're really here, because we are far more powerful together and we'll educate far more people and change fitness and the supplement industry. I agree. I was asked not too long ago... Together. Why? Why push forward a partnership? And I said, "Well look, Dr. Stoppani is an extension of our mission: to change people's lives. His whole approach to fitness has always been about what do you need to know to improve from where you are today. Whether that be nutrition, training, supplementation, even rest. Like, simple things like that. And that's really what Bodybuilding.com has always been founded and built on, is providing that level of education for people so they can fight the couch, who's the ultimate enemy at the end of the day, right? And get the right, get the right advice. Because it can be complicated, we both know that. Right. It's what's good, what's bad, what's new, what's old, what's tried, what's not. And to have somebody with your stature be able to simplify and explain how this complex process can be joyful, fun, and become a lifestyle, not a one-time event. It's idiotic for us not to work together. It's idiotic for our customers. It's idiotic for the consumer, for the fitness enthusiast, not to have us be together there offering them the value that they deserve. Exactly. You can expect great content, new programs, new videos, new products. So always, guys, stay Jym Army strong. Thank you team. And we look forward to doing so much great work for our customer base, for people that are looking to change their life. It's the educators like Dr. Stoppani, that are true spirits in the industry, that drive that message and help people It is an extension of our mission and the synergy is very symbiotic, and we really look forward to executing that going forward. Well guys, that was a lot of fun. Pumped about the content we're going to be bringing you. I know you guys are going to love it, too. Stay tuned.