Hi, I'm Jimmy Pena and this is my power rack series. I'm an exercise physiologist. I've edited and and written thousands of articles on training and fitness and nutrition worldwide. My purpose now is to develop prayfit.com where we've helped people stay healthy from the inside out. In my opinion, the power rack is the most underutilized piece of equipment in gyms everywhere. The second technique we're going to talk about today are partial movements, and the best way to demonstrate those are using the bench press inside the power rack. Partials are all about overload. And with partials, you can overload the target muscle more than you can through a full range of motion. But remember, partials are angle specific, meaning you only gain strength at the angle you're working. So that's what's great about the power rack. They have so many different angles for you to work in that if you can gain strength at all those various angles, then you'll add up to one powerful, strong, full repetition. To demonstrate the partial, we're going to utilize the bench press. Let's get started. So, now that you've set the bar and the the weight is set and the bar is clipped, go ahead and lie back. Make sure your back is fully supported, your feet are flat on the floor. Grasp the bar with an overhand grip, wrapping your thumbs around for safety. As you can see, I've set the angles pretty high to where it's just about six to eight inches from the top. And the good thing about the power rack is you can change those angles whether it be in the same workout, lowering the angles, or from week to week. Much like partials are angle specific, the power rack can can help you be goal specific. So whether you're looking for strength, keeping your reps between 1 and six, or perhaps hypertrophy, muscle size, keeping your reps from 8 to 12, or even endurance, going as high as 25, the partial technique can be useful in supporting those goals. So just make sure that because you are stronger, let's say right here, I'm much stronger in this 5 to 6 in range than I am in a full range of motion. Be certain that you load the bar with enough weight that causes you to fail at your particular goal rep. So, if my goal is 10 repetitions and I'm doing it in a partial range, I better make sure that I fail at those 10 reps. Don't put your standard 10RM on a partial movement. Otherwise, it's going to be too light. So, make sure that wherever angle you are, it's also specific to the failure point of your target rep range. Power. Booyah. partials inside the power rack with overhead presses. Fantastic overload for the shoulder. The good thing about using the power rack in this way, you can roll the bar back right overhead, which really incorporates the front delts, the the middle delts, and the rear delts. Get as much of the shoulder involved as possible because the bar is directly overhead. Remember, partials are all about overload. With partials, basically, we're breaking the lift into smaller components within the range of motion, allowing you to handle a weight that's much heavier than you could normally use if you were working in a full range of motion. Remember, your gains in strength will be limited to that particular range of motion that you train in. So, make sure that you adjust the safety bars up and down, working various parts of the range of motion so you gain strength throughout it. So, we've just gone through another technique, partials for the power rack. On more on how to incorporate partials into your routine, visit the page below. Be sure to check out episode 3, isometrics, and learn how to incorporate them into your routine. For more on me, come to prayfit.com. And for more great information on training and nutrition, go to bodymilly.com.