So, this just looks absolutely amazing. Looks good. It's quick, it's easy, and of course, it's gluten-free. Hello and welcome to the bodybuilding.com kitchen. I'm Kendall Lou Schmidt, athletic edge athlete, and today we're going to be making my garlic and herb gluten-free shrimp. The shrimp that we're going to be using today is raw peeled tailon shrimp about a pound. To make the marinade, we're going to start with 1 teaspoon of basil, 1 teaspoon of Italian seasoning, 1 teaspoon of paprika, 1 tbsp of stevia, 1 tbsp of olive oil, 1 tbsp of lime juice, and a tablespoon and a half of minced garlic. So once you have all your ingredients in the bowl, you just snap the lid on nice and securely. And then you shake it really well until everything's coated. And since there's paprika in there, generally when everything's well coated, all the shrimp kind of have an even red color to them. Just a real slight red. Okay, looks pretty good. Put it in the refrigerator here for about 2 hours just to let the marinade set. So, before I open it up, I'm going to give it just a few more quick shakes to get all the juice from the bottom over the shrimp again. And everything looks good, nicely colored. I'm going to take this baking sheet and just lightly spray it with some non-stick spray. We're going to take the shrimp and lay them out one layer on the pan. We're ready to place them in the oven and bake them at 350°. Depending on the size of your shrimp, the time can vary. So, you're going to want to keep an eye on them. I really love to incorporate shrimp into my diet because it's a lean protein just like chicken or turkey, but has a completely different flavor. makes you feel like you're eating a really fancy, delicious meal, even though it's relatively inexpensive and very quick and easy to make. So, this just looks absolutely amazing. I'm excited to try one. Sweet. It's perfect. I love it. I really do. Do you want one? All the details for this recipe, including the macronutrient breakdown, are on the page directly below this video. For more of my recipes and videos like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.