I was in five or six car accidents total which resulted in a broken back. I decided that I was going to go to the gym and see if I could make it stronger myself and I became addicted. I'm Laura McGra and I am the Optimum Nutrition $100,000 transformation winner for 2012. I grew up in uh England. Um born in London and dad was playing for a team there. I watched him get up every day and go for a run. He used to do sit-ups in the living room and he was the kind of athlete that didn't necessarily come to a gym every day, but work out every day. In Europe, you are gone in the morning and somebody may feed you at lunchtime and then you go play the rest of the day. And I always just competed with the boys because there wasn't girls teams per se. So if there was a running race, I'd just run with the boys or soccer, I'd go play soccer, football technically with the boys. But I wasn't No, I wasn't really a tomboy. I I love girly stuff. I love uh putting a dress on and heels and going out for a nice dinner and but I also love the gym and I like I don't mind getting dirty and I love competition and that comes from my family for sure. Everything we did was a competition. like who can brush their teeth the fastest, who can get, you know, everything every day that we did was was competitive. I was in five or six car accidents total, which resulted in a broken back. And back then, I I think it was I was thinking of it as bad luck. And now I look back and I I think that everything happens for a reason. And um I wouldn't be in the gym and working out and lifting weights if it hadn't been for those car accidents because there was nothing that could fix it. They tried all sorts of different procedures and um numbing the spine and everything they could possibly think of to fix it without having to fuse the spine. And so I decided that I was going to go to the gym and see if I could make it stronger myself. And I became addicted. As I said, I think that the past enabled me to do well in the challenge because when I when I did finally get everything dialed in and I was taking the supplements and I was watching what I was eating calorie-wise and and content of food and just got everything in line and the weight came off, I said, "Oh, look what just happened. Look what I did for the last 10 years of lifting weights and going to the gym." Um, I now I got the weight off and and I have the muscle masses there. So, about 4 weeks into the challenge, bodybuilding.com sent me in my order the body by design book and I started reading through it and one of the pillars in the book is about being accountable and sharing your experience with other people. And so I decided that I was going to do a fundraiser for the school and six weeks into my challenge started 30 moms and dads at the school in the same program I was doing. And I think that that's huge when you're doing a program like this. It's share what you're doing with other people. Be willing to give to others that are trying to change their lives and either with exercise or eating right or um just being more positive without expecting anything in return. That was a big learning experience for me because I felt that I needed to be 100% committed to what I was doing to show them that they could do it, too. My training is forever changing and I always start my week with a plan of what I want to get accomplished, but I don't really assign days to specific activities. I'm busy. I have three kids. They have baseball and soccer and dance and all sorts of stuff. So, I know what I want to get accomplished and I would say probably 90% of the time. I get it accomplished. Uh when it's going to happen and in what order. If I get up in the morning and in my mind I thought I was going to do legs today and I'm just not feeling it cuz I know I need tons of energy for legs. Then I switch it up and maybe I'll do shoulders and abs because that's one thing that I want to get accomplished in that week. For the program, I did Jaime's lift fit plan and um I was pretty good about sticking to it and towards the end she does a really high rep um pretty intense uh superset and some uh cardio intervals in between. And so um that was some new stuff for me. I've been very traditional in the weight room, you know, 8 to 12 reps, three sets. And so changing it up with Jaime's training program was was great and my body responded differently to it. So that was cool. You know, the new philosophy in training with a lot of the programs is very, very little cardio. And um that's hard for me because that's my endorphin release. That's when I think and when I clear my mind. And so um I do cardio every day and usually somewhere around an hour. One of my favorite machines is a stepmill. And uh just stepping up the stepmill, you just feel like you have a bounce in your step. Um there's rarely a day that I don't do something active. So a rest day for me is maybe an hour on the elliptical with heart rate at maybe 60% of max. So uh I got some great tunes always in my ear. I will drive home to get my iPod if I don't have it with me. So um always good music and um I enjoy it. I think it's a is if I didn't like it then maybe I wouldn't work out so hard but I love it. I love getting sweaty and I love picking up A-50 lb dumbbell. Well, my nutrition program is really basic and um for me don't count calories and I don't weigh and um I can eat the same thing every day. So, I can have chicken and broccoli every day for 12 weeks if I need to eat chicken and brocc. It's very black and white. So, I uh don't eat a lot of variety. I did eat a lot of Jamie's muffins, which are the turkey meatloaf muffins in cupcake containers. So, um they were awesome. I'd make four batches and freeze half of them and so I could always grab them. I did the Body by Design nutritional program more so than Jaime's program. Um, they're very similar. Jameson is just more detailed of listing out the foods. Normally, I'd have oatmeal for breakfast. Couple hours later, I may reach into the fridge and grab some turkey. Then at lunch, I'll have a spinach salad. Usually, kind of throw whatever's in the fridge on there, vegetable- wise, and chicken if I've had chicken cooked or throw some more turkey on there. And some point during the day, I'll have a protein shake on the go. Always have a bar in the car, a protein bar in the car. I think that um while my goal is to eat whole foods as often as I can, I'd rather eat a protein bar or a protein shake if if I don't have anything else. So, I don't believe in cheat meals, per se. I think if you're at the weight that you want to be at, then every once in a while you can have a treat and it's okay. Um for the program, I was clean and I found in the past that diet was my number one obstacle. I enjoy working out. I knew that about myself. I'd always been active, but I always had this extra 10 pounds, 15 pounds, depending on where I was or if I just had a baby. And so, I knew in order for me to get where I wanted to be, I had to be 100% clean, which is great for me cuz I'm very black and white. So, that worked for me. my supplements. Uh I I believe in supplements. I think that they supplement your diet. They're great. Uh I have not been consistent in the past with supplements. And so, um I was 99% consistent with my supplements this time. And without a doubt, it made a huge difference. I uh had never done BCAAs before and I've always struggled with recovery. And so, uh, I couldn't go day after day after day with hitting it hard and then getting up and doing it again and being able to give 100% effort again. And so, I would say that the BCAAs was probably the biggest change in my supplement program. I've always done a multivitamin. I did, you know, omegas. I always do omegas. I supplement with protein powder when I don't have whole foods on hand. Same with protein bars. It's individual to everybody what their body needs to help them recover and help them feel better and be able to work out again and enjoy working out. So, um, for me it was BCAAs. I think I was I was lacking them internally and they made a world of difference for me. So, each supplement does something different, but it doesn't mean that your body needs that. You know, I think everybody needs a multivitamin. Um, protein powder is great to have. as far as what kind of protein powder. My body digests whey protein best, but somebody else's body might do better on a soy protein blend. So, um it really depends on how you digest different foods and and what works for you. I don't think that I would have been able to achieve the goals in 12 weeks without supplementation because I haven't been able to do it before. And I feel like I finally found what was lacking in myself to be able to recover. And I needed those hard workouts more than once or twice a week. I needed them three or four days a week in order to make that large transformation over a short period of time. I'm lucky that I feel that my body responds to whatever I throw at it. So, it was responding to my workouts in the way that it could based on what I was giving it. So when I started giving it the BCAAs and the omegas and the multi every single day, it turned into a clock. It was expecting it. You know, on Sundays I have my big supplement holder and open it all up and it has amm and on Sunday night religiously I filled up the entire week and I was good to go. And for sure my body feels great and felt better than ever actually and I'm 41 this year. So took me a while to figure it out, but I got it. Well, that's it for my training, my nutrition, my supplementation. If you want to know any more or ask me any questions, you can find me on body space with Laura McGrath. If you are looking for more motivation and you want to make a transformation, you can get on bodybuilding.com and find tons of resources to transform your body. Lots of motivation, lots of people there willing to help you. You can sign up for a contest just like I did. I lost 22 lbs and 16% body fat in 12 weeks. So can you.