Building muscle isn't easy, but it doesn't have to be complicated. Dr. Rob Wildman, PhD in nutritional science, is here to teach you the 10 laws of building muscle. I'm Dr. Rob Wildman, and this is law seven of our 10 laws of muscle building, amino ammo. When it comes to muscle building, there are certain amino acids that certainly can give you an upper hand when it comes to moving towards your goals more quickly. We're going to go through some of my favorites. The first amino acids that I want to talk about in our amino are the essential amino acids and a special subset of the essential amino acids called branch chain amino acids. Essential means that our body cannot make them or make them in amounts that meet our needs. Of those essential amino acids, the branch chain amino acids, there are three of them and it's leucine, isolucine, and veene. And they're recognizable because of their molecular structure. So there are three of them. They're essential amino acids and they play a very special role in muscle. They're not really metabolized elsewhere in the body. So when you ingest branch chain amino acids, they tend to go directly to muscle. Now leucine in particular is special in that it signals muscle protein synthesis. It actually turns it on acting on a process or a pathway signaling pathway called mTor and that makes it very interesting. So we know that part of the anabolic response to protein is actually related to leucine and and the essential amino acids but you know really focusing on on leucine. So branch chain amino acids are important throughout the day. You get them in protein and they can also be used in supplementation especially during periods when your protein intake isn't very high. So, a little bit of protein plus added branch chain amino acids or essential amino acids may help give you that sort of anabolic response, increase muscle protein synthesis even though your protein intake may not be meeting your needs for that particular time. Branch chain amino acids do other things as well. The other things that they do is, you know, we kind of have this understanding now that when you in when you supplement with branch chain amino acids throughout the day, it can actually help your muscle recover more quickly. So, it may help reduce soreness and potentially reduce markers of of muscle damage after intense exercise. I recommend 5 g of branch chain amino acids in a 211 ratio. two parts leucine, one part isolucine, one part vein because that seems to be the ratio that's in muscle. And you can do that uh right before and during training as well as other times throughout the day. The next amino and it's not truly an amino acid, but it's derived from amino acids is creatin. Creatin is a very special amino molecule in that it it you find it within muscle and you find it elsewhere within the body, but it's really concentrated in skeletal muscle. It's heavily involved in anorobic energy generation. So during weight training when energy needs are very very high in a short period of time, the creatin in the form of creatin phosphate helps to recycle ATP and keep muscle contraction happening for a slightly longer period of time. This may help you get one more rep or two more reps in a given set and and just, you know, help you increase the volume of your workout. You know, it makes you stronger over time. Recommendations for creatin would be anywhere between three to six grams per day for most individuals and it it'll take about a month to uh month and a half to two months to really saturate your muscles with creatin and and really reap the benefits of that supplementation. Another amino that is beneficial is is beta-alanine. And beta-alanine is unique in that it's not used to make protein in the body. But beta-alanine is converted to another uh compound within muscle called carnosine. And carnosine is an important buffer so that when muscle works hard during training and generates acids like lactic acid, we need those buffering systems within the muscle to soak it up so that the muscle can perform longer before it fatigues. So when it comes to beta-alanine, the do the recommended dosage is 3.2 to 6.4 g per day. What makes betalanine interesting is that there's sort of a experiential effect to it. It can cause a tingling in the periphery and you know scientists refer to that as paristhesia. So as you're just getting started with beta-alanine you can split your doses up over the course of the day and become acclimated to it. The tingling sensation will decrease over time as your body gets used to it. The last amino that I'll recommend is is carnitine. And the reason that I really like carnitine at levels of two grams per day is that it can aid in the recovery process. So what we know through trials is that two grams of supplemental carnitine, it can reduce markers of muscle damage and reduce soreness and muscles that are less sore and more comfortable at the next workout will may allow you to train harder over the course of the week. Recommended timing for carnitine supplementation would be immediately after you exercise. Um, and you can also split it into after exercise and another time point during the day. Now, that may seem like a lot, but it really isn't that complicated. For a schedule and some helpful tips, see the article at the bottom of this page, and it'll help make it easy as to how to get all these aminos in throughout the day. So, that wraps up our seventh law of our 10 laws of building muscle, amino ammo, and how to make specific amino acids work for you to get to greater strength and greater size at a faster rate. You'll find all 10 laws for building muscle here on bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions on law seven of our 10 laws of building muscle, see me on Twitter, Dr. Dr. Rob Wman at the nutrition doc. For further questions or information on this topic, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.