Hi, I'm Lee Labrada. Welcome to my 12week lean body program. Regardless of what shape you're in, your age, or how many diet programs you've tried without success, I'm confident that you can transform your body and become leaner and stronger. In my lean body program, I'm going to show you how to shift your metabolism from fat storing to fat burning so that you can stimulate lean muscle tissue while shedding excess body fat. This will be your personal journey of physical and mental self-improvement. You'll make changes that will profoundly improve your appearance, health, and well-being for the rest of your life. Ready to start your personal lean body success journey? Let's get started. By using the Banex program, which stands for balanced nutrition and exercise, I'm going to provide you with specific meal plans, recipes, exercises, workout routines, and other information every day. So, I'll be there with you every step of the way as you go through your transformation. As a former IFBB Mr. Universe, best-selling author, and fitness expert, I've trained literally thousands of people sharing my foolproof method to achieving the lean body they've always wanted. In fact, I once helped an entire city get into shape. Once known as the fattest city in America, Houston, Texas had a weight problem. Working with the city, I was given free reign to do whatever it took to get Houston back into shape. I implemented an initiative called Get Lean Houston. 18 months later, I appeared on the Today Show with Matt Lowour to break the news that Houston was no longer the fattest city in America. His name is Lee Labrada, and they are standing by right now in Houston, Texas to share in the good news. Mr. Mayor Lee, good to see you both. For the next 12 weeks, you'll get one episode for every day of your transformation challenge, including weekends. But before you jump into day one, watch the overview episodes on nutrition, training, supplements, and the tools that you can use to get started. The four overview episodes outline the principles of the Lean Body program, and explain what type of exercise you'll be doing, what you'll be eating, and how you can succeed using the Lean Body System. I'm on a mission to show people how to get into shape and stay in shape for the rest of their lives. And now I want to help you