Growing up, I grew up in East Idaho in Idaho Falls. Pretty small town, so there wasn't a whole lot to do there. I spent a lot of my time doing sports, especially as a young kid. I I did pretty much every sport that uh that I could. And that was always really fun for me. Um, but I never really got into to working out and interested in my body until it was about my senior year in high school when I started getting into fitness. When I started going to the gym and pushing myself and the dieting, it completely shifted my focus away from those things I was obsessing over, those things that I'd struggled with for so many years, and it put my focus in a better place. I went from a scared senior in high school with anxiety about everything that you could think of to building confidence. Then what I started finding is that I was I was better at other areas of my life because of the discipline that I'd put in in the gym and in the kitchen. And I just started realizing, you know, this was something that made me better as a person. And this was a way that I could push myself past my limits and and and find new ways to grow, not just in fitness, but in all areas of my life. When I was uh let's see, it was my second year of college and I was trying to figure out if I wanted to keep playing soccer or if I wanted to kind of pursue this bodybuilding thing. And I remember I went to my first bodybuilding show and I said, "That's really cool. I want to do that." A year later, I was able to get on that bodybuilding stage that I wanted to. And I loved it. I loved everything about the competing. But it wasn't just the competing. It was more so I just fell in love with the daily habits of the training, of the dieting. I love seeing the changes in my body. I found it super empowering. I have control over the way that I look in a world that we have so little control over the things that happen around us. And so, I really fell in love with it. I started just pursuing every opportunity that I possibly could in the fitness industry. So, at first that was just a lot of competing, but then I got into personal training as well. I got my degree in exercise science. I just literally encased my entire life around this fitness and health thing. And as time went on, I just started looking for for little opportunities to grow it within the fitness industry and had opportunities to do the bodybuilding.com spokes model search. And that was a huge opportunity for me to be a finalist there and to be able to get some more exposure. And then um in October of 2015, I was fortunate enough to uh meet with Datiz and be able to get the opportunity to become an athlete. You know, I think about where I would be with without fitness and I can't even imagine it right now to be honest. It's um it's had such a huge impact on my life and it's changed the whole trajectory of what I do. I think a huge huge decisions that I've made in my life. Um where to go to school, where to go to college, that that decision was made based off of fitness. Um I met my wife in a gym. You know, I've made so many great friends and built so many great relationships based off of fitness and being in that community. So to try and think of where I would be without fitness, it I I can't even imagine it. I'd be on a a completely different course. And I'm really grateful for those opportunities that fitness has given me and the relationships that that I've been able to build through that.