Sharon Spark, take one. That night, something clicked because I realized they are right. The nurses are right. I can't go out and I can't play with my son. I can't do nothing. I have no energy. And it's all because of food. In 2008, I was single mom, 19 years old. My friends stopped calling me or who I thought were my friends stopped calling me. It was just me, the baby, and my parents. I gained 80 lbs just in the in the 9 months I was pregnant. I was such a comfort eater. Didn't matter. happy, sad, I would just eat whatever was laying around, whether it be ice cream or leftovers from the night before, a 3minut drive and you have McDonald's and Jack in the Box, Burger King, Taco Bell, Sonic, everything you can think of. And I would just eat some food to try to make myself happy. I was working at a hospital as a patient access rep and I was working overnights and like every other night I would stop off and get some fast food for my dinner. I got more than I probably should have. It was a little under $20 worth of Taco Bell and I brought it in to work throughout the night. would eat a burrito here, eat a burrito there in the early morning hours, probably 1 or 2:00, and I was getting ready to eat some more food, and I overheard a couple nurses as they walked by laughing and joking about, well, that's why she looks the way she does, and if she didn't eat like this, maybe she wouldn't be as big, and just hurtful, hurtful things that night. Hearing the nurses make fun of me, it sent me into a whirlwind of emotions. I was angry with myself for allowing such bad habits to go on for so long. And I was sad cuz I knew I needed to change, but I didn't want to change cuz I love food. And then yet I was totally inspired with myself saying, "You can do this. You know what you're doing is wrong and you can change it. Put the food down and let's do this." lipo suction. And the doctor told me, "You are too large and you would need an entire body contour. We would have to cut you from front to back and do a whole body tuck." And I was like, "Wow, that's kind of extreme. Uh, what if I lose a little bit of weight?" And he said, "Anything under 30 lb isn't going to make a difference." So, I started walking cuz I was too large to run. And I dropped a little bit of weight. I got down to about 160 and I was feeling pretty good about myself. The transformation challenge is what really made me change everything about my life. I started micromanaging everything I ate. I weighed it out. And if it's not on my to eat list, I don't go near it. You find the foods that you want to eat and you fit those macros. And there was a couple times where I was like, man, I just the craving for cereal or Pop-Tarts is just outrageous. But do you really want the food or do you want the end result? And it clicked. What do I want more? The satisfaction in the kitchen or the dream body that I've always wanted? And the morning I took my pictures, I weighed 113 lbs and roughly 11% body fat. How I deal with not running to food is simply running to the gym, running to my fiance, um just in the back of my mind, that little voice is saying, "Do not go back. It's not worth it." that five minutes of cramming everything you can in you is not worth the body that you've always wanted. I want to be able to help other mothers do what I have done. Your mind is more powerful than your body. And once you learn to control your mind and control yourself as to no, you don't need to eat that or yes, we need to go to the gym. Once you're able to find that connection within yourself, you will do phenomenal things.