This is man maker mayhem. This is where it all comes together. The most badass workout that you will ever do. We are taking one movement, the man maker. We are breaking it down into steps. You will do those steps in the warm-up each exercise and then we're going to bring it all together with 2 minutes of a man maker. This is a great benchmark workout. It will test your cardiovascular endurance, your strength, your emotional capacity to get all the way through a workout. The best way for you to test your progress is to count the number of manmakers you do at the end of the workout and try to beat that number each and every time. So, we're going to go through the warmup and then we're going to go through each exercise starting with a front squat, a military press, a renegade row, and then a sprawl. So, let's get right into it. The warm-up. Now, we're going to mock each exercise with no weight. So, our front squat, we're going to go down and up. Now, this is a warmup. Slow and controlled. Breathe. Get about seven to eight reps. Opening up the hips. Good. Last two reps. Now, military press. Really squeeze at the top and breathe. You're warming up your shoulders. This is such a huge component and you're keeping your core tight. Now, we're going to go into shoulder taps. So, this is going to mimic a renegade row. So, shoulder taps, all you're doing touching each shoulder. This is again going to warm up your shoulders. Keep your core tight. About two more. And the last thing we're going to do is sprawls. So, hop up, come back down. Hop up. Come back down. Really pull the power from your hips and explode up. One more and we're going to go right back through it again. Deep breath. Front squats. About seven to eight squats. Now you should be breathing a little bit heavier. That's the purpose of a warmup to get you all the way through. One more and military press overhead. Breathe. I'm already feeling this in my shoulders. Two more. Now we're going to go back into shoulder taps. Core tight. Shoulders tight. And breathe. Nice job. And last sprawls and take a deep breath. And now we're going to get right into our workout. Take about 10 seconds of rest. Grab a little bit of water if you need. Shake it off. I'm going to grab a little bit of water because that warmup did tire me out a little bit and we have a lot of work to do. Deep breath. Shake it off. And three, two, one, and go. Nice job. Keep pushing. About 10 seconds left. 3 2 one and done. Now take a deep breath. Get about 30 seconds of rest. The next exercise we're going to do is military press. Shake it off when you need about 15 seconds. Breathe. Breathe. Five 4 3 two and one. Good push. Really squeeze at the top. Nice. Knees slightly bent. Core tight. If you need a little break, take a deep breath. 10 seconds. 3 2 one and done. Take a deep breath. Grab some water. Next, we will be doing renegade rows. So again, similar to how we started off with our shoulder taps, instead you are just going to row with one dumbbell at a time. Grab a little bit of water just like me if you need it. Key point, each exercise is going into the maker of a man maker. So all in every single exercise that we're doing is for a purpose. So, in three, two, one, we're going to start with renegade rows and breathe. Now, keep your core tight. It's very, very important to keep your core tight. That's going to keep you stabilized and balanced. If you need to scale down, move the dumbbells out and bring up to the top as if you had a dumbbell. Keep your core tight. This is almost like a modified plank as well. It's a little bit harder. About 10 seconds. 5 4 3 two and one. Come up. Take a deep breath. 30 seconds of rest. Shake it off. Shake it off. Grab a little bit of water if you need. Wipe some sweat off. About 15 seconds. Now, the next one is a sprawl. So, you're going to be using the dumbbells as well. Use your hips. Pop yourself up and ready. Three, two, one, and go. Again, if it gets tough, because this will get tough, you can go to scale down option where you were popping your arms up as if you had dumbbells right by your side as well. 5 seconds. Three, two, one, and done. have about a minute of rest. Again, each exercise we are doing is a key component of a man maker and it will go to helping your overall form and conditioning for the man maker at the end of the workout. So, take a deep breath and we'll hit another round in about 30 seconds. Grab a little water. I am exhausted and it's only round one. Look, if you're a beginner and you only get through two rounds, that's completely fine. If you're advanced and you want to get through three, four, or five rounds, let's keep pushing it. It is an exhausting workout, but it is 100% worth it. So, the first thing that we're doing is a front squat. Grab your dumbbells in three, two, one, and push. Good. Make sure you hold form even if you're tired. Push. Hold form. Breathe. Good. Halfway there. Keep going. I know it's tough. Again, scale down option. You need to drop the dumbbells. Continue to work. Continue to work. 5 seconds. Three, two, one, and done. Take a deep breath. Grab a little bit of water if you need it. I know I 100% 100% need it. Our next exercise is going to be military press. So, if I can get my watch to cooperate so it doesn't clip on any dumbbell. Shake it off as much as you can. Look, as I'm going through this exercise, I can tell it is an extreme shoulder workout. So, make sure that you're contracting. You're taking a deep breath. And if you have to scale down, scale down. But continue to push yourself. And we're going to go in three, two, one, and go. Look, these light weights are no joke. You can also alternate at the top, which makes it tougher, or at the bottom. Either way works, just whatever your preference is. Both sides are getting isolated, which means that both shoulders are pushing and exerting the exact amount of force. 10 seconds. Five, two, one, and one. Just want to push and done. Take a deep breath. Take a deep breath. The next thing that we are doing are renegade rows. So again, grab water. Hydration is always always extremely important. And quick nutrition tip before you get your workout in about 30 minutes to an hour. Get your carbs in you. Get a little bit bit of protein in you. Get some water. get something that's going to get you pumped up and motivated because if you don't and your nutrition's off, you are not going to have a great workout. It is the one thing that is getting me through this workout right now and being able to talk to you. So, 10 seconds, get your workout space ready, your dumbbells ready, 5 seconds, three, two, one, and we are rowing. Now key point is if you notice my wide base with my legs. This is going to allow me to stay balanced and keep the focus on the row. It is a shoulder movement because my shoulders are keeping me stabilized. Again, if you need to scale down because this gets tough, hold your hands and mimic a row. 10 seconds. 2 one and done. Take a deep breath. As much oxygen in your lungs as you possibly can get. And grab water if you need. Look, it might hurt right now. Might be challenging. Your body will thank you for it in the long run. I can promise you that. The last thing that we have are sprawls. Grab your weight again. Now, what I've noticed doing the first set of these, these can be tough. Really get some pop with your hips so you can pull the weights up a little bit faster. We're going to go in five seconds. 3 2 one and go. Push yourself. Now, if you have to scale it down again, drop the weights. Do not lose pace. Push. 5 seconds. 3 2 and one. Deep breath. Deep breath. Take about a minute to a minute and a half of rest. Whatever you need. Again, if you can decrease your rest time, decrease your rest time. But the reason why we are taking a minute of rest is to keep our cardiovascular system, our cardio endurance high. We want to make sure that you're burning calories. We want to make sure that you're able to build muscle in the most effective and efficient way possible. And it's also super time effective. So there's no excuse to skip a workout because if you can add 20 to 30 minutes of a workout 5 days a week, it will work wonders for you. So again, grab a little bit of water if you need. About 15 seconds left, wipe the sweat off. We're going to start with front squats in three, two, one, and go. Breathe the power from your quads, from your glutes. Open up at the top. Keep going. Get the scale down. Again, don't break stride. Push. If you drop the weights, continue to push. Even if you have to go a little bit faster. Good. Breathe. 5 seconds. Push. Weight in the heels. Stabilization. Two. One. And rest. And relax. The next thing doing is shoulder press. I'm going to grab a little bit of water. I suggest that you grab water as well. Also, BCAAs are fantastic intra-workout. branch chain amino acids, the most broken down form of protein. It will help you have your endurance throughout your workout. Take a deep breath. Grab some water. And we're going in 5 seconds. 4 3 2 one. And military press overhead. Good. Slight bend in the knees again. You can alternate. Make sure your core is tight. You are pushing as hard as you can. This workout is not meant to be easy. Don't take it lightly. I'm sweating that I'm pushing myself and this is not easy. It's not just for the camera. Good. Keep pushing. 5 seconds. Two. One. And done. Good. Deep breath. 30 seconds rest. We're going to do renegade rows. Grab a little bit of water. The more water that you can get in during your workout, the better your workout's going to be. So, make sure you always have water with you. Make sure you eat something before your workout. It's going to be a difference maker, a world of a change in your workout. About 15 seconds left of rest. Now, shake it off a little bit. Make sure the blood's flowing. You're not cramping up. It's another thing. Water, you won't cramp up. 5 seconds. Three, two, one, and row. Again, wide base. Wide base. Especially when you're tired. So important to make sure that you have a wide base so you can focus on the task at hand, which is the row. Core extremely tight. Again, scale down option. This is work. This is tough. So, continue to push. Do not break stride even if you're not using the dumbbells. The next time you do this workout, strive to use the dumbbells even more. 5 seconds. Three, two, one, and deep breath. I'm exhausted. I know you're tired, but we're going to keep pushing. We have one last and final movement before we get into the full man maker. So, it's going to be sprawls. Make sure you grab some water. Again, just because it's the last movement does not mean it's time to cycle off. It's time to push harder. See the finish line. You always, always push your pace. About 15 seconds left. Breathe. Cue all the hype music that you need to get through this. All right, 5 seconds. 4 3 2 one and let's go. Push. This is fourth quarter. This is not time to quit or give up. This is time to push yourself as hard as you possibly can. Look, there's a lot of people that told you you couldn't get to this fitness level. This is time to put the doubts aside and to push. Prove them wrong. Prove yourself wrong. Be a better person today than you were yesterday. Push. Good. Get the scale down. Not great stride. 5 seconds. Three, two, one, and relax. Relax. Woo! This is work. This is work. Now, we have three minutes of rest before we get to a full man maker. Now, first, take a deep breath. Get the oxygen back into your system. Take about 10 seconds to just breathe. Nice and easy. Now, for those who've gotten with us through two rounds, awesome job. Let's push to 3, four, five next time. For those that are still with us, consistently and continuously push. We have one last final exercise that is going to kick our ass. However, we're going to go right back at it. Easy, easy. So, take a deep breath. Grab some water as well. Now, we've mimicked every movement in the man maker. So, what's about to happen is going to be nothing that's different. We're going to go through it. It's going to be a little bit faster pace. It's going to be a little bit longer of an interval. It's going to be about 2 minutes. So, within the 2 minutes, you want to push yourself. However, the reality is you might not go the entire 2 minutes the same pace. You might slow down. You might have to take 5 seconds of a deep breath. That is completely fine. The point is to push yourself. As I said earlier is if you count the reps that you do, this is a great great benchmark exercise. If you can count the reps, you can tally them. So next time you go through this exercise, you can see how much more you've done. Uh this is a great way to challenge yourself. Um exercise fitness, it's all about accountability. It's all about making sure um that you do better today than you did yesterday. So consistently push yourself. Make sure you have benchmarks. Make sure you're holding yourself accountable. Now, for our last minute of rest, I'm going to show you what a man maker looks looks like from start to finish. So, we're going to start up. Grab the dumbbells here. I'm going to do it without weight just to show you. Dumbbells here. You're going to drop them down. Get down to plank position. Push up first. Row. Row. And then sprawl up and press overhead. That's one full man maker. Take about 30 more seconds. Deep breath. Grab your last bit of water. Again, we are going for two minutes. So, if you have to rest in between, that's fine. But we're going to push it about 15 seconds. Get your workout and your work space ready. Good. Five, four, 3, two, one, and let's go. push yourself. Now I need a little bit of a rest. Take about 10 seconds. Get my breath. Again, purpose is to get the most out of this workout that you can. 5 seconds for me. Two. One. And let's go. Need another rest. That is a killer shoulder workout as well. About 20 seconds left. Let's go. 10 seconds left. Everything we got. One more. And push. All done. Awesome. Awesome job. This was no easy workout. The man maker is not an easy exercise. Look, as I said earlier, this is a benchmark workout. This last fan maker exercise is a benchmark exercise. If you push yourself through this, you can push yourself through absolutely any workout. If you enjoyed this program, if you enjoy this workout, make sure that you go back and do it again. Consistent progress is the best way to reach your fitness goals. Again, check out the Total Body Dumbbell Fix workouts and you will be in great, great shape.