My name is Daniel Lugo and I believe in the American dream because if you're willing to do the work, you can have anything. You just can't take a guy's thing. Well, sure we can't. These are criminals. I've watched a lot of movies, Paul. I know what I'm doing. You said no violence. When this is over, we'll all go camping. Okay. I got to get a pump. It hurts. I know it does. That's it. Get it. All right, Dwayne. What was your training like for this film? What was your routine? Uh, my routine for this film was training six times a a week. George Far and many people who go on bodybuilding.com know who my strength and conditioning coach is. Also have a training coach in Dave Ramsey who and we put together this. This was a a hell of a prep for a movie like this where it it revolves around the world of bodybuilding and that culture of bodybuilding that we love, by the way, that we grew up on. So, the prep was a good, I don't know, 8 to 10 weeks. Six times six times a uh six times a week, training twice, do my cardio in the morning. I invited Dwayne to do some jazzer sizing with me. Yes. On Tuesdays in South Beach, but he never showed up. I passed up for the Wednesday jazzer size. So I'd bring the class to outside of his trailer and we'd start with five, six, seven, and one, two, three. He would never come out and join in, but I know he was inside dancing cuz I could see the trailer shaking. I was doing other things. By myself, which was interesting. What was your your routine like to prepare for this film? Oh gosh. Well, once I saw I know how to do in the movie, I was like I was I was committed to getting as big as possible. Uh, and that just meant going back to doing what I used to do when I was really young and lifting as heavy as possible and eating 10 to 12 meals a day. And, you know, I drink two or three mass gainer shakes a day. And my calorie intake was was was pretty damn high. And my gas was horrible. We'll be honest with you. How different do you think your career and possibly your life would have been had you not embraced the physical fitness part early on? Oh man, you know, it just gives me between my physical fitness and my faith, I have so much discipline in my life and I have such a positive outlook on life and you know the opportunities that I have and the things that I've been able to accomplish in my life. So it starts out you know I'm up in 4:30 in the morning. I'm in I'm in the kitchen having breakfast. 5:00 I'm in the gym. 6:30 I've already had another shake. And 7:30 I'm eating a couple turkey burgers, dropping the kids off at school. And by 9:00 I'm having another meal. And I've already been to church and worked out. And you know, I feel like there isn't anything that I can't accomplish. How about you, Dwayne? Certainly not all that before 9:00. No, I uh look, the the the training for me has become very defining. It's become part of my life. Lifestyle has defined me in many ways. When I was 14 years old, I started training and I thought to myself, if I can I want to be successful in the way I I know how to be successful, I think, are the men I admire. And those men in my life were pro wrestlers who were my uncles and my dad. And then they were also Arnold Schwarzenegger and Stall. Who were your favorite wrestlers when you were a kid? My dad, uh, Rocky Johnson, my uncle, Jimmy Superfly, Snooker, the Wild Simone. Snooker was your uncle. Yeah. Oh [\h__\h] Yeah. So these men were like big men who always trained and got things done with their hands. So Superfly, not super. Those are the days. Those are the great days of wrestling. Oh man. Tony Atlas. Tony Atlas. Yeah. Andre the Giant. Yeah. Ivan Putsky. That's who I was. Like Ivan Putsky, baby. Polish power. Damn. Skippy with a little Irish thorn in there. Brian, what's the what's the smartest thing you've ever done fitness-wise? And what is like probably the the not so wellthoughtout thing you've done fitness-wise? The smartest thing I ever did fitness-wise was hiring a diet and conditioning coach as well as a uh as well as a coach putting together my my training and my workouts dependent on the rolls. That was the smartest thing uh because it really it fine-tunes your details and you just have a greater not only appreciation but an education for what for what you need to do and accomplish. Uh, the not so smart was probably all the times that I would just train heavy. Younger Mark will tell you it's what you do. You You ego train. You throw on way too much weight and you use poor form and you wind up getting hurt and and then you regret it later on. My name is Daniel Lugo and I believe in the American dream. We're being kept down by people who cheated to get where they are. I got a plan to change that. I want to be on the team. You said no violence. When this is over, we'll all go camping. Okay. Holy Moses. We're in the game right now. What's with you, clown? That's that cabbage back. All right, little fella. I'm going to headbutt you and knock you out.