Hello and welcome to the bodybuilding.com podcast. I'm Nick Kolius, the man with the swollst license plate in the state of Idaho. Got a swoll ass license plate. The swolliest. It says uh it says swole on it. And I got 5 years before I ever started working here. Towed with by coincidence. It was just it was um God's just wanted to be part of the SW patrol. I apparently I did. We also have uh Chrissy Kendall, science editor bodybuilding.com. Hello. And science globe globe treker. I just got super nervous. I gotta be like all smart and stuff this podcast. What are you going to ask? This is an intervention. What's going on? He's dumb. You've been saying some things. Wow. Everybody asked for this to happen. Damn. I don't think I have a problem though. That's the thing. really love you, but but I love the way I live living my life. Cassie Smith is also here, senior content editor at bodybuilding.com, CrossFit Games athlete, pal of Pal of Mark. Pal of Mark. Is that a pal of pal of Mark? Is that a thing? A lot of palms out there. I don't know what that means, but okay. And we also have Mark Bell, the smelly Adonis. Hello from the other side. The power behind Power Magazine. the ass behind my favorite ass tool, the slingshot hip circle. Did I show you? I walked in on my four-year-old doing lateral walks. Oh, yeah. Just just like mommy does. Trying to get those trying to get those gains, right? My my the first thing I swear to God, the first thing I said when I woke up to my wife this morning, I said, "Strong ass, strong lass." Yeah. There you go. That's That's how I wake up. Blue recruitment. It's crucial. And uh we also have here Silent Mike Mike Bar occasional power cast host as well. Yes. Always. I'm on that thing sometimes. Why do they call you Silent Mike? Like you're not silent. Um what's your deal? It's this guy. Uh Jo Everybody gets a nickname. Yeah. Yeah. Joined Super Training uh 5 years ago, maybe four and a half years ago. First day of my life. There are a lot of uh large men uh heavy heavy men uh strong men. You're getting her excited. I know. like climb across. Tell more. Tell age underage men. Underage men. Where do we go for this? Yeah. Uh I was just like the youngest guy, the weakest guy, the smallest guy. So I just kind of shut up, learn my place, and then uh Mark to remember my name because he didn't care. It made me a nickname. Yeah, we do a lot of voiceover work to uh the videos that we produce. And so uh he was lifting with me in one of the particular videos doing some deadlifts. And I'm like, "Ah, here I go for X amount on the deadlift." And here goes this guy. And then kept back and forth and then he came on the screen. I was like, "Oh." And then here's Silent Mike. And then just people got excited. They're like, "Silent Mike." They got excited. So name stuck. They're excited about silence. Yeah. Silent Mike and Smelly. Sounds like a wrestling team. Silent and Smelly. That sounds like a tag team. Sounds like hell. Tag team champions of the world. It's the sweet embrace of death is silent and smelly. Chicks really dig it. Um, also former professional wrestler, right? Current strongest coach in the world. Anybody stronger come along recently? I don't know. I don't know. I don't think so. Depends who you ask. You ask me, I don't think so. And competitive powerlifter since time in memorial since birth. Yes. What you you do you talk about your first meet a lot? Is that is that a story that lives on in infamy as you coach people? Uh, no. I don't remember my first meet. Really? You have an age, a year? I do know. Well, I I do know that I lied about my age to get into the meat. Oh, perfect. I think I was like 14. You're supposed to be like 15 or 16. So, I lied about my age to get into the meet, but other than that, I don't remember a whole lot about it. Except that you, you know, stunted your growth, obviously. Oh, yeah. Well, I was on a lot of steroids going to that meet. I remember that. That that was pretty Yeah. That's like kind of the only real memory I have is just how hard it was to stick myself at that age with the needles and stuff, you know, using the internet. Buy all your steroids on the internet, right? 1975 the the internet was the was the net inside a a deadlift that the interwebs you you don't remember what your what your totals were no I I don't really have an idea of the weights that I did I do know like you know when I graduated high school I benched 405 um but I don't really remember a lot of the other numbers I think when I was like 15 I might have benched 315 or something like that I I don't really remember all the numbers and so the significance the first time is really just ripping the band-aid off. Well, the the uh just getting involved in powerlifting, you know, as a kid, um is is neat to me now looking back at it because powerlifting is so popular now, whereas before it wasn't really a thing. I I kind of kept it almost hidden that I powerlifted. You know, everyone's talking about football or baseball or basketball. And so, uh with powerlifting, you know, people were like, "Oh, I heard you broke." I was like, "Yeah, yeah, yeah." You know, I I did I did a little bit of this or a little bit of that. But it was just more of a real side thing. It was always a hobby for me. Uh, and it was always something I knew that I would get back to. So, I did um I played football, I did a bunch of other things, did pro wrestling for a while, and I always knew I'd circle back around to lifting at some point because it's the only thing I'm really good at. Mhm. Can you explain for the folks at home the difference between powerlifting and weightlifting and bodybuilding? Oh my god. Wait, they're different, right? I know. It's crazy. Listen up. Listen up, folks. Take take some notes here. Here we go. Start out by saying that this is a personal beef with the world right now. I'm having First of all, I'll start out by saying that I think what I love about powerlifting is the fact that anyone can do it. It's very black and white about your results. Did you put the work in or did you not put the work in? If you put the work in, you'll get stronger. Every person possesses the ability to get stronger. Whether you're short or fat, tall, skinny, doesn't really matter. If you put in the work towards getting stronger, you have the ability to get stronger. Uh, not everybody has the ability to do bodybuilding. Not everybody has the ability to do Olympic lifting. Not everybody has the ability to do CrossFit. Um, in CrossFit, there's so many movements that eliminate people. They just can't simply do the movements. Too many injuries. They're too old, not mobile enough. Weightlifting, same thing. Mobility can be an issue. So, doing a snatch, sometimes people are automatically ruled out. And, uh, when it comes to bodybuilding, who the [\h__\h] can follow a bodybuilding guy? I mean really like not anybody I mean right yeah right yeah no one can do it that's impossible but Mike and I have worked with a lot of people over the years and I've worked with hundreds and hundreds of people over the years and and giving them diet advice you know one out every 20 people actually really follow what you said in terms of the diet in terms of lifting it's usually not a problem probably almost you know 90 95% of the people really listen to you when it comes to lifting the diet side is so hard so you know the big difference uh between some of those sports between powerlifting and weightlifting. In powerlifting, uh, another big advantage of power things, you get to lift more weight. Uh, in Olympic lifting, there's so much skill and there's other things involved, other dynamics to the lift that are involved that that force you to use less weight. Um, Olympic lifting is comprised of a clean and jerk and snatch or you're putting weight over your head and doing these weird tricks to get the weight up over your head. And, uh, in powerlifting, it's uh, comprised of a squat, bench press, and deadlift. Um, in a power three meet, you get to do nine attempts and you're judged by three judges. Um, you get judged on various things. Squat depth, uh, locking out benches, locking out deadlifts and things like that. Um, and what was the other thing you said? Bodybuilding. Bodybuilding. Yes. The most important obviously. Yeah. Um, bodybuilding kind of plays into almost everything that anyone does inside of a gym almost because uh anything anyone's doing uh towards just building their body or bettering their body, I would consider bodybuilding. Um whether you're doing three sets of three or three sets of 10, I would kind of consider it all to be the same thing. You're lifting weights to try to make yourself better. The the mission and the goal sometimes gets skewed by people. The mission and the goal is to always get more jacked and always gain more muscle. whether you're male or female or whether you're old or young because the more muscle mass that you have, the more that your body will work for you rather than you being a slave to your body trying to figure out how to burn calories and stuff like that. That's a very nice way to put it. Yes. Good answer. Mhm. Now, what what role does competition play there in there in in powerlifting in particular? Do you feel like somebody I mean, how how many percentage-wise of the people that you guys work with end up actually competing and how much is that a priority? I would say now it's a lot. you know, it's the majority. Um, in our gym, almost everyone competes, right? Yeah. I think you uh kind of get kicked out if you don't compete. And that's like Mark said that anybody can powerlift. That's kind of the point of it is is uh we're kind of busy traveling stuff, so we might compete less, especially Mark, than he used to. But, um, you can compete and when you do compete, your training, your diet, your sleep, your your priorities start to get in line a lot better. Uh, that's why it's kind of cool. Like, yeah, I think anybody could probably get into a weightlifting meet, but it might take you a couple years to be able uh even to do the lifts. Like we could probably teach someone to efficiently squat, bench, and deadlift in a month and then throw them into a meet if they wanted to and then your training is just going next level when you put yourself on the line like that. Mhm. Yeah, that was going to be my next question. Uh if somebody says, "Yeah, I kind of want to compete." Well, there's a there's a meet in four weeks. I was thinking of just signing up for it just to sort of gauge where I'm at. Do do you guys endorse that approach or you No, no, you got to take this [\h__\h] seriously. Do it 16 weeks out. No, I'd say go do it. I was talking about Cassie here. I'm not trying to talk you out of this, man. I threw you under the bus. Yeah, we we encourage people to get in competition. You know, somebody uh has a local 4K to run or something like that, you local run they get involved in a turkey trot, whatever you call it. There's always something going on in terms of like running or or something like that. And people have no problem uh hopping into that and they never talk about what place they finish in it. They just like go and do it and I'm sure they get slaughtered. There's probably a few freaks there that can really run, right? But when it comes to weightlifting or powerlifting, people are like, "No, I you know, I only want to do it if I'm going to win." And it's like, well, that might take a really long time or never. And you might run into a real maniac here and there. You know, you might run into a real a really gifted lifter. Maybe you run into somebody who's going to compete in the Olympics or something at some point. Who knows who you're going to run into. Um, so that's not a great mindset. The mindset is to uh get in front of judges, have an official have official lifts in the books, official lifts on the books, and it's something that you can judge yourself against other people, and then you can judge yourself against yourself the next time that you go out and compete. Yeah. Makes yourself accountable for your training. So, if you go in and you bench, you bench 200 lb in training and you're all excited, that's a training lift. That's a, you know, a powerlifter would discredit that lift and say, "Well, it wasn't in competition. You got to go to the competition and actually do it on the platform as the rest of us are making or Instagram or you can go the IG route. So would you say for that new person that's going to compete in four weeks, what do you spend the most time on is just learning that obviously there's there's different calls, different counts, and it's different than what you see going on in the gym. So, how do you split up their training just to get them ready for the meet, make sure that they can get uh a few white lights, or is it to try to actually increase strength a little bit before they go in? Uh, rule number one is to always check with uh whatever federation it is that you're going to compete in because you need to know uh how the lifts need to be done. Each federation has like some set of rules. You to make sure you have the proper equipment going in. You might need a singlet. A lot of people don't realize that you need a singlet when you go and compete in powerlifting. And so, they show up and they don't have one. and they think they can buy one there and for some reason they can never never gets executed well enough where you can actually buy one there even though I actually make singlets. We don't even have them at meets a lot of times. Borrow one from Yeah. Yeah. Well, that happens. It does happen. That happens a lot. I don't I don't even know why the the need for the singlet. I think it's a little overkill personally. Um but it is it is the sport and it is uh part of it. So, you need to just make sure that you understand all that stuff going in. uh in terms of like trying to get stronger, um probably really won't get stronger. Maybe that would be a good time if you're not currently working on one rep maxes to do a few uh one rep, not real maxes, but one rep uh 80% 90% just to see uh whereabout you're going to be because now you have to pick what are called openers. That's your first attempt in the meet. Uh those are lifts that should represent something that you can do very cleanly, very easy. Even if you're sick or not feeling good, you can still blast those lifts out. Um, we recommend that it's something that you can do for like three reps. Your second attempt would be something that you can do for like two reps, and then your third attempt would be uh kind of getting closer to a max. So, you know, in in a power thing meet, it's a great environment to really go for a true max. Uh Mike and I kind of the same mindset. We don't really believe in going for uh maxes in the gym. We might go for a PR, personal record, personal best, but a personal record and personal best. If your training is done right and you're training optimally, you'll be able to get a personal best without it being a max effort. What about going for a um a PR in the YouTube comments? That's daily. Yeah, that's the Bulgarian method. Yeah, we love those YouTube comments. That's that's my problem with one rep max strength is that it's just it's such it's such a little um thing on your driver's license online. I've always thought it'd be fun to have a powerlifting unit where you have three reps. You got to do your three RM. Yeah. Your your credibility is on your license. That'd be great. There's some stuff you bench like CrossFit does like ladders, like a deadlift ladder and stuff like that. That's really cool. We talk about that often that uh you know, just making competitions just for fun, whether it is for YouTube or Instagram or just for us having fun. Uh five rep max competition or whatever it may be. Kind of evens the playing field for some people like uh like Mark's going to out bench me until he's probably 70. Uh, but if we do, I don't know, 135 all the way up to 315 and we got to do some deadlifts in between or something, maybe we even the ground a little bit. Sure. Do you you find some little formulas where you're like, "Oh god, this would just be a great I haven't yet, but I should I should come up with like three games that I can beat him at." That's a really good segue into a question I wanted to ask you for a while, Mark, is as a meatthead, do you think about me a lot? I do. Weirdly. Sorry. Oh, weird. Sorry, Mrs. Bow. uh as a crossfitter I get a lot of and in this community you get a lot of hate and people have a huge problem with the sport and you guys have actually really embraced it which I really appreciate and have worked with crossfitters and particularly women that are strong and can you talk about how that relationship started and how you like the women that's Mike's fault on relationship we don't like to call it a relationship or acquaintances labels on throwing us throwing us under the bus now all those relationships Butter with bonus. Yeah. Bones bone. But yeah. Why? Why don't you What do you like about it? Why was it hard for you? Yeah. Why was it hard for you to like were you wait what are we talking about? Was it a difficult thing? Sort of. Uh to be more serious, uh we've embraced CrossFit from day one. Uh because I recognize that CrossFit is really [\h__\h] hard to do. It just seems brutal. And the fact that it's got people doing squats and people doing deadlifts and it's got people with barbells in their hands. I really did like the fact that it had women uh more even more so than than the men. There's more women attracted to it. Maybe because the guys have their shirts off. I'm not sure. They don't look like us. Yeah. That look the opposite of the way we look right now, especially. Um, but I really I really like the fact it was empowering women and getting women to kind of think with a totally different mindset than they ever thought before. They're now flipping tires and I think just doing [\h__\h] that they probably thought was never possible before. And then instead of them worrying about like how much they weigh on the scale all the time, they're more worried about performance-based activity and how well they can do in um in a in a given contest or a given workout or wad. And when your mind is there, it's easier to make progress with your body. So, it's interesting once you kind of once you kind of ease off and you're you're not you're not trying so damn hard to lose a pound or two for so and so or for this and that, it's that much easier to actually lose weight because again, when you start to lift weights and you start to put a barbell in your hand and you start to do some of the workouts as CrossFitters do, you're going to burn fat and gain muscle. And when you keep that muscle on your body, your body's going to work for you rather than you working for it. I think there's a lot of uh middle ground of of crossfitters, bodybuilders, powerliffters, weightlifters, especially uh bodybuilders and powerlters, they used to talk [\h__\h] on each other, right? Like, "Oh, bro, you just look good. Oh, bro, you're fat and you can only lift, right?" But then CrossFit came around, it kind of became that that thing that everybody's hating on for no reason. But it's also that that middle ground of of trolls, just like a YouTube comment, that that are the ones saying this. Uh we've been lucky enough to to deal with the top powerliffters, uh some of the top bodybuilders, uh the top crossfitters, and those guys aren't like that. Like they they know like, oh, if I want to deadlift and I'm going to go to Mark. Oh, if I need a weightlift, I need to go see, you know, our friend Max or whoever it might be. Um rather than no, powerlifters got nothing to teach me. They can't even do a handstand walk. Like, all right, bro. You know, like it was a huge influence, too, having good crossfitters around. Uh the crossfitters I worked with in the beginning were were awesome. So that helped a lot. I could see their work ethic. And you find that those super strong people just don't pay attention to the comments online or they aware of comments online because you hear you hear like, "Oh yeah, an NBA player going into the finals, he's on strict media." You know, I think they pay attention, they just shrug it off. Uhhuh. Because they have a mutual respect from, like I said, the other top people in the other sport. And what else do you really need? You know, do you want respect from the kind of these ants down there or you want like from the real people caring? Yeah. I think everyone hears the noise. I think you can't you can't avoid it. M uh you see comments over and over again. You can't help but have it be hurtful at some point. Um but really it's kind of absurd to to have it even bother you at all because if someone was to shout something at you like even on the street or something which no one would ever actually do, but if they did, you would be like so shocked that you wouldn't even think they were yelling at you. So you'd probably just keep walking. Yeah. You know, it wouldn't even like it wouldn't phase you at all. And you might even kind of look and be like, "That person doesn't have any clue. I don't even know who that person is at all. And and that would be your way of kind of like dealing with you. Like, okay, I just keep walking or whatever. Um, but yeah, these people that make these comments online, I think that I think that, you know, number one, I'd like to see people think a little bit more before they make a comment because I do think people can criticize and I think they can have fun with criticizing and I think they can they can be a little over the top and outlandish and still have fun with it without like being so like they're way too negative. And I think a lot of times it's probably just kids. It's probably younger people that are just making these kind of crazy comments. They're not really making any sense. Like I see comments where someone will make fun of me. I'm like, "You can make fun of me so much better than that." Like that's not that funny, you know? And I' and I've had other ones that have come in that are funny. And I'll show it to Mike, like this is [\h__\h] hilarious, you know? And he'll show one that someone said something about him and we think it's like actually funny. So it's like, you know, think about it before you actually put something down. Yeah. And if you're going to criticize somebody on something, then maybe you should be knowledgeable on some of the subjects that you're trying to comment on. Yeah. Knowledgeable is no fun, though. Nah, Chrissy can attest to that. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I love the YouTube comments about my blue shirt. It's all about those are the ones that are funny is the thing. Yeah. No, I get a good laugh out of them. I love them. But I don't know. It seems like Yeah, those those comments also sort of miss sometimes. is that it's like CrossFit clearly came into being at a time when there the the world of strength was totally ready for another strength sport and there like it met a need that was out there. What was what was it about that? Yeah. About the the galaxy turning in that moment where CrossFit just can sort of explode like that. There had to have been other things like that in the past that never had the chance. Stuff that people don't want to admit. You know, people don't want to admit the power of thing is boring and that strong man is strongman's actually not boring, but strong man is like a very dysfunctional sport. Maybe too extreme. Yeah, too extreme. It's messed up from top to bottom in a lot of ways. I love strong men. I like a lot of the athletes. I'm very close to a lot of the athletes in strong men. But holy crap is that sport, right? Really messed up. Bodybuilding kind of same like some of these sports are just they've been around a long time. and the old way of thinking and it was you're right it was time for something new time for something different the thinking of uh Craig Glman and Dave Castro while it may be a lot different at least it's their thoughts and it's what they want to do and if and if you're in their way then then you're going to get run over you know they they do things their own way they don't care who steps in and intervenes or wants to change stuff u Mike and I were at the games one year when the ESPN people were kind of complaining because things were getting switched up so much or like we spent so much time on these graphics that said certain things uh certain weights and certain things. Now it's all different. We got to go back and change it. But that the CrossFit doesn't they don't care. They're going to do their thing their way the way they think is going to give them the best product that they they can have. Everything kind of goes in cycles, you know, like Mark said he witnessed first as a kid. Uh like going to the gym, there was no like powerlifters or bodybuilders. It was like guys trying to get bigger and guys trying to get stronger. And I witnessed that trying to study some of the the history of of lifting and things. Uh then you get to maybe the 80s, 90s and everything starts to go to machines. All these barbells are on tracks. Everything you're sitting in a seat. Uh so I think it was just about time that the barbell starts to come around. No doubt CrossFit had a huge impact on weightlifting and powerlifting. But I think uh with or without power uh CrossFit, excuse me, it was probably bound to happen that the barbell is going to come about in a different more powerful way in the future. Eventually the fitness community uh tends to want to cannibalize itself a lot. the uh powerlifting stabilizing powerlifting does it a lot too where it's like uh even within the sport itself there's too much like infighting for the sport to really grow and haters yeah a bunch of haters a lot of lot of hatefulness just going around period and it's just it's uh it's unnecessary and there's money to be made for everybody there's there's a place at the table for everybody there's a place at the table for everybody to get a little pat on the back saying hey that 800 lb deadlift was pretty cool but hey that uh 6-minute mile was pretty damn cool too from somebody else or or whatever. And everyone wants to just really hold on to these different things that they have. Uh even me, you know, myself with my company, there's there's so much other room. There's other room for other companies to come in and make money. And that's why there are new companies all the time. I think, you know, myself and and Mike's been a big part of it as well in making the Slingshot brand so popular. And with us making money and and doing well, we kind of do a good job of making it look easy. And so other companies have followed suit and have done, you know, knee wraps and wrist wraps, and they've hopped they've hopped along along along the uh the train there, the fitness train. But the thing is, why do I why would I get all upset and crazy about that when I can just keep focusing in on what I'm doing, keep making what I'm doing better, and not worry about what other people are doing. There's there's just money to be made for everybody. There's there's place at the table for each person. So when it comes to strongman or powerlifting or crossfit, I think we should all just try to embrace uh what each other are doing because it's all in the fitness category. It's all in the category of making yourself better, self-improvement. And what's better than that? Yeah, you can pick up a lot from each. Uh we talked about this on on a podcast last week. We had a a very top level crossfitter on and um you know, obviously powerlifting kind of leads the way in terms of like periodization, uh strength, obviously with the barbell. Uh, bodybuilding's kind of always led the way with diet because there's stuff so extreme, but there's a lot of stuff we pick up from that. Um, and CrossFit, in my opinion, is it really led the way obviously with combining all these things. Uh, but with kind of rehab, prehab, mobility stuff, uh, there's not a more educated community. Uh, we have tons of power even on our team, you know, which is an elite powerlifting team that are numbs that have no idea what's going on, you know, and they're all beat up and they're lifting like crap and whatever. Uh, but you go into a CrossFit facility or or or something like that and those guys are they know like, "Oh, oh, Mark's knee hurt. I know it's not his knee. I know it's his hip. Right. Because everything works upstream, downstream. Like they're they're just uh educated. They're self-educated and they're normally willing to learn and grow. So there's kind of no reason to to knock another one. Right. Well, yeah. Yeah. It was interesting. You were saying that, you know, strong men think of as being the sort of dysfunctional type. Like when I was growing up, I'd watch World's Strongest Man. I'm like, well, that guy's walking at least, like he's carrying something. I would look at a powerlifter and be like, he's, you know, you just envision him like getting out of breath going up a flight of stairs. He's like, "Well, I'm the strongest man in the world, but I'm in pain. Do you do you feel like it's getting more functional like the power is a more functional guy? I didn't mean uh I just meant the organizations are just functional. Not necessarily the athlete. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, no. The athlete the athlete and the movements are fine. You know, that's super individual too. You know, there's powerlters that are fat as hell and there's powerlifters that are so jacked. You know, there's crossfitters that have a little bit higher body fat. There's some crossfitters that are jacked out of their mind. Same with weightlifters. You know, the the strongest weightlifter I think right now is Iranian. Maybe he's very overweight. What would seem uh right? But then there's uh who's the guy that's around sometimes with cal strength? Gold medalist. I don't know. The guy's jacked out of his freaking mind. You know, there's there's a piece of everything in it's just like humans, right? And like our own little snowflakes or whatever the hell you want to say, but it's true. All different. All different when it comes to like uh functional strength and stuff like that. You know, I always think it's kind of funny cuz I'm like, you know, show me a nonfunctional movement, you know? I don't I don't know what that looks like or what that would even be. I mean, just because you use a Smith machine or just because you use a machine to train your triceps or your biceps, I don't see how that would not be functional. It just happens to be functional for maybe something slightly different than what you might want it to be functional for. So maybe that person who's using it is using it for their goals, not your goals. Specificity, right? Typing typing is functional for a secretary. What about a really shitty squad? What does that carry over? That means you need to watch more of our videos. Oh, okay. Exactly. Yeah, watch more videos and just uh use a little less weight maybe, you know. Oh, what? Never. It starts at 225. That's that's the one thing that I that I've observed is doesn't matter what you're doing as long as there's 225 on the bar. You know, two wheels. Well, you don't even have to lift it. You just have to look like you're lifting it every once in a while. Walk back and forth. Pace back. Yeah. Yeah. Get the arms going. Walk around. Hold your back. Stretch your hamies. Even Hart does the best impersonation of that. That's crazy. It's like you got three plates over here. He's all whing up checking the bar. Just look like you're sweating and be like, "Yep, that was a hell of a workout." So, so I I I may have discovered some of the some of the history of that thinking though recently because a buddy of mine was telling me that he had this fantasy. He's like, "I've always wanted to do this thing." I heard Arnold used to do where you take a barbell and you take two plates, you go out in the wilderness with a couple of women and a and a bunch of meat and you put you put the barbell down on the ground. You do you do all the you do everybody does as many deadlifts as they can. Then you have sex with the women. Then you eat the meat. Have you heard this story before? I think you just explained I think you just explained Mark's life. But it's like adventure. Thanks for exposing me on on the podcast here. But this is it was this myth this mythical tale that he was like I've always wanted to do this and I was like well we can do it but we're going to like have my kids there. Yeah. Yeah. It's going to be a little awkward. Yeah with that. Seems doable. Doesn't seem that out there. No, I think it's kind of a cool story, isn't it? I mean, whatever. The the whole sex part. It's kind of silly, but just get those testosterone levels up, I guess. I just I just ended up having sex with the weights instead. Coming in the gym and coming at home. Anyway, I'm going to switch. Yeah. Transition into the next one. How about we talk about fat feet? That's what I have written on my fat feet. Yeah. Why do you have a notepad? Well, hey, now just to be clear, wide feet are not fat feet. Oh, okay. But what if you have wide fat feet? What is the difference between wide and fat? I've got some wide ass feet, but my feet are um are the most vascular part of my body, too. Hey, now buddy. Buddy, that's right. You're welcome, listeners. I mean, they're so they're they're shredded. Vaso dilated. I've been I've been told I have man's feet. A man's feet. That's a manly feet. Sorry. A man's foot right there. Manly man's feet. Do you have fat feet? Is that why you wrote that down? I got some I got some I got some round feet. No, he was just saying, "Oh, your feet look round or something." Or wide. I was complimenting him on his wide shoes because I like wide shoes. Yeah. Yeah. They have a They have a wide I have sausagey feet. Like in the heat they definitely like sandals up it. Yeah. They like And then if you have sandals, it kind of squeezes the fat around. How about when you were How about when you were uh when you were pregnant? How how those didn't swell that? Oh, they didn't swell up. She was supposedly pregnant. She wasn't pregnant like that. Fingers swell up. Sodium, too. It was all appeared just in the face. Yeah. Looking like a powerlifter. Was terrible. Awesome. And I didn't notice until I looked at pictures. I was like, "Oh god." It creep up on you. How How far along were you when you were doing when you did the CrossFit games? I was oh man about eight weeks. So that's so crazy. Terrible. That's pretty crazy. So I I found out that I was praying about 10 week 10 days before we left for the games. And and I noticed about a month before that I was like man things are really hard. Like we did the triple three workout which was a 3,000 meter row 300 double unders and a three mile run. And I was like this is the worst thing I've ever done. I was like oh no. I had to stop and like puke a couple. I was like, "No, this is terrible." And I had no idea what was wrong. That was this year. That was 2015. Oh, gotcha. And then um so we were just practicing for the games. And then I took I peed on a stick 10 days before we left because I hadn't gotten my period. And I was like, "Oh no." But I didn't tell my teammates because I didn't want them to kick me off the team. Well, give it a go. That's great. You think they would have kicked you off the team? I don't know. Jerk. Sorry guys. I don't know. They might have done it. Yeah. Just so like Yeah. Yeah. They might have worried about you a lot. That's what I was Yeah. Yeah. But I lived. She lived. She's cute. We're all good. We're all good to go. That's amazing. That's so crazy. Terrible. But speaking of that, speaking of Cassie, you hang out with a lot of really strong women. Um, did you kind of see this golden age of strong women coming off in the distance? Like it seems like dream about it, yearn for it, that word. or is this is this a golden ages? I think that I think that uh women are still just scratching the surface of what they're capable of. I think uh what we're seeing from CrossFit, and this is just uh in my opinion, I think the women are more impressive than the men when it comes to their muscularity and and their strength levels. And I don't mean like obviously they're not lifting more than the men. They don't weigh more than the men. Uh, but I just mean in terms of where women were before to where they are now and where the men were before to where they are now. The men are like kind of in the same spot. Like they traditionally deadlift over 500 lb in CrossFit and they're still kind of there. Uh there's um guys that squat, you know, 400 lb. There's there's a bunch of them, you know, but with the women it's like I think, you know, kind of in the beginning it seemed like a 275 lb deadlift, 300lb deadlift was kind of a hard thing for women. Now, not in a in a power thing setting, a 315, you start to get over 350 and you're talking about a really good deadlift for a female. And it seems like almost all the top level CrossFit women uh deadlift 350 and above. And even Brooke Wells doing a 415 deadlift in the CrossFit games this year after, you know, after she ran a 7K trail run or whatever the [\h__\h] that was. Just it's unbelievable. So, I think I think you're just starting to see the beginning of what women can do because there's still not as many women uh as maybe uh exposed to some lifting as as uh as there are men. I think in my opinion, um the CrossFit has helped that quite a bit, but I think that the more women that are exposed to it, the more freaks and the more crazy lifts you're going to see from the females. Sure. Yeah. And there are probably a lot of people who are just they're not accustomed to the idea of seeking strength as like a as a goal like I'm going to get stronger. Yeah. And and the more people that think that and and that goes even with the men, you know, the more people that uh at the age of seven or six are like, I'm going to be a crossfitter. Yeah. The more people that do that, the more crazy [\h__\h] you're going to see because now it's a wider pool of people. You know, football uh was kind of the only game in town for a long time. baseball. Those were kind of the two main things that or even basketball I guess to a certain extent. The ladies not even like what what every girl plays soccer and that's it. Maybe maybe volleyball and softball. Now maybe basketball's a little bit more uh you know maybe there's some fringe golf or tennis or something gymnastics. Well, the women are always kind of pushed aside in especially in strength. The women are always just kind of like yeah we'll have some stuff for the girl. But we didn't even like even playing high school sports the guys always weight trained. Yep. The girls never got to weight train. would go in like once a seme I mean Michael Jordan didn't lift weights till 1992 you know like even the guys and now every basketball player is doing something every football player tennis players you hear Tiger Woods benches 350 you know like everything's uh starting to evolve well they used to talk for years they talked about how dangerous cheerleading was and I'm like well cheerleading is not dangerous the girls are out of shape you know they're not I'm not saying they're out of shape uh in terms of their cheerle the way their the way their bodies like a lot of cheerleaders I'm not talking about But yeah, they're on train. Try to lift without They're on train. There you go. That's a better way to say it. I'm not saying that they look bad. I'm saying that they're they're not physically fit enough to handle the jumping into the different things that they're doing and they're crashing down on their ankle and then they're busting their ankle. It's a huge disservice to women, I think, in general. And I remember I had to in high school lift with the football team because there was no one to lift with on my girlfriends on the girls team. We're playing footsy. Don't mind us. Yeah, there's a little wide fat feet. women I mean I think part of the reason and Chrissy you can correct me but you know women tear their ACL's to death and maybe if they learned how to squat Q angle am I right doctor you are but like learning how to properly jump and land and run and I think boys get to learn that girls don't a letter Q yes anyway continue I just think it's it needs to it needs to get worked on even addressing you know the women with you know women some typically will have wider hips and then their knees are kind of inside of where their hips are and then the feet kind of trail back outward a little bit. So when you go and you travel down the leg towards the knee, the knee is like inward a little bit. And so a lot of times their knees will cave in a lot when they do different exercises. But even with that being said that they have ch childbearing hips, that's not like something that's going to automatically blow out your knees. Exactly. Through exercise. But if you if you exercise more and become stronger, that'll be less of a problem. like that. You were built that way for a reason. Uh you're not built that way so you blow out your ACL all the time from doing anything, right? No. You know, if you if but if you make yourself stronger in some of these positions that you're trying to get in when you cheerlead or when you do powerlifting or any other sport, uh then you won't be injured. Yeah. Going back to like you asked about uh semi different, but uh four weeks what do you do for a powerlifting is all like it's all like skill and motor pattern improvement, right? And that's kind of that whole knee deal. like a girl squatting 315 won't improve her ACL like uh rehabilitation or chances that she wasn't uh won't bust it, but her getting her knees out in the proper knee tracking in a squat will cuz then under high impact of cutting on a suicide uh basketball sprint or or if a girl comes and clips her from the side in soccer, uh she's more likely to land at the proper position where that thing's not going to burst. Mhm. Yeah. It's interesting though because I I think we we see it a lot that people want to treat women athletes like they're fragile and a special case. And yeah, there's a few differences between men and women. Uh, but how they train and and how you can train them and coach them really no different. And I think part of the reason why sometimes we may get injured is because we are treating them so different or we're changing their nutrition to a point where it's like, look, we we can eat carbs. We're we're women, but trust me, I can I put down carbs. Like I don't need to stay away from them, you know? But it's like, oh, the the hormones are different. The training patterns are different. you put them on this completely different. It's like, no, trust me, like we can do the same thing. I think it's a real popular thing right now and it's it's a selling point for coaches is to say, "Oh, I'm not going to put you on the same program as Silent Mike." Well, why wouldn't you put me on the same program cookie cutter? Something pretty good. Strength of strength. Yeah. Well, and then also like if if a cookie cutter quote unquote cookie cutter program never worked, then how does does any team ever get successful? How have the Green Bay Packers built what they used to have or the Chicago Bulls or any of these teams that have built these Bears any of these teams that have built these like dynasties? How have they done it? They they do train as a team. So, according to what coaches are selling now, you can't train like the guy next to you. So, that wouldn't work, you know, technically, right? Yeah. I think it's broader than just sex. It's age. Obviously, you're not going to max out if you're not a powerlifter arguably or or if you're 15 first time squatting, but age, height, weight, uh sex, obvious like there's a mill even sports. Bodybuilding and powerlifting are way more similar than people want to say. Uh there's different exercise selection, but but we do plenty of bodybuilding type movements in terms of isolation movements, if you want to call them, uh in our offseason. The tan part is very similar. You got to look good in your singlet. Uh, but even, you know, CrossFit, whatever it may be, is like there's certain just laws that work and everybody needs to follow them almost regardless of your goal. If you're trying to gain weight, you're going to eat more calories. If you're trying to lose weight, you're going to eat less calories. Like, yeah, there's a little more uh to it, but not that much. If you want to get stronger, you're going to have to lift a barbell with progressively more weight or reps or sets over [\h__\h] 10 years, and you're going to eventually get stronger. Uh, and that's going to uh in bodybuilding, that's going to do the same because you're going to have to grow more muscle to lift that more weight to support the [\h__\h] progressive overload. Like, it's it's simpler than people want to make it. Uh because they do want that answer. They do want like, "Oh, oh, your girl Stephanie, you're over here on the on the step mill. Oh, little Tommy, we're doing curls, you know, or you're a bodybuilder. We're only going to do dumbbells. We're not going to do a flat bench or whatever it is." But it is still it's hard to get as strong as you could be. All right? Like, so when some I bet you have people come to you all the time saying, "I want to get strong AF right here. You know, I'm going to be the best strongest version of myself." Do you find yourself warning those people like, "No, get getting strong ain't no joke. it yeah it is difficult it's difficult to make progress uh over a long period of time but it depends on the commitment level of the person too um if you know if if they come in and they have at least a decent understanding of of training uh that helps a lot of shows you like okay this person at least did a little bit of their homework maybe they're not crazy strong right now like maybe they haven't really built up or acquired a lot of strength yet because it just takes time um but at least they've done some research at least they know who Mike is they know who I they know about some of these various training methods and they've tried a couple different things. Then it's actually very easy to start to steer them in the right direction. Uh prime example is we have a lifter in our gym um who's a a bodybuilder as well and he came in and I think he was deadlifted around 635 and within I think four months he deadlifted 7:15. Now 635 deadlifts is already like that's no joke already very strong very very strong and even in power terms it's it's pretty damn good. Uh but for him to go to 7:15 that quickly, um it's not anything crazy that we did at super training. It's uh more a byproduct of him coming in already at least knowing uh some of how his body works along with just training alongside us, get some eyes on him. Yeah. Being in a good environment and we do we do kind of try to coach like nearly every rep at every set and and we're on each other about the form and stuff like that. But that's a huge factor is uh you know people that want to get stronger, people that that want want to get uh better. The commitment level they have to that is uh is going to be the biggest determining factor on how fast they can get stronger. I think it's a matter of like uh how much like Mark said earlier, powerlifting is boring as [\h__\h] Like if you can bench squat dead for the next 10 years and not get injured, you're going to be pretty strong. uh almost regardless of program, almost regardless of nutrition, like those things will obviously accelerate the process, but it's boring because it's like uh I don't even know what to compare it to, but like you're just doing the same thing over and over and there's a lot of skill involved and there's a lot of grind involved and that you know all the cliche of hustle grind, but it's so true. cuz it's it's every Thursday for the last 5 years. Me and Mark have benched together and we've Mark's benched between 3:15 and 455 for those years in different sets and reps and I've benched between 225 and 3:15 every freaking Thursday at 2:00. That's what we do, you know, and like is that glamorous or fun? Not really. We try to have fun. We try to, you know, mess around and and that's where the Instagrams and the YouTube and stuff comes into play. But like the actual process of self-improvement and it's the same thing, you know, if you want to get deep or whatever and talk about like becoming a better person or being nicer to people, like you can't just do it, but like once you start thinking about it daily, you think about doing one nice task for something every single day. And then over time, maybe you're a better person because you open the door for a lady now before when you used to just not give a [\h__\h] what they were doing. Self self uh selft talk. It used to be you couldn't even reach for it. You're such a dysfunctional individual. You couldn't get your arm high enough to you just got to open the door and then and then you're going to heaven. Mobilize that shoulder. Yeah. Right. And taking your mind. I think that's the that's what helped me with CrossFit is like being willing to do stuff that's scary. Like put 225 for me over my head was like terrifying. But you have to do like you have to go there in order to improve and that's that's a lot of weight. Yeah. Wasn't that a jerk? Yeah. That was pretty strong. You have you have to challenge yourself, you know? You have to and it's going to make you in a lot of ways it's gonna make you a stronger person. I think sometimes what Mike and I run into, unfortunately, we run into some just really, really hardcore meattheads and all they know is the lifting. And it's sad to see sometimes you're like, man, I wish this person would just understand uh what they could do with the rest of their life if they're able to make some of these awesome uh changes inside the gym with the weights they're able to move. Like how awesome of a person this person actually is, and they don't even [\h__\h] recognize it because they're such a meatthead. are just kind of intertwined with the with the weights. But yeah, if you're if you're somebody who's able to make big changes with fitness, you're able to lose body fat, you're able to gain strength on your bench press, then you could probably make some big positive changes in your life that will impact your life and other people's lives. It's a pretty good spot to wrap up the conversation on that. You feel like a better person. Like I'm ready to get you could be you could you could you could also be deadlift yourself too better. Exactly. Well, uh, thank thanks for coming and talking with us, guys. They're going to go give us a, uh, badass bench se seminar over in the bodybuilding.com gym here in a little bit. Yeah, I think it's time to lift. Yeah. Is it really? I think so, buddy. All right, we'll have uh, well, you can go to supertraining.tv.gov. You can go to how muchbench.net and get all the greatest all the greatest uh, strength training gear that you can find on the market. And I'm Mark SMBell on Instagram and Twitter. My YouTube channel is superraining 06 black back slash I mean I'm sorry it's YouTube.com backsuptraining06 and here's silent Mike uh you can find me on his [\h__\h] and uh iTunes Mark Bells podcast perfect awesome thanks guys appreciate you