I'm Chef Patrick Stark, the executive chef at Lava Cantina. And I'm Alicia Ziggler, actress and diamondized athlete. Okay, so we're back from the store and we're ready for meal prep. Now, we're going to meal prep for only 4 days. And the reason why we're doing that is because we want to keep the integrity of our proteins as well as our vegetables. After 4 days, would you agree? It starts to lose its taste and its flavor and its ickiness. It starts getting icky, which means that you're less likely to eat it and stay on track. So, when you get started in the kitchen, the number one rule is to get everything ready. You want to put your ingredients out so you're not running around. That's how you burn stuff. Things overcook, you get frustrated, and guess what? You don't want to cook anymore. So, for me personally, I like to list out my ingredients and the things that take the longest over here to the things that take the least amount of time. And once you have your food all laid out, you'll want to make sure that you get the necessary equipment that you'll need. So, your utensils, for example, your containers to store your food in, and preheat your oven. So, with your four days of meal prep, that's going to be three meals a day. That's going to include a protein, a complex carbohydrate, a fat, and a vegetable. So, here's my plan of attack. I'm going to start with my sweet potatoes, then do my hard-boiled eggs, boil my quinoa, work on my proteins, work on my vegetables, and finish with some yogurt as well as some salads. Just to show you, this can be done in less than an hour. I'm going to be doing this all by myself without the help of Miss Alicia. Now that we've got everything set and we know what we're doing, it's time to get down and get dirty. Ready? I'm ready. Let's do this. So, we're going to start with our sweet potatoes. You always want to make sure they're washed, especially if they're not organic. And this guy is so big. Remember, you want your portion to be about the size of your fist. So, we're going to count this as two portions right here. Take your fork, the eggs. I find using a knife is sometimes easier. And I'm going to do one extra just because these guys are shelf stable and you can always freeze them. I do keep them. All right. We're going to go ahead and place these right here on your foil. And the reason that he's using foil is because it makes for a fast and easy clean up when you're done. Once you remove the potatoes, you can just roll it in a ball, throw it in the trash, or even maybe the recycle bin. So, we've got the sweet potatoes in at 350°. We're going to start our timer for 1 hour. Now, these sweet potatoes are going to take about 30 to 45 minutes. Again, you want to give them a little squeeze. You don't want them too soft and mushy, but you want to have a little bit of firmness. Next up, hard-boiled eggs. We're going to cook all of them because they make a really easy go-to snack for when you're on the run or you're running out of time and you need some extra protein. Go ahead and place your eggs gently. Gently. I was going to say gently. We got baby Thor over here. Tiny flex. Tiny flex. And we're going to go ahead and just cover these eggs with cold water. And you want to cover them by at least 1 in. Now place them back on the stove. We're going to turn on our heat and we're going to let these come up to a boil. Once they come to a boil, we're going to shut the heat off and cover them. Now, these are large eggs, so they're going to take about 12 minutes to just sit and steep in this hot water. And once they're done and cooled, feel free to put them back in here for storage in case you don't want to put them in separate containers. You can always just put them right back in here for an easy quick grab and go. See, she taught me something I did not know. Next up, quinoa. Say it with me. quinoa. Uh we're going to go ahead and measure out a/4 cup dry of the quinoa and that's going to equal one serving. So I'm going to take a/4 cup * four servings, which is going to give me one cup total. And this is easy, too. With your quinoa, it's usually a two part liquid to one part grain ratio. All right, one cup exactly right into the pot. Now for some stock. Go. And using a stock is just for flavor. Give it a little stir to make sure all of the little grains are coated with liquid. Then we're going to keep an eye on it. Once it comes to a boil, we're going to cover it and set a timer for 15 minutes. If you look over here right now, we've got little bubbles coming up around our eggs. Again, once that comes to a full boil, we're going to shut it off and we're going to set a timer for 12 minutes. Up next, we're going to start prepping our protein. To make things easy and have less cleanup, we're going to place Saran Wrap over top of our cutting board so that we're not cross-contaminating or getting anybody sick, including yourself. Once these proteins are all seasoned up, we're going to place them on a sheet tray and we're going to place them into the oven. If at any time you're maybe concerned that purchasing the Saran Wrap or the foil is getting too expensive, you can always go to your local dollar store and buy it there. First up, we're going to go ahead and season our turkey. All right. Notice our eggs are just coming to a simmer. Always want to keep an eye on everything that's going on. So, I've just wiped off my hands. I'm not quite done with my turkey, but I've noticed that my eggs and my quinoa are now to a boil. So, I'm going to go ahead kill the heat on both of them. Go ahead and cover them. And the reason I like my phone so much is I can have multiple different timers going for different things. And when you're doing meal prep, the number one thing is being aware of everything that's going on around you, as well as setting timers. All right, we're going to go up 12 minutes for the eggs, and then we're going to do the quinoa for 15. All right, we've got them now set on our phone. Let's get back to the turkey. All right, go. All right, so I'm going to go ahead and season these turkey breasts with a little bit of Mrs. Dash. Give them a little flip. There we go. Turkeys love massages. Place them right on the sheet tray. When I cook and I'm in the kitchen and I want to speed things up and keep myself alive and going and motivated to be cooking, I play music. So, that's another suggestion that you can do to keep your kitchen time fun. So, you never want to crosscontaminate on your cutting board. I'm going to knock out all my poultry first, take the saran wrap off, and then do my beef and then my fish. These chicken breasts are so large that you want to go ahead and trim them into the ideal portion size. So, I have two breasts right here. Again, size of your fist. I'm going to cut them in half. You can also use scissors, which is a great trick if you don't have good knife skills. Slice them. And then to make the the cook time go a little bit faster, you can go ahead and slice these into pieces. This is dashes. Again, just remember, keep them in clusters so you know when you go to portion after they're cooled, what you're working with. So, look at our chicken. Which one's not like the other? This one right here. Think you could use another piece? I do. I feel like it's smaller than the portions that are on the other one. That's a great point because one end of your chicken breast is going to be much thicker and bigger. So, you always want to take that into account. And by slicing it, what's great is that you can go ahead and repportion each one. How does that look? Much better. So, I'm now going to go ahead. I'm going to take this saran wrap off and we're going to start with our ground beef next. Now, you notice your quinoa has probably already been going for about half the time. Don't be afraid to take a look at it and give it a little stir. Also going to wash my knife cuz I used it for the chicken. Now, on to our beef here. Okay. Yeah. Onion and garlic powder. Come on. That's killer. Again, like your turkey burgers, go ahead and form out your patties. Is that how you get your muscles? Some of my muscles. All right. Next up, we're going to give it a little seasoning of some onion powder, garlic powder, and a little smoky paprika. And again, because we're not using any salt, it's okay to go a little heavy on your seasonings. This is a garlic powder that he's using. I love smoked paprika. It gives it the hint of almost it being on a real barbecue, even though we're just baking it in the oven. And we're going to flip. Give them a nice little slap on the patty. Just tap tap tappy. Why you always want to season meat on both sides is cuz you want to share the love. There's nothing worse than getting one side of a bite that's really flavorful and the next bite kind of being bland. I always opt for like a pink Himalayan sea salt. It offers a lot of minerals and good nutrients that you can add to your meat for a little extra flavor as well. It's also good to help prevent um electrolyte imbalances. Let's say you're doing, you know, those two a days or those extra added workouts and you're noticing an extra sweat loss. That's another time you might want to add just a pinch to your meat. Just a pinch. There's my timer. That means our eggs are done. So, I'm going to go ahead and drain these very, very carefully into the sink and run them over some cold water. Enough to cool them off. Yep. So, the eggs are done. We've cooled them down. If you want to learn some more tricks about the eggs, make sure you go to bodybuilding.com and check out my other secret hints about boiling them, peeling them, and scrambling them. So, we're on to the last protein, which is going to be our fish. Today, we're using a pull lock. Now, these fish aren't the smartest ones in the sea, but they are pretty tasty. So, what's good about these little guys? This is a 4 oz portion. We're going to split the bag open. Taking them out. Look at that. There's our quinoa. Shut your alarm off. So, our quinoa is done. And you can always tell quinoa is done because the liquid is almost all absorbed. Notice if there's a little bit liquid that's still in there, the grains are going to keep absorbing this. So, don't be scared if it's a little bit wet or a little bit loose. You let it sit without the top on then or I'm actually just going to leave the lid on it and it's just going to sit there and keep steaming. So now back to the pull lock. Everyone's favorite fish. Do you know any good pullock jokes? Well, I have some in my family. So do I. So how many chefs does it take? Uhoh. Oh. All right. So we've just removed these out of the bag. And this is about 4 oz or about as big as my fist. Again, I don't really like the juice in the bag, so I just try not to get it on top of your saran wrap. This way, the seasoning is going to stick more to the fish and it's going to come out even tastier. Booyah. And now for my favorite seasoning, the garlic and herb. Give it a flip. M. All right. So, we're going to go ahead and place these guys right on the sheet tray. And you must be thinking to yourself, how is this weirdo cooking turkey, chicken, beef, and fish all on the same sheet tray? You read my mind. Well, there's a good answer for that. When you look at all these, they're all about almost the same thickness. The only one that you really, really want to concentrate that's perfectly cooked is going to be your poultry, which is your turkey and your chicken. So, generally with a size that's about this big of a 4 to a 5 oz portion, it's going to take somewhere between 10 to 12 minutes. So, I'm going to set my timer right now for 10 minutes up. And again, just like seasoning is just like cooking in an oven. You can always add more or you can always cook it longer, but you can't necessarily take out the seasoning or reduce the cook time. Stay. Stay. So, right now I'm at 22 minutes and all I got left to do is some vegetables, some salad, and some portioning. We're staying right on track. The next thing we're going to do is our vegetables. Make sure that all stickers are removed, it's washed, and get it going. If you notice, I've cut this squash about a/4 of an inch to a/ inch. And what's good about this is it's going to give it a good bite. It's not going to turn to mush too quick when you cook it either on the stove or in a microwave. Little more spice. So now I'm going to take this and place it into the microwave for 4 to 6 minutes. Now, while the squash is cooking, I'm going to go ahead and prepare my broccoli. What kind of seasoning should we put on this today? I would go with the uh onion powder and some garlic if it were myself. Sounds good. Let's do it. So, you must be thinking to yourself, how is chef going to cook this broccoli in a microwave? Well, after you season it, we're going to add about 1/4 in of water and cover it with some saran wrap. This is going to create steam, which is going to cook it almost like a steamer. Sounds like the squash is done. Let's go ahead and chuck in the broccoli next. Now, I'm going to go ahead and place this broccoli in for 5 minutes. And then I'm going to check it. Again, you can always cook it longer, but you can't cook it less. This is perfect. Notice it's nice and soft, but it's not overcooked. If we go to reheat this for lunch or dinner, it's going to have that perfect snap to it. Still tasting is believing. Perfectly good. Still got a little snap. So when we go to reheat it, it's going to be delicious. So we're almost down to the final stretch. Let's go ahead and prep our salad. Today we've got some beautiful little grape tomatoes, some greens, and we're going to start by slicing this cucumber. Again, just about a/4 in to a/ in. So that is our oven timer. Let's go ahead and give it a check. Proteins look like they're done. Most of the sweet potatoes are ready. However, those big guys might need a couple more minutes. Always push in the center. If they're firm, you know they're done. If they're soft, that means you probably need to grab a thermometer and give it a check. Now, all poultry you want to make sure has an internal temperature of 165°. Your beef, depending if you like it a little bit rare or medium, 145 degrees is a good benchmark for your beef. Fish is going to be the same at 145°. All this smells delicious. All of these are firm, so we're just going to let them cool down to room temp before we go ahead and portion them out and package them. So, the sweet potatoes need a couple more minutes. I'm going to set my alarm for another five to check on it. And while they're finishing up in the oven, we're going to bang out this salad. So, the great thing about using plastic bags for your salad is not only is it portable, easy for convenience, but when you go to reheat your food, your salad won't get hot. I mean, who likes a hot salad? Not this guy. Not wilted lettuce. All right, we've got a good base of greens in all of our bags. I love cucumbers. I'm going to go ahead and put about five to six of these guys in each. Like so. Going to add in now about five to six little baby tomatoes. All right. Easy, right? Easy peasy. All right. Going to go ahead take all the air out, roll it like a burrito. So, for a salad dressing for these awesome greens, I like to carry with me some lemon or lime juice. Very lowal, good acidity. I'll also add a little bit of extravirgin olive oil for that healthy fat. And if you really want to check out a really cool dressing, make sure you go and check out on bodybuilding.com my pre-workout vinegarette. Goes great with any salad. Also gives you a little boost, especially when you get done with lunch. There's no more sleeping at your desk. You're going to be ready to rock the rest of your day. So, while our sweet potatoes are cooking those last 5 minutes, we're going to show you a couple snack options. Awesome. So, next one of our snacks is going to be this delicious yogurt. I'm going to go ahead and add a little bit of protein to this. Right now, I'm placing in two scoops, which is 50 g of protein. And I'm using a vanilla flavor today. You can pretty much use whatever you'd like. And we're going to add some cinnamon. Gives it a nice little kick. Make sure it's smooth like butter. Even though butter is bad, unless you're polyine buttery ghee ghee, which is clarified butter. All right, looks pretty good. And we're going to go ahead and portion this into a couple little jars. You don't get to lick the spatula. Oh, that looks so good. And also like your eggs, if you want to prepare your yogurt and you have the time to do it in advance where you wanted to add the protein and stir it, you could always put it back in the container and then the morning or the day of that you're going to take your snack, get your measurement, you know, whether it's a/2 cup or a cup according to whatever your uh weight loss goal is, and you can then just serve it then as well. I like a little bit of fruit in my yogurt as well. So, I'm going to add some fresh blueberries and a little bit more cinnamon just on top. Voila. Well, that's my timer. And you can smell these sweet potatoes. Let's give them a check. Oh, yeah. Notice they're just starting to get soft. Even the big guy, he's soft. And there's one thing that you guys always want to remember about cooking is that when you take it out of the oven, it's going to continually cook. That's called carryover cooking. So, anytime you're cooking beef, chicken, potatoes, and you take it out, it's going to keep cooking while it rests. So, if you want a chicken breast to be juicy and succulent at 165, I always recommend pulling it out at about 160°. And if you're still freaked out about it, make a little slit inside it and check it. Just make sure it's cooked all the way through. The juices will be clear and not cloudy. So, everything's cooked and I still have 6 minutes left in my hour to go ahead and get everything portioned. So, let's get going. So, what I like to do is separate my containers by the amount of meals that I've made for myself. So, we'll put these out. And then we have three meals a day for 4 days. Okay. So, what I like to do is start with my protein. So, we'll put all of our proteins in our containers first. So, even though the chef is laying them out this way, just remember that you don't necessarily have to eat your proteins in this order. If you wake up and you wanted to have chicken and fish and or turkey, whatever you want, or beef that day, feel free to eat your proteins as you feel that you will because the most important thing is just eating clean. And the next thing I like to add to my meal is my complex carbohydrate. And once again, feel free to mix it up. If you want your sweet potatoes with your fish, if you want a sweet potato with your red meat versus your turkey, you can do whatever you want. Like I said, keep it palatable. Make yourself happy. Make sure that you're eating well and staying on track. So, from an athletes perspective, even though Chef Stark is kind of mindfully portioning this, according to your macros, you'll want to probably use a measuring cup when putting them into your containers. So, someone like myself, a portion would be a quarter of a cup of quinoa. For yourself, it could possibly be a half cup. Something like that. Last but not least, the most important part are your veggies. And your veggies don't necessarily have to be exact. Don't forget, this is the one area where too much of a good thing isn't necessarily a bad thing. While they do contain carbohydrates, having a lot of vegetables in your diet alkalizes the body, combats acidosis, which you start to get if you work out a lot. As your mother said and your grandmother, eat your vegetables. And again, feel free to change it up. You can put your zucchini with your fish, with your turkey, your beef, however you like it. And be careful not to munch too much when you're preparing your food. Or you won't have any to portion. It's true. You can find yourself overeating. So, as you can see at home, not all these meals have vegetables, and that's where our salads come in. All right. So, now we're just going to finish up with our fats. This is the one area that you're going to want to make sure that you measure because like I said before, it's very calorie dense. So, you can't overdo too much fat for your calorie intake. So, for our healthy fat we're using here is extra virgin olive oil. And feel free to use a coconut oil if that's a preferred preference. It has a sweeter almost nuttier flavor as well. And if you don't want to pour it all over your food, you could pour it on maybe just your carbohydrate to keep it soft. Add a little sea salt maybe. So, that's going to wrap up our hour. Let's go ahead and put some lids on this, package these bad boys up and get them ready for the week. So, here you go, gang. 4 days of meals and snacks in less than 1 hour. So, be sure to come back to bodybuilding.com daily so that you can get your tips, tricks, and motivation so that you can be transformed.