My name is Mike Rasheed. I am originally from Brooklyn, New York, Kings County. My childhood was very normal. It was a very stable middle class upbringing. I lived in the Canary section of Brooklyn. I was into nerdy things. I played piano. I played saxophone. I tap danced. Um, I was heavily into science. My grandmother would take me to the planetarium often. I played pretty much every sport as a kid. You know, I was really good at baseball. However, my team, we lost every game because the team sucked. So, I hated that. But the one sport that I really gravitated to was boxing. So boxing was a sport in which it's all on me. If I lose, it's my fault. If I win, it's my glory. You know, that's a sport that holds you accountable. The pressure for you to perform well is skyhigh. You have everything to lose. Your your manhood, your pride, your teeth. Uh it's a lot to lose. So, it keeps you really sharp. Uh they call it the sweet science. So, uh because it's a very technical, tactical sport. I lifted weights throughout my whole career as a boxer, which is somewhat taboo cuz typically it makes you tighter and slower, but that didn't happen to me. Even now, people have seen me glove up and they think I'm going to be slow and sluggish, you know, still got little man speed with big man power. That's a dangerous combination. I never was concerned with a particular look. I never lifted for that. I lifted because I wanted to be strong, right? So over the years developed my own system of progressive training and getting stronger and I've done it, you know, hey, easy. I'm a 225 lb guy benching 500 lb without anybody's program. A lot of people throw around the term bro science. Yep. Let's go. And I'm like, I'm a bro scientist. A lot of people in fitness, they stand behind education, which is phenomenal. But they they hold such a rigid position on their particular thoughts. And a real scientist never holds rigid positions. They want to be challenged so they can learn and advance their field of study. from me to you. It's a world of differences. The human body is so dynamic. It's no way to have one monolithic program that's going to work for everybody. So many factors in play, environments, genetics, hormonal outputs and dispositions. You know, it's impossible to say that this is the way to do it. Training, it strengthens the mind. It strengthens the will. I feel like the gym is a place where you can intentionally put yourself through stressful conditions. Every time you do that, you add another notch to who you are. And it's not about what you're posting on YouTube or Instagram or whatever. It's about you adding those notches to yourself. You know if you're bullshitting people or not. You look in the mirror at yourself at at the end of the day. You know that you took shortcuts or you didn't or you did extra reps. All of these things add notches to who you are. It enhances your aptitude as a person which transcends outside of the gym big time. I want you guys to share this because I want to spread the spirit of service. Um the spirit of giving because I feel that that is vital. We go and do things for the homeless often, right? I told people on Snap like, "Yo, these people don't even care about the food. They're [\h__\h] thirsty. They need water. So if y'all want to come help, bring water, Gatorade, 11:30, meet me at the gym." Tons of people. Yeah, man. It was like 15, 20 cars deep with people. So much water, so much Gatorade. Helping someone to unlock their strength is huge for me. Even if it's one person, I want people to think outside of the box. I want people to think on a deeper level than how good they look. I love that. And I also push on people to just do the right thing. Do the right thing. you know, I'm at a qualified position to give these kind of little jewels to people because I've been on the other side when I've done the wrong thing and I learned from it, you know, and I and I experienced the pain from it. I've suffered. It never killed me. It never destroyed me. It made me stronger. I just try to put the medicine in the ice cream and give it to the kids. You know what I mean? Some of the wisdom and the things that I picked up along the way, I just want to share it. That's what I'm all about.