In every generation, only a few are worthy of being called an ultimate athlete. A hero. Don't be me. Be better than me. How you doing? I'm Mike O'Harn and this is Power Bodybuilding. We're going to train back today. Starting off with some crazy ass deadlifts. Oh yeah. Doesn't everybody love deadlifts? I sure do. We're going to do a lot of warm-up sets, but those do not count. What I'm talking about is I only count the work sets. Seven sets of two today. Then we do secondary work and two other exercises after that. We're going to do some one- arm rows and some pull downs just to give it that beautiful shape. And I know that you guys are going to go, "Wait a minute, wait a minute. Just two exercises." But after you deadlift, what you see here, that's all you're going to have left in the tank. Trust me. So, when you're on stage, You look scary good. I'm telling you. All right. This is what I want you guys to do cuz you're just starting this program. I want you guys just to come into the gym. Let's say you deadlift 315. All right. Just warm up with 135, 225. Do a couple sets each. And take your time. You don't have to rush through this. I got to put blood into my body before I start moving around. Trying to keep all the energy I can for the heavy weights. On the way there, I'll do, you know, depending on how I feel, one, two, maybe three reps per warm-up. And wait till you get to your working set, then do your reps. I didn't come in and stretch for an hour before I did this. This is how I get uh loosened up. Deadlift, man. It's the It's the superhero lift, the beast lift, the man lift. It's my favorite of the three lifts. The deadlift is a completely mental lift. You know, you can cheat a squat by not going deep, but deadlift, there's no cheating. Just grab a hold of that bar and rip it from the ground. Best lift there is in weightlifting. I'll stay uh double over on the hand placement up till, you know, 4 500 lb and then I'll start reverse grip. Reverse grip obviously is, you know, a powerlifting grip. I don't use straps. So, you know, you can't use straps in powerlifting meets and you can't use them as a gladiator. So, why use them here? What I do is I'll reverse my grip per set. Take a big deep breath before I pull. and just hold on to everything, all the energy, keep it inside, rip from the ground and then get to the top and I can let it out. When I deadlift, I'll either go barefoot or I'll do something that's like these shoes, somewhat flat. I won't use all these new type of shoes that are like uh got the springs and all that. Just I just think that's crazy to deadlift in those. Wrestling shoes are great. You know, Atomics, old school Atomic shoes are great. I don't listen to music. I don't need that to get psyched. I like the noise of the weight. I like going heavy. It's going to tear down those fibers, build the strength. And again, you got a full body exercise here. This is working everything. You do deadlifts, right, man? You go heavy enough, that next day you feel everything hurting, but it could hurt. With this, I'm ripping it from the ground. It's not a slow pull for me. I rip it. People like, "Aren't you going to hurt your back or anything?" I don't know why people think that way. You know, they're already walking in half beat. I don't get hurt. I don't worry about things. I I just destroy the weight. It's not the other way around. It's that whole approach that the weight ain't going to beat me. It's a fight between me and the weight. Same thing you think when you're going into a battle. It's you against one other thing and you can move that thing. I started lifting when I was, you know, 11, 12, 13 years old. You know, I always wanted to be stronger than my big brothers. Hearing that weight just reminds me of all four of us training together. Miss the old days. You'll never see me at a fitness center. This kind of training doesn't work with that. All right, talk to you about the secondary work, the bodybuilding part. Today we're doing one arm rows. Now, I do five sets of 10. I just love one arm rows cuz it gets the lower lat, the outer lat. When I do deadlifts, I'm already getting the mid back, the thickness, the density. Now, let's shape it up a bit. One arm row is a beautiful exercise to give you nice wingspan. So, five sets of 10 for one arm rows. You're going to love the feel of it, the power, the strength, the shape. Now, remember, just cuz your back is pumped doesn't mean you're having the best workout. That's just glycogen and blood. I want you to rip down the fibers. So, still take a little time. Next thing is pull downs. Got to get even wider. Take a wider grip. Pull them down to the chest. You know how to do pull downs, right? If you don't, I'm going to come through that and slap it. Pull downs to the chest. I recommend instead of behind the neck, you get a longer pull down to the chest. More squeeze for me. Three sets of eight there. I'm just taking it down. Finishing off that back finishing details, that final detail that you want. So when you're on stage, judges just kind of give you the trophy. All right, that's power bodybuilding. I seriously want you guys to try this out. Now, I came up with this because I see so many people working harder, not smarter. The new generation, I see so much potential in you guys. I really do. I don't want you to be me. I want you to be better than me. And I see that in you guys. Now, go out and be great. All right? And if you need information, you know how to get a hold of me. bodybuilding.com