- Finally back in Boise. So I've just come into the bedroom here. Let me ask you, what would you think of this if you come home knowing that your girlfriend's been here the whole time, and you see a camera on a tripod in the bedroom that wasn't there before. Sunshine-- - [Girlfriend] Yeah. - How come there's a camera in the bedroom on a tripod. (girlfriend laughs) - [Girlfriend] I was trying to video myself. - [Kris] What were you filming in there? - I cut apart one of my outfits, and I was going to film a deconstruction piece. - Does that sound untruthful? - [Girlfriend] It's true! - [Kris] Sounds like a lot of bollicks. - Yeah, so I have a porno video coming out. Stay tuned. - That's what I was hoping. - I'm Kris Gethin. I'm gonna be training to prepare for an Ironman. I'm giving myself six months, and we're gonna do it! (bright music) Good morning, it is Day 149 here. I was supposed to have filmed in the jeep, but I totally forgot so I'm filming now. It's leg day, today. We did arms yesterday. My arms, even though we trained them only like 12 hours ago, my biceps are friggin' hurting hard already. So I'm glad that we started with a very heavy easy bar of curls to begin with, and I'm glad I used some control cheating in my movement, so I could get some extra negatives in there, and, of course, to antagonize the haters out there as well. Look at that beautiful moon. Don't know if you can see that. It's kind of orange, because there's a lot of bush fires out here at the moment. (heavy rock beat) A lot of people miss out on legs, so they don't take legs as seriously. Leg workouts are never as popular. So this really separates the men from the boys. Sometimes you have to do the hard yards, in order to get the results that you really want. It's just a short-term pain, just think about that. The pain is very, very short-term. Grit your teeth, grab the bull by the horns, and just fucking go for it. That's it, we're done! Now usually if you can, go and do your bike workout right now, while you've got fatigued legs. Myself, I'm gonna be doin' later, because I had an invite from the guys at TriTown, askin' if I wanted to join their threshold workout. I've never been invited by this exclusive club before, so I feel quite special, and I'm not gonna turn that down, even if I do have my ass handed to me. That's kind of what I signed up for and that's what I like. I want my ass to be handed to me. You know, it's a reality check and it shows you how much room that you have to grow. (suspenseful music) (water splashing) Good morning kids, it is Day 150. It's a Wednesday. That was the toughest ride, I've personally done. It's walk in the park for them, I'm sure. 23 miles in 66 minutes. It's was a lot for me. I averaged 21 miles an hour. It was tough, but it was good. It's a good gut check, see what you're made of. It's good to put yourself through a test like that every now and again, I'm sure. But I'm glad I went at this time within my training, because if they'd asked me a couple months ago, I really would have embarrassed myself. Today is supposed to be a non-training day. However, I'm training. You take the day off. I am training though, because I'm going away on Friday, so I'm gonna head on up to Stanley, Redfish Lake, again, and just detox my brain a little, because I've been gettin' a little bit stressed, a little bit anxious lately. So I'm gonna go up there by myself, and create a little mini-triathlon. When did I injure my shoulder? September last year. I obviously haven't been on this machine. I don't get any discomfort on my delts when I do this. Freakin' hell. (heavy rock beat) (grunting) God, I feel week as piss today. I haven't been in a wetsuit for a couple of weeks now, so I need to obviously get back into it, as I've only got like two weeks until the Ironman, but you get used to it very quickly after a couple weeks, it feels normal. Back into the wetsuit, we are back in Quinn's Pond. Hopefully, we won't get any E.coli, so I'll come out in one piece, not with like three eyes or something. (water splashing) Alright, it is Day 150, and I'm sorry yet again, I haven't filmed anything today. I'm a bad boy, so, what I coulda, shoulda, would've filmed for you was, I went to Elevate Publishing then I did a lot of filming of some great Kaged Muscle content this afternoon. So then we went to Barbacoa which is a beautiful restaurant here and I had an awesome steak meal, and salmon meal, and now this is something that you generally don't see in any of my videos series, is me having dessert, and Sunshine's got the same here, so we've got some non-fat, frozen yogurt here, with a little bit of peanuts, and a little bit of strawberry and a little bit of blueberry and a whole lot of flavor, yo. - [Girlfriend] It's not that good. - Isn't it? Bullshit. (bright music) Muscles are feelin' just a little bit dry. Make sure that we finish this video trainer injury free. So sometimes you have to kind of go by your instincts. (heavy rock beat) Making sure that we take a little bit more time resting in between the supersets because we're hitting two large muscle groups. So in between these workout sessions, I'm either gonna be foam rolling, working on my mobility or something along those lines. We'll see how I feel. (grunting) So obviously, I just finished the back and chest session, and lost the videographers back there a while, 'cause I'm not goin' on any roads. Not too keen on roads. I like hitting the paths (huffs). So just goin' at a steady pace here, throwin' in a couple of faster-paced sections in. Just let's say 400 meters or so, and then pullin' it back to a nice study pace again. Just to kind of get used to pushing a little bit, pulling back, as if I'm to hit a slight incline, or have to overtake someone, should that ever happen. (huffs) Man this is a beautiful way to do my cardio. I've really enjoyed this journey. It's been a lot of self-exploration. (soft music) Hey guys it is Day 152, and I'm no longer in Boise. I have just made it up here to Stanley in Idaho, which is the backdrop to the Sawtooth Mountains, you can see just a little bit over there. And this is where I have decided to come by myself, and spend some time having a little bit of R&R, catching up with a little bit of work, but mainly reading, I hope, and participating in what I'd call my long course. So I do have a conference-call here today. Work doesn't stop even though I do go away, so I'm gonna go into this, sit outside this cafe, 'cause I know that I get good connection there, and then I plan on going for a swim. I'm gonna go to Redfish Lake, head in there for my swim, and do as much as I can for some R&R after that, and then prepare for a big bike ride tomorrow, which will be the Saturday, and then go for a run on a Sunday, and on my own terms and my own schedule. Hopefully, everything will be fine, and everything will go as planned. (soft music) And there you have it, I just finished my swim. 4000 yards, so 2.4 miles swim, I think that is exactly what I need to do in the Ironman, and it took me an hour and a half. It took a little bit longer than I anticipated. I was hoping to get it in an hour and 20, but like half way through the swim, a crazy storm just come down. Don't know if you can see. It's a very, very choppy windy, and it's raining. There's thunder happenin' out here, and yeah, become really, really choppy on the way back, so I was really swimming against the current. Never really done that like that in a lake before. Definitely gotta get some food, and hydration in me now. I'm gonna check into the cabin that I've got here. You can see where these goggles have been. It isn't really good for bags, is it? So I'm in my room, and the first thing that I did was get everything ready for tomorrow morning. I've got glutamines BCAAs and Hydrocharge, my top, by lovely shorts, my helmet, my heart-rate monitor to go with my Garmin, got the energy balls, that's sunshine made there, and here I've got loads, and I got four of these protein bars, from Nutrition Solutions, and I've also got some pancakes that I'll be taking too. So I'm just gonna sit down, and read this book. This is another book. This probably like my 30-odd book now that I've read on triathlon. Like I said I'm just in submersion myself, and it's all about the story of this guy named Dale, who gave himself a year to prepare for an Ironman. He completed several half Ironmen, I think two half Ironmen, before, a couple of marathons, several half marathons. Like I've come from a complete nothing, bodybuilder, to go straight into this in six months. So far, I'm reading how much training he was doing. It's unbelievable, but the runs are very commonly 15 miles. He would commonly do 80 to century rides, and on the Saturdays, there was a gym facility near him that did three-hour spin classes on a Saturday, so he'd do the three-hour spin class, and follow that up with a 12-mile run. I'm like wow! That's a lot of volume. I'm not doin' half of that, half of that and that's exactly what I wanna show you guys, that you can complete this Ironman with a lot of muscle, with much more efficiency and saving on time and stress on your body, if you play it smart. (heavy rock beat) (car engine revs) It's taken me approximately three hours and 40 minutes to reach here. I'm 55 miles in, and I've just reached the outskirts of Ketchum which is joined onto Sun Valley and Hailey. Often I will just come here in the winter, snowboarding, not so much in the summer. But anyway here I am, first time cycling to Sun Valley for sure. So I'm nearing the top of what's called Galena Summit. I think it's about eight and a half thousand feet of climbing, so don't know if you can see a road all the way down there that we climbed up, and the road continues up over the Summit. So this is a meditation church that I've been to several times. What I really like about it is that you can call the number which gives you the code to access it and there's nobody in here. Nobody in here which is exactly what I like. You don't have to think about anything else, except being present here. Makes me think as well, you know, I'm not thankful enough. Like, I've got a lot to be thankful for, a lot to be thankful for, but I don't recognize it. It's very easy you know, when you've got a very, very busy lifestyle, that you just become so anxious, so tied up, especially with a training as well, that you don't sit back and have time to chill out. Just wanted to come up here and kind of recognize it. (soft music) (birds chirping)