Nearly every client I've trained has questions about supplementation, and my answer is always the same. If you don't take them, you're not going to get your results as quickly or as dramatically. But the list of supplements out there seem endless. So, picking the right ones can be tough. But we've amassed the best of the best to make sure that you reach your goals as fast as possible. Protein is essential for growth. A whey protein is easily absorbed and low in fats and sugars. Try to get about 40 grams post-workout and you can also have it throughout the day to make sure that you have 1 g per pound of body weight. When choosing a whey protein, we list the nutritional label on every product page. So, make sure that you get one low in cholesterol, low in carbohydrates, and low in sugars and fats. In order to build muscle, I have to be taking protein. Now, I take a protein powder cuz it's a fast, easy, convenient way to do that. and without it, I wouldn't reach my goals. A multivitamin ensures that nutrients aren't missing from your diet, so your body can just focus on what it wants most, building more muscle. Now, buying a cheap multivitamin off the value Mark shelf just won't cut it. That's good for the sedentary individual, but for an active individual, you need to get the best if you want to be the best. Essential fatty acids, they're called essential because your body can't produce them. You need to get them through your diet or through supplementation. And omega-3s are particularly helpful because they help with brain function, joint mobility, and increase testosterone levels. When you train intensely, amino acids, which are essential for muscle growth, are depleted. BCAAs or branch chain amino acids are essential for this growth and best taken before and after your workout. Take about 5 to 10 g pre and post-workout to get your maximum results. When I was working out in the gym, I was was getting really really sore, but I wasn't recovering fast enough for the next workout. And when I incorporated branch chain amino acids, I realize that, hey, I'm not as sore as I was. I can get the next workout in. The best preworkout supplement is going to contain creatine, citrine, and arginine. And these together will help you get a better blood flow, better pump, and better nutrient delivery to the muscles. Preworkouts come in several forms. Pills are great for convenience, but powders will provide you the fastest absorption. After you've demolished the weights, your body is in immediate need of nutrients to jump start growth and repair. Experts refer to this 15 to 30 minutes as the anabolic window. Take advantage of this window before it closes by downing a post-workout shake with three key ingredients: fast digesting carbs, whey protein, and creatin. You now have a supplement stack to get massive and muscular. From your foundational supplements to your heavy hitters, bodybuild.com has got you covered.