(upbeat electronic music) - [Narrator] Music has always been a huge, huge outlet for me. It's similar to fitness and body building. It's like creative expression, being able to create something from scratch or present something to somebody whether it's sound, whether it's your physical appearance, being able to look in the mirror and be like, "How do I want to present myself on stage?" That takes a creative eye, aside from just "Oh, you have low body fat." Listening to music definitely alters my mind state in the gym. They match with each other. There's nothing like when a song that you love or a song that has heavy bass or if it's electronic music like a drop that comes on when you're doing squats to push you over that edge. Fitness, for me, means discipline, and not just physical discipline. Mental fitness, spiritual fitness. I think it's just acknowledging that we have to do things to get better, and that's really what fitness is. It's a sharpness of mind and dedicating ourselves to our goals. With music, similar to the gym, I like shutting the door, turning on a song, and really just losing myself. When it's not a part of my weekly routine, I feel off. It has to be something that I fit in and once I do, I'm just more at ease. I wouldn't say building my body is easy now, but I would say it's definitely easier that what it's been in the past. I've been in the gym training for eight, nine years now, and it's just a matter of forming those habits, but it always requires just a certain level of discipline every day. Exercise in general became an escape for me because it was a place where I could go where I didn't have any of the day's obligations weighing me down, I didn't have to focus on school, I didn't have to focus on anything else. You go to the gym, and all you have to do is execute on the exercise, and I quickly realized these benefits I'm seeing in the gym, they're positively impacting my relationship with my family, with my friends in school, and I was like, "This is more than just the gym." Something so simple affected everything else. I build my body so I can be sure I'm leading my optimal life inside the gym, outside the gym, and also showing others that it is possible to create the body that they want and the body that's going to help them with their optimal life. (upbeat electronic music) Build your confidence. Build your creativity. Build your body, build your life. Bodybuilding.com.