Mike here for your flex Friday workout of the day. And today, as you can see, we're doing something a little different than we normally do as we're not in the gym. And today, we've even got one of bodybuilding.com social media specialists, Shante, with us for today's workout. So, we're going to go through an outdoor workout. Now, this gym is pretty cool. This is bodybuilding.com. Donated this gym to a local park here in Boisee, Idaho. So, I understand that a lot of people probably don't have a sweet setup like this to go out and work out at outside, but a lot of the exercises that we do today can be done with minimal equipment on a typical playground. So, if you're just looking for that workout, like, you know what, maybe you're a little sick of going to the gym and you want to try something a little different, head over to a playground and try this workout today. The nice thing about it is I think we're going to get a pretty good tan. All right. The bad part of it the bad part of it is it's like 85° right now. So, it's getting hot already. So, we're probably going to sweat a little bit, but it's a gorgeous day out here. So, I really encourage you guys if you want to try something different for your workout, you know, get outside of the gym. For us here, we don't have a ton of summer left. So, we're going to get out here and we're going to try something a little different today. So, we're working with supersets today, but we're also working with some partner assisted exercises. So, again, a lot of this stuff you could do at your typical playground here. So, we're going to start with pull-ups. Easy, easily done on monkey bars. Okay. And we're going to go close grip here. And we're actually going to super set this one with an inverse shoulder press. Okay. So, this stuff's awesome, guys. You're going to love this body weight exercises that are meant to tear you up, give you an awesome workout. So, we're going to get started here. I'm going to go till about failure. Probably hit about 10 reps here on some good strict pull-ups. Shante is going to be here in case I need a little assistance getting it up, but I think I could probably get about 10. I think I could probably get about 10 by myself here. So, let's kick this thing off. Outdoor workout. Flex Friday. Here we go. So, we're going close grip here. We're going to get some biceps and some back involved. Full range of motion. Five. Two more. That feels good. All right, Shante, you're up. Let's see if we can get 10 here. I got your spot. So, I'm going to let her get a couple by herself here. Full range of motion. Three. Four. I'm going to grab feet here. I'm not taking all the weight off. I'm just helping out a little bit. How many more do we have? Three more. One, two. Here we go. Last one. Boom. There's three. Nice work. Nice work. Heading over here now to the pio boxes. And so if you have like a bench at your park, you can use it same exact way. So, what I'm going to do here is I'm going to put my feet up and I'm going to walk my hands back for a shoulder press. How many reps are you doing? 10 reps. Three, four. My heart rate's already up. So Shante is a little more flexible than I am. So she's going to be able to probably get in a little better position than I was here. So ideally, you want to be pretty much straight up and down. Keep your legs straight if you can. That's a perfect position. And as you can see here, she's getting a lot of shoulders involved. This isn't like a normal push-up. So that's perfect form right there for these. There's four. Let's go. Six more. Five 6 7 8 9 and 10. Awesome. So we're doing kind of a pushpull antagonist type workout here. So pull push. You'll notice that theme for most of the workout. The nice thing about that is one muscle group's resting while the other one's working. I think both of us are getting a little cardio in here. All right, set two. Here we go. Close grip pull-ups. Let's get it. All right, one more. 10 there. That one got really tough. So, real quick, we had a question from Jacob. He said, "Actually, my arm should have been a little wider." So, for form, what do you think? Yeah, guys, it it depends on what you're looking to accomplish here because we're outside and we're looking to get a little trying to be more efficient with our workout. So, close grip, we're going to get, yes, more bicep involved, but we're still getting a ton of back work in here because we're coming all the way down at the bottom. We're getting a full range of motion. So, we're still letting our shoulder blades totally retract, protract, retract, protract, retract with every set. All right. All right. Here we go. 10 reps. Set two. Two. She's busting these out on her own. She doesn't even need me yet. Four. All right, six more. Let's go. Five. Six. Seven. Nice work. Eight. Let's get a couple more. Nine. And come on. Come on. Yes. Nice. Very good. Right back over here to shoulder press. So, you guys doing this on your own, you want to move pretty quick. Keep that heart rate up as you do it. Here we go. That'll hurt. That'll hurt. All right, here we go. Right on. Shoulder press. It's a park. There's kids running around, right? So, here we go. 10 reps. Two. Three. Four. Nice work, Shante. Five. Six. Seven. Three more. Eight. Slipping. Nine. And 10. Nice. So, a lot of a lot of front delts, getting a little medial delt in here as well. So, we're going to go probably three to four sets on each exercise. Kind of play it by ear here as we go. Let me see if there's any questions. All right, let's see if there's questions. Give us a chance to catch up on our breath a little bit here. It's killing me. Yeah. So, Shante is the one that's usually reading the questions off while we do the workout. So, she's having to do both today. I said, "Guys, if we're going to work out outside, I need somebody to work out with. Let's make this thing a little more fun." Good stuff here. All right, guys. Okay, we're good. How you doing? I'm going to bust out a set here. Hey, ask your questions. Ask your questions, guys. If you have any kind of questions, comment below. Shante, I might need your help on like the last three or four here just to make sure I keep my form right. Two, three, four. Eight. Two more. Man, that feels good. Now guys, don't be afraid if you have somebody there to help you so you can get full range of motion. Like the question was asked, maybe we're a little too close. If you're going all the way down, guys, I'm feeling this in my lats. Do you feel that a lot in your lats? A lot of people when they do these, they keep a shorter range of motion, only working their biceps. And guys, biceps are cool, but we want to get some back involved. Here, let's go. Shante, you're up. All right, let me get three. Okay, three. One. Hit failure. Here we go. Okay, maybe one. All right, here we go. Things are starting to fatigue already, guys. Body weight pull-ups are tough. There you go. Come on. Let's get two more. One more. One more. Shente. Nice. Good work. Very good. Back over here to pull-ups. To switch it up this time, I'm going to come on a little higher bench. So if you guys are working at a park, you could go like on the back of a bench, like on the back rest. A little better shoulder activation here. Here we go. All right, Shante, you're up. Third set. No mic coming on here. Third set. 10 reps. Here we go. Let's get those shoulders pumped up. Guys, if you have questions, ask them below about this outdoor workout. One, two, three, let's go. Four. Let's get 10. Five. Six. Work those shoulders. Seven. Let's go. Eight. Come on. Nine. One more. Earn it. Boom. Nice work, guys. I'm thinking we're going to go four sets on these. Chante might hate me for it, but I'm going to hate you. These are a little more of our compound movements. I want to get the most out of these. When we go on, start working arms, do more isolation. We'll probably go three sets. And hydration, when you guys are working outside, super important. You know, typical gym is going to be like 64, 65 degrees. And we're obviously working with a much different much different temperature out here. All right, Shante. I'm going to get five on my own. I want help with the last five. You got it. Here we go. Nice one. Four. Four. Five. All right, let's go. All right. Nice job. Nine. One more. Guys, you will feel that in your back. My back. My biceps. Starting to feel a lot of blood flow. Great pump. Let's go, Shante. Just popping myself up. You get one on your own. I'm going to help you get seven more. She's going to get a total of eight. If you're working out with somebody, push them, guys. Here we go. One. Nice. Here we go. Two. Three. Four. Four more. Come on. Five. Let's push it. Six. Two more. Come on. Seven. One more. Awesome. Awesome. Okay, guys. Right back over here. We're going to get on to the shoulder press again. Here we go. Good job, Mike. Go. 10 reps. got a question for you when you're done. What's up? Okay. What are you guys training? Shoulders and back or the whole upper body? Guys, we're going we're going full body today. We're going to focus on the upper body for our body weight exercises and then we're going to do a little metcon finisher that's going to include some legs as well. So, it's really hard to just target one specific body part when you're working outside. Question. What do you think about upside down sit-ups on the monkey bars? Upside down sit-ups on the monkey bars are awesome. Um, if you can do them. I know that my 5-year-old's really good at doing them. Uh, me personally, I'm not quite comfortable with it yet, but awesome. Awesome exercise. How often would you rotate outdoors and indoors? This is from Rodney. So, Rodney, I'd probably hit an outdoor workout once a week. Okay, this is we're not going to be able to get the same variety in equipment and the same intensity as we would in a gym, but once a week to add a little variety is awesome. All right, and we have a question from Twitch Lan Leopard, I think, wants to know if you should lean back while doing pull-ups or keep it more upright. You just slight lean back. So, the question is, you leaning back during pull-ups. Is that okay? You're going to activate your back either way. More upright you stay, the more lats you're going to work. As you start to lean back more, the more midback you're going to work. Depends on what you want to target. Slight lean back is what I prefer. All right, Shante, you're up. 10 reps shoulder press and then we're on to the next one. That's a long rest. All right, here we go. 10 reps. She got good flexibility so she can get into a lot better position than I can. Four. Five. Let's go. Six. Seven. Eight. Nine. Boom. Nice. Very good work. Very good work. All right, guys. We're heading over next. We're going to keep working this push pull. So, we did the pull-ups targeting lats. We did shoulder press targeting shoulders. Now, we're going to go on and we're going to do an inverse row to target more of our midback with an incline pushup to target our upper chest. Let's do this. Most parks, they're going to have something similar to this, whether you do it on the monkey bars or something else that you're going to be able to accomplish this movement with. So, we're going to come around to this side here for shall go on this bar for some inverse rows. So, I'm trying to get to the point where I'm pulling right up to my chest here. Nice and slow. Squeeze the shoulder blades. Seven. Eight. Nine. 10. I'm going to do a couple more. Let's go. 14 reps there. That felt pretty good. All right, Shante, you're up. Should I be shooting for 10 or 12? I shoot for about 10. Now, as this gets harder, you're going to move your feet back to be able to get more. As it gets easier, if it's easier, we want to move our feet back. There you go. Good full range of motion here. Three. Four. Nice work. Five. Six. Seven. You can bend your knees a little more if you need to so your feet don't slide. Nice work. Very good. Very good. So, we're going to go right over here now and do an incline pushup on this bar. So, I'm just going to put my feet up here and we're going to get 15 good controlled reps. Hi, Nice job. You got it. Two more. Mike, one more. Nice job. Very good. So, if you find that it's too easy for you to do the pull-ups, really slow down your tempo. So, there, as I was like, man, this is easy. I I started going slower. That'll make it hard in a hurry. Try a four count on the way down with a pause at the bottom to make it super hard. Let's get 10. Shente. Elbows are tucked in just a little bit. How wide is your arms? Arms are a little wider than shoulder width apart. So fingers are pointed forward, but elbows are tucked at a 45. There you go. Nice. Back straight. We're not letting the lower back dip. It's good form right here. Here we go. One more. Nice. Very good. Coming back over here. The inverse rows. We'll keep it moving, guys. Moving on here. So back, chest, back, chest. Keeping that again. Controlling the tempo. Nice job. I have a question for you when you're done. Man, guys, it doesn't take much. You can use your body weight for some awesome resistance at a park. Love the inverse row. Great exercise. Okay, from Twitch, they want to know if you're competing this year and if yes, when. So, am I competing this year? If yes, when? I just got done with my competition season in June, actually. So, this is kind of my relaxation time, so to speak. So, um no plans to compete as of right now, but uh definitely always trying to stay ready for it. So my idea is if you don't get out of shape, you don't have to get in shape, right? Sure. So we'll just stay in shape. Okay. So one from Facebook from Will. How does the incline angle affect your back on those rows? So how does the incline angle affect your back on those rows is the question. The more incline you go, yes, it's going to target your back a little differently. So we're hitting probably a little more lat on an incline row. If you want to hit straight midback, what I could do is have Shante hold my feet up. Maybe we'll try that next time for fun to really target this just direct middle of the back. Okay, you ready? Yep. You got the inverse rows. Let's go. That was a long rest. That was too long. We're like we're take our time to answer these questions, right? More questions. More questions, please. And more questions. Here we go. Let's get 10. Chante. Nice work. There you go. All right, coming back over here for our push-ups now. Go nice and slow. Pause at the bottom. No rest at the top. We're not going to take time off of that tension to rest at the top. Constant tension. Nice job. There's 15. And that got pretty hard, guys. So, that was definitely good stuff right there. All right, Chante. Here we go. Let's get 10 here. So, we had a question about hyperextending the back during the push-ups. Um, guys, you got to keep your core tight. Doing my best here to keep my core tight. A little a little sway in your lower back is okay. Okay. What we want to look for is that we don't have a deep sway and we want to keep that navl to spine all the time. Keeping the core tight. Thanks for keeping an eye on my form though, guys. Appreciate that. All right, Shante. I'm going to have you hold my feet up this time. All right. And let's just show what that looks like. It's one of the easiest ways to do this. If you're on the grass, somebody can take a knee. If you're not, it's obviously gonna be uncomfortable. Just going to hold my feet up right there. Holding your whole body. Yep. Okay. Go. Hi there. Hi. Hi. We got a friend here with us. Nice job. Keep going. All right, you got it. Yeah. So, a little harder. Only got 11 there. And lead by example, right? Here we go. Awesome stuff. You want me to hold your feet up or are you okay? Um, does that make it harder? It makes it harder. No. All right, we're good. She says we're good. She says we're good. All right, Shante, let's go. 10. Come here. Four. There you go. Five. Nice work, guys. If you have questions, ask them below. And three more. What are your thoughts on the ketogenic diet and intermittent fasting? Um, ketogenic diet and intermittent fasting. Both great questions. Um, I don't do either, but I know a lot of people that are successful with both. So, if it works for you, if it makes sense for you, try it. Do it. Uh, for me, it doesn't make sense. I like to eat way too frequently to do intermittent fasting and I'm not willing to cut out all my carbs for ketogenic. So, for me, I like flexible dieting for the most part. All right, we're going to go right here for our push-ups this time because we're good citizens and we're sharing the ground. again. time under tension. If you guys spend more time with that muscle under tension, it doesn't take a ton of resistance to accomplish what you're looking to do. Whether it be build muscle, or whether it be just getting a good workout in, trying to keep some more muscle tone, that tension, how long you keep that muscle under tension makes a big big difference. Good job. I guess now since I lost my mic, I probably don't entirely need a shirt, but we'll keep it on for now. All right, guys. So, we are going to take a look next. Normally, we do probably four sets here on the inverse rows, and we're just going to show you a little different variety of it here. So, let's come right over here, guys. We check out like an inverse row on a different piece of equipment. So, you guys are at a playground, you're working out at the gym, you got to know how to how to adapt and how to be flexible with what you're doing. So here we're going to come here for inverse rows for our last set. Three, four, six, seven, eight, nine, nice job. 11. One more. 12. Definitely great exercise in or out of the gym, the inverse row is one I really like to do. We have a question on Facebook. What is the best workout routine and diet for skinny fat people? The best workout routine and diet for skinny fat people, um, high protein. Okay, protein is going to be awesome for building muscle, but it also helps a lot if you're trying to drop body fat as well. So, I recommend a high protein diet and then obviously keeping your calories in a deficit each day. slight deficit, 500 maybe at the max is going to be enough for you to lose body fat, but may still be able to add a little muscle if you incorporate some refeed days in there as well. All right, how's that feeling? It's good. We got our push-ups. Last set here. So, I'm going to come here for our last set of push-ups. Let's go. I don't think we need any cardio. Super sets are great if you don't like to do cardio. Hey, nice job. All right, guys. If you guys have questions, comment below. We'd love to answer them. What's the difference between pull-ups hands faced towards you or hands faced away? So, the way you position your hands on a pull-up plays a big difference in what muscles are hit. Um, typically the closer your grip is or if you choose to do a reverse grip, you're going to target a little more biceps, whereas the wider you go, you're going to hit more of your back and a little less biceps. All right, let's go, Shante. Two more. Two more. Come on. Nice. Very good. Very good. All right. Nice work. Me, too. Okay. Now, we're going to move on. We're going to hit a little bit of arms. We're going to go with an inverse bicep curl. And we're going to superset that with a dip. And I'm thinking right here is probably going to be the best place to do that. So, I'm going to grab my water. We're going to get those done. We have a question. Rodney on Facebook, what supplements are you taking? What supplements am I taking? Um, I always take my general health supplements. So, I've got my multivitamin, my fish oil, my probiotic, and I do a ubiquininal CoQ10 as well, just for heart health and maximum performance. Um, so those are kind of my staple general health. But as far as other supplements, always my Datiz is 100, scoop and a half after my workouts, and probably supplement another scoop during the day. um 15 grams of glutamine per day. 10 grams of micronized creatine monohydrate per day. Um amino acids always during my workout and sometimes throughout the day just to help u make sure I accomplish my hydration goals. And usually do like a a ZMA at night with maybe a little bit of GABA um to help just promote relaxation and deep sleep. Thanks for the question. And always guys got to get my pre-workout in. All right. So, today we got that diamondized pre-workout in. Great stuff. Love it. Let's go next. Inverse bicep curl. We're going to super set this one with a dip. So, arms are something. They're a little tougher to get in. So, we'll go right here for this. But when we do it right, I'm going to have Shante just hold my feet so they don't slide here. Right there. Little back a little more. Back a little more. Right there. So, reverse grip. Trying to pull mostly with the biceps here. How many reps you going? We're going to do 12. Hi, chef. One more. You got it. One more. Nice job. It's kind of a half rep here. And the reason why is because I want to keep my back out of the exercise and I want to work primarily the biceps. If I try and go any further, I start getting a little more shoulder blades involved. Let's go, Shante. I'm going hold her feet here. Tell me when a good spot. Try right there. Okay. So, as you can see, you're trying not to row. Elbows hard to row. It's hard not to row, and that's why we don't go quite as far. Try and keep our elbows pretty stable here. So, yes, you're getting a little back involved, but hey, we're having fun. We're at a park, so we're getting a lot of biceps going here, too. Come on, Shante. How many more we got? Two more. Nice. Very good. Then, we're going to come right over here to dips. Now, this gym has an actual dip machine here. If yours doesn't, try monkey bars. Works pretty well, too. Here we go. Nice and controlled. Nice job. Let's go. Try and control that tempo again so we can get more work done with less resistance. Let's go, Shann. It's getting hot, guys. It's getting really hot. It's getting hot. It's like almost 90° right now. All right, here we go. I'm going to hold her feet for her. Nice good stretch. Getting the triceps, a little bit of chest involved here. Nice. How many should I go for? Let's go four more. You got this. Come on. I got you. Seven. Push off my hands if you need to. Eight. Nine. One more. Good. Good. Guys, obviously upper body weight exercises are going to be a lot harder for females than they are for males. So, if you're working out with somebody who needs a little assistance, that's fine. Make sure we get the form right and let's use that assistance to our advantage. All right, set two, guys. Try and get these biceps rocking and rolling. Yeah. Hands are about shoulder width apart. That's good. Three, four. Nice job. So, kind of a unique movement there, but definitely one that I'm starting to feel in my biceps. Here we go. Shante was telling these guys the nice thing about the sun is it helps to bring out some good vascularity when it starts to get hot outside and we're getting a tan at the same time. Can't beat that, guys. And I get to keep my shades on. You're kind of weird if you keep your shades on in the gym. Come on, Shante. Let's go. See what we can get here. Nice. Nice. Toast. Toast. That's the goal. All right. Right back over to dips. Guys, you guys have questions, comment below. Love to answer those for you. So, getting dips done. Really going to try and control tempo here to make sure we get the most out of this exercise. What's the best exercise for strengthening abs? Three. Four. Best exercise for abs. Comment below what you guys think. I'll tell you here what I'm my thoughts are. Best exercise for abs that I like to do is either a hanging leg raise or ab wheel are two of my absolute favorites for targeting the abs. You're going to get a lot of muscle activation out of those. You're going to really feel your abs work there. All right, we have a good question from YouTube. How do you plan this type of workout around your lifting split? Do you try to separate it from back shoulder days or is it light enough that it doesn't affect other lift? It's a great question cuz I thought that same thing. How do you plan a full body workout into your regular split if you're breaking your split up into body parts? This is light enough and we're not getting enough volume in each muscle group where you don't really have to skip one of your other days. This is just more of a conditioning day. Making sure we burn some good calories and making sure that we give each of the muscle groups some proper stimulation. Great question. Good question. We have another one from Twitch. Real quick before I do my set, can you grow glutes without heavy weight? This is from Mary. Mary wants to know, can you glow glow? Can you grow glutes? It's a tongue twister. Grow glutes. Grow glutes without heavy weight. Um to a point. Okay, you do need progressive overload in order to continue to advance. So to a point you can you can build a nice some nice glutes without heavy heavy weight. Try single leg exercises and try controlling your tempo like we're doing today. Great question. All right, Chante. Let's go. Set two or three. Here we go. One, four. Come on. Five. Six. Seven. Come on. Eight. Two more. Two more. You got this. Nine. 10. Very nice. Very nice. So, hey, nice set, guys. This is tough. We're in the heat working the body weight exercises. Think about body weightight exercises is completely different from the isolation exercises you might do in the gym where you're sitting down with your core relaxed. Most of these exercises, we're having to pay conscious attention to our core, whether it be our abdominals or our lower back to try and make sure that we keep things tight. And that typically takes a lot more energy out of you. So, we'll head over here for another set of bicep curls. We're going to go with a little fatter bar this time. Work a little more forearms in here. So, we'll do our last set of bicep curls on here. Yep. That'd be great. 10 reps there. Try and keep it controlled. Try and keep good range of motion there. Get the most out of it. Let's go, champag. Last set of biceps on here. Let's rock and roll. All right, here we go. It's heating up. There you go. Good. The the fatter bar is going to work the forearms a lot more here, too. Four. Don't fall on your head. Oh, that's four. I don't know. Sometimes just to psych your partner out when you're when you're working out with them. They'll be at like 10, say like three, just to make them real mad, especially when they're tired. Nice. Very good. All right, guys. Last set of dips. Let's head over here and get those done. It's killing me. You guys have questions, comment below. Love to answer them for you. Got it. Here we go. Let's get some hearts. If you like the outdoor workout, What do you want to go do? Awesome. Guys, I want to know when you guys are doing your dips, do you typically add resistance or do you do it just body weight? Okay, if you guys add resistance, go ahead and give it a like. If you guys just do it with body weight and control your tempo, give us a heart. Let's see, guys. All right, one question first. Is it safe to train biceps and triceps simultaneously? Is it safe to train biceps and triceps simultaneously? Absolutely. Not only is it safe, it's a great way to work efficiently. Because the triceps are the antagonist to the bicep. As the biceps resting, we can work the triceps and vice versa. We don't need to rest in between sets and that means we can accomplish a lot more work in a shorter period of time. All right, Shante. Last set here. Let's go. All right. Here we go. 10 reps. You got this. One, two, three, four. Nice work. Five. Six. Let's go. Go. Four more. Seven. Eight. You got a couple more? Do you have it? Two more. Two more. Let's go. Come on. Push. Use my Use my hands. Use my hands. One more. Push off me. Boom. There you go. Honestly, she wasn't She wasn't even using me as much as she could there. I could tell her ego is going and she's like, "No, I'm going to do this on myself. I don't have an ego. I'm going to do this by myself." This workout isn't pretty. All right, guys. So, we're going to come over here next. We're going to do one more biceps triceps exercise before we met on move on to our Metcon finisher. So, we're going to go right here. And we also brought some resistance bands with us today. I'm going to grab those real quick. All right. So, we're going to bring these over here. Now, guys, the resistance bands are a cheap tool. don't cost a lot of money and they can be great to incorporate if you guys are looking for just an easy way to get a great workout in with minimal equipment. These are like a medium resistance here. So, we're going to do bicep curls and we're going to super set it with an overhead tricep extension on here. Here we go, guys. Nice and controlled. Full range of motion. It's all about that tempo when you're not working with much resistance. Keep the elbows stationary. All right, Shante, you're up. All right, you can answer this question while I'm going. What is the best time to do cardio? after your workout. Before this is from YouTube, best time to do your cardio. You step on both feet. Yes, both feet. Um, is it before your workout? Is it after your workout? Uh, I would recommend doing cardio after your workout. There you go. The reason why is because you need more of your focus, your energy for resistance training as there's a higher risk of injury there. Cardio usually a little less. Nice work. Let's get 10. Lost count. You got 12 more. This is good. Let's go. Three more. One, two, and three. Very nice. All right, guys. So, for overhead tricep extensions next, you're going to pick a bar height that you're comfortable with. We'll uh we'll try this one right here. And I'm going to go just like you would like a skull crusher with dumbbells or with a barbell. We're going to try and let our head go under the bar and press up. Keep our elbows together. Nice job. Great core work here, too. Eight. I'm sweating, guys. I don't ever sweat. You guys know me. You guys probably think I'm trying to sneak ab shots in here and I'm really not. Um, I'm actually just trying to keep the sweat from blinding me. You're going to have to correct my form. All right, here we go, Shante. Perfect. Hands a little closer together. Keep your hands a little closer together here. Target more of the triceps. Try and keep your elbows inside. There you go. Right there. Perfect. Three. Oh, yeah. Four. Nice. You feel those abs working, too? Yeah. It's like a constant plank. Here we go. She's like, "Gross. Who sweat all over the ground here?" Pass me. Let's get a couple more Shante. Little Shante, actually. Yeah, Shante. She's drooling on the ground. She's like, she's just losing it. All right, guys. Bicep curls again. Almost want to take my shirt off. It's so hot. And we did take my mic off. I guess I probably could. All right, here we go, guys. Nice and controlled. Four. Squeeze. Can accomplish a lot with that tempo. 8. All right. All right. Quick question from YouTube. What do you recommend for posture disorders on shoulders? my shoulders are going forward before. How can I fix this? Posture disorders on shoulders, rolled shoulders. So, it's called upper cross syndrome and a lot of people suffer from it where your shoulder blades roll forward. Um, and the best way to correct that is to take a break from chest and anterior deltraining. So, take a break from your pushing motions and try and focus primarily on your rows and your pulling motions. Those are going to be great for helping to activate those romboids and help pull your shoulder blades together. I don't know if you guys can hear, but we have people cheering for us in the background here. I'm pretty sure it's for us at least, I think. Here we go, Shante. Holy smokes. Remind me to bring a hand towel next time. Let's go, Shante. Two more. Burn the biceps. Outdoor workout making it happen, guys. You do not have to be in a gym every single day. Here we go on the triceps now. I'm drenched. Mike, 10 11. Nice job. Woo! Arms are getting a a pretty good pump for not having anything any kind of, you know, actual resistance in a gym. Here we go, guys. You have questions, comment below. We want to answer them for you. I want to know who's going to try this workout. Guys, go ahead and give us a thumbs up if you're going to try this workout out today. Fire. Let's go. Burn it up. Shante, push your partner. Make sure they work. She's working. I know it cuz I can see it. Let's go. I can see it because her arms are shaking. That's a good sign. Nice. Very good. Would you recommend GABA over ZMA at night or both? Would I recommend GABA over ZMA or both? Um, I do both. And um I guess if I had to pick just one for budgeting reasons or something, I'd probably go with ZMA because I feel like we're going to get a little better recovery from that. But I really like the GABA because it helps relax you. Now, here's a tip. If you guys just need that good nighttime cocktail to relax and uh you know, help you fall asleep, try GABA, ZMA, and Ltheonine as a great combo for that. All right, here we go. Last set. Last set. Best set. Two. Three. Keeping our shoulder blades together here. Keep your questions coming. There we go. All right, Shante, you're up. Bicep girls. Okay, we have a couple questions on Facebook. Um, what kind of protein do you take? Okay, is from Don. So, I'll answer that real quick. Don, the kind of protein I take is diamondized iso 100. I like the hydrayzeed whey isolate and it also tastes awesome. Good treat after a workout. And then is it a good idea to take only BCAS? Um when consuming protein shakes daily should take BCAS on top of that. Should you take BCAs if you're consuming protein shakes daily? I do. And the reason why is because I feel like it's just a it's a safeguard. Um especially if I'm in a calorie deficit. If you're not in a calorie deficit, you probably don't need to. Um, length of training time also depends a lot on that, but I'm going to anyways just because I want that insurance that I'm making sure that I get those amino acids in to prevent catabolism. Um, great question. If it was a budgeting thing and I had to pick just one, I'd go with protein. And guys, let's face it, a lot of times it is burnout. A lot of times it is. Let's go. She must not be doing her branch amino acids. She's getting tired. That's it. Let's go. Burn. Let's go, Shante. Fight the pain. Woo. I've never been a headband guy, but I should have worn a headband today. I got like sweat just pouring in my eyes. I'm not liking it. All right, tricep extensions. Last set here. Let's get these puppies going. So, do you guys do branch chain amino acids during your workout? Comment below. I want to know if you guys do branch chain amino acids while you're working out. It's also just a great way for me to make sure that I'm getting enough fluid in to taste good. They didn't used to taste good. They've come a long ways. Here we go. Shante, burn it out. Come on. Push it. Here we go. Nice. Bang. Two more. Let's get it. Two more. Chante. One and two. Very good. Hitting failure. Wow. Nice work. All right, guys. So, that's it for the resistance part of it. Now, we're going to move on to a little Metcon finisher. That'll be pretty fun. And it's heating up. And we're going to start with uh you know my version. I know everybody kind of has a little different version but of a widow makers. And this is a this is kind of like a jumping pullup superseted with a pushup. So we're going to do 10 of these. I'm going to go she's going to go. Okay. Then we're going to move on to box jumps. We're going to do 20 box jumps and then we're going to finish off with sprints. Let's do this thing. You ready for this yet? I'm ready for it. All right guys. So, we're outside and we're thinking, man, we probably didn't get enough resistance in. So, how do you finish off a workout? It's like this. I keep checking my wash to see what the temperature is cuz it just keeps getting hotter and hotter. All right, here we go, guys. Pull up into pushup 10. Two more. You got it. Nice job. Those are brutal, guys. Try this out. All right, 10. Yep. Let's go. 10. Just a little jumping pullup into a burpee. Here we go. I'm so burnt out. Jump and pull as high as you can. There you go. It's not fair. I'm taller than her. Come on, you got this. Yep. Jump up. Grab the bar. Come back down. Four. You got this. Just tap the bar. You get tired. Just tap the bar. Guys, this is tough right here. Great finisher outside. Minimal equipment, great workout, building muscle, burning body fat, all the above. Let's go. Two more. Shante, I need some love, guys. Let's push it, guys. Give her some love. Give her some hearts. Let's keep her going here. Come on. Let's go. Nice. There you go. That's it, right? That's it. Hey guys, Widowmakers, try those out. Um, probably be a little more fair if my bar was higher than hers. Um, also I got hops, so maybe jump up there. I got hops. I got my hopping shoes on today, right? These suckers get me high. So, we'll go box jumps next. And I'm going to go for 20 reps here, I think. Now, when I come up with these workouts, I'm well rested, but then as I get going, I'm like, dang, I don't know if I should have done that. So, we're going to go 20 reps here. So, I'm going to jump up with both feet. I'm going to step down with one foot. If you guys don't have a box, pio, like a pio box like this, just do it on a park bench. Here we go. Get a little legs in here. Get the heart rate up. We'll turn around for you. Here we go. Soft on your landing. Here we go. There's 10. Halfway through. Oh, yesterday was leg day. Feeling it now. Three more. Oh, there's 20. All right, Shante. You know, a smaller box if you want. What? I gave her an out. You guys heard it. All right, there you go. Soft landing. Notice how you don't hear her feet. Hit the bench. That's key. Three. Nice work. Four. She's got ups, too. Five. How hot is it? How hot is it right now? My watch is reading 81, but quite honestly, I 82. It popped up. I feels It feels hotter than that. It's got to be at least 120 out here. Halfway. For those you who haven't been to Idaho, it's dry here, too. It's like that dry heat. All right, here we go. Seven more. Seven more. Shante, push it. Come on. 12. One more. Just kidding. 13. Nice work. All right, guys. So, we're catching our breath here. We're going to finish off with sprints. Now, normally we'd go six sets. We'd go 30 seconds sprint with a 90 second walk. 30 second sprint, 90 second walk. Um because our time is running short today, um we're going to do one of these to show you what that looks like. Okay. So, I'm going to run down. And if it's not exactly 30 seconds, that's okay. So, we'll actually go this way. I'm going to sprint down and then I'm going to walk back. Okay. Now, the high-intensity interval training, we normally do six of these. And what the studies show is that six intervals like that can be as effective as 60 minutes of steady state cardio. So, getting the heart rate up into like 80s, 90s of your heart rate max and then back down to 60s for that heart rate recovery is great for burning body fat. It's also helpful for building muscle, too. So, if you guys are crunched on time, try using interval training. All right, sprint down, walk back. You want to go with me? Yeah, we the same time. Yep, we'll go at the same time. Going to kill me. So, this is how we do it, guys. Go to a football field. Go to a local stadium or something. Sprint down, walk back. Sprint down, walk back. If you got a heart rate monitor on with you, that's even better. Let's sprint till the tree and then we'll walk back up that hill. Yep. You good with that? I want some questions to answer. Big hill when we get back. No, we're big. Go all the way up the hill. Yeah, right. That'll be like 30 minutes. That hill, that hill's steep, guys. You sprint, I'll jog. Okay, you ready for this? All right, let's get it done, guys. Ending with some sprints here. Before or after workouts, we do it after. All right, you guys ready for this? We don't have to go. All right, hold on. You guys sure you don't have any questions? Because I could hold off this cardio a little longer. All right, here we go. And hold on. Go. Tie. Tie. All righty. Let's wrap this thing up, guys. You guys have any questions real quick before we finish and let us know. Otherwise, I want you guys to get out and I want you to try this Flex Friday workout a little different. Get outside, get out of the gym, take it out of your comfort zone, try something good. How often do you do cardio workouts? How often do I do cardio workouts? I'll do hit training like this two times per week and usually do steady state about three times per week. You want to do this on non-leg days, too, just as a as a key. Yeah. Okay. Catching my breath. Question from Twitch. I want to start working out, but don't want to get too muscular, just want to tone. Any advice? Okay. If you just want to tone, don't want to get too muscular, um, try an outdoor workout, guys. This this type of workout is great for that person who isn't that interested in gaining a ton of muscle but just wants good muscle tone. So do something like this and really control your tempo is a great way to do that. So this is from Sylvia on YouTube. Totally just got inspired to go do cardio and pio in the park today instead of my planned walk. Awesome. That's what we want to hear. That's what we want to hear, guys. So we appreciate you following along. We appreciate you checking out the workout. Shante, you did awesome today. What's up, Mike? Guys, go back. Try this workout. Check me out on Facebook. Page is Michael Hildebrand. Hit me up on Instagram with questions at trainer Mike1. We'll see you guys back here next week for our flex Friday. Let's give him a quick bicep shot. What do you think? All right. See you guys.