Hey guys, Aloanetti here. Welcome to my 30-day ab program. This program is the answer to the question I probably get more than any other. What do you do for your abs? So, let's be clear. I've been lifting regularly for 12 years in counting. I've gone through thousands of workouts in that time frame. I've tried it all. training abs every day, training them just a couple of times a week, training them heavy, and training them light for crazy reps. So, what works? It took me a long time to come to a simple truth. You should be training abs just like any other muscle group. That means I don't choose between weighted exercises or body weight. I use both. And I don't train abs every day, but instead I train them with the frequency they like best. You'll train abs hard for two days in a row, then rest up for a day before you come back and do it all over again. Why not train them every day? Well, if you're training your abs hard without rest, you run the risk of burning out in just a few weeks. Either that or your ab training might interfere with the rest of your training. Add these ab workouts to your weekly split and track your progress on the bodybuild.com all access app. This is an ab focused program. In order to get the most out of it, you should probably make this your biggest priority for the month. In other words, this probably isn't the time you should sign up for a powerlifting competition. Now, there are a lot of familiar movements in this program, but there are plenty of others that you probably haven't seen before or haven't done exactly the way I do them. That's why I'm including daily videos with step-by-step instructions. What's going on everyone? Welcome to day one. The workouts alternate between straight sets to improve strength and definition, circuit style training to burn calories and test your endurance, and super sets to build muscle. Building muscle is crucial on this plan because that's what will make your abs really pop when you're lean and stay visible even when you're at a slightly higher body fat. For me, adding in some kind of weighted exercise was essential to develop this kind of definition. They say abs are made in the kitchen, not just in the gym. But this program has you covered on both fronts. My 30-day ab program includes the complete nutrition and supplement guide to get you shredded so you can show off the six-pack you've always wanted. Yes, this is a short program, but it's heavy, high volume, and designed to push you out of your comfort zone, just enough to see real results. You'll be surprised at what you can achieve in just a month. There's no other feeling like pushing your body to its limits. And I've learned over the years to love the pain of working out. I tell myself through every set, the pain will be over in seconds, but the benefits will last much longer. That's your mantra for this month, too. When you complete one of my 30-day programs, they're designed to be repeated, or you can get into one of my other body part programs. 30-day abs, part of my