Charlie Mike is no means a beginner workout. This is specifically for the women who are ready to be challenged and to be pushed. If you walk into this program and you're not ready for it, you're not mentally prepared, then I don't want you to do it. Like anything, I can give you guys the tools. I can talk to you every single day. But if you only go in to the training program and only halfass it, don't even waste my time. This 6 weeks is going to be intense. You're going to be more explosive, more powerful, stronger. You will be leaner. You're just going to be walking around like an overall badass. I guarantee you, you will become a different person inside and out. You have to be committed to yourself and to the program and to me. You don't just have to lift, you know, to be a bodybuilder. I don't care if like you're a male or a female. just go and train for functional fitness. With this 6 week training program, I have designed it to where it's 2 days on and one day off. The reason why I did that is because these days are intense. And after the second day, you guys more than likely will need a break. However, if you feel like you want to go straight through the week and do five days and then take a two or three day break before starting it again, you guys can kind of work that into your lifestyle. Every day, we're going to start you off when you're fresh with a heavy lift. Starting any training program, you have to have a starting point. So, that's why it's so important for us this first week that we're going to be testing our 1RM, um, even our speed and our timed runs. Uh, that way we have a starting point of where we're at. And for the rest of the training program, we're going to be taking 75% to 85% of that and lifting with that number. And that's going to increase our strength. Thereafter, every circuit to follow is going to be fast. It's going to be hard. And I want you to push yourselves to go as fast as you can through that training program. This circuit training is difficult because you're going to be doing multiunctional moves. It's going to be anything from renegade rows to wall climbs, handstand, shoulder taps, and it's going to be a fast transition. Whenever you first start it, you may feel like that you're slow, like your transition periods aren't as fast. But don't worry about that because as you get comfortable with this training program, things will start to step up and you'll get faster and you'll see that you're transitioning a lot faster through each circuit. If you're looking at this program and you're saying, "Wow, like I've never done a clean or I've never done a snatch." Don't worry about that because we're going to have alternative exercises for you to do. But I don't want that to be a hall pass for you, though. I still want you to attempt and still to try every move and every exercise in this. In order for you guys to get strong, you have to work with your weaknesses. For me, I intentionally make myself go train for things that I'm extremely uncomfortable with because I know at the end of the day and when it's all said and done, I work with those weaknesses to make me stronger and to make me a better athlete on all levels of fitness. With this training program, you guys are going to be asked nothing but to train as hard as you can. With that hard training, you guys also need to recover. The recovery is just as important as the training days. And it's important that you remember your body is the machine. It's the working mechanism right now. And you must feel that properly. Don't complicate it. Just listen to your body and eat whole foods. Hydration is something that's definitely overlooked when it comes to training. And you know, you don't just drink when you guys are thirsty. You guys need to be drinking. I recommend a gallon a day. That's my goal for myself every single day. Do I reach a gallon every single day? No, not every single day. And when you know, it may be hard for you to start drinking a gallon of water right off the bat, but just make a conscious effort of it. I don't want you guys to get so hung up on, you know, counting calories because especially for women, we become obsessed with that about the calories and and like numbers that we're putting into our bodies. I've worked with the experts at bodybuilding.com and together we've put you guys a bomb nutrition program that's going to lead you guys to success. So you guys will have no excuse. So, even if you're having to supplement with a protein shake or, you know, preparing your breakfast the night before, so you're getting that food in your system, that is so important to be able to deliver a a good training session that day. In addition to eating clean, there are a few supplements that I could recommend to you guys. On the days that you feel like it, take your pre-workout. If you're already feeling energy with like the whole foods that you're eating, which you should, then no need to take your pre-workout. Other supplements that you guys can look into is a fish oil and protein powder. Another great uh supplement to include for everybody is just a multivitamin to make sure that you're hitting all those micro nutrients that you may miss throughout the day. So, I definitely recommend a multivitamin. After this six week training program, Charlie Mike is complete and you finished it and it kicked your ass and you kicked its ass and you're ready for another challenge. You can do a few different things. You can do it all over again. Or you can go to one of my other training programs. I have tons of programs, pipe hitter, Valor that'll push you even to like a completely different level than what Charlie Mike has already done for you. You know, never set limitations to how amazing and how extraordinary you become. And as human beings and especially as women, we we feel like we put such a cap on what our capability is. And I think the moment you release all those chains that bind you down, you are capable of doing and achieving and becoming whoever the hell you want to be. We have the whole program for you guys already lined out. There's no guessing what's going to be tomorrow or what's going to happen on on Thursday because it is right there. As you continue your mission, each week there's going to be a video to help remind you why you started it in the beginning. Why are you here? Why do you want to become better? And what was the point of you from the get-go saying, "Yes, I am going to start on this mission and I will continue this mission." Now that you've signed up for this program, this is what you've committed to and this is what I expect from you. to be a bad [\h__\h] and complete every single week. And no matter what you do to continue the mission