It is day 15. So, it's a Monday, first day of the third week. Of course, it's weigh day. Time to get our ass on the scale. See what's happened. 217.8. So, that'll be a 2 lb loss. I know for a fact that I'm putting on muscle. There's no doubt about it. I am getting extremely sore after my workouts, but I know I'm recovering. Recovering is to the best of my ability. So, that is good. And I'm always going to be going for the mirror as well, you know. So, um, whatever I can see in the mirror is going to be the distinguisher for me. It's going to let me know what's going on. if I'm losing muscle, if I'm flattening out, and uh yeah, so we're on point. Remember, as I always say, weigh yourself same time, same scales, wear the same stuff on the same surface just to make sure that you get your accurate reading. Damn, look [\h__\h] Right, time to eat. Breakfast is down and uh settled. Took my clean burn. Now I am uh on my way to the gym again for cardio. The cardio gets increased today. Remember week one, we started 20 minutes. Week 2, 25 minutes. That's 30 minutes today. All right, I'm here at the gym, which means no talking, more action. Getting the first cardio done of week three, A.M. cardio. 30 minutes. Tuning out the calories. So, if I look here, there we go. Done. If I look at the calories here and I've burnt off like 280 calories, you think about it. I was just talking here about like a glass of wine. A glass of red wine will be 160 calories. So, you know, I've just burnt off like two two uh small glasses of uh wine without burning any fat if I drunk that wine. You know, think about how many minutes of this mind-numbing cardio that you'd have to spend on this darn treadmill or the steer master or electrical trainer just to burn off those calories of what you just consumed. And you wouldn't even tap into the fat stores that you're trying to remove to reveal that physique. So, what do you want to be? Do you want to be a commitment or do you want to come up with an excuse and then justify it by trying to burn it off doing your cardio? So, think about that. All right, I'm going to head on out to have my cryotherapy session and my usual uh recovery pieces and then I'm going to head on home, get some work done, and then I'll see you back here at the gym for quads, abs, and calves. Yo, what's up, guys? It is day 15 of this video series. I told you the ship would be going faster than I. We are in week three already and we're starting off with quads. Then we're going to be hitting calves and abs together and it's going to be freaking tough because we're going to make it tough. And I have myself a fun little special guest here today, Michael Johansson. So myself and Michael have known each other for years because Michael is the owner of Gas Clothing, Better Bodies Clothing, and now Destination Dallas. We're going to be smashing legs today. So, uh, Michael here hits legs about once every 3 months because his legs respond very well. I need to work on other body parts. Yeah. So, let's see what happens uh after this uh leg workout today. It's going to be quite unique, very different. I do change the exercises most weeks and this week will be uh very unique uh with different exercises. So, the muscles don't get so used to what we're doing and the brain doesn't get bored as well. So, I want the re the viewer to be enticed to come back to see what we're going to put him through next. So, uh I'm quite curious myself about what we're going to do here and uh how it's going to feel the next few weeks. You'll love it. You'll absolutely love it. All right, let's get into it. I'm up for a challenge. You better be. Yeah. Well, we'll see if you're going to be standing up right after. All right, let's hit it. So, we're going to do um a drop set now. 50 reps. So, we just put it as heavy as we can for around 25 reps and then we'll drop it. 40. You [\h__\h] got this. 50. This is easy. 70. 80. Come on. Punch it up. Push. One more. Come on. Come on. Come on. You got it. One more. Talking about faster. Back up. Good. Come on. One more. Come on. Punch it up faster. That's all you. That's all you. Two. Come on. Come on. One more by yourself. All the way. All the way. Your man. So, you've had a restful weekend. So, that means you got all the energy in the world to come in and bloody annihilate it now. And that's exactly what we've done with the first exercise here. We started off with a drop step doing just one drop to get 50 reps. You need to go as heavy as you possibly can to rep out about 20 25 repetitions and then you drop it once to get out the other 25. And if you stop before 25, you know, your second 25, let's say you're at 40 repetitions, don't go lighter. Just rest pause until you get out to the 50 repetitions. I don't care how long it takes you as long as you get the reps. You know, you rest pause. And then on the second set, what we did was complete opposite. We started at the weight that we finished at pretty much and we did 10 repetitions. Put it up a weight, 10 repetitions, put it up a weight, 10 repetitions until we reach 50 reps. Oh, this was uh it was brutal. It was so uh so huge pump, short amount of time, and uh was really uh Yeah, it was cool. Let's move on to the next exercise. Land mines. Heat. Let's go [\h__\h] Let's go. [\h__\h] Second exercise was a bloody killer. It was a superset. So superset meaning remember two exercises with no rest in between. You just go straight from one into the other. And then you're going to place the added weight and the bar against your chest. Lean into it slightly. I want you to take your feet back further than you normally would in a squat position. just so you can lean forward and your toes will go over, sorry, your knees will go over your toes and this will target your quads much more than your hamstrings leaning forward like that. So, we did 25 repetitions there. Again, remember if you cannot get to the full 25 repetitions, your rest pulls your abs out until you can. Then we went straight from a squat from the floor. I don't even know what you call this exercise. And we did 25 repetitions here. If you do not have one of these hexagon machines or bars, just use a couple of dumbbells. So, we've done 25 and 25 50 repetitions per set. Do three sets of that. And now we're going to move on to the next exercise, which is a Bulgarian split squat with a dumbbell here. And I'll demonstrate that or talk about it after the set. Let's get into it. Heat. Heat. Heat. The last exercise that we just did was a Bulgarian split squat where we did one leg at a time holding a dumbbell that would give you adequate resistance. So, we'd hit like 10 reps with a rep. So, you pause at the bottom and pause at the top to make sure that you're isolating and fatiguing and contracting the muscle without putting too much pressure on the knee. And once the leg is fatigued, that's when we go for the higher repetitions and doing uh faster repetitions and do 10 of them. So, we did 10 hold, pause, and then 10 nice and fast. And then we finished with a 10 second contraction at the bottom where you just isolated at the bottom with that pause for about 10 seconds. Once I did one leg, I went straight onto the other and then obviously Michael hit his. And that was just enough time for me to get a rest and go back again. Normally maybe we'd stop here, but because we're competitive, we're going to do another exercise. Thank [\h__\h] Legs are done. That was gnarly, man. It was gnarly. I think it's because Michael was showing off, so I I started showing off and it just kept going back and forth. But it's really good. I enjoyed that. You know, last week we did a lot of resistance bands for our legs and everything else. So that was a different targeted form of stress. So now you can go into this and feel something completely different on your body, which is great because now the muscles go into shock and go, "What the hell is going on?" Remember, it's all about recovery. We lose muscle in here. We got to get the hell out and recover. But before we do, we got to hit abs. We've got to really stabilize this core and make sure that we have a six-pack that at the moment on me is pretty shy at the end of this. So, let's go and hit our st Abs are completed and the day one of week three is completed. Day 15. We just finished off a giant set of abs. We started off with a leg raises here. 20 repetitions. Then immediately went to a medicine uh ball pass there. And then you'll notice the last exercise is like a plank where we were it's called like a climber. It's a climber where you throw your opposite knee towards your opposite elbow. But whatever it is, don't really count the repetitions too much. Just go to absolute failure. That's the most important. We got a good intense session with a lot of volume in there. And you know, the body is going to be fatigued. It's going to be tired. And that's absolutely normal. Um, but that's why it's so important for you to rest and recover. Okie dokie, guys. Another leg day in the books. So, we had a real good session today. And I don't normally train with a training partner. You know that. I always train by myself. I want you to find yourself a reliable training partner. [\h__\h] push him. And that will keep you accountable to push yourself. But thank you ever so much for this opportunity and coming by Boise so we could get this session in, Michael. Hopefully um I'll see you down at the Olympia and we'll get ourselves a session in there. Yeah, we get some good intensity workout in there, too. Yeah. All right. Thank you very much, my man. All right. Cheers, bud. Good evening. It is a late one. It's uh about God, what is it like nearly midnight here? Excuse me. And um I've just had a lot of work to do. It is what is it? It's Monday. It's day 15. Tomorrow will be day 16. So um other than a workout, I think I'm going to get my workout done early in the morning. So I'm probably going to head to the gym in about 6 hours time. So uh I'm going to get my ass to bed. Going to get my glutamin down me because I feel that my legs are going to be pretty freaking sore tomorrow.