What's up guys? Raina Wickham here along with bodybuilding.com and I'm here to present to you a program which focuses on conditioning and plyometrics for functional training. So for the first half of our workout today, we're going to focus on resistance training, which will include a lot of supersets and drop sets. As far as our rest periods, we're going to keep it between 45 seconds to a minute. If you keep to the recommended rest periods, you should be done with this workout within an hour. The second half of our training program today will include functional training, which is pometrics, focusing on our power and explosiveness. The distance that you're going to be performing these exercises are within 15 yards. For your rest period, you're going to keep it from 45 seconds to a minute. And we're going to do this entire circuit twice. All right, let's get started. To start off our exercise today, we're going to be doing a compound movement which involves both our biceps and our shoulders. Our first exercise will be a hammer curl shoulder press, super seting it with a straight bar curl. We're going to do three sets of this and your rep range will be between 10 to 15. Throughout this whole workout, you're going to be standing, which is also going to engage your core. So, the main thing you want to focus on is keeping your back straight and engaging the core muscles. For our second exercise today, we're going to be doing a military press. We're going to superset that with the bicep alternating curls. Now, with your rep range, you're going to keep it between 10 to 15 reps. And your sets are going to consist of three sets. So, for the military press, what you do not want to do is push from the legs up. You want to be able to just use the shoulders only pushing on this exercise. For our third superet, we're going to be starting with lateral dumbbell raise drop sets. Supersetting that with a standing concentration curl. For a lateral dumbbell race, we're going to choose a weight that we could hit 10 to 15 reps, and we're going to do three drop sets till failure. For our lateral raises, avoid the swinging in the legs, using the shoulders only to lift the weight. As you're coming at the top of your concentration curl, you want to swing the pinky out to allow for a better contraction in the peak of your bicep. Our last few exercises will be a tricep. We're going to start with a rear delt fly, followed by incline push-up, and down to a flat push-up. For the rear delt fly, you want to keep our core engaged as well as your shoulders forward. Coming up into the rear delt fly. For both push-ups, you want to really engage your chest only and limit using the arms to push up. The reason for the high reps in this tricet, we want to keep the intensity high and really burn out the muscles in the end. So, for the second part of our program, we're going to head into our plyometric training. To begin our workout, we're going to do suicides, you know, to get the joints moving, followed by a broad jump into a modified tuck jump. Then, we're going to do our bear cross followed by a step tuck jump. Then we're going to finish our entire workout with a broad jump on stairs. For this workout, I recommend it once or twice a week. It's a great workout that you can incorporate into your resistance training. It involves a lot of explosiveness and power work. It keeps you conditioned and at the top of your game. The full breakdown of this workout is detailed for you below right here on bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions for me, feel free to hit me up on social media. My Body Space account is King Aiden, Instagram account King Aiden88, as well as my Facebook athlete page, Rainor Wickham. For more free videos and articles from athletes like me, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.