Hi, I'm Jimmy Pena and this is my power rack series. I'm an exercise physiologist. I studied the effects of endurance training on muscle size and strength in competitive bodybuilders. I then began writing for muscle and fitness magazine and later became the fitness editor worldwide for muscle and fitness and muscle and fitness hers. And I've been really blessed to work with some incredible individuals including Mario Lopez, Tyler Perry, and LL CoolJ. My purpose now is to develop prayfit.com where we help people stay healthy from the inside out. Today we're taking you through the power rack series. The power rack is probably the most underutilized piece of equipment in gyms everywhere. Specifically, we're going to take you through three techniques: isometrics, partials, and reverse movements. All right, the first technique we're going to talk about today is the reverse movement. And I feel the best way to demonstrate that is by using it in the squat, the power rack. So, let's get started. So, here I am standing in probably your best training partner in the gym, the Power Rack. If you haven't utilized it, I strongly urge you to. In fact, you know, the Power Rack is isn't just for power lifters and strong men. The Power Rack is for men, women, if you're coming off of an injury or a layoff, you're wanting to increase your strength, your power, your endurance. The Power Rack can can help you achieve your best physique ever. So, in fact, let's get started. Let's start with the reverse movement. And by doing that, we're going to use the the squat. So, basically, during a typical squat, you start from a standing position, right? You unrackck the bar, you're standing in the middle. Squat works the quads, the hamstrings, the glutes, the entire upper body. And we descend and we explode upward. Well, that descend builds up elastic recoil or negative energy. But with reverse movements, what we do is we remove that negative energy altogether. Now, we're stronger when we utilize negative and positive force. But with reverse movements, rather than start from the top standing position, a reverse movement, you start from the hold, much like you would during a deadlift, which is why they call it a dead lift. You start from a dead stop. So, basically, you can think about a reverse squat as a a deadlift for the squat. So, starting in the bottom, releasing the energy, pressing through the floor, abs in tight, chest up, boom, to a standing position. Now, you come down and you actually let the bar settle on the safeties, releasing that negative energy. And what that does is it's going to cause you to gain strength from the hole using just positive energy, which is much more difficult, as opposed to combining the two together. So, press up squeeze, come down, release the energy because what we typically want to do, we want to just squeeze, pop, and go, but not during reverse movements. The good thing with the power rack is that you have different levels to to work within. So whether you're taller, shorter, or you just want to work in certain areas, the reverse technique can be utilized in all various ways. You only gain strength at the angle you're working. So that's what's great about the power rack. They have so many different angles for you to work in that if you can gain strength at all those various angles. Then you'll add up to one powerful, strong, full repetition. So very important, release that energy in the hole on every single rep. Now that we've gone over the reverse movement, I'd like to go over a few tips for the squat in general that'll help you with the reverse as well as the general squat. First of all, when you unrackck the bar, make sure your thumbs are wrapped around the bar. What you don't want to do is is have the bar slide off. So, wrap those thumbs. When you unrackck the bar, walk out nice and slowly. Put your feet about shoulderwidth apart, toes pointed out. Get a good stable, stable base. When you go down, go down nice and slow and then explode upward. Basically, what you want to be thinking of is if you're sitting down into a chair, keeping your chest up, your abs in tight, flexing the legs. What you don't want to do, you don't want to lift the bar. What you want to do is you want to press through the floor with your feet. It's a leg press through the floor. So basically the chest is up, butt is out, abs are in tight. Go down nice and slowly and then explode upward pressing through the floor with your feet. And that's the squat. Now that we've gone over reverse movements, you can apply the technique to other exercises, including the overhead press and the bench press. I'm Jimmy Pena. If you want to ask me anything about reverse movements or the power rack series, check me out on BodySpace. And for more information like this, go to bodybuilding.com.