Hey bodybuilding.com, this is Rich Froning, two-time CrossFit Games champion, BSN athlete, Rogue Fitness athlete, and we're here at Rogue Fitness headquarters. About to show you guys a workout. Alright guys, the workout today we're gonna do is 15-12-9-6-3 of shoulder-to-overhead pull-ups, and 30 double-unders between each set. So the 15-12-9-6-3, you're actually going to do 15 shoulder-to-overhead, and 15 pull-ups. Then you're gonna do your double-unders. Then 12, 12, double-unders; 9, 9; all the way down to 3. Now, before we do the workout, I'm gonna bring Ben in, we're gonna show you actually how to do the movements, and then actually how to scale the movements if you're not, you know, you can't do the exact weight we've prescribed or the exact movement. We'll show you a few different options to do this workout. Alright, so the first movement we're gonna show you is the shoulder-to-overhead. There's a few different variations you can actually do with this. You can do a shoulder press, a push press, or a push jerk. So I'm gonna show you all three options. Push jerk, you're gonna use--it's probably gonna be the most efficient, especially when it gets heavier you're gonna use the most musculature. You can start with the bar on the ground, or you can start with it in the rack. Kind of up to you. What Ben's gonna do is his feet are gonna be right underneath his hips, hands just outside the shoulders. So for this he's gonna act like he's taking it from the ground, he's actually gonna clean it up, making sure he's got a good, flat back. The bar's actually gonna rest here on his shoulders. His elbows are gonna be up slightly, but not too far up, not like he's in a front squat. Down just a little bit. But they're not gonna be behind the bar because what happens with behind the bar, then you're pushing the bar out. We want this bar to go as straight up and down as possible. The whole time Ben is doing this movement--we're gonna start with the shoulder press--is, with the shoulder press, he's just gonna press it up, he's gonna tuck his chin, shave his face, he's got good active shoulders at the top, he's gonna pull his ribcage down, good tight core, protect that spine. We've got good support all the way through the movement. Coming back down in the same exact bar path. The more straight up and down we can go, the more efficient it is, the better it is, the safer it is. So from the shoulder press, we'll move to the push press. So now we're gonna add just a little bit of velocity. You start getting tired out, you wanna, you know, save your shoulders a little bit, use the legs. He's gonna just quick little dip of his knees, he's gonna drive it up using the momentum he gets from that dip from his hip. He's not actually--so bring it back down. He's actually gonna use that little drive he gets, little momentum on the bar, and then just continue to press just like the shoulder press, but he's just gonna add a little bit of dip with his knee, keeping his chest good enough right. One thing he's not gonna do is dip his chest forward because then the bar's gonna go out once again. We wanna keep this bar over his center of mass the whole time if we can. Safer, more efficient, easier. The final movement will be the push jerk. Basically it's the same exact dip as the push press, it's the same press as the shoulder press. All he's gonna do is retreat just slightly under the bar and receive it when he goes to catch it. Go ahead and drive it up. He's caught it here. What he's gonna do to finish the movement, though, he's gonna go ahead and stand all the way up. Every time we do the movement, we want locked knees, shoulders all the way up, torso good and tight, bar all the way overhead. We don't want that bar too far back where we're overextending the shoulders. We don't want that bar out front of us 'cause that's not a full rep. We wanna make sure it's a full rep every time. Bring it back down to his shoulders. He's gonna do a few for you. Cycle 'em. If he does widen his feet out, he's gonna bring his feet in. He's gonna bring his feet in. There you go. In between reps. Alright, so the next movement we're gonna show you is the pull-up. Everybody knows how to do a pull-up. The first variation will be a strict pull-up. Just like the shoulder press, this is the, I guess, the dumbed-down version. You just pull up. Chin all the way over the bar, fully locked out at the bottom. Still has active shoulders at the bottom. He's not just letting himself fall down and letting those shoulders fall out of joint there. So he's still active here, but he's fully locked out at the bottom. Next what we'll do is we will add a little bit of velocity to it, just a kipping pull-up. So he's actually--a lot of people get the negative, "Oh, they're just flailing around on the pull-up bar." But we're--the whole point of the kipping pull-up is to increase the work down in a shorter amount of time. So what he's actually gonna do is it's not really a foot-driven movement or a leg-driven movement, it's more right here in the core. He's actually gonna go ahead and get a little swing and he's gonna kip himself up there. Chin still over the bar. Shoulders still locked out, still active shoulder. That's a regular kipping pull-up right there. So we'll move, kind of like we did the shoulder press to the push press to the push jerk, he did a regular kip right there, the next is what they call the butterfly kip. It's a little bit different of a kip. And it's a little faster, so you can get a little bit more work done even faster. So here's a butterfly kip. Chin still over the bar, still active shoulders, safe movement. Now if you have to, just like the shoulder press where you can take weight off, what you can do with the pull up is you can either do it on an assisted pull-up machine, you can use a band, hook your foot in the band to assist you, you can do jumping pull-ups from a box, you can do inverted rows if you need to, for however challenging you wanna make it. Alright, the final movement of the workout, double-unders. A lot of people hate these. So there's a couple things. The rope's gonna go around twice for every jump. One of the common faults that we see is a lot of people when their hands are out--go ahead and bring your hands out--what they'll do is they'll start bringing their hands out, which shortens the rope, so then you start busting yourself in the shins, okay? We wanna try to keep those hands pretty close to you, slightly in front of you. Try not to go too far behind, don't let 'em come up. You wanna try to keep 'em just arms bent, relaxed. A lot of people get frustrated, they try to just--it turns into more of a painful experience than a positive experience. So we're gonna have Ben do a couple double-unders for you. It's more of a timing issue than anything. Alright, the way we can scale that movement is single-unders. A regular single jump. We'll see if Ben can do that. We don't many singles often. For this particular workout, what we'll have you do is if you're gonna scale it to single-unders, just double the single-unders. Instead of doing 30, you're doing 60 singles. So Ben's gonna try to do a few single-unders as he looks like a little schoolgirl. So he's good. Another way you can scale this is you can also do plate jumps. You can get a little plate, just have the person jump up to the plate. Or you can actually take the barbell, have someone do a lateral hop over the barbell. A few different options. If you can't do more than five or ten double-unders without whipping yourself or kicking the double-unders, don't do double-unders 'cause you're kind of missing the point of the workout. You want it to be hard, you want it to be fast. Alright, so now I'm gonna show you what this workout actually looks like. This workout, really, for anybody, it's more of a pure CrossFit workout. You know, it's a metabolic conditioning circuit, so there's no special group it was targeted towards. It's just an all-around, just a good little workout. There's a push, a pull. As soon as the press starts to become an issue, you switch to a pulling movement so then when the pulling movement becomes an issue, then it's the double-unders. So, you know, it's just a good keep-you-moving, good, fast, quick little burner. Nothing fancy. Just gets some work done. I was never a show bodybuilder, but I mean, I did the bodybuilding type, the chest and back, legs. I started doing CrossFit just kind of as a supplement type thing, and then fell in love with it and haven't looked back since. 135 for 45 reps gets a little heavy. You know, it's not a strength--wouldn't say it's gonna help you with your strength. It'll help you a little bit muscular endurance. It's gonna help you cardiovascular endurance wise. Help you with grip. with coordination. I mean, it's a lot of reps to get some practice on the movements. You know, like I said, once you start getting fatigued with the press, switch to a pull. After a pull, the double-under. Just gets you out of breath, you know, attacks the form just a little bit, enough to make the pull-ups not as easy. So it's a pretty good little, you know, like I said, just keep you moving. No real breaks in there. The only break is the transition time. The beauty of CrossFit is, you know, we say it's infinitely scalable, and it really is. We talked about how you could take each of the movements, the press, and you can back it down to however your skill level. You know, if you don't have the coordination to push jerk, just shoulder press. You know, you don't need that velocity on there, you're still getting the work done, you're still doing the movement. We're not really changing the movement; we're just, you know, adding a little bit of speed to it, you know, recruiting a little bit more musculature doing that type of thing. Same thing with the pull-up and the double-under. I mean, you can really take this down to a basic level to where anybody could literally do it, even if they have a shoulder issue. They could do it with a PVC pipe, they could do it with 5-pound dumbbells, something like that. And that's what's great about CrossFit, is anybody can do it. Yeah, so, end of this workout, probably 5 minutes under is probably your elite or, you know, those movements are good for you. It's a fast time. 5 to 7 minutes, maybe a little over 7 minutes, is real good. And then, you know, just kind of maybe 2- or 3-minute increments from there, take up. But it kind of really depends too is how you're scaling it. You know, the target is to be within that 5- to 7-minute range, so scale appropriately. You know, scale to where you can get it in that 5- to- 7-minute range. Once you get over that 7-minute range, you kind of miss the purpose of why we did the workout, you know? If it's over 7 minutes, it's not hard and fast. That's long and, not slow, but you're kind of losing the whole point of what we're doing it. So the CrossFit workouts you can add, it could be your cardio day or whatever you feel like you need to work on, or incorporate them into different lifts into your bodybuilding routine. But I honestly think that anybody can benefit from doing CrossFit. And I think once you start doing it, it's a lot more fun, it's a lot less monotonous. It's interesting. There's, you know, so many things to do. For more information, more workouts similar to this, go to bodybuilding.com.