Hello fit crew. I am Sarah Solomon for bodybuilding.com and today I'm going to show you the ring row which is such a great exercise for building a solid string foundation and well heck it's also going to build you a gorgeous set of wings. I do have my back to you but this is a back exercise so I'm excused. I'm going to demonstrate the more advanced version first which is why I have the bench here. So notice I have my rings at hip height. Now, you can take a full grip on it, but I'm going to use a false grip like that because I'm using this as a scale for my ring muscle up. So, let's get down and I'm going to put my feet onto the bench and I'm going to keep my toes up in the air so that I can't cheat with my feet. So, then I'm going to hoist myself up. I have a tight core and I'm not letting my bum drag down. I'm in full hip extension. So, my shoulder blades are back and down. And what I'm going to do is have my shoulders in position. And then I'm going to snap my elbows behind my back. So, notice again, snap my elbows behind my back. I'm keeping my hands close together and I'm pulling right to my rib cage. I'm holding it for 2 seconds. Notice I'm keeping my bum in full hip extension. And then I'm going to slowly lower for a count of three. and then up one second. Hold for two. Don't let that sag. And slowly lower. A common mistake that people make is that they will pull with their arms and their hand. So then the wrist gets into a kinkedked position. So remember, you want to set your shoulders into position and then snap your elbows back. And you want to keep your elbows tight to the sides of your body. If you're a beginner, you can scale the ring row by adopting a less horizontal position. As you gain proficiency with the ring row, you can step your feet such that you're in a more horizontal position. I want to see you do the ring row. So, give it a whirl. Post it on Instagram and tag me at Dr. Sarah Solomon. And comment below to let me know what exercise you would like to see me do next.