Get it wrong. This is it. Bodybuilding.com. That's right. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the boardroom of beautifulbodybuilding.com in Boyisee, Idaho. I'm Nick Kolius, an editor for bodybuilding.com. Uh we've got here Chrissy Kendall who may look like she's going to start weeping every time I say the word FitCrunch Bar. She She shakes her head and goes, "They're so good." You wait till you see the new ones. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And then we also have two other important guests here. We have Robert Irvine, a chef with many pots on the fire. And then we have these two croissants here. They look really They look really good. They are. This is what Nick does to us. I mean, I'm not I'm not going to complain, but he comes in at least once a week and I come into our little editorial pod and there's a display of just So, what are you saying? That he's a good guy. He's a good guy, but ruins your when you come in and you're like, "Today I'm going to stay on track." You were saying the same thing when I brought these in just now. No, no, no, no. Yes, yes. Well, you said it was a great French bakery. Well, French to me equals butter, fat, goodness, um, virtue, but a lot of work out afterwards. Uh, this this takes uh 3 days to make. The woman who makes these locally, I'm I'm not begging for a sponsorship, but I would take it if she offered it. And three days to burn off, too. A three-day process to culture the butter. She's French, and my uh my aunt, who comes from France, this is the best one. give her a big shout out. She's going to be the it's Jeanju Patiseri. She wants to sponsor one of these podcasts. We'll have her. But anyway, why don't we don't need to just talk about the quissants. We could talk about our guest. We have a more important guest here. Uh he's the the brain behind a number of different shows. My my father was just thrilled to hear that the host of Dinner Impossible Impossible from the past that's his favorite show of all time is going to be here. Then Restaurant Impossible and the Robert Irvine show which I just watched a little bit of yesterday for the first time. I have to say you are a patient soul. Crazy. Yeah. But uh I think I think that the one I watched a little bit of it was um she wants a ring but he may have had a fling. Wow. So good. Yeah. You know, it's interesting that that show uh was four years in the making. Um and we've just finished 180 episodes. 180 180 episodes in record time. But the coolest thing about that, you you said she wants a ring and and he's having a fling or whatever, and they're kind of fun stories, but the the stories that that make a difference are the overweight, obese kids, uh the family relationships. Uh on Monday, I have a guy named Hunter. He's 12 years old. Um burn his house down, beat his mother up, beat his family up. U single parent mom, dad was incarcerated. uh came on the show because it was the last hope and uh went from a D student and a bad guy in seven months to a straight A's helping kids in church and I'm taking him to the Pentagon on Monday. That was part of my deal. Uh so there are there are amazing uh things. Uh Tommy Trudeau 420 lbs down half his weight. Um so there's some great stories there. There's some crazy ones like you just mentioned, but there's some great stories. And so how do how do you tap into a kid like that? What's what was the Well, you know, I I think you find a common goal, you know, for me, anybody that's military, police officer, firefighter, anybody that wears a uniform to do good. Um, and I asked him simply, "What do you want to be when you get older?" Mhm. And he said, "I want to join the military." Well, I made him do 20 push-ups and he said, "I can't do push-ups." He did eight and I said, "Yeah, you can." And I carried him the rest of the way, literally. And I said, "You can do anything if you have help and you have a mindset to change." And he changed. So, so to me, uh, you find a common ground and then you work on that common ground. Mhm. So, you're here early in the morning in Boyce. I'm always curious to ask people, how do you how do you start your day? You have a military background. Do you have a very structured start to your day? I do. Normally, it starts at between 3 and 4:00 in the morning. Um, because I film or I'm traveling somewhere. I work out. Get up, eat oatmeal, work out. Um, then I eat egg whites and all that stuff afterwards. But, it's really early. I work out before I start um or before I travel because I push-ups while the oatmeal's cooking. You know, it's funny. It's funny. We have a great great You have a great gym here in bodybuilding.com, but uh the hotel where I'm staying is a pretty good gym, too. So, uh got in there this morning cardio, met an F-15 pilot, an Air Force guy who's here. Um so, that was kind of cool. Anything military driven, I'm I'm, you know, we travel 150 days a year with the military. So, it's it's a big deal for me. That's how I run my life. Well, and the No, was the military your introduction to serious training then as well? Yeah, I mean, well, actually it was a uh muscle and fitness magazine at the age of 11 years old. Um, so you're at 40 years of training then? Yeah. Um, I got my first uh Weedo Weights way back when and then I joined a Navy at 15 and a half and um the military's been ever since. So, you know, um yeah. Hm. So, did you have like how did you get that first muscle and fitness or what what got you actually somebody somebody picked it up from a doctor's office. It was an old copy and give it to me and I and I said to my mom um and my parents are not well off or anything like that. My dad passed away 2 years ago with 93 cents in his pocket. So, that'll give you an idea, you know. So, to get anything new was was hard when I was a kid. But my mother bought me a set of these, you know, the gold gold weeder weights. you can still find. I would sit on my patio, read this magazine and say, "One day I want to be like that guy, Schwarzenegger." Um, and Lou Rigno and and on all these guys uh and here I am meeting them and knowing them and and you know, 40 years later sort of thing. So, it was kind of cool. So, so when did you feel like you kind of came of came of age as a lifter though? Cuz in my mid20s, you know, I joined the military early. Um, I you know, I wasn't that athletic. I played sports. Mhm. But but lifting was kind of, you know, understanding the lifting part and the food part and they go together. That takes a long time. You know, we think guys are kind of brain dead, right? We we think we can lift weights and and make some noise and then and and all of a sudden you grow muscles and then you eat you eat the croissants. But um so I think it was in the mid20s when I figured out what food and fitness does together. And I think that's my message now is, hey, you can do this, but you need this to go with it. You know, food and fitness go together. Did you get that training in the military or were you going to other sources? I was going everywhere. The military teaches you how to put on a rucks sack, you know, run five miles, shoot people, and run back another five miles again on a plane or a ship or, you know, which is great. But, you know, it's only nowadays that we're starting to think about uh the people that press them buttons, that drive them tanks, that fly those planes, you know, the nutrition and what it takes to actually be able to do your job. And it's literally the 21st century that we're starting to think about the people that control those billions of dollars. You know, think about this. And it and always blows my mind. We have an 18-year-old on the end of an aircraft carrier can throw a $150 million plane at his whim saying, you know, here's you can go now. And yet he can't even drink a beer. Mhm. Mhm. Which is kind of strange. What Fortune 500 company would ever allow you to do that? Mhm. Probably not. Yeah. So, it's exciting time. So, but you're I mean that that guy has also been fueled by sometimes terrible cuisine over there. Let me tell you, the military in general, no, has terrible food. You know, we we're already in that scene. we're we're helping him figure out what is the nutrition needed for the 22nd century cuz it takes that long to go through, you know. Um, and if we're asking a sniper to to lay underground for 6 weeks and then shoot that one shot that's going to change the course of of a war or a mission or something, then we better be able to feed them and and give them the supplementation. And I say supplementation clean that that makes sense because food nowadays the way we grow it the way we we manufacture it. It's it's done for speed and um product use. We don't think about the nutrition in the in the tomatoes that we grow anymore. Mhm. You know tomatoes are not all 6x6 and round and perfectly red. That's not how God intended, but that's how we get them. Right. So there's there's very little nutrition in them. So we have to think about that. and MREs in particular I feel like are something that's just always been okay you can survive on this you're not going to thrive on it but you'll survive on it what what is the when you when you look at that sort of thing what what sticks out as well an MRE hasn't changed in 50s something years you know their nicus they're actually looking at them right now they're supposed to last 3 to 5 years in a in a brown as atmospheric bag that's dropped from 44,000 ft can take an impact um but if you look at a modern-day war fighter and that means male or female. I'm in Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Coast Guard. They're looking for something different. You know, we've got the cookies, we've got the biscuits, we've got the sloppy joe's, but if you look at all these these guys that go into theater, Afghanistan, Iraq, um um Syria, wherever you want to look at now, they actually break the MREs and take what they need out and pack them. They don't carry them any we actually waste more of the Mor than we actually eat. So, yeah, it's a big it's a big uh change going on now. M oh I was going to say well so I don't know a whole lot about I mean know I know what MREs are but I mean are they mainly just a source of calories right now y calorie intake but because if you think about men and women that that even back to Vietnam you know they don't they don't get messes in the middle of a war zone so they have to eat on the go and and that gives them sustenance to be able to do their job quote unquote uh until they can get back to a place where they can eat correctly. So do you think moving forward that you know working with that that there will be more emphasis on not just calories but macros and I don't think so. Oh you know okay yeah that's what I was trying but think about this the testing that that you know NASA did way back when which was you know how do we put um food into orbit and how do we grow food in orbit? Um, we're way past that now. We're wearing bands that tell us a deficiency in in in D, B, C, E, etc., etc. You know, we have a billion dollars of obesitydriven disease in our military today inside the military. So, think about when we we lose somebody and we have to bring them in from the street. So, we lose a body, we bring one in. Well, not at the moment, but we will do. Um, they're already obese by our standards. Mhm. So, you know, we we've got to look at how do we um kind of personalize your diet based on your job, pilots, snipers, uh you know, nurses, etc., etc. So, yeah, it's going to change big time and it's starting now, which is great cuz the food industry has been uh in the military. Yeah, we'll sell, you know, we'll sell food, we'll sell food, we'll make a lot of money. Well, you don't make a lot of money. And the food has to get better because we're asking these men and women at average age 18 to 23 years old, right, to do a job and it more so now than we've ever done before. It's interesting hearing you talk about um yeah, a wristband that can tell you if you're vitamin D deficient. So there's a there's a bio feedback element to this. Absolutely customization. But I think by 2020, we'll be able to literally design a menu for you personally based on that that band. And it's in testing now. Mhm. It's not it's not futuristic. It's now. So So when you when you think of supplementation in the milit military, it's easy to think of, you know, guy in the theater, he wants a stimulant maybe or something like that. But what uh what's what sort of nutrition really makes a difference for people who are out there? Well, I think I think when you you know, listen, carbohydrates are huge, right? But we can't all carry baked potatoes, pasta, rice, and you know, that's just not what it is. And field kitchens have have come on so much now. We drop a kitchen literally in the middle of a war zone that we can cook at which is, you know, I was in Mosul or just outside of Mosul at uh uh Q West, which is an airport that we own right now. Um and they've got a kitchen there, but they were living for 9 months out of MREs and in concrete pipes. Mhm. you know, so um nutrition is huge. Are they getting nutrition they need right now? No. But that's why I have a surgeon general looking into, you know, um performance triads, eating, sleeping, uh and food. Um supplementation. Yeah. We, you know, vro is gone. You can still get it. Of course you can. You, you know, the the the 5hour energy drinks that people take that they think is going to give you that, you know. Mhm. So they're taking all these, but at the end of the day, the DoD has to look at, you know, is are those stimulants, are those um enhancements good for the body while they're in doing what they're doing, right? And are they good for performance, too? If you're thinking, that's one thing that I remember learning is that you go up higher. It's it does the opposite of what you want to do. But you look at athletes and then you look at special operations guys that have to to you know SEAL teams, Delta Forces, um mountain guys, power rescue, all these guys that are peak performance, you know, we have a a dictate of human performance that watches every move they make. Mhm. To to literally get the best out of them, their food. So So special operations eat differently than our regular military. and and my goal would be that that the special operations training and food goes into our military for the for the you next century. You know, is that possible? I don't know. You know, it's expensive. It's it's interesting to hear you talk about nutrition this way, too, because I there's basically three different threads coming through. There's the military strict nutrition guy, there's a chef, but then there's also a lifter who's eating for his own performance. So I think I think in all those different I think because I work with the military so closely on all these things you know we're in the Pentagon we have restaurants in the Pentagon we have uh you know uh um camp lune campa all these things that we do we have a retail side um but when I do when I do food for the military the surgeon general wants that food in boxes so they can get in retail so when I train you in your work it's like coming to bodybuilding.com right you come to work and we eat differently when you go home, you eat very differently because of, you know, finances, because of time, because you got kids, because all the things that happen in life. And and our job is to make sure that you can get that same product. I mean, right now, uh, in Walmart, we do a a vegetable kit that you can get collar greens, fresh vegetables, you know, in 5 minutes for a very, uh, um, small amount of money because I want people to understand what fresh vegetables are and not frozen. Mhm. And there's nothing wrong with frozen if that's the last resort. But hey, it's cheaper to get fresh food. And and people in this, oh well, it's time saving. It's not. Sorry, it's not. We've proven that a thousand times. So, so I kind of imagine you having two speeds of eating yourself. Well, basically, there's like there's food and then there's food, the event still every once in a while. You got to have both of those, right? Yeah. You know, listen, food, we eat food to survive. We eat food to to be able to do our job. But then there's there's that, you know, when I'm dining with my wife, right, that that I want that to be an experience that's very different, you know, putting a plate full of eggs in your face quick as you can and moving on. Um, and and my job is, you know, we have restaurants, we have dining facilities, we have food. So, it's a fine line of how do I get the best possible food that tastes good that gives you the the macros, the nutrients that you want, but without being h Mhm. You know, you mentioned protein bars. It's the same way. You know, that's why we created Fit Crunch. Yeah. But on that note too, I think something we hear a lot of and it brings me back to Dinner Impossible, which I was telling Nick, I was like, I'm going to try not to bring up all my favorite episodes because that would just take this whole podcast to another level. But it's doing all of that in the time that you have, which for a lot of people is not a whole lot of time. And that's why we hear people, I don't I don't prep or I don't cook these meals that I should be because it takes too much time. So, how do you get people to That is the number one question I asked. I just did a seminar in Florida, you know, um about time and time is kind of one of those things that we're all so busy. And I used to have a boss, his name was Peter Fraser in Jamaica. I worked at Renaissance Jamaica Grand way back in 1997. And he called me one day and he said, I was the executive chef, 2,000 rooms, uh sorry, 720 rooms, 2,000 guests. And he said, I want you to work out with me. And I said, "Uh, boss, uh, I'm busy." He said, "Well, Lewis Farrakan's here." I said, "And I didn't know who he was by the time." Uh, he said, "I want you to work out." I said, "I'm too busy." He said, "Well, if you don't have an hour in your day for yourself, then you're not a good manager of time." And I said, "Okay." Yeah. And I hung up. Mhm. Then I suddenly thought about it. I don't have that. He called me back and said, "I don't really need you anymore. Like, you're going to get fired." I went to work out. The place didn't burn down. It was still there when I got back. And I think we get so The reason I told you that story is because we get so tied up in our world, we forget that if you stop, it's going to continue. And for me, on a Sunday, and I travel 345 days a year, you know, you know my schedule. It It's crazy. If you follow it on Twitter, you'll see it. On a Sunday, I write down my whole week's schedule. I go and shop. I prep food. I put it in a refrigerator. And it takes me 10 minutes to cook that food when I come back. Whether you've got four kids, six kids, eight kids, and I tell people, get your schedule, shop smartly. So, you know, you get a whole chicken, you can make the whole, you know, there's six meals can come out of a chicken. There's a soup, there's a, you know, and all the other things that we do. and be smart about how you spend your money and how you spend your time. Because if you spend two hours on a Sunday prepping your food for a week, you don't need time in the week. It's 10 minutes. Instead of making that decision, oh, I'm I'm late. I got to go through the drive-thru. I got to pick up this. And you know, and it's interesting because if you look at our families, parents will go without food to give their kids food at a quick drive-thru. Yeah. It's interesting. Yeah. disservice still going through fast food. It's not really any better. As somebody with two little kids, I can I can speak to how easy it is to start to think in terms of that I eat this, you eat that mindset versus all of us are actually eating together, eating the same thing together and setting that precedence of, you know, any different if you're but I was literally talking two minutes ago on a conference call that think about this in DC. I did a show with Michelle Obama. I've done a you know, fitness council, all these other things. And I and I said to two kids sitting on a wall, you want some milk? Mhm. You know where milk comes from? The supermarket. Mhm. Isn't that kind of sad that we're in America and we don't know where milk, you know, cows that produce the milk and tomatoes and things? Uh, and I think that's our parents that we get so busy that we don't we don't take time. We don't sit around a table for dinner anymore. we, you know, they're on Xboxes and they're, you know, doing all these things because the the smartphones have become the babysitters of the world instead of, you know, I cooked with my kids. My kids are now 19 and 15, two girls. When they were 3 years old, I would have them in the kitchen throwing flour, using knives, burning themselves, making mistakes, making mistakes. But now they cook for themselves. They're at college, right? 19-year-olds at college. She cooks for herself. She's a great cook and she likes different foods. And I think that's one of the biggest problems we have. We don't let kids have fun around food anymore or adults. So either that or it's too fun. It's only fun, right? Yeah. Yeah. So, um, you you mentioned, you know, breaking down a whole chicken to make number of meals out of, but that that person who's looking for looking to you in this podcast for like, okay, I want to, you know, get my my checkbox meals done. What's a what's a gamechanging technique or ingredient or something that you think, you know, you should really do this? It's Well, there's something really, it's really something. These are called hands, right? And ovens and and ranges have dials to turn the gas or electric up or down. They're the two most important things you have. You know, to cook an 8 oz piece of fish, it takes 3 minutes either side in a hot pan and 3 minutes to rest it. That's not difficult. It's the same with a steak, you know, and I and I think people are so intimidated by food, and they shouldn't be intimidated by food. It's literally the pan gets hot when it smokes with the oil in it. You put the product in. You don't move the pan. You turn it over, then you turn it off. It's done. Wow. There's the new concept. Cooking explained, right? And it and and cooking is that simple. Mhm. And if you don't if it's if it's not cooked enough for you, you turn it back on. You cook a little bit more. But what people forget is again 3 minutes with a piece of salmon either side. Turn it off for 3 minutes. It's not going to go cold in that pan. and it's going to continue to cook at the heat that it was cooking at. It's called carryover cooking. So that perfect that salmon is going to be perfect every time if you do as as they just said. And that's the key to cooking. Just trust that. Don't just leave it in there. That's good because we cook it five minutes and we cook it five minutes and we're not sure. So we'll leave another and when the protein, the white stuff, the gummy stuff comes out. And I ask people all the time, anybody cook salmon and that white stuff comes out? Oh yeah, I do. Like they've done something good, right? Well, it's already dead. Now you really killed it. Um, so yeah. Do you have a similar philosophy with your training? Kind of keep it simple or do you like to experiment around and and do some of the crazy? I change I change my training every couple of weeks. Um, I don't lift heavy weights. I think at 50 years old, I'm running around with with 22 year old Marines and and Navy guys and and Army guys. Uh, I've got nothing to prove. I I do the lightweight specific movements. Um, then I might go a little heavier a couple of weeks later, but I don't lift those, you know, like I'm 19 years old trying to take on the world. You know, the body is is something really the body is a temple. And if you if if you're out there and you want to be big, well, you got to eat. Mhm. You got to eat the right food, you got to rest the right amount of time, and then you got to lift the right movements because at the end of the day, if you look at people, they all want to be somebody else. Mhm. Instead of the best they can be. And it takes time. And I always say this with people that want to lose weight. It didn't take you 3 weeks to get that weight on. It's going to take this amount of time. Um, so I change it up. I like the excitement. You know, I had a hip replacement 3 years ago just because of jumping and and all the things I've done in the military and and real life. Um, and now I do even more of it. So trying to keep up with these young kids, you know, cuz they'll when you get into a base, you're like, "Oh, yeah. Let's let's let's mess the chef up." Mhm. Years old. But yeah, you've been you've been training long enough. You you're not you're not going to get suckered into any how much you contest. No, I I I let him go. I'm like, "Okay." So, we have one in in Abu Dhabi a couple of months ago, and I worked out in the morning, and it was a missile base, a missile location, and they said, "Well, let's do push-ups." And I'm like, "No, I've done push-ups already, you know. Um, but I'll do AI'll do a um a bench press competition if you want. So, we're in this little igloo tent in the middle of nowhere with all these missile silos. And the biggest guy, they picked the biggest guy, of course. I mean, neck like 20 in here, big 6'7 guy. And I said, "Okay, put whatever you want. Warm up." And I warmed up with him. Um, then gradually added added added all the weight. And I said, "Okay, put put whatever you want on the last set and you do as many as you can do." He did just that. You know, look at me. I'm an army guy. Put it all. And and we had the whole tent full of these missile men just watching and videoing. He managed to get three. It was like 30 whatever it was. He got three. I got 15. Then I sent the video to his boss and I said the army strong is not army strong anymore. But it's just funny, you know, people people see on TV, people see that you're fitness guy. People they want to to take you on. And you're right. I don't get sucking into those because somebody gets hurt and I don't want anybody to get hurt and normally me. And we we had a really interesting piece come out on the on the site yesterday that said basically stop going heavy on these three lifts. And I feel like that's a theme. You know there there'll be a time when it's all strength coaches incoming and say oh it's the big three lifts you have to build absolute strength and then it'll kind there'll be a blowback say why are you chasing numbers all the time and uh it was interesting one guy was talking about I think the leg press John Russen is this author he's a great um physical therapist who writes for us he said people love their their Instagram leg press where you put every plate in the gym you got three people on top of it and you're doing like this three reps but there's but that actually you know using certain tools for incredible amounts of reps, metabolic stress is so much more beneficial in the long term. By the end of the day, listen, there are ways to build muscle mass, um, elasticity, uh, which I think is really important. I mean, think of it, think of your tricep. Mhm. You know, your tricep is a very volatile, um, muscle. A because it's attached to a little piece here and the minute you break it uh and I've done it you know it but people think oh yeah we can put as much as we want on it it's gonna it'll last forever right some point something breaks so there are a lot of things you can prioritize in the gym though you can p prioritize strength weight loss suffering you obviously I I see by this neck you're a man who possibly prioritizes muscle largely in your training right uh well I do a lot of cardio so so years ago when I was in the military. It was a lot of cardio, a lot of running, right? Pounding. Obviously, now I've had my hip replacement. I still do a lot of cardio, but I do it not running on roads. And the only time I'll run on roads or in a format is when I'm with the military because they run in in in, you know, five five wide 60 deep. Uh, and that's, you know, how they run. Uh, but to me, that's very detrimental to your hips, your knees, and your ankles. Just repetitive. And so, you know, CrossFit and all these things, I am not a big supporter of that because the only people that get anything from that are the orthopedic surgeons, you know, they get rich, you know, because at some point your body is not meant to be bouncing up and down 30 times its body weight on your knees, hips, and ankles. Uh, and there are people that swear by it. And there are people going to listen to this podcast say, "You're nuts. You're nuts. You're nuts." Yeah, I maybe am, but you know what? I'm still here. Mhm. So, yeah, that was my question. Are you cracking the aging code, you think, by focusing on building some muscle in the gym? Is that is that the is that the answer? I eat well. I sleep when I can. Um, which is the toughest part because sleeping is probably the most important part of of the whole uh cuz we never get enough of it. But I prioritize my training um into one, you know, I do normally 30 to 45 minutes of cardio every day. And is that just not to cut you off, is that just mainly for, you know, the cardiovascular benefits or It's because I need to get warm. I It's very hard for me to get warm enough. Um, so I don't tear anything. Then I start with light warm up warm up and then I'll get to a point, you know, I don't go to the one rep maximum. I don't ever do that. I put on, you know, if I'm doing French press fest, I'll put a 45 on each end. Um, I'll warm up with the bar alone first, then put a 45 on and I'll do 100 reps. Mhm. four times and that's me done. I don't need to put on a stack of weight, but then I'm going my my workout is like a cardio workout anyway. I don't sit there and take three minutes. I'm gone from B to next next. When I'm in the gym, it's it's a 45 to 55 minute and it's over. I don't need to talk to anybody. I got headphones in. It's my time that I can think specifically about working out and that's my escape. And when you're done with that with that daily ritual, what what what is your headsp space like? It's clear, you know, I I think and we have a lot of projects going on. Um that's my time that I don't get people taking pictures. I don't get normally in the gym. Um that you know of that I that I know of. Um it it's my space. My wife knows I'm working out. You know, if I'm working out with her, then she, you know, it's different. But when I'm traveling, uh she knows that's my time. Um, and and I think you need that away from the daily grind cuz I get a,000 phone calls a day, 24,000 emails. Uh, and I don't want to deal with that. I just want music. Done. Focus. Mhm. It goes back to what you said about finding just that one hour. Everyone has one hour in a day. You can do it. And is it reading? Is it going to be in the gym? Just find something because I do think that helps you then prioritize your the rest of the day. Especially if you're going to beo hosting a show later where people are going to be screaming at each other. You need to have a clear head, don't you? Yeah. You know, it's I find that that that one hour and you and you just hit the nail on the head there. It it's it's me. It's me versus me and the world is not there. Mhm. Then I can, you know, deal with what's happening in Camp Pendleton, deal with what's happening in Korea, deal with what's happening in Las Vegas or the Pentagon or, you know, whatever's happening at that time. um afterwards and I have a great team, you know. I'm like, "Hey, we have a rule. You have to work out one hour a day. That's all my employees." Um you have to um my rule is that I won't call you. So, if I call you and we have a rule that I've got lots of rules. We have a rule that you have to pick up the phone within 5 minutes of me calling you, no matter where you are, because somebody may call me that's really important to get done. Uh but if you're walking like Dave Longstaff, who will be here tonight is the CEO 30 years. Army food adviser. He walks with his wife every day and I call and he's walking. I hang up. You got your hour. I will never interrupt the hour cuz I think it's kind of, you know, it's your time. Sacred. Yeah. So that's interesting. Like you when you have your kids, you know, that's your your quality time and I think the workout is my quality time. Yeah. Well, and we we uh have an odd understanding of that here too. like there's um uh there's an unspoken agreement in I think a lot of departments here that if somebody goes down and wants to work out for a half hour, 45 minutes a day that that's their time and it actually makes them better at their job as opposed to you're not working right and and I think that's the the the flexy time mentality and the culture here is is very different. You know, if you look at Google, Twitter, all these big companies and I and I've been to all their head offices and it's amazing. um Pixar, you can ride around on on skateboards and do all, you know, all the things that have changed and look at how successful those companies are because of that. And I think, you know, that that time is is uh is so precious. We don't get it nowadays. Restaurants are a little bit rough for that, too, though. People burning it on both ends, working long hours, working for years on end with an unhealthy lifestyle, but it catches up to them eventually. I imagine you've seen that just people cycling. Yeah, I look I look at you're exactly right. restaurants, you know, you go in at 9:00 in the morning, you finish at 11:00 at night, then somebody wants to take you for a beer or a drink or, you know, it's 3:00 in the morning, you're getting home. Mhm. And that's every day. That's not one. I mean, uh, look at Bobby Fle who's now a runner. Look at Maro Batitali that's that's lost 60 80 pounds. Um, uh, Rocco Despir class from the past that that got into fitness. Uh, I think we we're more aware of that now. Um, I'm normally in bed by 10:00 at night, which is kind of scary, but you know, unless I'm traveling, but uh that as you get older, and you're right, it catches up. It's either around your your stomach, you know, your brain starts to lose function. Um, so yeah, fitness. Yeah, but it can be hard for people to to visualize that on the front end, too, because you think, oh, look at that person. He's got a six day a week split. I can't possibly keep up with something like that. Or that guy, he's training for a marathon. They think that almost you you have to do it this way or you have to do it all the way over here. Well, it's a mindset, right? I mean, it's a lifestyle. You make a choice and and some people can stick with that and some people can't. You know, if you look at, again, I go back to obesity and those people that make a decision to uh try fast food 7 days a week, 24 hours a day, keep going. And I've had those on on uh um Fitness Impossible, a show I did. Uh, and it's interesting because I had a a police officer who wanted to be in the FBI uh in New Orleans. He wanted to lose 60 pounds. A mom and daughter that wanted to lose 60 uh to get into wedding dresses. Then I had a big uh guy 400 lb who was an all-star college athlete had a had a motorcycle accident and the show was a huge success. It never got picked up because Food and Fitness Food Network didn't want to do and that's fine. But I keep in contact with him every every day. Um, since that show was two years ago, the guy who just started the FBI Academy. I mean, if you see what he was and where he is and the females and uh the big guy, you wouldn't believe it. And they change their lifestyle. So, I think it's never too late to change your lifestyle. You just have to commit to it. And that's the hard part, commitment, you know, because if it gets hard, people quit, you know. Oh, I don't have time to do it today. Yeah, you do. Make time. And again, you know, if if it was to make a million dollars, you would do it. Sure. Well, it is a million dollars. It's you. Mhm. So, so having gone through that with all those different people? Um, is there How long does it take, do you feel like, for that to really start to stick? Is it is it different for everybody or is it just I think it's different for everybody but normally normally three or four three three or four months of doing you know getting into that routine and it takes you that long you know oh I got to get out of bed when it's cold. Yeah. you know, um, and I I will tell you once you've got it, once you've got the bug, you never lose that. Mhm. Once you first, you know, one of the biggest mistakes people do when make when they're trying to lose weight is have a scale, right? I'm like, no, you weigh yourself in the middle at the beginning and then throw the scale away because we constantly watch that and and body weight fluctuates based on weather, liquid intake, all the rest of it. And when we see that it doesn't move, that's when we get disheartened. And we go back to, oh, give me pizza. Give me And I don't want you to not eat pizza. I don't want you to to not eat what you like or even drink beer or spirits. I want you to, but there is a there is a system there is a systematic approach to it. You know, when we drink beer as men, it's not it's not the beer that does the problem. It's the yeast. Mhm. And the estrogen that comes from that, right? So, um, I'm not saying don't do it, but don't drink 10 pints of beer every day, right? I don't want you to eat like a rabbit either. I want you to enjoy. I want you to enjoy food. Mhm. So, so how do you get people through the first 3 to four months? I mean, obviously the people you've worked with have had been able to work with you. Um, you would you recommend people work with a trainer? I think they find I'm a big advocate of getting a personal trainer for a couple of weeks. Write all your food down. write all your exercises down and then follow that. And then if if you want to go back and and make sure you're doing okay, then you get a a trainer to come in for a week, you know, after that 3 months. But listen, I deal with kids with cancer. I deal with, you know, I've got a 16-year-old right now, Kenston, who's stage four leukemia, who's working out and is helping his his recovery. Mhm. So, you know, when people say, um, oh, it's hard. Life's hard. Get over it. Mhm. you know, pull yourself up and move on. So, you you mentioned a scale. I think it's interesting to think of a scale in the kitchen though as well. Like, you obviously are somebody who knows how to quantify food, but do you find yourself getting caught up in macronutrient math or No, I don't. Um, macronutrients to me are are because I I travel and I do so much in a day, you know, for me to eat 10,000 calories, that's nothing. Mhm. It's easy for me because I'm always on the go. But if somebody's sitting at home, they can't eat 10,000 calories. My general rule of thumb is eating every 3 hours from the minute you wake up till the minute you go to bed. You know, doctors will tell you, "Oh, you can't eat after 6:00." Yeah, you can eat that. Yeah, you can. And I I'm the same way. I'm like, tell your doctor, Robert Over says he's nuts. Mhm. You know, uh the protein intake obviously and the burn rate of of your body with that protein. protein is normally this the size of a deck of cards and carbohydrates the size of the mouse it used to use on a computer. Now they got it on the computer but um and that way your body's metabolism speeds up. But I'm also a big believer in using um instead of salt and sugar and obviously that's been refined, you can use honeys, you can use uh low sodium soy sauce. You can use vinegars um uh fresh herbs and uh fresh fruit, lemons, lime, uh grapefruits, oranges. Um because that citrus helps you start to digest immediately. It breaks down the food because it's an acid and it helps you digest the minute you eat it. And I always say when you when you've eaten a meal and America is great at eating 23 oz steaks or 28 oz steaks or you know and then they feel like oh I can't eat anymore. Well, yeah. And do you know how long it's going to take to digest that? Mhm. So so acid is a great way to start that that um that burn or that metabolism before you even eat the food when you're cooking with it. Cutting half of it and eating it later too. And I said I'm not doing that but I don't I won't do that. No, I I think the more you make, the more you eat, the more you continue to eat. So for me, I'll say, "Okay, handful of vegetables, the the 8 oz salmon, that's enough for me for 2 and 1 half to three hours. Then I have to eat again, but it won't be the same food because I think that gets boring and that's where we start to lose interest. Just like we go to the gym." Um, and my assistant, or one of my, he's not my assistant actually, Justin. Um, my right-hand guy, he was he's lost 28 pounds. Um, and here's a guy that used to, you know, he's 26, 27 years old. Mhm. He could get away with that stuff, but now he does cardio, he eats well. Um, and I think you feel better, your skin gets better, you you have more energy, you you know, your outlook on life is different. Mhm. So, uh, yeah, go and get it done. Don't wait. So, you feel like it it sounds like people come in contact with you and kind of get swept up into that. I like to I I like to think that I'm a positive um influence on on change, you know. I uh talking to Gary Senise this morning, you know, uh he's a he's a life-changing guy in in our military world. You know, his foundation does amazing things. Uh, so we work together on a lot of on a lot of things, building homes and and whatever. So I look at at him being kind of the new Bob Hope and me being the the like the beacon of hope for people that have tried change but given up. Mhm. Uh, and it's like a vacuum when I go through like I don't care how old you are, how young you are, I want to be that positive influence on your life and it's obviously you're passionate about it and people are going to come to that and then when you make it easy to understand. So I I tried to that you know we started a magazine because of that you know people would ask me all these questions when we go away and I'm like okay let's start a magazine let's go out and and my whole vein of life is about how do I help those less fortunate and they don't have to be less fortunate financially they don't have to be you know it could be any kind of less fortunate whether you're an amputee whether you're uh you know a single parent whether you're just being thrown out your house uh cancer it doesn't matter what it is. But my job in life is to make sure that when you when you go on my social media, I'm the one that's answering you. Mhm. You know, I'm the one that's saying, you know what, you need to do this. You need to do this. See your doctor and then email me and I give you my email and I literally walk you through it step by step. And I and I think that's the difference. A lot of celebrities, and I don't consider myself a celebrity, by the way, but a lot of celebrities, they want the the recognition, but they don't want to put in the work to help those that that need help and those people that actually admire them, their fans, the people who love them the most. And that drives me nuts, you know, cuz that's not how we run our business. You know, our business is based on people. Um, so if I can help you, then I want to help you. And I'm not I'm not, you know, empty words. When I say I'm gonna do something, I'm gonna do it. All right. Well, thanks for coming and talking with us. Awesome. Bodybuilding.com. We'll uh we'll put links to your social media if people do want to find you. But what's uh let's start with Instagram. Where where do they find you on Instagram? Chef Irvine is Irvine. And then uh um Twitter is Robert Irvine. Uh Facebook. No, I don't do all that. Um, but it's funny, you know, I I'm a big believer in social media. Um, I don't do negativity. If you're negative, you talk politics on my thing. See you. You get 140 characters three times for me to change your mind on something. You don't, you're gone. Mhm. Excellent. And now you're going to go cook something for us. Now, we're going to cook. We're going to teach you out there how to cook healthy food on a budget that's amazing restaurant quality. Dibs on eating it. Get the leftovers. Great. Well, thanks very much. Hey, nice to see you. And don't forget, Fit Crunch. We have a new caramel peanut coming out. You're going to go nuts on it. Perfect. Thank you so much. Nice to see you.