Hey, I'm Rodney Razer, 2014 Body Spaceman winner. I am a IFBB Pro men's physique competitor, a gym manager, and a personal trainer. You always play sports growing up. I grew up uh you know running, racing, no shoes on in the streets with friends and I played basketball and football and uh all through high school I played basketball and football and ran track and so I got a real athletic background. Well, when I was young I was real slim and skinny, you know, light, you know, light lightweight, you know, blowing the wind type guy, you know, and uh for for the while I thought I couldn't put on pounds, you know, I was that I was also, you know, thinking that, you know, working out, eating, and I wasn't gaining anything. I was that one that was complaining in the gym like, "Man, I can't put on no pounds." And uh, you know, I I wasn't consistent in working out. I admit that I was consistent. I would work out, not start. I was what was consistent as I ate a lot of food all the time. So, you know, that just went back and forth and eventually I went from finally breaking 200 to I couldn't stop gaining weight. So, working out in local gyms, you know, where I live and uh, a buddy of mine was a trainer there told me I should look into being a trainer. I trainer. Like, I mean, I don't know. like I enjoy working out sometimes, but dude, I don't obviously live the lifestyle. I leave here and eat burgers, man. Like, come on. I mean, how can I be a trainer? He like, dude, just get certified as a trainer. Just try it. Um, so I took his word on it and looked in some certifications, got became a trainer. And uh, and even in the first couple years of being a trainer, I wasn't still did the same stuff. You know, I train, had clients, things like that. And, you know, kind of do as I say, not as I do type thing. And uh it's at it's at a point where I I woke up and I realized that uh I wanted to to change my life and and it was because I had uh ran across men's physique which is I have the NPC category. So I feel I feel so much better. Uh obviously I look great. When you look great and feel great it shines. People see people see that that it's contagious. You know, it's the difference between cockiness and being confident. And and I feel like you naturally show confidence and and positivity when you're when you're when you feel good about yourself. I'm a slow rep, lightweight kind of trainer. I I used to lift heavy and it's strenuous on my joints, you know, and uh and I I preach that concept. You can go heavy, that's fine. But, uh, you know, new clients coming into the gym that don't know a lot about weight training and things like that, we're we're into, you know, four countdowns, you know, exploding up, control movements, um, 30 second breaks in between. You know, I believe in the cardio in disguise type theory. That's what I call it, you know, is that, uh, you know, you if you working at a high intensity, uh, you're getting your cardio in. Cardio is getting your heart rate up. Whether it's you running or or whether you're weight training, your heart rate's still up. That's still cardio. Monday, I just started a new program, so I'm on reflective now. So, I do chest and back. My Tuesday is legs and shoulders. Wednesday are arms. And then Thursday, I I'll go back into my my chest and uh and uh back again. And then I always throw in calves, uh traps, um abs kind of just whenever. I always mix in hit. So, that's kind of just all the time after a workout. So, I do cardio every day pretty much, you know, and I play basketball three, four times a week. And so, you know, I am I'm not your distance runner. I'm not your uh I'm not your 12 mile guy, you know. I'm a sprinter and uh I'm a basketball player and then I'm a football player. Those are spurt exercises where you boom and then you stop. So, you boom. So, that's how I tailor my training. You know, uh I'll get done with a he with a nice workout. I finish it off with 25 burpees, 30 second break. One minute jumping jacks, 30 second break. and and and I'm I'm intense. If you see me on a treadmill, I'm doing sprint drills. So, in a short amount of time, I feel like I get the same workout, if not to me more intense, than you would just running 12 miles on a treadmill. You know, I switch it up. Always keeping it fresh. You want results. I I'm a firm believer it doesn't matter what you choose to do in the gym. People come to me all the time, man, what do you believe only in free weights or do you only believe in cables? I'm like, hey, man, believe in whatever you believe. Do everything. Even if I did a 8 to 12 rep, next time I might do a 15 to 20 or if I do incline dumbbell first, I'll that might be third next time. You keep that theory always fresh, switching the order, switching the rep count, things like that. That's how you get results. People think I do abs all the time. I don't. I probably do abs a couple times a week, but it's proof and it's I love it because when people talk to me about that, that's a great transition to start talking about nutrition because abs don't come from the gym. They don't. They come from what you eat. You want to look great and look good and and get results in the gym and you want those to shine and reflect on your body. Starts with nutrition. I eat small meals. I actually post that in my gym. That's my number one concept, spreading them out. You know, anywhere from 2 to 4 hours. Um, you should never be eating to a point where you're stuffed. A carb cycle. So, I do like a 3-1 theory. I do three low carb days, which is uh, you know, I'm usually under like 50ish range in carbs, but I'm I'm getting more broccoli, asparagus, green beans, more of the green source carbs in. And I'll replace uh the higher carb with higher good fats like almonds, pecans, walnuts, things like that. Um, and I would flip it on that fourth day. I'm incorporating more carbs, sweet potatoes, you know, brown rice, throw some oatmeal in, and I'm lowering my good fat. So, if technically, if you look at the calorie intake, it's about even. Drink lots of water. Uh, you know, help regulate the sodium potassium intake in your body. If you're going to have a cheat meal, conservative, you know, once a week, use it as a treat to yourself. You celebrate the greatness you did all week in the gym and nutrition. Go have that burger. Get right back to your your hard work again. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. burgers, pizza though, pizza find my pizza find my weakness. You know the problem with a diet, quote unquote diet, it's a short-term fix. That means that you're specifically going to do this for time and it's no longevity in that. A nutritional plan, a structure, a lifestyle supports everything you love. When I put when I put a plan together for someone, it's not to say, "Hey, you must eat tilapia." I don't like tilapia. We eat it anyways. That's That's not where it should be. Hey, I enjoy tuna. Well, perfect. I enjoy pizza. Awesome. But let's go to uh let's go home. Let's get a wheat crust. Let's get a low saturated fat cheese. Let's go some healthier toppings, you know? So, what I do, my theory is I'll take what you enjoy and I'll rewrap it for you and give it back to you to to fit what you like. And you'll stick with this forever. I guarantee you. I I believe in only using things that work. People like, "Hey, do you take creatine?" Well, your body already makes creatine. Okay. So, the question is, do you not want to use something your body already support? Use it. Does it make people have more water retention than the others? Yeah. With me, I don't get a lot of water retention taking creatine. You, it may possibly do, but everybody bodies different. So, I believe in it's not it's not magic. It's not a magic pill, but if you're already doing the right things, those things will help you. So, assistance, I believe in assistance all day long. Whey protein, it's awesome. Um, if you're not wanting to calorie intake from the protein, maybe you might just want to do alakart with just the aminos only. So, it all depends on where I am in my nutrition. Um, if I'm looking to lower my calorie intake, I won't do the protein powder. I'll just do the aminos. I still get the same benefit from the same sources. I do a multivitamin um fish oil. Um I do love proteins that have more of an overall base. The slow, the fast, the egg that the the whey and the casein all mixed into one. So your release of your protein goes throughout your body throughout the day. I am a firm believer in that. But not necessarily bars me to only take those those kind of proteins. So read read don't believe the hypes. Don't don't fall into uh uh a brand name. Um, you know, you got to take a brand name. You can't make your own supplements. I mean, there are it's brand name support everything. So, you can't do away with that. What I mean is don't just do something cuz you heard it works. Do some research. Some things might work for you. You know, I I you know, I might preach carb cycling. I might say I do three in one carb cycle. I cut the carbs out of my diet for three days straight. I don't I don't condone everybody doing that. Maybe your body, you know, responds to carbs differently. So, those are things you should figure out first. Trial and error. I've used my own body as a test tube. I've trial and error. It it really what it comes down to. The things I've talked about today are things I firmly firmly believe in. And man, I want to I really love spreading the word. I'm not that when you come here and ask me questions, I love it. I I really want to do my part in helping every person understand what they're doing. You have any questions for me at all, any any advice, anything you need from me, find me on my body space, Rodney Razer. And for more video content like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.