BSN finish first. He is the eighttime Mr. Olympia, the cornerstone of team BSN, and the winningest IFBB pro bodybuilder of all time. He is the legendary Ronnie Coleman. In 2006, camera crews followed Ronnie for nearly a year for an unprecedented look at the day-to-day life of this remarkable athlete. Since then, footage has been unseen and unreleased until now. This is Ronnie Coleman, the undiscovered footage. In 2006, you competed for your ninth consecutive Mr. Olympia title, finishing second to Jay Cutler. Now, some would say you never should have lost that night. Taking nothing away from Jay. I know you respect Jay, but do you still feel you were the better man that night? As far as 2006 goes, uh the guy that won that night, if you want my opinion of it, the guy that won that night, uh uh shouldn't have won. I think I should have won that night. And uh that's always been my view on that. And that's probably always going to be my view on that. I had won eight in a row and hadn't too much change with, you know, my physique. Maybe I was just maybe a tad bit, not as sharp as I was the year before, but you know, I was still my same old self. There's no doubt in my mind. And I I was a far better man that night. Far far better the man that night in 2006. Can you take us back to 2006 Mr. Olympia. 2006. Okay. Ronnie looked awesome. Why do you think the judges placed him second when you saw him? The 2006 Mr. Olympia. It's the very first Mr. Olympia I've ever been to. I'm sitting in the weer booth, you know, enjoying myself, you know, alcohol induced enjoyment, drinking a little bit, eating, you know, looking down. Saw Ronnie come out as Moses. I was like, "Oh man, this is all him." And then when the call came, you know, I was like, "Whoa, did I just see that?" You know, that kind of inspired me to be a bodybuilder in a in a in a lot of ways and motivated me cuz when you see somebody that's so great and so magnificent actually, you know, not do what you expect him to do. I'm not saying that he shouldn't he should have lost by no means. I thought he he probably should have won that night, but just to see that it was like what? Anything's possible. Do I have a favorite Ronnie moment? I like Ronnie in the gym. That's my favorite Ronnie moments. Anytime Ronny's in the gym, he's he's enjoying it. He's being uh corky. He's, you know, he got all his saying, "Yeah, buddy. Lightweight." You know? Yeah, buddy. Come on. You know, all that kind of stuff, you know. I like I like when Ronniey's in in his element. You know, he can just be Ronnie. So, you know, he keeps you laughing, you know. She didn't let herself get bumped around on the boat. No, she nice and secure in a special compartment because you see was a and she wanted the for this tournament was 12,700 added up to 150 lost. It looks like it's atpennis.com and tennis warehouse. All right.