Training is about paying it forward. The biggest guy in the gym should be the nicest, most helpful guy in the gym. I'm Muscle Militia Captain Ronnie Milo, and I pay it forward. What we're training today is legs. We're going to start with calves and roll into our hamstrings and our quads. The goal is to get a good volume based workout uh to get a good contraction on the muscle. And we're sacrificing a little bit of the weight today for more of a form. When you concentrate a little bit more form, I think you really get down to the nitty-gritty of uh breaking down your muscle to to build some up. So today's workout is eight exercises starting off with calves, rolling into hamstrings, and then quads. So today we're moving at a fast pace. Should take no more than 60 minutes. So the first exercise today is going to be seated calf raises. I like to typically warm up a little bit. You know, anywhere from rep range, 15 to 20 reps to get the kind of blood in the muscle a little bit. And then when I feel a little bit more comfortable, then I'll start loading up the weight. I like to work backwards, you know, heavy to light. You want to kind of concentrate on the balls of your feet and kind of feel like you're pushing off your big toe uh more than, you know, the rest of your toes just to give that concentration right on that medial head. So, I go into the standing calf raise cuz I like the variation of the different angle for the muscle. Now, for the rep range, you know, I do a good warm-up set. Um, and then I can go right into the heavy weight for three sets. The first one, you know, 8 to 10 and then drop 10% of the weight and then go from, you know, 10 to 12. Drop 10% of the weight and just go as much as you possibly can. And I don't use any kind of platform to put my feet on or any kind of uh plate or or anything like that because I feel that if you go past 90° that you put a lot of stress on your Achilles tendon, but also too it doesn't really take a lot of stress off that muscle. So you can actually work out harder and longer. So we're done with calves. I'm going to roll into some hamstring exercises. And the first exercise we're going to do is some seated hamstring curls. We're pretty much going to do three sets. We're going to have a good warm-up set. Uh but then we're going to work heavy to light. You know, dropping 10% of the weight. You know, rep range, we're going to go obviously first set with the heavy set. We're going to go from 8 to 10 and then we're going to go from 10 to 12 and then we're going to drop 10% again from from 12 to, you know, pretty much failure. If you're going at a fast rate, you're not going to feel it as much as possible. So, a nice slow, steady tempo and just pretty much concentrate on the exercise and and that, you know, contraction. This one's going to be using the uh the leg press machine, but we're going to do a variation of it. We're going to keep our feet very high on the platform, almost to your heels or just the only thing on the platform at that time. We're going to come down to 90° and then we're going to actually push on our heels. And that's going to actually engage most of your your hamstrings. Definitely get a good warm-up set with it. And then, you know, we're going to go as heavy as possible depending on your weight, uh, what you're comfortable with, you know, to get a good set between six to eight reps. Then we're going to go from, you know, 10 reps to 12. And then the next set, we're going to drop 10%. We're going to go, you know, we're going to finish out 12 to to failure. So, we're going to roll into now is the stifflegged deadlifts. You could do two different variations. You could use the barbell or you could use the dumbbells. I choose the dumbbells because I feel that you could I can control the weight a little bit better. We're going to do three sets. You pretty much should been warmed up by now. So, we can go right into a comfortable weight. Nothing too heavy that you're really going to, you know, hurt yourself on. And go six to eight reps again. Drop 10%. You know, we're going to go 10 to 12. uh drop 10% for the third one and then we're going to go from 12 to failure. I like to keep the uh the dumbbells close to my body to, you know, drive from the heel and I come all the way down and get a good stretch, you know, to where it's not painful, but to where it feels comfortable and then uh start the rep again. So, we're going to roll into the uh quads now. Our first exercise we're going to be performing is the leg extension. Um, so I like to do singles first for a little warm up and then obviously rolling into a into a heavy set. We're going to be doing three sets. The first one's going to be at a pretty heavy weight but comfortable enough that you know you're not putting too much stress on the knees. We're going to be performing six to eight reps with that one. The second um set we're going to drop 10% and uh we're going to perform 10 to 12 reps. And then for the third one, third set, we're going to drop 10% and then we're going to finish it out 12 to maybe failure. Back in the day, I used to use a gym that the leg sled was inverted. So, I'm trying to replicate it here, you know, with the Smith machine. Um, not every gym has a Smith machine or not every gym has an inverted leg press, but you know, you could be creative on your own to set it up. I mean, it all depending on your gym and what you guys have. Today, we're using the box, but you want to obviously set it up underneath that, you know, you're going to be almost at a 90° angle from the the bar. We definitely recommend you put the stops up just in case, you know, safety first. So, we're going to do three sets. The first set, obviously, is going to be uh your heaviest tips on this one is really to concentrate on that quad. That's going to help me build out some outer sweep and some some inner thigh. If I'm on stage, I can look more threedimensional with that with that leg exercise. So, now we roll into uh what I like to do as a finisher. I like to do some walking lunges. You could do them stationary if you'd like, but I like to do walking lunges, obviously, to get some momentum going and uh to mix it up a little bit. So, I do probably two sets. What I like to try to do is take a weight that's comfortable that could do, you know, 10 reps on each leg, take a little bit break, and then repeat the process. Yeah, this one it's it's a wakeup call. It takes a lot out of you, uh, you know, to to do them. You got to really concentrate on your form with this. And a lot of people say, don't put your knees past your toes. It all depending on, you know, on what you uh feel comfortable with. if you want to go halfway down, if you want to go all the way down, but you want to really make sure that you're putting that emphasis on that quad, uh that hamstring, and that glute. The details of this workout are broken down on this page below. If you guys want to follow me, you can see me on Instagram, Body Space, or Facebook. For more videos like this from the Muscle Militia, come back to bodybuilding.com.